Mirvac Group Annual Report 2019 Our purpose to reimagine urban life inspires us to be a force for good. MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Mirvac is a leading, diversified, Australian property group, with an integrated development and asset management capability. Recognising the contribution we make to Australia’s major cities, our purpose, to Reimagine Urban Life, inspires us to be a force for good. CONTENTS 01 About this report 01 Reporting suite 04 Financial and operational highlights 06 Letters to securityholders 10 Forces of change Our business: 12 > Office & Industrial 20 > Retail 24 > Residential 29 > Build-to-rent 30 Our people 36 Risk management 38 Sustainability 43 Governance 74 Financial report 122 Directors’ declaration 123 Independent auditor’s report 130 Securityholder information 132 Glossary 133 Directory & upcoming events Mirvac Group comprises Mirvac Limited ABN 92 003 280 699 and its controlled entities (including Mirvac Property Trust ARSN 086 780 645 and its controlled entities). 01 ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORTING SUITE The FY19 Annual Report is a consolidated summary of Mirvac Group’s Mirvac’s reporting suite sets out the Group’s financial and operations, performance and financial position for the year ended 30 June operational performance for the year ended 30 June 2019 2019. In this report, unless otherwise stated, references to ‘Mirvac’, ‘the Group’, across the following documents: ‘company’, ‘parent entity’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Mirvac Limited and its MGR FY19 Results Presentation controlled entities as a whole. Mirvac Limited also includes Mirvac Property Trust and its controlled entities. References in this report to a ‘year’ relate An in-depth overview of Mirvac’s financial, operational to the financial year ended 30 June 2019. All dollar figures are expressed in and sustainability performance for the financial year. Australian dollars (AUD) unless otherwise stated. The consolidated financial MGR FY19 Additional Information statements included in this report were authorised for issue by the Directors Information supporting Mirvac’s FY19 Results Presentation. on 8 August 2019. The Directors have the power to amend and reissue the financial statements. Mirvac’s full-year financial statements can be viewed on, MGR FY19 Annual Report or downloaded from, Mirvac’s website www.mirvac.com An in-depth overview of Mirvac’s financial, operational and sustainability performance for the 2019 financial year, along with the Group’s corporate governance statement, its remuneration report and its detailed financial statements. MGR FY19 Property Compendium A detailed summary of Mirvac’s investment portfolio, other investments, and its commercial and residential development pipeline as at 30 June 2019. MPT FY19 Annual Report An overview of the Mirvac Property Trust for the financial year. 02 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ABOUT MIRVAC OUR PURPOSE WHAT WE DO Mirvac is an Australian Securities Exchange As our company grows and we take on We’re a creator, owner and manager of some (ASX) top 50 company and one of Australia’s more challenging projects in different of Australia’s most renowned and recognisable leading and most innovative property groups. sectors, it is more important than ever projects, with a strategy to be focused, Since 1972 Mirvac has played a vital role in the to be united behind a single purpose. diversified and integrated. This means: evolution of our cities, reimagine urban life and WE ARE FOCUSED At Mirvac, we are in business to reimagine creating places that enrich the lives of many deploying capital with discipline and urban life. This purpose drives all employees thousands of Australians. delivering on our promises, with a strong at Mirvac to look beyond profit. It inspires us Our reputation as a leader in Australia’s to be a force for good and leave a positive focus on our customers. property industry has been built by delivering legacy in everything we do. WE ARE DIVERSIFIED innovative and exceptional workplace precincts, maintaining an appropriate balance of passive Whether it be breathing life into underutilised retail destinations, high-quality homes and and active invested capital through cycles, spaces, lovingly restoring and adapting heritage connected communities for our customers, and retaining capability across the office, buildings, creating dynamic new workplaces while driving long-term value for our stapled industrial, retail and residential sectors. or bringing to life connected communities securityholders. We own and manage assets where families can grow and thrive, we are WE ARE INTEGRATED across the office, industrial and retail sectors committed to enriching the lives of our leveraging our integrated model to create, in our investment portfolio, and we currently customers and communities. own and manage quality Australian assets. hold approximately $22 billion of assets under management. We know that to reimagine urban life is Underpinning this strategy is a commitment a great challenge, and it comes with much to our people, our customers, innovation, Our integrated approach gives us responsibility. Our passionate, highly engaged technology, sustainability and safety. We’re a competitive advantage across the lifecycle workforce has embraced the challenge to passionate about creating long-term value of a project. From site acquisition, urban think differently, to act conscientiously and for our securityholders and having a positive planning and design, through to construction apply their experience, passion and energy impact on the communities in which and development, leasing, sales and marketing, every day in the pursuit of an enhanced we operate. property management and long‑term ownership, urban environment for us all to enjoy. we exercise control over the entire process. Both our strategy and our purpose to Our integrated model also ensures stable reimagine urban life continue to produce income and growth through a balance of strong results across the business. passive and active capital, enabling us to ASX TOP 50 One of Australia’s respond to fluctuations in the property cycle. Our goal is to add value to Australia’s cities through innovative, visionary design, development, asset management and construction. Our team is committed to leading & most innovative property groups operating in a way that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable in order to leave behind a lasting, positive legacy in everything that we do. 03 G R AT E D INTE D ED IV ER US SIF FOC OUR PURPOSE & STRATEGY IED SAFETY INNOVATION PEOPLE & TECHNOLOGY SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 04 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS the future is bright WITH A STRONG SET OF FINANCIAL METRICS FOR FY19, MIRVAC HAS MAINTAINED THE IMPRESSIVE GROWTH TRAJECTORY OF RECENT YEARS. 05 $1.02bn STATUTORY PROFIT NET TANGIBLE ASSETS $631m $2.50 11.6 cpss OPERATING PROFIT PER STAPLED SECURITY 1 OF DISTRIBUTION INCREASED 5% TO up 4% representing 17.1cpss up from $2.31 at June 2018 STRONG DELIVERED RESIDENTIAL OPERATING CASH FLOW GEARING OF ACHIEVED A ROIC OF SECURED GROSS MARGINS OF $518m 20.5% 10.1% $1.7bn 27% for the Group of residential pre-sales MAINTAINED A 5.0 STAR LEASED APPROXIMATELY ACHIEVED NABERS Energy rating average across the office portfolio 250,000sqm of office, industrial & retail space 2,611 residential lot settlements, default rate <2% $3.1bn 3 more than tripled active commercial community investment development pipeline years ahead of target caption goes here 1. NTA per stapled security, based on ordinary securities including Employee Incentive Scheme securities. 06 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 LETTERS TO SECURITYHOLDERS FY19 was another outstanding year for Mirvac. Our strong performance, which has characterised recent years, continued throughout the year. The sustained growth can be attributed to the success of our urban asset creation strategy, the strength and resilience of our diversified model and our team’s unwavering commitment to our purpose to reimagine urban life. CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Mirvac is in exceptional shape, with a high‑performing investment portfolio that will generate steadily growing income, all in the safe hands of a highly engaged and passionate workforce. In an era when many Australians have lost faith in some of our largest institutions, we continue to focus on earning our stakeholders’ trust every day, being a force for good and leaving a positive legacy in everything we do. John Mulcahy, Chairman Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz, CEO & Managing Director FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FY19 saw the Group deliver yet another strong Our performance was anchored by the set of financial metrics. With a statutory profit significant gains of our Office & Industrial of $1.02 billion, I’m pleased to report that we business and its high-quality investment have successfully delivered at the top end portfolio which, together with our award-winning of guidance and maintained the impressive asset creation capability, continue to generate $1.02bn growth trajectory of recent years. significant value. These gains, coupled with the quality and location of our residential product and focus on our domestic owner-occupier customer base, as well as the urban expertise of our retail team, has safeguarded the Group against the challenging market conditions in some of the sectors in which we operate in FY19. FY19 Statutory profit 07 At an operating level, our profit was up CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 4 per cent to $631 million, representing Against a backdrop of challenging housing We remain committed to fostering a respectful, 17.1 cents per stapled security. We achieved markets, a sustained period of political diverse and inclusive environment, where a strong operating cash flow of $518 million uncertainty and the further erosion of trust different backgrounds, opinions and ideas and we paid distributions of 11.6 cents in some of Australia’s largest and best‑known are accepted, encouraged and celebrated. We per stapled security, up 5 per cent. institutions, it is more important than ever believe this has a positive impact on the health, After a period of challenging residential market before that companies like ours act fairly, wellbeing and happiness of our workforce conditions, we are seeing early indications of responsibly and transparently. as well as driving engagement, productivity a housing market recovery. At the same time, and ultimately better business outcomes. At Mirvac, we believe we have a duty not we are reaching the end of the capitalisation only to our securityholders, our employees To this end, we have a Diversity & Inclusion rate compression cycle and entering a period and our customers, but also to the communities strategy in place with a focus on gender where income will drive superior investment in which we operate and the cities and towns balance, and we’ve worked hard to improve performance. As a result, we are maintaining in which we live. gender parity at Mirvac over recent years. our disciplined approach to investing capital. As well as maintaining a 50 per cent gender With 87 per cent of our capital allocated to our On behalf of the Board and the leadership team representation on our Board, we continue to investment portfolio and 13 per cent to our active at Mirvac, I want to emphasise our commitment seek a 50/50 gender balance on shortlists for development pipeline, we are confident that to creating and promoting a strong culture senior appointments. We have successfully Mirvac can continue to create long-term value where people are driven to look beyond maintained a like-for-like gender pay gap of and grow distributions to our securityholders. profit to genuinely being a force for good. zero per cent for three consecutive years CAPITAL MANAGEMENT We have a highly engaged workforce that thanks to our gender pay parity reviews, and never loses sight of a purpose that is bigger 43 per cent of our senior management roles Mirvac’s disciplined approach to capital than profit. Our team is driven to meet are now held by women, in line with our target. allocation has resulted in a robust balance milestones and targets but also to care sheet which, together with our integrated Thanks to the efforts of the team in about making a difference to people’s lives. model, enables the business to operate implementing this strategy, these achievements through market cycles and respond quickly We are proud of the high standards of are now considered to be ‘business as usual’ to investment opportunities, as and when corporate governance to which we adhere. at Mirvac. In recognition of our commitment they arise. Systems, procedures and practices are to gender equality, Mirvac was awarded regularly reviewed, benchmarked against Workplace Gender Equality Agency Employer During the financial year, Mirvac successfully best practice and updated. of Choice for the fifth consecutive year. completed a fully underwritten institutional placement and Security Purchase Plan (SPP) Additionally, the Board is actively involved in OUTLOOK to position the business for future growth. the business and meets regularly to discuss The hard work of the team to transform the The placement was strongly supported by both matters such as Mirvac’s strategy, the Group’s business means we are now well positioned existing and new investors, raising $796.2 million, activities and operations, outlook, risks and to mitigate adverse market cycles and use including approximately $46.2 million raised remuneration. To capitalise on the strong them to our advantage by capitalising on the under the SPP, to support the delivery of position of the Group, the Board will increase opportunities they present. Our high-quality the next generation of value accretive office, its focus on customer satisfaction, technology investment portfolio continues to provide industrial, residential and mixed-use projects and the company’s long-term strategy in FY20. secure and growing income to the Group, and provide additional funding impetus for while our development pipeline and asset continued investment through the cycle. We REMUNERATION creation skillset provide significant potential were heartened by the support we received Every year, our remuneration outcomes are for future growth. from our investors during this process. reported openly and transparently. Following last year’s review of our performance and Mirvac’s strong financial performance and During the first half of the financial year, reward framework, we are pleased to report the robust corporate governance framework have Mirvac received an Arating with a stable new performance management structure has ensured the business remains in excellent outlook from Fitch Ratings and maintained been enthusiastically welcomed and adopted shape and will continue to provide value the A3 rating from Moody’s Investor Service by employees. Under the new framework, to our securityholders and customers, while (equivalent to A-), recognising our healthy changes were made to performance ratings, making a real difference to people’s lives balance sheet and strong capital position. our long-term incentives, and we increased in the communities in which we operate. Gearing also remained within our range of the mandatory minimum securityholdings between 20 to 30 per cent at 20.5 per cent. I would like to thank my Board colleagues, for both Non-Executive Directors and key our senior leaders and our team for their Our overall earnings profile remains solid, management personnel. commitment and hard work over the past supported by a $3.1 billion active commercial The strong, sustained performance – both 12 months. I would like to thank you, our development pipeline and a high performing, financial and non-financial – has translated securityholders, for your support of Mirvac. strategically-located investment portfolio. into full vesting of the long-term incentives We look forward to another year of growth We have noted that our active development and above target short-term incentive and success ahead. earnings will continue to flex with the economic outcomes. Combined with a 44 per cent cycle. However, the increasing quality and security price increase during FY19, this strength of our passive earnings underpin has resulted in increased actual earnings for our confidence that we will continue to our CEO & MD and other key management deliver for our securityholders. personnel. The Mirvac Board very strongly believes in aligning pay to performance and we believe the remuneration outcomes reflect John Mulcahy this strong performance, outperforming the Chairman stretching targets that the Board sets for management each year. The full remuneration report for FY19 can be viewed on page 52. 08 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CEO & MANAGING DIRECTOR’S LETTER In a year that was marked by uncertainty and Our Retail business delivered another solid Consequently, we have seen sustained demand a challenging operating market, our reputation result, which is pleasing given the highly for, and sales of, our projects throughout the year for quality and operational excellence and our competitive and rapidly evolving retail sector. with over 1,700 lots exchanged. We exceeded our unwavering commitment to our urban strategy, We have successfully created a portfolio of target of over 2,500 residential lot settlements have stood us in good stead. thriving retail centres that offers the right during the financial year settling 2,611 lots, and retail in the right urban locations – densely our defaults have remained under 2 per cent. The strength and resilience of our business populated with low unemployment, high This too is a testament to our focus on quality – were evident throughout the year. The incomes and strong population growth. in this case, ensuring that our customers are well housing market and the political and economic placed and supported to settle their purchases uncertainty caused by consecutive State and As a result, despite divesting over $700 million in a timely fashion. Our residential gross margin Federal elections presented challenges within since 2013, the retail portfolio has doubled of 27 per cent reflects the capital efficiency of our operating environment. Our business in value in the past six years. The enhanced our development structures, and we have started stood up to the test on all fronts. services, partnerships and experiences Mirvac to carefully restock in the changing market, with is creating, has seen specialty productivity grow OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE a number of new development opportunities in by 36 per cent across the portfolio during that In FY19, the Office & Industrial business established Mirvac sub-markets including Henley timeframe and occupancy has been maintained continued to deliver. We are now Australia’s Brook, WA and Wantirna South, VIC, putting us above 99 per cent. This success is testament to second largest office manager, with approximately in a strong position to take advantage of the the team’s energy and passion for reimagining $15 billion of office and industrial assets under anticipated upswing. our retail offering, and our commitment to management and we have successfully created constantly curating retail mixes and creating REIMAGINING RENTING one of Australia’s youngest and lowest capital unique experiences that respond to the The build-to-rent (BTR) sector remains in its expenditure portfolios. ever changing needs of our customers. infancy in Australia, but we believe it has potential Our award-winning asset creation capability For our Residential business, while recent for significant growth and can deliver much more was showcased once again during the year months have seen some potential signs of than financial rewards. International experiences with the delivery of Axle, Commonwealth Bank’s recovery, there is no doubt the housing market suggest that revolutionising the rental sector in new state-of-the-art office building at our deteriorated throughout the financial year Australia can provide significant social benefits reimagined South Eveleigh precinct. It features with average dwelling prices down by between for hundreds of thousands of renters as they next generation design, smart technology, 9 and 10 per cent in Sydney and Melbourne move along their housing journey, giving them pioneering placemaking and sustainability during that time. Investor activity reduced access to high-quality, well maintained rental principles, and sets new benchmarks in significantly, while tightening credit made property, with secure tenures, and a sense of commercial property and workplace design. it more difficult for home buyers to secure stability, as well as excellent customer service. Our ability to deliver award-winning buildings finance, which impacted the industry Mirvac is firmly at the forefront of this continually improves the quality of our portfolio as a whole. new sector in Australia, having founded the and drives increasing passive earnings for However, averages mask the significant Australian Build-to-Rent Club with a 30 per cent the Group. This proven capability, combined variations between sub-markets. They also investment from the Clean Energy Finance with the number and calibre of projects in ignore the superior quality of the Mirvac Corporation in July 2018 and subsequently our development pipeline, gives us confidence offering. Our long standing reputation for launching our first purpose-built BTR asset, that we can continue to generate strong quality continues to attract owner-occupiers at Pavilions, Sydney Olympic Park. This project future returns. who now, more than ever, seek a product is under construction, on time and on budget and a brand they can trust. and we look forward to welcoming our first Over the past 12 months, we have added customers at Pavilions in June 2020. a number of new development opportunities It is this quality that has seen our residential to our Industrial pipeline including at Badgerys team win a number of prestigious awards this In FY19, we confirmed plans for a second Creek, Kemps Creek (both in Western Sydney) financial year. You can read more about these BTR project, close to Queen Victoria Market and Auburn (in Sydney). This is in line with awards on page 25. in Melbourne. As interest in the new sector our strategy to grow our Industrial portfolio grows, along with appetite for BTR projects while maintaining a 100 per cent weighting from all fronts, we remain focused on further to Sydney. We see significant earnings extending our BTR development pipeline potential for these future industrial estates. throughout FY20. 09 A PASSIONATE, ENGAGED WORKFORCE A FORCE FOR GOOD As a result of our ongoing commitment to Of all the factors that have influenced Mirvac’s One of the goals set out in our 2014 This community investment throughout FY19, success and strong performance, the most Changes Everything sustainability strategy particularly through the provision of upfront important has been the genuine recognition was to become net positive carbon by 2030, amenity at our masterplanned communities, that our best asset is our people. A team of and this year we released Planet Positive: we increased our community contributions by curious and passionate people, aligned with which is our plan setting out how we intend to more than 800 per cent from a FY17 baseline, a clear vision, has created a workplace where get there. It includes continuing to maximise three years ahead of our 30 per cent target. individuals are committed to our overall energy efficiency and developing all-electric We also launched our first Social Return on purpose and to leaving a positive legacy. buildings powered by 100 per cent renewable Investment (SROI) report during the financial energy. This work will mean that from 2030 and year. It’s our first attempt at measuring our In FY19, we maintained our employee each year afterwards, Mirvac will be avoiding social impact and while we continue to refine engagement score of 90 per cent for the emissions equivalent to planting over 1.4 million our measurement tool, the process is already second consecutive year, as measured by trees and taking 22,300 cars off the road. informing the design and delivery of new Willis Towers Watson. These results show that our team continues to believe in our purpose Targeting and then exceeding net zero projects in order to continue to make and strategy and is proud of the projects and carbon are not just the right things to do, a positive impact on people’s lives. services we’re delivering for our customers. they make good business sense. Transitioning INNOVATION AS A to a lower carbon portfolio will allow us to COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE We recognise that we need to continue increase energy price certainty and create to work hard to maintain this high standard. Our award-winning innovation program, Hatch, greater value for our stakeholders. They also The survey also gives us the opportunity to continued to work on a number of exciting have the added benefit of helping us to retain listen to feedback from our people on areas initiatives in FY19. Cultivate, the pop‑up urban premium tenants and minimise vacancy rates, that are still in need of improvement. We have farm we created in partnership with start‑up, and with low carbon building policy reforms taken these comments on board and we are Farmwall, in the basement of EY Centre, on the horizon, we aim to be ahead of the focused on ensuring Mirvac continues to 200 George Street, Sydney expanded to curve when it comes to compliance. be a great place to work. a second and larger site at 275 Kent Street We also recognise that it is important to be in partnership with Westpac. Our unique co PRIORITISING SAFETY transparent about our understanding of the working pilot, The Third Space, came to a close At Mirvac, we prioritise safety above all else. potential financial impacts of climate change to at Broadway Sydney but opened in a different We pursue safety excellence which means looking our business and what we are doing in response, format at Orion Springfield in QLD, where it beyond merely preventing harm to improving and last year we made a commitment to report continues to test the market in pursuance of the the overall wellbeing of our employees, suppliers, under the Task Force on Climate-related ideal co-working model for a retail environment. communities and the environment. This requires Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our first TCFD We have now tasked Hatch to think about how a thorough and proactive approach to safety. report is now available on our website and we Mirvac can help digital natives live better urban expect that the depth and quantification of our lives as we think about reimagining urban life Two years ago, we launched a new health and risks will develop over the next several years. for multiple generations of Australians. safety strategy, Thrive, which has been successful in reinforcing and strengthening the safety Our sustainability strategy is now firmly A POSITIVE OUTLOOK practices, behaviours and cultures across our embedded across the business and has business, with another year of positive results in The operational excellence for which Mirvac resulted in a variety of new, pioneering FY19. This year we broadened our safety metrics is known continues to differentiate the Group. initiatives and achievements during the to include a critical incident frequency rate Our passionate team, the high calibre of our financial year including: working with social (CIFR). This enables us to identify and examine projects and our commitment to making enterprise, Homes for Homes, to address the incidents and near misses so we can work a difference, as well as delivering financial need for more social and affordable housing in towards preventing them rather than reacting returns, have created a brand that inspires Victoria; partnering with the Property Industry to them. In FY19, we achieved a CIFR of 0.91 and the trust and loyalty of our customers, partners Foundation to build a six-bedroom house in we reduced our lost time injury frequency rate to and importantly you, our securityholders. Toongabbie, Sydney, where five homeless 1.02, another record low. You can read more about youths will live and receive care, mentoring and Our purpose continues to inspire us to make our initiatives under the strategy on page 32. support from Marist180; and donating a parcel a positive contribution and be a force for good. of land to DVConnect where, with the help This is more important than ever in today’s A FLEXIBLE & INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE of Halcyon, we have built Queensland’s first environment where political uncertainty, Championing gender diversity, innovative thinking, purpose-built bridging accommodation facility economic volatility and the lack of trust workplace flexibility and inclusive leadership are to support victims of domestic violence. in large institutions, lead people to ask all vital parts of Mirvac’s DNA. We continue to more of corporations and governments. encourage all of our employees to adopt some In order to contribute to a world that is form of flexibility into their working week, day or free of forced labour, modern slavery, human Underpinning our success is our people month through our My Simple Thing initiative, trafficking and child labour, we have been and strong culture here at Mirvac. Together, and we recently relaunched Mirvac Stars, which working on the first stage of a modern slavery we work hard to ensure that the places and celebrates the achievements of people going risk assessment so that we can start to identify communities we are creating are sustainable, above and beyond in their roles. and eradicate modern slavery within our supply innovative and connected, and have our chain, starting with our construction business, customers at their heart. We believe that empowering women to and we expect to release this shortly. become future leaders must start at an early On behalf of our Executive Leadership Team, age, and we have partnered with the GWS I would like to thank the Board for their ongoing Giants football club on a leadership program for guidance, the whole Mirvac team for their year 9 girls called ‘Giant Goals’ to demonstrate commitment and enthusiasm, and you our 90% what a career in the property industry could securityholders, for your valued support. look like and to encourage girls to consider studying STEM subjects for their NSW HSC. We are also committed to the Property Council of Australia’s successful ‘Girls in Property’ programme, working with girls in year 10 Maintained employee Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz to demonstrate the types of careers that engagement score CEO & Managing Director can be pursued in the property industry. 10 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 FORCES OF CHANGE As our cities continue to expand, and our industry evolves at an increasingly rapid pace, our business is challenged to forecast and act upon what the urban landscape will look like in the coming years. We are acutely aware of a number of significant macro-trends that are shaping our world. As a leading Australian property group, we’re focused on monitoring these trends and understanding their potential impact to our business, our workforce and our customers, in order to both manage the risks and embrace the opportunities they present. HOUSING AFFORDABILITY Despite recent housing market declines, Australia remains one of the most expensive places in the world to buy a house 1. The result is an intergenerational divide where younger generations have diminishing prospects of buying a house in the established neighbourhoods their parents enjoy. Our initiative, The Right Start, gives first home buyers a leg up towards buying their first property. We’ve also further advanced our involvement in the emerging build-to-rent sector, and launched a Rent-to-Buy product in WA, which we believe will improve choice, quality and security of tenure for renters and give them a helping hand towards home ownership. EQUALITY AND EMPOWERMENT Over the past 12 months, we have seen an increased focus on the violation of human rights; from Australia’s disturbing rate of violence against women, to attempts to curb the widespread global problem of modern slavery. As a White Ribbon Workplace, we have taken active steps to break the cycle of violence against women, providing our workforce with tools that build respect, support equality and assist community groups who are doing the same. As a founding member of the Australian Supply Chain Sustainability School, we have been working with other Australian companies to make better supplier choices to help eradicate exploitation and modern slavery. We also want to support and empower companies that deliver positive social outcomes. Over the next 10 years, we’re continuing towards our goal to direct $100 million to the social sector, including through social procurement with Indigenous businesses, social enterprises, and B Corps 2. CHALLENGES FACING THE BUILDING INDUSTRY The building industry was the subject of heavy scrutiny during FY19, $100m following concerns about building quality and the use of combustible cladding. As a result, we are seeing a greater understanding from our social sector investment, customers that the underlying value of any property is dependent including social procurement on the quality of the design and construction. Our unique integrated capability enables us to exercise tight control over the quality of our 1. The Economic Intelligence Unit’s Worldwide Cost of Living Survey 2019. projects, throughout their entire lifestyle. This commitment to quality 2. A certified B Corporation is a business that meets the highest standard of verified social and design excellence over 47 years has built trust and confidence in and environmental performance, public transparency, and legal accountability to balance profit and purpose. our brand. 3. The Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Eco-System Services, 2019 (IPBES). 11 DETERIORATION OF INSTITUTIONAL TRUST The findings of recent Royal Commissions, together with the recent political we believe we have more uncertainty, further undermined the foundations of public trust in Australia in FY19. In this climate, we believe we have more responsibility than ever to be a force for good. As such, we’ve renewed our efforts to ensure we are trusted by our customers and securityholders by being transparent in our reporting processes. We continue to listen to stakeholders to understand where we are responsibility than ever doing well, and where we need to improve. Underscoring our commitment to be a force for good in our communities, we’ve far exceeded our goal to triple to be a force for good our community investment three years ahead of target, and have introduced unlimited paid volunteer leave so that our people can give back in their own communities. AUSTRALIA’S FIRST LARGE-SCALE One Planet Living Community MARRICK & CO, SYDNEY CLIMATE CHANGE This year, the City of Sydney joined 600 other municipal bodies from around the world in declaring a climate emergency. The devastating impacts of climate change continue to come to light with the latest research 3 showing one million species are threatened with extinction and calling out the current global response as insufficient. Our sustainability strategy, This Changes Everything, has seen Mirvac implement transformative change across the business. This year, for instance, we released our plan to reach net positive carbon by 2030 which sets out the actions we’ll take to reduce our carbon emissions and ultimately, eliminate more than we emit. We also delivered Australia’s first large-scale One Planet Living Community at Marrick & Co, Sydney which adheres to a framework that supports residents to live comfortably within the earth’s resources. DIGITAL DISRUPTION New technologies are transforming the way we live, work and play. We welcome the opportunities presented to our business and the ways in which new technologies enable us to innovate as part of our purpose to reimagine urban life. Digital disruption typically marks changes in consumer needs and tastes and we have therefore tasked our innovation team, Hatch, to explore ways in which our business can help digital natives thrive. We are also implementing smart technology across our portfolio and using data across our business to better understand our customers, tenants and communities, in order to create places that meet and exceed their expectations. 12 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Office & Industrial EY Centre, 200 George Street, Sydney 13 During FY19, Mirvac successfully consolidated its reputation as a visionary creator and trusted manager of some of Australia’s most exceptional office and industrial assets. The Group further enhanced its high‑performing investment portfolio with the delivery of new, state-of-the-art workplaces, and the continual improvement of its existing buildings. With over $15 billion of assets under management, Mirvac is now the second largest listed manager of office and industrial assets in the country. OFFICE 95 per cent of the office portfolio is made This year, we officially opened the first two Our focus on quality extends to our existing up of premium and A-grade assets which buildings at our reimagined South Eveleigh assets where our buildings are being constantly is testament to our award-winning creation precinct in Sydney: Axle and Yerrabingin refined, upgraded and managed. This reduces capability and commitment to quality. The House. With over 3,800 workers now in situ at the materials and resources they consume and calibre of our buildings and our focus on South Eveleigh, enjoying the amenity already enhances the comfort and wellness of those major metropolitan areas, close to transport delivered as part of stage one, our vision to who occupy them. hubs, have enabled our portfolio to benefit create a thriving, connected and sustainable This strategy drives partnership and from the favourable office market conditions community is quickly taking shape. We are investment across the portfolio and has and 30 year vacancy rate lows in Sydney encouraged by the positive feedback we led to some significant achievements this and Melbourne in FY19. Our 85 per cent have already received about both buildings. year, including the 46,000 square metre, weighting to these cities is set to increase In the next year, two more office assets will be whole building lease renewal of the Federal with the further progression of our $3.1 billion completed including The Foundry, which is Department of Health and Ageing at Sirius active development pipeline, as we build out the second Commonwealth Bank workplace House, Woden, ACT, six years ahead of the our next generation of passive income. at South Eveleigh, and our landmark office lease expiry date. Mirvac’s occupancy and tower, Olderfleet in Melbourne. The Locomotive retention rates are among the highest Workshops at South Eveleigh and Suncorp’s in the industry. new headquarters at 80 Ann Street in Brisbane We remain focused on continually improving will follow in FY21 and FY22. These projects the experience of our office and industrial remain on time and on budget, supported by customers and enhancing the lives of the our unique integrated business model. Their 2019 PCA Excellence & delivery will mean that by FY22, we will have communities in which we operate. Our strong partnerships with leading architects, urban Innovation Award for Best one of the youngest portfolios in Australia and will have developed 85 per cent of designers, planners and interior designers Sustainable Development our assets directly. enable us to innovate and redefine the future of work with each new project. This EY Centre, 200 George, Sydney combination of passion and partnership has (New Building) led to the creation of digitally enabled, futureSirius House, 23 Furzer St, ACT proofed, sustainable buildings and precincts (Existing Building) that promote collaboration, creativity and productivity for our customers. Office Snapshot FY19 FY18 FY17 $6.7bn Portfolio value $5.7bn $4.9bn 31 Number of properties 28 28 657,140sqm Net lettable area 641,808sqm 623,826sqm 98.2% Occupancy 97.5% 97.6% 6.4 years Weighted average lease expiry 6.6 years 6.5 years 5.43% Weighted average cap rate 5.69% 5.92% 5.7% Like-for-like NOI growth 12.7% 0.0% 376 Collins Street, Melbourne 14 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In FY19, we significantly grew our Industrial portfolio in line with our strategy, bringing our total assets under management to over $1.3 billion and our industrial development pipeline to $1.2 billion. Demand from leading retail and logistics operators for premium industrial facilities remains strong, particularly in the Sydney market, where 100 per cent of our Industrial portfolio is located. We expect this demand for quality to continue based on the significant potential for future growth of e-commerce in Australia, coupled with the diminished supply of prime industrial sites in strategic, well connected locations. Calibre Industrial Estate, Sydney INDUSTRIAL This year, we proudly opened our premium With our reputation for the creation of premium industrial estate, Calibre at Eastern Creek, industrial assets now confirmed with Calibre, Western Sydney, NSW. The site was transformed our intention is replicate this success with from a government-owned quarantine station several new development opportunities. These to a thriving warehouse and logistics hub in include a 54-hectare site at Badgerys Creek in just four years. It is now home to a collection of Western Sydney, NSW which has the potential leading brands including CEVA Logistics, Miele, to become Stage 1 of a future 244-hectare Pet Circle, Sheldon & Hammond and ACFS industrial estate, just 800 metres from the new e-Solutions, who are leveraging the high-quality Western Sydney Airport. The site will benefit facilities, as well as the excellent transport links, from transport connections and approximately to support and accelerate business growth and $20 billion of infrastructure improvements in improve delivery times for their customers. the Western Sydney area by 2026. The Group also secured a 56-hectare site at Mamre Road, Kemps Creek, Western Sydney, NSW and a 14-hectare site at Manchester Road, Auburn, NSW, with the potential to develop both into leading industrial precincts over the next Industrial Snapshot few years. We continue to focus on enhancing the FY19 FY18 FY17 quality, functionality, flexibility and occupier $877m amenity of the portfolio, which includes some of Australia’s largest and most notable industrial Portfolio value $809m $873m precincts, such as Nexus Industry Park and 10 1 Hoxton Distribution Park in NSW. Through our Number of properties 17 19 integrated development capabilities, as well as strong relationships with our customers, 469,315sqm government and other key stakeholders, Net lettable area 431,980sqm 499,791sqm we are ideally placed to deliver high-quality 99.7% facilities, and the associated infrastructure to unlock value and generate employment Occupancy 100% 95.3% opportunities in key metropolitan locations. 7.7 years Weighted average lease expiry 7.1 years 7.0 years We continue to focus on enhancing the quality, 5.72% functionality, flexibility and occupier amenity Weighted average cap rate 6.19% 6.37% of the portfolio. 7.8% 1. Excludes properties being held for development. Variance between FY17/FY18 and FY19 as some individual Like-for-like NOI growth 1.3% 2.0% properties were amalgamated into estates during FY19 (FY18 comparable of 10 assets and FY17 comparable of 13). 15 SETTING THE BENCHMARK IN SUSTAINABILITY In Australia, the building industry contributes to approximately 25 per cent of the nation’s carbon emissions, and as a leading Australian property group, we recognise that we have an opportunity to influence meaningful change in the way we build and manage our assets. One area where we can have a significant impact is in our office portfolio, where we have direct influence over the assets that we own and manage, as well as our active commercial development pipeline. When we released our refreshed sustainability strategy in June last year, we made a commitment to ensure all new office developments were built to a minimum 5.5 star NABERS Energy rating, a minimum 4.5 star NABERS Water rating and a minimum Gold WELL Shell & Core rating. Designing and developing sustainable assets is not just good for the environment, it is also good for our customers and securityholders. Assets that are energy and water efficient deliver lower utility costs and higher valuations. At our Sydney headquarters, 200 George Street, for example, we achieved a 5.5 star NABERS Energy rating which is half a star above our original design target of 5 stars. The half of a star improvement alone represents a saving in energy costs of almost $200,000 per year, as well as a $4 million uplift in valuation. While reducing our water, energy and gas consumption has been challenging – particularly during Australia’s hottest summer on record this year – we continued to make good progress, achieving a further 3.6 per cent reduction in carbon intensity and a 2.3 per cent reduction in water intensity across the investment portfolio. David Malcolm Justice Centre, Perth (copyright @kyntran) “ We have one of the most A MARKET-LEADING PORTFOLIO Our commitment to embedding sustainability in the design process, sustainable office portfolios in the along with a keen focus on improving building performance through country, which is testament to our our in-house capability, delivered a number of industry-leading sustainability ratings in our office portfolio during the financial year. high-quality asset management, At 1 Darling Island in Pyrmont NSW, for example, we achieved a 6 star NABERS Energy rating without the use of GreenPower. As well as the a firm focus on driving energy installation of a 100kW solar PV system, the rating was achieved efficiency at our assets and our through the team’s ongoing work to improve operational performance and energy efficiency. 1 Darling Island now joins Mirvac’s 65 Pirrama Road investment in renewable energy. in Sydney and 23 Furzer Street in Canberra in having achieved 6 star NABERS Energy ratings, representing market-leading performance. ” Meanwhile, 275 Kent Street, Sydney, NSW became one of the first buildings in Australia to recertify as a 6 Star Green Star Performance Campbell Hanan, Head of Office & Industrial rating. This was repeated later in the year with 23 Furzer Street also recertifying as a 6 Star Green Star building. 4 In addition to a 5.5 star NABERS Energy rating at our multi-award x winning EY Centre, 200 George Street in Sydney, NSW, we’ve also now achieved a 6 Star Green Star Performance rating and a 5.5 star NABERS Indoor Environment rating for the base building, which recognises the building’s exceptional standards of thermal comfort, 3x air quality, noise reduction, lighting and office layout. Green Star Performance In Perth, WA, the David Malcolm Justice Centre achieved a 6 Star Green Star Performance rating (the first in Perth to do so) as well as a 5 star NABERS Energy rating, and was recognised with the NABERS Energy rating Commercial ESD & Sustainability Award: Premium/A Grade at the Property Council of Australia’s WA Property Awards. Overall, Mirvac’s office portfolio now boasts four 6 Star Green Star Performance rated buildings, along with three 6 star, two 5.5 star and seven 5 star NABERS Energy rated buildings, making it one of the greenest portfolios in Australia. Mirvac’s office portfolio is one of the greenest portfolios in Australia 16 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 South Eveleigh, Sydney $15bn total assets under management $3.1bn active commercial development pipeline 17 CONTINUED EXCELLENCE AT EY CENTRE When it was completed in 2016, EY Centre, 200 George Street, Sydney was a one-of-a kind building, featuring a world-first closed cavity timber façade and blind system, LED lighting throughout the entire building and a comprehensive metering and monitoring system. Its unique architecture, leading sustainability features and world-class innovation have seen the Francis-Jones Morehen Thorp-designed building collect 19 awards over the past three years. In FY19, EY Centre was recognised again for outstanding building performance, winning the prestigious International Project of the Year award and the Building Performance Champion at the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) Performance Awards in London. As well as building performance, the awards recognised EY Centre’s high levels of user satisfaction and comfort, and its significant and measurable reduction of energy consumption and carbon emissions. The judges noted that the EY Centre was ‘an exemplary project. The commitment to aftercare reinforces the true desire for a whole life approach. This should be the benchmark for all buildings.’ In addition to this, EY Centre received the Award for Best Sustainable New Development at the Property Council of Australia’s Innovation & Excellence Awards in May this year. With EY Centre setting a new benchmark for sustainable design and delivery, Mirvac has now committed to a set of minimum sustainability design standards to be used for all future office developments and refurbishments. These include implementing LED lighting throughout all buildings; purchasing 100 per cent renewable energy to be used on site; ensuring a quality façade to optimise thermal comfort and energy efficiency; reducing potable water intensity; maximising the recycling capability at each asset; using highly efficient plant and equipment; and ensuring a high-performance building control strategy. EY Centre, 200 George Street, Sydney #HELLOSOUTHEVELEIGH In May 2019, together with our consortium partners AMP Capital, Sunsuper and Centuria Property Funds, we celebrated the official opening of the first two buildings at the revitalised South Eveleigh precinct (previously known at Australian Technology Park). Axle, the first of two Commonwealth Bank of Australia workplaces to be delivered at the precinct, together with Yerrabingin House, which features a gym and childcare centre, marked a significant milestone in the transformation. The precinct is on track to be complete by 2020 and will be home to 18,000 workers, including 10,000 from Commonwealth Bank. Our vision for South Eveleigh is to create an environment for collaboration, innovation and exchange. We aim to achieve this by imaginatively mixing workspace with public and recreational facilities that engage the broader community, incorporating a variety of unique experiences to inspire creativity and ensure everyone feels welcome. This vision is now taking shape with Community day at South Eveleigh a number of successful initiatives in place, which celebrate the rich history of the site, while creating strong cultural connections. South Eveleigh will be We have a particular focus on the local Indigenous community home to 18,000 workers which has such a strong history and presence in the Sydney suburbs of Eveleigh and Redfern. including 10,000 from Commonwealth Bank of Australia 18 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONNECTING PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE One example of a successful cultural and community initiative at South Eveleigh, Now open for business, the farm welcomes is Australia’s first Indigenous urban food production farm on the rooftop of Yerrabingin workers, visitors and the local community to House. The aim of the venture was to create a unique space that offers an array of a series of planned workshops to learn about compelling engagement and educational experiences focused on celebrating and Indigenous culture and native plants and tend remembering Aboriginal culture. to the farm. They also have the opportunity to purchase produce from the farm. We have also worked closely with our neighbours, Carriageworks, on a comprehensive public art strategy for the precinct, with local artists commissioned to create pieces inspired by the history of Eveleigh. Indigenous artist Jonathan Jones, has commenced working on two artworks which celebrate the Indigenous legacy of the site. Jonathan worked closely with Indigenous elder, Uncle Chicka, to develop the artwork ‘Welcome to Country’. Uncle Chicka worked at the Eveleigh Railway Workshops for many years and the artwork conveys his personal history of the site through letters stencilled into a series of banners that form a canopy above the entry garden. Local artist Chris Fox was also inspired by the history of the precinct for his ‘Central Pavilion’, which will be an iconic meeting point at the heart of South Eveleigh’s Village Square. Finally, artist Nell drew on her family history and connection with the Railway Workshops when designing her adult sized ‘Treehouse’ structure covered in hundreds of steel leaves. The artworks will play a crucial role in the activation of the site by sparking community conversations, imagination and engagement. Yerrabingin rooftop farm, South Eveleigh MEET THE ARTIST Nell Artist Nell was commissioned to deliver two major public artworks at South Eveleigh: ‘Happy Rain’ a light work for Yerrabingin House and ‘Eveleigh Treehouse’, a collaboration with design and architectural collective, Cave Urban. She shared her inspiration for the ‘Treehouse’, her personal connection with the site and the important role she believes public art plays in bringing communities closer: My great-grandfather worked as a shunter and then boilermaker at Bay 4 at the Eveleigh Railway Workshops from 1931 to 1952. The job kept the family afloat during the depression. I learnt more about this time in my family’s history after being commissioned to create the South Eveleigh artworks. ‘Treehouse’ tells the story of the convergence of nature and industry at the site over the last century. Public art is an essential part of building a strong community. With ‘Treehouse’, we invited the community to over twenty working bees at Eveleigh Works (the blacksmith workshop) to help forge hundreds of tiny leaves which will adorn the structure. It was a great way to bring the community together for a shared purpose. At South Eveleigh, public art was considered by Mirvac and its partners from the outset of the project and it is being integrated throughout the precinct in a sophisticated and interesting way. It has the power to harmonise the environment and make people feel good. ‘Treehouse’ will be a place where people can come and sit and have lunch or just contemplate their surrounds. It’s designed to appeal to all generations and will have a ramp for pram and wheelchair access. It’s really about bringing people together. Artist Nell with Eveleigh Works blacksmith, Matthew Mewburn 19 Central Pavilion, South Eveleigh (artist impression) CO-CREATING FOR THE FUTURE The delivery of Commonwealth Bank’s new The Mirvac difference can be seen in our unique Mirvac’s industry leading retail expertise also state-of-the-art workplace at South Eveleigh approach to developing commercial assets enables us to improve the customer experience and our progress on the new headquarters through co-creation with our customers and at our new and existing workplace precincts for Deloitte at 477 Collins Street, Melbourne our communities. From a deep understanding through the introduction of diverse, tailored and Suncorp at 80 Ann Street, Brisbane, of our customers and their requirements, as experiential retail that reflects the needs of our has consolidated our reputation as a partner well as a consultative community approach, office tenants and the local community. Using of choice for some of Australia’s leading Mirvac works collaboratively from the outset of insights from our Retail team and feedback from brands. These customers are committed to a project. We anticipate future trends such as our customers, this year we have reimagined the promoting collaboration and innovation within new technologies and the impact of climate retail offering at Riverside Quay in Melbourne and their workforces and providing an enhanced change and then deliver assets of which both 275 Kent Street in Sydney. This has succeeded employee experience that will attract and Mirvac and our partners are deeply proud. in attracting workers and customer beyond the retain top talent. They want to create the nine-to-five, enhancing the ground plane and At 477 Collins Street, Mirvac has worked very best working environments for their contributing to the wider urban fabric of these closely with Deloitte to embrace technologypeople and we share this vision. We also inner-city locations. Retail will also be a dynamic enabled workplace design in line with global have the experience, cutting-edge skill-set feature of South Eveleigh, where an immersive advancements in smart technology. The and proven capability to deliver on it. retail experience by The Grounds is set to open final building will incorporate a network of in FY20. At 80 Ann Street in Brisbane, an urban sophisticated sensors, enabling us to measure retail lane, an eat street and shared spaces for factors like occupancy, temperature, light and meetings and remote working will revive the CO2, and optimise operations in response. historic bustling marketplace at Turbot Street, The building will also include a fibre-optic while inviting the wider community to discover backbone and diverse riser to accommodate and enjoy the revitalised precinct. future technology needs. The Mirvac difference can be seen in our unique approach to developing commercial assets through co‑creation with our customers and our communities. 20 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Retail Our centres are strategically located within We’re bringing this philosophy to life across higher income, higher growth and densely our portfolio by constantly enhancing our populated urban catchment areas, with an assets to meet and exceed the expectations of overweight to the strong Sydney market. our customers. We know that having the right Incorporating approximately 440,000 square retail mix and the right customer experiences metres of space and more than 1,600 retailers, will drive strong performance, so each of our intricate understanding of local markets our centres offers a carefully curated retail enables our team to deliver bold and innovative environment that caters directly to the needs experiences, inspiring our customers and of its customers. To this end, we have advanced creating value for our securityholders. our development and repositioning pipeline across the portfolio during the last 12 months, The Retail sector is rapidly evolving. From with a focus on segments that support the shopping in-store, to online with click and lifestyle aspirations of our customers, because collect or click and dispatch options, customers we know today’s shopping centres must go now have the ability to tailor their shopping beyond retail if they are to remain relevant. experience to their particular preference and lifestyle needs. We are embracing the Quality food and entertainment resonates opportunities created by the shifting landscape strongly with our customers, so we have and applying our expertise to create retail continued to reweight our portfolio towards experiences that ensure we stay relevant, more lifestyle-based offers. One-third of our while delivering a significant, positive impact total portfolio gross lettable area (GLA) is now on people’s lives. focused towards food catering, entertainment and other services (such as fitness operators), and 46 per cent of our portfolio gross income $4.5bn is attributed to these same categories, up from 26 per cent in FY13. At Mirvac, we are fully engaged in the new assets under management retail paradigm. We understand the importance of ongoing adaptation. As long as we continue to excite and inspire our customers with new Australia’s retail landscape is experiencing a step change. experiences, to reinvent and reimagine our portfolio, to embrace change and treat digital Shopping centres within our capital cities are emerging as as an opportunity not a threat, and help our the heart and vital pulse of their surrounding urban villages. retailer partners on the journey, we believe We have responded to our customers’ desire for community we will be able to drive value for our customers, communities and securityholders. connections as well as convenience with the creation of a dynamic portfolio of urban centres across Australia’s eastern seaboard, with assets under management of over $4.5 billion. Stanhope Village, Sydney 21 CONNECTING COMMUNITIES As the average home size becomes smaller and people increasingly embrace apartment or medium-density living, our retail centres are, more than ever, providing a place for those in their local communities to socialise and connect. At Mirvac, we’re continuously looking at how we can provide our customers with environments and experiences that extend beyond retail. Tramsheds, Sydney Retail Snapshot FY19 FY18 FY17 $3.4bn Portfolio value $3.2bn $3.1bn 17 Number of properties 17 17 437,899sqm (excludes 1-3 Smail St and 80 Bay St) Net lettable area 419,262sqm 418,578sqm 99.2% Occupancy 99.2% 99.4% 4.1 years Weighted average lease expiry 3.8 years 4.2 years 5.41% Weighted average cap rate 5.49% 5.67% 2.6% Like-for-like NOI growth 3.0% 3.0% Brisbane Street Art Festival, Toombul, QLD At Broadway Sydney, for instance, we piloted a unique co-working program called The Third Space, offering start-ups, freelancers, students and artists a high-tech rentable place to work, with the added benefit of being close to all the amenity a retail centre provides. The popular concept, which attracted over 3,000 bookings at Broadway during its 12-month trial, has now been implemented at Orion Springfield Central in Brisbane for the next 12 months. We’re also responding to a growing consumer trend for fresh and seasonal produce. At Tramsheds, Sydney we run a weekly farmers’ market where visitors can purchase directly from local providores and attend workshops and masterclasses held by community operators. Launched in 2018, it continues to be a great day out for families while celebrating businesses in the area. Recognising the role we play in bringing people together, Mirvac also runs a Mums & Co program nationally to connect parents, grandparents and carers in the community. This year alone, the program – which has over 31,000 registrations – has seen over 100 local events, meet ups and activations held at our centres, offering those in the community the chance to learn a new skill, meet over coffee or enjoy a night out. Rhodes Waterside, Sydney Another popular initiative this financial year was the Brisbane Street Art Festival (BSAF), held at Toombul in QLD. Over ten high-impact surfaces of the centre were surrendered to local and international artists, who, over the course of 1,600+ 440,000 two weeks delighted audiences with mural painting, graffiti art and live theatre. Members of the public were also invited to get their hands dirty and participate in the arts, with Toombul hosting a dedicated artist-in-residence pop-up space for the duration of the festival. The BSAF partnership builds on the success of Retailers square metres of GLA the centre’s regular sell-out artisan and maker workshops. 22 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Riverside Quay, Melbourne SOCIAL IMPACT As well as connecting the community, We also continued to show our commitment to Mirvac’s retail centres are focused on having equality and inclusiveness for all, with our retail In this landscape, it's about being bold, a direct and positive impact through a range centres proudly showing their support for the continuously adapting to changing consumer of social initiatives. Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras during the behaviours and then refining our approach. financial year. The Group’s Sydney retail centres Retail is constantly evolving. At Cherrybrook Village in Sydney for instance, were given colourful makeovers, with rainbow the centre management team worked with decorated escalators and pedestrian crossings, Anglicare to provide food relief for families and at Broadway, Sydney a glittering disco lift Susan MacDonald, Head of Retail in need, inviting customers to donate nonexperience was installed for customers to enjoy. perishable food items, such as pasta, rice, tea Tramsheds, Sydney and coffee and tinned goods, which Anglicare then delivered to families across Sydney. The response from the local community was fantastic, with over 3,000 food items collected at Cherrybrook alone. Meanwhile at Toombul, Brisbane, the team partnered with not-for-profit, Nundah Community Enterprises Cooperative (NCEC), to provide people in the area who have learning difficulties, intellectual disabilities or mental illness with meaningful job opportunities. Being local means that it’s easier for NCEC to stay connected with their employees, their employees’ families and networks of support. The partnership is also aligned with the Group’s target to direct $100 million of our procurement spend towards the social sector under Mirvac’s sustainability strategy, This Changes Everything. 23 NATIONAL RECYCLING WEEK One of Mirvac’s commitments under its sustainability strategy is to send zero waste to landfill by 2030. It’s another ambitious target (in addition to our targets to be net positive in carbon and water), and something that we can directly influence at our office, industrial and retail assets. Each year, Mirvac participates in National Recycling Week, encouraging our tenants and customers to reduce their waste and to recycle. The team at St Marys Village in Sydney offered The focus in FY19 was on reducing single-use their customers free reusable straws, helping to items (such as plastic bags, plastic straws and reduce the millions of single-use straws that flow coffee cups) and contamination in our recycling into landfill each day. As well as introducing new streams. Contamination in recycling bins – such recycling bins at the centre, St Marys Village has as food scraps or single-use plastic can lead also implemented a Return and Earn Machine, to a significant amount of avoidable waste. with over 7.3 million plastic bottles, cans, glass Mirvac’s retail centres took to National bottles and cartons recycled as at 30 June, Recycling Week with gusto, running local an initiative that will continue to run as a way Although National Recycling Week runs for promotions that reflected the centres’ of educating customers. just seven days of the year, Mirvac continues brand and the interests of their customers. It wasn’t just our retail centres that took part in to strive for maximum resource recovery At our Birkenhead Point in Sydney, for example, the action. At the David Malcolm Justice Centre, outcomes through robust service and trade we invited customers to trade in 10 plastic our office tower in Perth, Western Australia, agreements, along with strong due diligence shopping bags in return for a reusable bag, the team ran an Eco-Friendly Fair, with tenants on the facilities where our waste and recycling designed by illustration artist, Sally Spratt. of the building given an opportunity to enjoy are processed. We also continue to encourage The team collected around 3,700 plastic bags the afternoon sun and talk to local businesses avoidance of waste in the first place and to to be sent to recycling in just one week, which about composting, fermenting, reusable bags, improve source separation at each of our is equivalent to over 20 kilograms of plastic. beeswax wraps and micro waste. sites to reduce contamination. Separate to National Recycling Week, our team at Cooleman Court in Canberra was named ACT’s Biggest Recycler at the 10th annual Actsmart Business Sustainability Awards during the financial year. Their Coolo Recycling Warriors program, which encourages retailers to find ways to recycle and to reduce their carbon footprint, has seen recycling rates at the centre increase from 52 per cent in FY17 to 85 per cent in FY19, equating to over 600 tonnes of waste being diverted from landfill. We were one of the first retail landlords to make a comprehensive investment in EV charging infrastructure and while Australia has generally lagged in this space we see a great take up of this technology in the future. It’s a great demonstration of the way Mirvac is adapting for the future, facilitating a more sustainable urban landscape and supporting the growing needs of our customers. Tim Weale, Mirvac’s National Manager, Retail Solutions Toombul, Queensland INNOVATIVE ENERGY SOLUTIONS IN RETAIL Since 2017, our Retail team has been investing Mirvac has been leading the way when it In addition to EV chargers, Mirvac has significantly in EV charging infrastructure at our comes to EV charging at our retail centres. committed to trialling an innovative solar retail assets, and in FY19, the team introduced An early adopter of the technology, we now energy solution at Stanhope Village in Sydney. an exciting new tenant at Toombul, Brisbane have 84 charging bays offered across 12 centres The lightweight, portable solar technology, which brings with it an equally exciting within our portfolio, including 38 universal EV called SolPod, was launched in April this year by EV offering. charging bays, 14 Tesla Supercharging bays ERM Power and will provide renewable energy and 31 Tesla destination charging sites (in to the Centre. Weighing just 14 kilograms each, Chargefox is the fastest growing openaddition to the Chargefox ultra-rapid station the panels can be installed and connected in charging network in Australia, and at Toombul at Toombul). hours, rather than days, meaning labour costs it has installed a new state-of-the-art and safety risks are considerably reduced. ultra‑rapid charging station that delivers up When Mirvac unveiled the Tesla Supercharger to 200 kilometres of driving with just eight at Broadway in March 2018 it was the only The commercial-grade solar panels are due to minutes of charge, or 400 kilometres with Sydney CBD outlet offering over 200 kilometres be installed on the rooftop of Stanhope Village 15 minutes of charge. The station can charge of charge in just 30 minutes. The same offer in the next financial year, and are estimated two cars simultaneously and is backed up is being installed at Moonee Ponds Central to help Mirvac avoid approximately 100 tonnes by 100 per cent renewable energy. in Melbourne. of carbon emissions during the trial. 24 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Our Brighton Lakes masterplanned community at Moorebank in Sydney won the UDIA NSW’s Award for Excellence in Greenfield Development for its trifecta of innovation, community and “ stakeholder engagement, and masterful planning and design ” Residential The Eastbourne, Melbourne Mirvac’s reputation for design excellence and community creation spans close to half a century. During this time, we’ve delivered some of the country’s most significant urban renewal projects and created thriving new communities across Australia. In FY19, the resilience of our business, together with the trust in our quality brand, has safeguarded us against the full impact of the residential downturn. With a robust pipeline of approximately 28,000 lots, we are well positioned for future growth and remain committed to creating places people are proud to call home. 25 Residential Snapshot FY19 FY18 FY17 27,992 Number of pipeline lots 27,406 29,186 2,611 Number of lots settled 3,400 3,311 $1.7bn Pre-sales secured $2.2bn $2.7bn 27% Residential gross margin 25.4% 25% 12.6% Residential return on invested capital 18.1% 18% Gainsborough Greens, Queensland Mirvac is well known for its legacy projects The ability to deliver progressive developments Mirvac Design strengthened its reputation as and this year saw the delivery of a raft of of this calibre, that pioneer new thinking, is one of Australia’s leading architectural practices, these across the country. With the arrival of underpinned by our wealth of experience at taking out three wins and a commendation these new, high-quality homes and thriving, the forefront of the industry, together with at the 2019 NSW Australian Institute of connected communities, we have continued our unique end-to-end capability. We have Architecture Awards. Harold Park in Sydney to set new benchmarks in design excellence, finely honed our approach to planning, design won both the prestigious Lloyd Rees Award placemaking and sustainability. and construction over 47 years. We continue for Urban Design and the Lord Mayor’s Award, to put our customers first and our thorough which recognised the significant achievements The Eastbourne is one such project. This of Mirvac Design in transforming the former understanding of how they live enables $460 million development in East Melbourne paceway into a fantastic place to live and us to create homes and communities that features 258 apartments, including a 500 square visit. My Ideal House by Mirvac Design, in support and enhance their lifestyles. At our metre penthouse with a 300 square metre collaboration with Madeleine Blanchfield, won masterplanned communities, we prioritise terrace and 25-metre lap pool, with unparalleled the award for Sustainable Architecture, and the delivery of key amenity such as schools, views of Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne CBD and Moreton Manor in Bondi, Sydney received retail offerings, parklands, sports facilities beyond. Providing new levels of extraordinary a Commendation in the Residential (alterations and community centres, laying the foundations sophistication and elegance, this landmark and additions) category. With all of our projects, for strong resilient communities from the building has redefined luxury residential we believe we have a responsibility to make outset. This physical social infrastructure living in Australia. a positive contribution to the urban environment. is also complemented by social networks Marrick & Co in Sydney is another project we foster that develop new communities, These awards, reflecting the judgment of peers that has reimagined the way we live. The enabling them to thrive long after the and customers, recognised our ability to deliver new community underscores our absolute construction teams have left. on this responsibility. commitment to sustainability, as the first Looking to the future, our robust residential It’s encouraging to see our projects continue large-scale project in Australia to achieve development pipeline has the potential to receive recognition from our industry peers a One Planet Living accreditation. One Planet to deliver many more legacy projects. and the public. With over 600 industry awards Living is a framework developed by Bioregional At 505 George Street, Sydney, our proposed won since our inception in 1972, Mirvac added Australia, which encourages people to live landmark tower has already started to win several more prestigious accolades during comfortably within the earth’s resources. awards for its concept design and at Wantirna this financial year. To achieve this, our team has introduced South, Victoria, we’re planning to transform a range of social and environmental initiatives Our Brighton Lakes masterplanned community a 171-hectare disused quarry into an exceptional to ensure the buildings and the people living, at Moorebank in Sydney won the UDIA new community with idyllic parkland surrounds. working and visiting them, are kinder to NSW’s Award for Excellence in Greenfield These future projects provide more exciting the environment. Development and was commended for opportunities for our team to continue to its “trifecta of innovation, community and utilise their experience and passion to deliver Brighton Lakes, Sydney stakeholder engagement, and masterful on our purpose to reimagine urban life. planning and design”. Ovo, our landmark residential tower at Green Square, Sydney developed with Landcom, was celebrated as an example of high density done well winning the UDIA Excellence for High Density Development Award 2018. More than 600 industry awards won since 1972. 26 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Altona North, Melbourne ALTONA NORTH A PROJECT OF PURPOSE HOMES FOR HOMES ZERO ENERGY DESIGN HOMES Being a force for good is at the core of our As a property company, Mirvac recognises It’s not just social value we’re delivering at business. We’re committed to leaving a positive the intrinsic value that having a home brings, Altona North; we’re innovating when it comes legacy in the communities in which we operate, both in the physical sense and in the way that to environmental sustainability too, with a and our new masterplanned community, it provides a sense of belonging and connection. 7 Star NatHERS rating being targeted across The Fabric at Altona North in Melbourne’s With this in mind, we were proud to announce the entire project, above Victoria’s standard inner‑west, is a shining example of this. an innovative partnership during the financial 6 Star NatHERS. This will see every home built year which will see Mirvac direct 0.1 per cent with thicker walls, increased insulation and from the sale proceeds of every home at The high-performing double glazing to improve Fabric at Altona North, to Homes for Homes. overall thermal performance, reducing the need Homes for Homes is a funding model from for heating and cooling and providing economic social enterprise, The Big Issue, that aims to and environmental benefits for residents. increase the supply of social and affordable In addition to this, the team at The Fabric is housing in Victoria. The fund they have working with the Australian Renewable Energy established is administered by experts National Agency (ARENA) on an arrangement in each state who direct the investments for Stage 1 that will take environmental to the people who are most in need. performance at the project to the next level. As well as making the initial 0.1 per cent The initiative is expected to involve a funding donation, Mirvac will facilitate a caveat agreement in which ARENA will contribute on the home titles that will see a further towards the incremental capital cost required 0.1 per cent directed to the Homes for Homes to implement zero energy design homes fund whenever the properties are sold in across Stage 1. These homes will include: the future. A property sold at Altona North >> a solar PV and battery system; for $700,000, for example, would reflect >> performance double glazing; a donation of $700, which when multiplied >> efficient reverse cycle air-conditioning; for future sales has a significant impact. >> heat pump hot water system; By working with organisations like Homes >> energy-efficient appliances; for Homes, we can make a tangible difference >> an EV charging station; in the community. >> LED lighting throughout; and >> real-time energy monitoring to identify which areas are consuming the most power. The trial, which will be rolled out to all homes within Stage 1, is another exciting step in The team at Altona North has been passionately improving our sustainability offering for our pursuing new and exciting ways to enhance our residential customers, while helping them to reduce their energy bills. We believe that community connections in the area, while if we build better and more sustainable homes, we can influence positive and lasting having a positive environmental impact. behavioural change. 27 A SMART SOLAR SOLUTION WITH ALLUME Innovation and sustainability are key to how In 2018, the team connected with an Australian With the number of apartment dwellers looking we do business at Mirvac, and in FY19, our start-up called Allume, who, through its for a solar energy solution increasing – in both innovation team, Hatch, launched an exciting unique solar distribution technology called Australia and around the globe – it’s a technology new sustainability initiative aimed at reducing SOLSHARE, is making solar more affordable that’s ripe with potential; so much so that Mirvac our customers’ energy bills and their carbon and more accessible for multi-metered buildings. has invested in and taken a minority interest in emissions at the same time. SOLSHARE works within the building’s existing Allume in order to further accelerate bringing metering infrastructure to allow solar to be the product to market. As well as providing the Recognising the impact rising energy prices distributed and billed to individual apartments. Group with a potential future revenue stream, are having on Australian households, and with Effectively working ‘behind the meter’, it requires the overall commitment to the SOLSHARE the demand for solar energy ever increasing, no changes to existing infrastructure which technology gives Mirvac a strong competitive the team embarked on a mission to incorporate makes installation more affordable and there advantage when it comes to its sustainability renewable energy at our apartment projects – are no constraints on the residents’ choices offering at its residential developments. The first an asset class where it has traditionally been of energy retailer. The system has also been project to trial SOLSHARE will be Folia at our more challenging to install renewable energy designed to optimise energy use, sending solar Apartments of Tullamore precinct in Melbourne, for a number of reasons, such as the smaller to residents at times during the day that will VIC, where 39 prestige apartments will benefit roof space available and the way energy is save them the most money. We have also taken from this ground-breaking technology. distributed to residents. the opportunity to use our purchasing power It’s also an initiative that sees Mirvac fulfil Mirvac first started researching solar energy as a force for good by ensuring that the first its commitment to offer renewable energy to for its apartments in 2017, which led to the installation will be done by Bunjil Energy, all of our residential customers, a strategic trial of smart energy systems at two of our an indigenous owned company. goal under our This Changes Everything apartment projects – Ascot House in Brisbane sustainability strategy leading to us: and Marrick & Co. in Sydney. Following these trials, as well as experiments with an ecodeliver savings on energy bills concierge at the Forge tower at Yarra’s Edge drive positive customer behaviour in Melbourne and The Moreton in Sydney, reduce carbon emissions it became clear that many of our customers want solar and are prepared to pay for it. We continue to explore new ways of enhancing the sustainability of our residential communities – a great example of Mirvac’s bold approach to designing and developing progressive projects for the future. Stuart Penklis, Head of Residential Gledswood Hills, Sydney 28 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The Zimmerman family HOUSE WITH NO BILLS MEASURING OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Mirvac’s industry-leading experiment, As a company that has a direct and lasting Overall, the SROI study estimated that for every House with No Bills, was launched in 2017 impact on the built environment, we’re dollar Mirvac invested across the 27 residential and a family of four, the Zimmermans, were committed to helping to create communities projects, $1.79 of social and economic value was selected to move in – rent free as part of that are sustainable and resilient – places created for local communities. Our first attempt the study in June 2018. where people feel healthy, happy, connected to measure our SROI showed us that the and safe, particularly as our cities continue to process and methodology were far from perfect, Mirvac’s intent for House with No Bills was urbanise and grow at a rapid pace. but we have learned from the experience. We to design and build an energy-efficient home realised that trying to measure too many inputs that would reduce a family’s energy bills, We recognise that in addition to providing across a large number of projects, or measure as well as their carbon footprint. To achieve the infrastructure and amenity that ensures outputs where data wasn’t readily available, this, the house has been built with increased we help build thriving communities with created a reporting burden for our development roof insulation, solar PV panels and battery strong bonds, it’s important to measure and managers and consequently this hindered the installation, LED lighting throughout, energyunderstand our impact so that we can be more capture of consistent or complete data from efficient appliances and intelligent controls. strategic in how we design and deliver new across each project. Having broad baseline data Smart metering and monitoring systems have projects in the future. also meant that our findings were somewhat also helped to keep track of where and how In 2015, we worked with KPMG to develop oversimplified, and we learned that attributing energy is being used, which has assisted the a Social Return on Investment (SROI) framework a value to an outcome is not an easy thing to do. family to adapt and make behavioural changes. and tool that would help us to quantify the A key goal for the family, in particular, has In the next iteration of measuring social impact, social value we were creating in our residential been learning how to optimise their solar to commence in FY20, we will take these projects. We wanted to clearly understand energy consumption. learnings and look at measuring fewer areas the impact of including features such as open with a higher level of confidence across fewer In the first three months of the experiment, spaces and quality landscaping, community projects, while aligning it with our emerging the house was using more energy than was programs and events, walkability, playgrounds, social purpose – to build strong community modelled for a typical family of four. As well as parks and sporting facilities, and well lit areas. In bonds. We recognise that SROI is an imperfect building systems that needed to be fine-tuned, FY19 we analysed twenty-seven of our existing science, but we remain strongly committed there were unexpected usage patterns due projects using a combination of project data and to better understanding our social impact and to Mr and Mrs Zimmerman’s shift work. data collected from residential customer surveys. being part of the growing capability in this area. The research found that: Mirvac and Curtin University worked with the We believe its measurement will be invaluable family to recommend small changes, leading >> by improving the sense of safety through in helping to guide how we invest in our to a marked improvement in energy usage. the creation of open spaces, enhanced residential projects in the future. In fact, in a number of months that followed connectivity and engagement activities, these changes the house generated more solar it was estimated that Mirvac created energy than it consumed, effectively performing $10 million in social value through as a net positive house. In April this year, for a reduction in costs related to crime, example, 105 per cent of the home’s electricity such as loss of property, medical expenses, was generated through solar energy, with the prevention and law enforcement costs; excess energy exported to the electricity grid. >> similarly, by having communities that promote physical activity (through quality Having gained rich insights into the way open spaces, walkability, and bicycle paths) our customers consume energy, and a better approximately $468,000 of value was understanding of the information our future created in reduced healthcare costs and customers will need to reduce energy bills, reductions in lost productivity; and we have now extended the House with No Bills project until December 2019, helping the >> in terms of our wider economic impact, Zimmerman family to continue to save for we created or are forecast to create over a deposit for their first home in the process. 5,200 jobs throughout the construction period (ranging from between 18 to 500 jobs Our hope is that our learnings from the House per site). This equates to around $2 billion with No Bills project will inform future design in salaries and wages paid, a significant and help create more affordable, energycontribution to the Australian economy. efficient communities across Australia. 29 BUILD-TO-RENT MELBOURNE BACKS BTR Long established in Europe, the US and We are proud to be at the forefront of this In June 2019, we entered into an agreement Japan, the emergence of the build-to-rent new sector, having launched the Australian with developer PDG to deliver 490 purpose‑built, (BTR) sector is gathering pace in Australia, Build-to-Rent Club with the Clean Energy BTR apartments as part of the $450 million in response to a lack of housing affordability, Finance Corporation in July 2018. Construction Munro development in Melbourne’s CBD. as well as demographic and lifestyle change. is progressing well on our first purpose-built The Munro development is a key project BTR describes a market in which institutional BTR apartment buildings at Pavilions, Sydney within the City of Melbourne’s $250 million investors provide substantial rental stock into Olympic Park, which is expected to complete renewal of the Queen Victoria Market precinct. the market. It offers a higher level of tenure in mid-2020. PDG was appointed by the City of Melbourne security as well as a greater degree In June 2019, we extended our interests in the to develop the Munro precinct and the company of amenity for tenants. sector into Melbourne with the confirmation of will develop the BTR project as part of the final our second BTR project, which is pictured below. stage of the precinct, commencing later this year, as well as a hotel and fine-grain retail. Mirvac sees huge potential for the sector, and it is an important growth area for our As one of Melbourne’s first BTR projects, We see build-to-rent as a crucial business. But we recognise that a strong, Mirvac and PDG’s plans to deliver BTR step towards giving renters control thriving BTR sector won’t just deliver economic apartments within this new precinct was and peace of mind. It will enable and financial benefits. Revolutionising the rental welcomed by the Lord Mayor of Melbourne, us to cater to customers at every sector in Australia will also deliver significant Sally Capp, who said the proposal would stage of their journey – from renter social benefits for hundreds of thousands of provide vital long-term rental accommodation renters, giving them access to high-quality, in an area of the city that is expected to to purchaser – whether they are well maintained rental property, with secure grow by 22,000 people by 2040. renting as a lifestyle choice or while tenures, and a sense of stability, as well as they are saving for their own home. improved customer service. We believe this will have a positive and lasting impact on the mental, physical and financial wellbeing of a significant segment of the Australian Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz, population, and we look forward to extending Mirvac’s CEO & Managing Director our interests in BTR further in FY20. Under our new brand of LIV | Mirvac, we are developing our BTR operating platform, which is set to revolutionise the renting sector in Australia through a combination of on-site management, technology and design. In order to maximise operational efficiencies across the portfolio, we are working to upscale by drawing on our existing land bank and proven new business capability. Over the long-term we see the potential to grow our BTR portfolio to 5,000 apartments, funded through a combination of our balance sheet and third party capital. Munro project (artist impression) The provision of high-quality accommodation in the Munro development will make a significant contribution to the revitalisation of the growing City North precinct. Offering more diverse and affordable housing options is important for our city’s liveability. We hope to see more build-to‑rent projects considered in the future as a way to help meet the needs of our growing population. Sally Capp, The Lord Mayor of Melbourne 30 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE At Mirvac, we believe our high-performing It’s been great to see from the results that We want to remain an attractive place to work, and talented workforce is fundamental to our our people continue to understand and believe and we want to continue to provide a workplace success, helping us to execute our strategy in our purpose and strategy, and that they’re environment where our people are inspired to and deliver value to our customers, partners proud of the projects and services we’re do their best. and securityholders. We know that when we delivering for our customers. In addition to this, invest in our people and provide them with our people tell us that they value working for the right tools, technology and environment a company that is a leader in health and safety, PEOPLE to do their jobs effectively – while ensuring sustainability, diversity and inclusion, people HIGHLIGHTS IN FY19 90% they have flexibility in the way they manage leadership and flexibility. work and life – we’re enabling them to do employee They value initiatives such as My Simple engagement their best work and deliver our strong Thing, through which we encourage all of our 97% financial and operational performance. employees to adopt some form of flexibility We also believe that our unique and vibrant into their working week, day or month and to of our people said they are willing to work culture is a key competitive advantage, allowing be open about it with their teams. Another beyond what is required of them to help us to attract and retain top talent and ensure successful people-focussed initiative is our Mirvac to succeed 95% that we have the right people in the right roles. health and safety program, Thrive, which is At a time when institutional trust in Australia aimed at both the physical and mental wellness has been fractured, our culture – underpinned of our people. This year we relaunched our of our people believe Mirvac is socially and environmentally by our purpose and an ambition to be a force recognition program Mirvac Stars which responsible and has a positive for good – continues to set us apart. Having acknowledges the people going above and impact on the community a strong culture is also important for the delivery of our strategy and current business beyond in their roles; and our mentoring and leadership programs, which are aimed 94% of our people believe Mirvac activities, and likewise, means we are resilient at developing our workforce capability. supports diversity in the workplace and well placed to adapt to market changes. Engagement really starts with a strong Each year, we seek feedback from our people relationship between an employee and their immediate manager and so we are committed 89% of our people understand on their experience of working at Mirvac. the risks in our business, to ensuring we have capable managers, It gives us an opportunity to hear from our are comfortable raising focused on the right things. issues and know who to employees about what they think we’re doing well, and equally, to provide feedback on the We continue to offer our employees an industryreport the issues to things we need to improve. As part of the survey, we measure employee engagement, leading 20 weeks of paid parental leave for the primary carer and four weeks of paid parental 75% of our people have some which indicates how willing our people are leave for partners. Importantly, we also now pay form of a flexible work to go above and beyond to support Mirvac’s superannuation on all paid and unpaid leave so arrangement in place success. Last year, we achieved a high employee that parents who take time out of the workforce engagement score of 90 per cent, and we were to raise a family are not disadvantaged in extremely pleased to maintain this in FY19 1. building wealth for retirement. Our score places us well above the industry and Australian norms, and above the global high-performing norm. OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES We’re extremely proud of the culture we have created at Mirvac. Underpinning this strong culture are our values, which govern the way we work with each other, with our customers and with our partners. They are: WE PUT WE ARE PASSIONATE WE PEOPLE FIRST ABOUT QUALITY & LEGACY COLLABORATE This means that we listen to, understand We strive to deliver enduring customer-focused We build trust and collaborate across the and respond to our customers and treat quality which leaves a positive legacy in the business, as well as with our partners. all people with respect. communities in which we operate. WE ARE WE ARE GENUINE & HOW WE CURIOUS & BOLD DO THE RIGHT THING WORK MATTERS We ask what’s possible and we deliver Being down to earth, taking ownership How we work is our differentiator and we on our purpose with confidence. and doing what we say we’ll do is key strive to be leaders in safety, sustainability, to our success. innovation, inclusion and learning. It’s been great to hear from our people that our values resonate with them, that they see the values demonstrated at Mirvac, and that they feel our values reflect the qualities and behaviours that will help us to deliver on our strategy and purpose. 1. Mirvac measures its employee engagement through Willis Towers Watson. 2. Compared to FY18. 31 STRONG SUCCESSION PEOPLE RETENTION OF PIPELINES AT LEADERSHIP INDEX KEY TALENT 75% (above 70% target) 83% 96% (above 80% target) (above 90% target) RETURN TO WORK INCREASE IN MEN TAKING FROM PARENTAL LEAVE PARENTAL LEAVE 2 91% 32% WOMEN IN SENIOR ROLES 43% (40:40:20 target) 32 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SAFETY The safety and wellbeing of our people are We were also pleased to obtain accreditation We also continued to encourage active lifestyles our number one priority at Mirvac, and our for our Construction Business from the Office for our employees, running ‘Steptember’ in HSE strategy, Thrive, which is now in its second of the Federal Safety Commissioner during the September last year – through which we raised year, sets out the practices and behaviours financial year, which both strengthens our safety $47,000 for the Cerebral Palsy Alliance – and that we believe will keep our workforce capability and enables stronger government holding sessions on the benefits of sleeping healthy and safe. partnerships. To receive accreditation, the team well and nutrition. undertook a thorough review of our safety In FY19, we broadened our focus and metrics In July last year, and following a review of management system to ensure all documents around safety to include a critical incident our Health and Safety Management System, contained the right information and were easy frequency rate (CIFR), which enables us to we released eight critical focus areas for safety to read and understand, and apply on site. identify and examine critical incidents and at Mirvac. These critical focus areas have been near misses, and drive systemic change that As well as providing our people with a safe identified as being the high-risk activities most strengthens our HSE practices. In doing so, place to work, the health and wellbeing of relevant to our operations. They comprise: we can further establish a safety culture that our people are of the utmost importance >> fall prevention works towards preventing injury rather than and we believe we have a duty to support our >> site establishment & logistics reacting to it. Our CIFR in FY19 was 0.91 and people with their physical and mental health. >> civil works & groundworks we reduced our lost time injury frequency rate Statistics show that in any one year, one million again this year to 1.02, another record low. Australians are affected by depression and >> cranes & materials handling twice as many are affected by anxiety 1. The >> electrical safety We’ve also begun to embrace new technology construction industry, in particular, reports >> worker health & welfare platforms and leverage our analytics capability a high incidence of mental health issues. >> emergency procedures within the HSE function. During the financial Through Thrive, we’ve launched a number year, our HSE and Business Intelligence teams >> sustainability & environment of initiatives aimed at promoting positive worked together to develop a tool that can mental wellbeing, including free access to Mirvac prescribes a set of minimum track the frequency of safety incidents that a meditation app, mindfulness seminars, requirements for the management of each have occurred across the Group, and potentially meditation classes, and free Pilates and yoga of our critical risks, which are known as the predict when and where they are likely to classes at various locations around the country. Mirvac Minimum Requirements (MMRs). happen again. For example, a pilot tool looked at how weather patterns influenced the number of safety incidents – such as slips, trips and GLEN O’NEILL (1975-2019) falls – at our retail centres and construction Group General Manager, HSE & Construction Legal sites, and was such a success that Mirvac is Earlier this year we were saddened by the sudden passing of our colleague, now looking at how it can apply the tool Glen O’Neill. Glen was a brilliant lawyer, respected colleague, much loved friend across the business. and dedicated family man. His leadership of the HSE function at Mirvac led to a marked improvement in our understanding and provision of safety at Mirvac. We recognise his significant contribution to our business. He is deeply missed. HSE STATISTICS IN FY19 INDICATOR HSE Leader LTIFR 2 Timely Workers Training Fatalities CIFR Actions Reporting Compensation claim count 2017 134% 2.6 14.3hrs 22 99.9% 0 — 2018 211% 1.3 21hrs 22 99.7% 0 — 2019 200% 1.02 14hrs 20 93.0% 0 0.91 TARGET 100% <2 <24hrs n/a 98.0% 0 <1.5 Our HSE management systems within construction continued to be certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and AS/NZS 4801. Limited assurance has been provided by Pricewaterhouse Coopers. Data sets that have been assured are marked with a . For further information visit mirvac.com/sustainability. 1. https://www.beyondblue.org.au/the-facts 2. Service providers and employees. 33 OUR WORKFORCE AT A GLANCE Board representation Paid parental leave policy 50 : 50 20 weeks Primary carer 4 weeks Non-primary carer 1,540 Headcount Gender split Ethnicities Languages 43% 43% 57% >25 >33 Female representation in senior management 126 Employees by location 59 QLD WA 1,096NSW 259 VIC 34 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Having a diverse and inclusive culture, where our people feel supported and encouraged Our Diversity & Inclusion strategy has to speak up, is essential for our business. Having breadth of diversity across age, gender a focus on gender balance, and the work and culture leads to better engagement and brand perception, higher levels of employee we have done to improve gender equality retention and more creative and innovative solutions to business issues. across the Group – such as our industryleading shared care parental leave policy and gender pay parity – is now considered business as usual. We continue to be recognised externally for our gender equality focus during the financial year, receiving the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) Employer of Choice citation for the fifth consecutive year, and ranking as the 31st best company for gender equality globally in Equileap’s Global Top 200 , as well as the sixth best company in Australia. Direct Advice for Dads and Core Data also identified Mirvac as a leading Australian employer for fathers for the second year in a row. In addition to this, our commitment to embedding diversity and gender equality at Mirvac was recognised at the Australian Human Resources Institute Awards in November last year when Susan Lloyd‑Hurwitz was presented with the CEO Diversity Champion Award. As well as gender diversity, we believe cultural diversity is important to ensure diversity of thought. We became a signatory to CareerSeekers’ Article 23 Program which has formalised our commitment to employing newly arrived refugees via CareerSeekers’ intern program. CareerSeekers is a not-for-profit social enterprise that helps to create employment opportunities for people seeking asylum and refugees who are either studying or looking to re-establish their careers in Australia. Participants undertake a paid internship over 12 weeks, which provides them with local experience and a local reference, while helping them establish a network within their chosen profession. Mirvac has supported three CareerSeekers over the past three years. Ayad Yousif is one of them. Ayad came to Australia in 2016 on a humanitarian visa. Having worked as a civil engineer in Iraq, Ayad heard about CareerSeekers through a friend and decided to get in touch. CareerSeekers gave Ayad lessons on how to adapt to Australia’s workplace environment, understand Australian culture and improve his communication skills. He was also able to practice interviewing through a series of mock interviews – a process he says is completely different in Iraq. Through CareerSeekers, Mirvac employed Ayad on a three-month internship in July 2017. By December that year he was made a permanent employee and now works as a Post-Completion Coordinator in Mirvac’s residential business in Melbourne (Ayad also completed a Diploma in Building & Construction during that time). “CareerSeekers helped to build my confidence and has given me the opportunity to live a good lifestyle in Australia, working with a respected and well-known company,” Ayad said. Ayad’s placement through CareerSeekers is good for Mirvac too. “Working with CareerSeekers helps us to create a more diverse and inclusive culture, which has a number of positive flow-on effects for our business. This includes higher levels of employee engagement, increased innovation and a wider range of skills.” Chris Akayan, Mirvac’s Head of Culture & Reputation Ayad Yousif 35 INNOVATION Innovation is instrumental to Mirvac’s continued future success and our Hatch team progressed with a number of innovative projects across the Group in FY19. We introduced our urban farm concept, Cultivate, at 275 Kent Street, Sydney for our anchor tenants, Westpac; opened our co-working hub, The Third Space, at Orion Shopping Town Centre in QLD; and trialled a pet concierge at Green Square in Zetland, Sydney, which we ran in partnership with the RSPCA. This year, Hatch, together with Mirvac Ventures, embarked on one of the most exciting innovations yet – a technology that uses artificial intelligence and data analytics to automate construction processes on site. The technology is expected to significantly reduce time spent on monitoring construction progress, freeing our employees to spend more time on high-value work. Early testing has shown that the automation could result in a 10 per cent efficiency gain to the top 10 site-based personnel – and this is just the beginning. The technology has now helped to launch its own start-up company, and Mirvac has such a high level of confidence in the technology that it has participated in funding its growth. It’s just another way Mirvac is using technology and innovation to be at the forefront of change in our industry. Cultivate HELPING PEOPLE WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED DOMESTIC VIOLENCE MIRVAC VENTURES Last year, Mirvac proudly became a White In 2018 alone, DV Connect placed 4,000 Mirvac Ventures is our new internal corporate Ribbon accredited organisation in recognition women and children in Queensland motels venture funding platform, which was created of the steps we’ve taken (and continue to because all other shelters were at capacity. in response to the increasingly competitive take) to stop violence against women, and business landscape and to fund investment the support we offer to those affected by it. “Domestic violence is a serious, opportunities provided by technological This includes offering employees affected prevalent and preventable advancement. Mirvac Ventures has been by domestic violence 10 days of paid leave, issue in Australia”, said seeded with an initial allocation of $10 million as well as financial assistance and access and will serve to enhance our core business by to specialist service through our Employee Mirvac’s Co-Head of Human allocating funding to all forms of innovation that Assistance Program. Resources, Kristen Sweeney. create a sustainable competitive advantage. Our support went a step further this “Working with Halcyon and With Mirvac’s market-leading reputation financial year, with the delivery of a bridging for delivering quality products, we wish to accommodation facility to provide a safe, stable DVConnect to support families maintain our edge and our ability to be agile and comfortable environment for women with experiencing domestic violence is and innovative. Mirvac Ventures aims to invest children exiting domestic violence situations. another example of how Mirvac in early stage companies that deliver mutually Mirvac and property developers, Halcyon, can help to make a real difference beneficial value, augment or improve our core business, drive our strategy and enhance along with not-for-profit organisation, and play an important role our ability to put customers at the centre DV Connect, have collaborated on building in a community response.” of everything we do. the facility, which, once complete, will comprise a mix of one-, two-, and three-bedroom units DV Connect is funded largely by the Along with the construction tech start-up each with their own kitchenette, living area Queensland Department of Child Safety, as worked on with Hatch, Mirvac Ventures and courtyard. It’s intended to provide those Youth and Women and is the only stateis currently pursuing key investment themes leaving violent domestic situations with a safe wide telephone service offering a free crisis focused on renewable energy, agtech, property place, giving them the opportunity to plan hotline for anyone affected by domestic data management and the fractionalisation for the future, and, where relevant, re-enter or family violence. of real estate assets. the workplace with confidence. MIRVAC IS PROUDLY A WHITE RIBBON WORKPLACE. WE PROMOTE RESPECTFUL RELATIONSHIPS AND GENDER EQUALITY WITHIN THE WORKPLACE AND DEMONSTRATE A CULTURE OF ZERO TOLERANCE OF VIOLENCE. 36 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK GOVERNANCE The Board has charged management with OUR PRINCIPAL STRATEGIC The Board has adopted a consolidated the responsibility for managing risk across RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES risk management policy & framework which the group and the implementation of mitigation strategies under the direction of the CEO & MD A number of the risks and opportunities Mirvac incorporates governance, compliance, risk faces in delivering its strategic plan are set appetite and business continuity management. and supported by other senior executives. out in the below table. They are largely related This approach is consistent with the Australian The Group Risk function, led by the Head of Risk, to our portfolio of assets and are typical of and New Zealand standard on risk management provides a centralised role in facilitating the risk a property group. These are not the only risks (ISO 31000:2009). management framework, advising business units associated with Mirvac. The risks are grouped The Board determines the overall risk appetite on risk management plans and consolidating risk by theme rather than order of importance. for the Group and has approved strategies, reporting to senior executives, the ARCC and policies and practices to ensure key risks are ultimately the Board. identified and managed within the approved While we have a dedicated risk team, each area risk appetite. of the business is ultimately accountable for its specific risks, and we want to empower our people to identify and mitigate these effectively. An overview of the risk management policy & framework is available on Mirvac’s website: www.mirvac.com/about/corporate‑governance RISK AND OPPORTUNITY HOW WE’RE ADDRESSING IT INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE Mirvac partners with aligned investors to leverage capability and develop recurring income streams. Prudent Mirvac’s business is impacted by the value of capital decisions are made on the basis of due diligence and market research to ensure investor confidence is our property portfolio. This can be influenced retained. We take steps to anticipate shifts in market conditions and to make strategic decisions in securing by many external aspects outside our direct development pipeline opportunities. Buying and selling at the right time in the property cycle has enabled us to control, including the health of the economy deliver sustainable returns to our securityholders for the past six years. When we approach new acquisitions, we are and the strength of the property market. mindful of the fundamentals needed to maintain growth through our sustainable urban-focused business model. MACRO-ENVIRONMENT Mirvac monitors a wide range of economic, property market and capital market indicators as well as uses Mirvac is impacted by changing domestic and trend analysis to assess macro-economic changes, and is attentive to these shifts. international economic and macro-prudential We are currently monitoring the following: and regulatory measures, which impact access to Office: Mirvac has one of the youngest office portfolios in Australia with a substantial overweight to Sydney and capital, investor activity, and foreign investment. Melbourne, Australia’s deepest and most attractive office markets for both tenants and investors. This ensures it is well placed to capture demand from high-quality tenants. Mirvac monitors movements in both supply and demand and has an internal strategic forecasting process to optimise leasing decisions. Having a young and modern office portfolio also ensures Mirvac’s capital expenditure on its assets is expected to remain relatively lower than that of our AREIT peers. In terms of office developments, the Group manages uncertainty around tenant demand in a number of ways, such as substantially pre-letting development projects ahead of construction and by partially selling down office developments to capital partners in advance of completion. Industrial: Continued strength in investor demand for prime-grade industrial assets in key locations is resulting in strong investor demand for quality assets in major markets like Sydney. In this environment Mirvac retains a focus on creating new, high quality and well located assets, generating secure cash flow profiles. Mirvac continues to focus on properties based on proximity to infrastructure, long lease terms and secure cash flow profiles while also considering the rapid growth of e-commerce and renewed focus from tenants to speed up supply chain fulfilment. Retail: Mirvac continues to manage its retail portfolio effectively by leveraging its strategic partnerships, experiential expertise and integrated capability. Mirvac is focused on continually refreshing its retail assets (via refurbishment, redevelopment or tenant remixing) to adapt to changing market dynamics. This active management has seen an increased weighting to more resilient and experiential categories such as food and beverage, entertainment, services and non-retail. Furthermore, Mirvac maintains a focus on key urban and metropolitan markets, which are economically resilient over the long term, ensuring the business is well placed to meet the challenges and opportunities of the changing retail landscape. Residential: Recent indicators reflect early signs of stabilisation in housing markets. Recent fiscal and monetary stimulus measures, as well as changes to serviceability requirements, have positively impacted dwelling purchase sentiment. In this environment, location, build quality and a deep understanding of customers remains key for attracting demand. With stricter lending criteria, both domestically and offshore, concerns have been raised over the ability of residential property purchasers to settle. Mirvac has a range of strategies in place and carefully and proactively monitors its settlement risk profile, with a proven track record of low defaults. REPUTATION Mirvac provides consistent, high-quality communication and transparent and responsible reporting. We have committed In an Australian context of low institutional trust, to proactively sharing our progress as a business to help us earn and retain trust. We track trust and reputation through Mirvac must maintain and enhance trust and stakeholder research and are pleased to see strong results. reputation to retain a social licence to operate. We were ranked the number one ESG company in Australia by J.P. Morgan ESGQ in 2018. We provide good earnings visibility, guidance and full disclosure to our securityholders so they can make informed choices. Our strong Residential brand is leveraged to consistently attract substantial residential pre-sales, delivering one of the highest levels of repeat buyers in the property industry. 37 SUPPLY CHAIN Historically, Mirvac has looked at supply chain risk on a project-by-project basis. Working groups have since been With a broad range of suppliers providing developed group-wide to address key areas such as modern slavery, worker exploitation, material import risk, an equally diverse range of goods and services, high-risk materials, and cyber security. We are elevating our controls to identify and mitigate our exposure to Mirvac’s stakeholders can be directly and these risks and ensure full compliance to emerging legislation. indirectly impacted by the practices of our suppliers, and the materials they’re supplying. PLANNING AND REGULATION Mirvac’s stakeholder relations team works closely with the broad organisation to help coordinate proactive Mirvac’s activities can be affected by government and constructive engagements with all levels of government to ready our business to respond to changing policies in many ways, from local decisions regarding community expectations. zoning and developments, right through to national positions on immigration. IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE Mirvac regularly assesses its portfolio for climate risk and resilience. We have reported under the Task Force on Climate change can not only affect our assets, Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations and climate risk is emerging as a consideration it can affect our business operations. It is vital in due diligence during the acquisition and development process. Mirvac strives to design developments and Mirvac responds to the implications of climate major renovations to a high standard for green building and community certifications, as well as energy and water change by implementing appropriate adaptation performance ratings. and mitigation strategies for the portfolio, and Mirvac recently released its plan to reach net positive carbon to help investors and other stakeholders understand how building resilience throughout the business. we will meet this goal by 2030, and provide the metrics and milestones to track our progress. Renewable energy will be an important part of achieving net positive with the added benefit of energy price stability for our portfolio. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Mirvac has a capital management framework, approved and monitored by the Board. The framework Maintaining a diversified capital structure to aims to address the market, credit and liquidity risks while also meeting the Group’s strategic objectives. support delivery of stable investor returns and The Group seeks to maintain a minimum investment-grade credit rating of BBB+ to reduce the cost of capital maintain access to equity and debt funding. and diversify its sources of debt capital. The Group’s target gearing ratio is between 20 and 30 per cent. HEALTH AND SAFETY We continue to pursue safety excellence and to improve the overall wellbeing of our employees, suppliers, Maintaining the health, safety and wellbeing our community and the environment. of our people is our most important duty of During FY19, Mirvac launched a revised, modernised and simplified HSE Management System, establishing the care obligation, and critical to Mirvac’s Mirvac Minimum Requirements (MMR) and standards for managing HSE at Mirvac to ensure we consistently ongoing success. manage critical HSE risks across all parts of the business. Mirvac Construction maintained certification for HSE (AS/NZS 4801:2001 OHS Management Systems, OHSAS 18001:2007 OHS management systems and AS/NZS ISO 14001:2004 – Environmental Management Systems). Additionally, Mirvac Construction obtained accreditation in August 2018 under the Work Health and Safety Accreditation Scheme administered by the Office of the Federal Safety Commissioner. PEOPLE Mirvac’s people strategy includes a range of initiatives designed to ensure we have the right culture and We are mindful that we require a motivated, capabilities so our people are engaged and enabled to deliver on our strategy. The Group has a range of high‑performing, and capable workforce to programs aimed at creating great leaders, growing and retaining key talent, and fostering a diverse and deliver business strategy and a desired culture. inclusive workplace. Mirvac has been defining, measuring and curating its desired culture for some time. We have clearly defined values that align to our purpose to reimagine urban life and we measure our leaders on whether they demonstrate supporting behaviours that underpin these values. We think it is critical that our people do the right thing, a core Mirvac value, and that we have an environment where people feel ‘safe to speak up’, which in addition to mitigating reputational and conduct risk, leads to better business outcomes. Mirvac’s remuneration strategy is designed to attract the best talent, and motivate and retain individuals, while aligning to the interests of executives, securityholders and community expectations. Read more on Mirvac’s people initiatives on page 30. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE A core element of Mirvac’s strategy is understanding and preparing for disruption and building a resilient Technology is changing our world at business. Some examples include: a rapid pace, and without high responsiveness, >> continued exploration of new construction technology to drive better outcomes, companies are less able to innovate and including pre‑fabricated components; take advantage of new technologies. >> embracement of technologies to further integrate sustainability across all business units, such as solar and battery systems, and smart building management systems; >> an innovation program to ensure we continue to innovate in a meaningful way. Our innovation team, Hatch, performs business scans to understand and respond to disruptive technology; and >> additional investment in resources for customer solutions and business systems. DATA, SYSTEMS AND Mirvac has a business continuity management policy which identifies and addresses the key response actions, BUSINESS DISRUPTION systems and tools required to effectively manage and continue business critical processes during a business (INCLUDING CYBER SECURITY) impacting event. The Crisis and Incident Management Plan establishes clear accountabilities and first response protocols based on a three-tiered incident severity rating system. The Disaster Recovery Plan specifies It’s crucial we have the ability to manage a major an action plan for IT staff involved in the recovery of critical IT business systems following a disaster. incident causing physical or information disruption timely and efficiently. This includes cyber security Mirvac is committed to protecting the organisation through maintaining the confidentiality, integrity threats and/or breaches to our information systems and availability of Mirvac information and information systems in a secure environment. and/or damage to physical assets which could cause Mirvac has established a high standard for the management of all IT security incidents and to prevent significant damage to our business and reputation. or mitigate the side effects of data-related security breach. 38 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 REIMAGINING URBAN LIFE, SUSTAINABLY RESOURCES ENRICHED TRANSPARENT REIMAGINED COMMUNITIES GOVERNANCE CLIMATE NATURAL OUR SOCIAL OUR TRUSTED CHANGE RESOURCES COMMUNITY INCLUSION PEOPLE PARTNER Net positive Net positive Net positive $100m social Highly engaged, Most trusted (carbon) 2030 (water) legacy 2030 sector investment capable and 2030 owner and diverse workforce developer Zero waste to landfill $30m 2025 social procurement 80% operational by 2025 10MW renewable waste recycled Community energy installed 2023 wellbeing measure 2023 Water intensity reduced by 5% in developed O&I and Retail Social enterprise Triple community capacity building 40:40:20 investment 2022 partnership women in senior 2022 launched management 5MW renewable energy installed Water white paper 2021 released1 Carbon intensity reduced by 5% in Social housing O&I and Retail investment pilot launched Waste white paper released House with No Bills research findings 20% improvement Data integrity 2020 Water metering 2020 released 2020 and monitoring in health and charter released installed wellbeing Community engagement Modern slavery standard Unlimited paid risk heat map Net positive 96% construction developed volunteer leave Personalised released (carbon) white 2019 waste recycled 2019 health and 2019 Social return on Define social Human Rights paper released investment report procurement wellbeing support approach released released implemented ONGOING ONGOING ONGOING Maintain Board New office buildings All (new) office Maintain global high Understand and climate capability 4.5 Star NABERS Water Gold WELL rated performing engagement share stakeholder trust feedback New office buildings Maintain Risk Culture NABERS 5.5 Star Energy Index performance Clear earnings visibility/guidance All new Residential projects to include solar Transparent reporting Maintain Board diversity 1. Target extended from 2020. 39 SUSTAINABILITY EVOLVING OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Since Mirvac released its strategy, This Changes Everything, over five years ago, there has been a notable change in our approach to sustainability. From the way we design and manage our assets to the new technologies we’re implementing across the Group, being environmentally and socially responsible has become firmly embedded at Mirvac. As well as ensuring we’re delivering value to our securityholders, we’re continuously looking at how we can reduce our impact on the planet, affect positive change in our communities and ensure that we remain a force for good. We announced a refresh of This Changes Everything in June last year, taking our material issues from 19 to six. By doing so, we believe we can focus on the things that matter most to Mirvac and our key stakeholders so we can make a bigger difference in these areas. These material issues comprise climate change, natural resources, our communities, social inclusion, our people, and being a trusted partner. Each of these material issues and their key milestones are outlined on page 38. OUR PROGRESS TO DATE We’ve made significant progress since we We also released our first Social Return on Some of the targets in our strategy are released our refreshed sustainability strategy, Investment (SROI) report during the financial now core to our business, such as our highand it’s been pleasing to see our environmental year (see page 28), which outlines our findings performing and engaged workforce, 50 per and social impact become a more fundamental of an SROI analysis of 27 residential projects. As cent gender diversity on our Board, and the part of the choices we make. our first attempt at measuring our social impact, transparent reporting of our business and it wasn’t perfect, but we remain committed to of our earnings. One of our key achievements in FY19 was progressing our work in this area. the release of Planet Positive, our plan to reach There’s no doubt we still a have a lot of work to net positive carbon by 2030 (see page 40 for Another key achievement this year was do. Next year, we’ll release our plan around waste, more). Climate change is one of the biggest defining our social focus – to build strong and change our energy supply arrangements to risks businesses face, and eliminating our bonds – so we can better align the support take a big leap forward on renewable energy carbon footprint is not only the right thing to we provide through our community activities and eliminating our carbon emissions. do for the planet and for future generations, and have a more meaningful impact. Our We see great value in measuring our social it’s critical to our long-term success. unlimited paid volunteer leave provides impact, and we’ll take the lessons we learned a great way for our employees to continue to Some of the key steps we’ll take to reimagine from our first endeavour to progress our build strong bonds in the community, whether our resources will be to continue to prioritise work in this area. those are physical, as our teams from across energy efficiency and commit to renewable Development, Design, Construction, Des+Pres We’re also going to develop a method to energy. Our focused work to reduce our and Marketing showed with the work they did measure a sense of belonging at our residential impact has led to our portfolio being one of for the Westmead Children’s Hospital, Sydney communities so that we can work towards the greenest in the country, with three 6 star (see page 41), or relational, such as working tackling the growing epidemic of loneliness. NABERS Energy ratings, constituting a quarter with local communities. of all 6 star NABERS Energy buildings. Having reached our community investment During the financial year, we were also proud to target three years early, we’ll be looking to set In light of the significant risks posed by announce a partnership with social enterprise, a new target which further demonstrates our climate change, we’ve also begun reporting Homes for Homes (see page 26), which will commitment to leave a positive legacy. We’ll our climate risks and mitigations under the see 0.1 per cent of proceeds directed from the also continue to progress our target to direct Task Force on Climate-related Financial sale of 300 homes to their fund in perpetuity, $100 million to the social sector, including Disclosures framework. helping to address the need for more social social procurement. Recognising that there is now an increased and affordable housing in Victoria. requirement from the community for business to do better, and in line with our commitment to MOST RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS leave a positive legacy, we’ve also defined our community engagement standard, starting with our Residential business. Local communities and their representative governments are critical stakeholders for us, and we aim to be their most trusted development partner. Setting a high standard and a consistent approach to how we engage ensures that we can continue to help deliver communities that flourish. Investing in our communities is also a priority at Mirvac, and right across the Group we see people making choices that combine good commercial outcomes with genuine social contributions. Last year, we set a target to triple our community investment by 2022 from our FY17 baseline, and in the first year we increased this by 81 per cent. This year, we exceeded our 2022 target early, with our community investment increasing by more than 800 per cent since FY17. This was driven largely by our investments in upfront amenity at our residential communities, such as schools and parks. 40 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 PLANET POSITIVE: Emissions tCO2e FY13 FY18 FY19 FY19 Source data OUR PLAN TO REACH NET Scope 1 POSITIVE CARBON BY 2030 Natural Gas 2,697 4,007 4,193 81,816 GJ Climate change is one of the greatest Refrigerants 1,383 1,513 843 496kg challenges we face today, with the potential Diesel 2,333 1,154 1,375 507,506L to significantly impact our business, as well as Petrol 646 101 130 54,629L our planet, in a number of ways. Construction LPG 7 54 81 52,087 L delays, loss in productivity, rising material, water and energy costs and damage to Total Scope 1 7,066 6,828 6,623 property are just some of the climate-related Scope risks we face as weather events caused by Electricity 71,426 73,772 78,041 95,242,179kWh higher temperatures continue to become more extreme. Total Scope 1 + 2 78,492 80,600 84,664 The built environment is responsible for Scope 3 approximately 25 per cent of Australia’s Natural gas 471 582 639 81,816GJ carbon emissions and as a leading Australian Electricity 12,542 9,555 8,962 87,118,091kWh property group, we have a responsibility Travel 2,812 3,304 2,982 10,258,259km to reduce our impact on the environment Waste 9,915 8,017 10,164 48,551T and address climate change risks. Diesel 178 59 71 507,506L This year, we released Planet Positive: our Petrol 51 5 7 54,629L plan to reach net positive carbon by 2030. It explains the strategies we’ll adopt to achieve LPG 1 3 5 52,087L and exceed net zero within our portfolio by Total Scope 3 25,970 21,525 22,829 2030, even as new developments come on Total 104,462 102,125 107,493 line and our business grows, making sure that we balance environmental, social and Potable water usage (kL) commercial sustainability requirements. Retail 492,216 485,976 493,605 Office & Industrial 349,597 453,826 488,577 We’re mindful that as well as our responsibility to the planet, we have a responsibility to make Total (kL) 841,813 939,802 982,182 choices that are cost-effective. Transitioning Total waste (tonnes) to a lower carbon economy sooner rather than Construction 35,565 23,393 21,377 later means we will be financially better off too. Investment 12,833 25,685 27,173 Our strategy involves maximising energy Total 48,398 49,078 48,551 efficiency and building all-electric buildings powered by 100 per cent renewable energy. Construction 96% 4% After all, we believe the cheapest tonne of Recycled Landfill carbon for Mirvac and for the planet is the Investment 69% 31% one we don’t emit. Recycled Landfill Note: A minor error in Scope 3 Electricity emissions FY18 is corrected in this version. Emissions estimates follow NGERS emissions accounting requirements except for refrigerants; Mirvac includes emissions related to R22 use. As a result of our work to be net positive carbon, by 2030 and for each year afterwards, the carbon we don’t emit will be equivalent to planting 1.4 million trees and taking over 22,300 cars off the road. Sarah Clarke, Group General Manager of Sustainability and Reputation 41 Mirvac team in Vietnam CONCLUDING OUR FIRST RECONCILIATION ACTION PLAN BUILDING STRONG BONDS Mirvac embarked on its first Reconciliation As a leading Australian property developer, Our Construction and Development teams Action Plan (RAP) in July 2017 and we are we recognise that we’re in a unique position also continued to strengthen their bonds proud of what that plan has helped us to to have a positive impact – through the with the Westmead Children’s Hospital in achieve. Our RAP has given us a platform way we build and manage our investment Sydney during the financial year, helping to from which to build stronger relationships assets, apartments and houses, as well as the refurbish the parents’ accommodation and with Indigenous Australians and create relationships we cultivate in our communities. kids’ playground, as well as working with our greater respect and opportunities. partners to deliver The Teddy Bear Clinic In FY19, we renewed our overall social focus at the Sydney Royal Easter Show. The Teddy By listening and engaging with local partners, to build strong bonds. As well as allowing us Bear Clinic was designed so that kids (and we have developed some great working to have a much deeper and more meaningful adults) could experience for themselves some relationships, such as our partnership with impact in the communities in which we work, of the aspects involved in being treated at the Yerrabingin at our South Eveleigh development this also means we can provide opportunities hospital and received both the Gold and Best which resulted in Australia’s first Indigenous to those who don’t always get them and leave in Show awards for the exhibit. rooftop farm. Together we were able to a positive legacy. co‑create an experience at the precinct In the next financial year, we’ll continue to Our Homes for Homes initiative (see page 26), that will engage and connect the community progress our social focus of building strong is just one way we’re building strong bonds to Aboriginal culture and traditions, while bonds in the activities we run across our with the community – in this case, providing educating them on the history of the site. business, and we’ll look to develop a method funding to increase access to social and that measures a sense of belonging to help Through cultural awareness education, we affordable housing in Victoria. avoid loneliness. have been able to begin providing our people Members of our leadership team took building with the knowledge and experience to help them consider the cultures of Aboriginal and strong bonds to another level in May this year, ENRICHING COMMUNITIES $16,139,531 volunteering their time and raising money Torres Strait Islander people in the delivery of our projects. to help build a home for a disadvantaged family in Vietnam. Together with our strategic 822% We have also learned a lot about how we can partner, Boral, the team worked with Habitat for of community investment (including do things differently in the future. We recognise Humanity over the course of a week, using their $1,401,307 of management costs) $951,967 that our biggest opportunity for impact is unlimited volunteer leave to do so. While the through procurement, and by directing our 40-degree heat and 80 per cent humidity were buying power towards Indigenous owned certainly no walk in the park, the group helped businesses. Since launching the RAP in July to construct two-thirds of the home and raised value of hours of support 2017, we have procured $8.2 million of goods close to $130,000 in the process. and services from Indigenous businesses, and we know through our relationship with Supply Nation that Indigenous businesses We also believe we can build strong bonds to help combat loneliness in Australia. Research $836,566 in kind donations by Swinburne University and the Australian are 100 times more likely to employ $728,218 Psychological Society found that one in four Indigenous people. Australian adults are lonely, and that lonely In the coming months we will be developing Australians have significantly worse mental leverage contributions the next iteration of our RAP, and we will and physical health than those Australians $12,949,691 continue to engage with the key stakeholders who felt connected. to ensure this plan is reflective of their needs. At Mirvac, we have an opportunity to build We look forward to launching this at the strong relational bonds through volunteering, cash donations beginning of 2020. such as our annual National Community Day; through the amenity we deliver at our sites and by creating spaces that encourage interaction; and through community events, such as Mirvac’s Summer Festival that runs across our residential projects each year. 42 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 43 Governance CONTENTS 44 Board of directors 46 Directors’ report 52 Remuneration report 73 Auditor’s independence declaration 74 Financial report 122 Directors’ declaration 123 Independent auditor’s report 130 Security information 132 Glossary 133 Directory & upcoming events 44 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Board of directors Directors’ experience and areas of special responsibilities THE MEMBERS OF THE MIRVAC BOARD AND THEIR QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERIENCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES ARE SET OUT BELOW: John Mulcahy Susan Lloyd‑Hurwitz Christine Bartlett Peter Hawkins Jane Hewitt PhD (Civil Engineering), BA (Hons), MBA (Dist) BSc, MAICD BCA (Hons), FAICD, SFFin, ACA (NZ) BAppSc Land Economics FIEAust, MAICD Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent & Managing Director – > Member of the Audit, Risk > Chair of the Human Non-Executive Chair > Member of the Human Executive and Compliance Committee Resources Committee Resources Committee > Chair of the Nomination > Member of the Audit, Risk Committee Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz was Christine Bartlett was Jane Hewitt was appointed and Compliance Committee > Member of the Audit, Risk appointed Chief Executive appointed a Non-Executive a Non-Executive Director of Officer & Managing Director > Member of the and Compliance Committee Director of Mirvac in Nomination Committee Mirvac in December 2018. > Member of the Human of Mirvac in August 2012 December 2014. She is Jane has over 27 years’ Resources Committee and an Executive Director currently a Director of GBST experience in real estate Peter Hawkins was appointed in November 2012. Holdings Ltd (appointed June a Non-Executive Director development and asset John Mulcahy was appointed Prior to this appointment, 2015 and appointed Deputy of Mirvac in January 2006, management. She founded a Non-Executive Director of Susan was Managing Director Chair in January 2016), Sigma following his retirement from UniLodge in 1996 and Mirvac in November 2009 at LaSalle Investment Healthcare Limited (appointed ANZ after a career of 34 pioneered the corporatisation and the Independent NonManagement. Susan has also March 2016), TAL Life Limited years. Prior to his retirement, and professional development Executive Chair in November held senior executive positions and Chair of The Smith Family. Peter was Group Managing and management of student 2013. John has more than 30 at MGPA, Macquarie Group She is also an external Director Director, Group Strategic accommodation facilities on years of leadership experience and Lend Lease Corporation, of the Board of Clayton Utz Development, responsible for and off university campuses in financial services and working in Australia, the and a Director of iCare. the expansion and shaping of in Australia and New Zealand. property investment. John is US and Europe. ANZ’s businesses, mergers, the former Managing Director Christine is a member of the As an entrepreneur and Susan has been involved in UNSW Australian School of acquisitions and divestments founder, Jane has extensive and Chief Executive Officer and for overseeing its of Suncorp-Metway Limited. the real estate industry for Business Advisory Council operational experience over 29 years, with extensive and the Australian Institute of strategic cost agenda. and a strong track record Prior to joining SuncorpMetway, John held a number experience in investment Company Directors. Previously, Peter was a member of ANZ’s in developing successful of senior executive roles management in both the she has been a Director of Group Leadership Team and partnerships in real estate at Commonwealth Bank, direct and indirect markets, PropertyLook and National sat on the boards of Esanda and business ventures. She including Group Executive, development, mergers and Nominees Limited and Limited, ING Australia Limited developed UniLodge into Investment and Insurance acquisitions, disposals, Deputy Chair of the Australian and ING (NZ) Limited, the an operation with assets of Services. He also held a research and business Custodial Services Association. funds management and life approximately $1 billion. number of senior roles during strategy. Christine is an experienced insurance joint ventures More recently, Jane has his 14 years at Lend Lease Susan is the Immediate Past Chief Executive Officer between ANZ and ING Group. worked with Social Ventures Corporation, including Chief President of the Property and senior executive, with He was previously Group Australia and currently Executive Officer, Lend Council of Australia, Deputy extensive line management Managing Director, Personal serves on a not-for-profit Lease Property Investment Chair of the Green Building experience gained through Financial Services, as well as board as Chair of the Beacon and Chief Executive Officer, Council of Australia, a roles with IBM, Jones holding a number of other Foundation. She is also a Civil and Civic. member of the NSW Public Lang LaSalle and National senior positions during his founding member of the Service Commission Advisory Australia Bank Limited. career with ANZ. Sydney Business Alliance to John is currently a Director of ALS Limited (formerly Board, President of INSEAD Her executive career has Peter is currently a member End Homelessness. Campbell Brothers Limited) Australasian Council and included Australian, regional of the Bank of Melbourne (appointed February 2012), a member of the INSEAD and global responsibilities Advisory Board and a Director Deputy Chair of GWA Group Global Board. based in Australia, the USA of Crestone Holdings Limited Limited (appointed November Susan holds a Bachelor and Japan. Christine brings and Liberty Financial Pty Ltd. 2010), Chair of ORIX Australia of Arts (Hons) from The a commercial perspective especially in the areas of Peter was previously a Corporation Ltd and a University of Sydney and Director of Westpac Banking Director of Zurich Australian financial discipline, identifying an MBA (Distinction) from risk, complex project Corporation (December Insurance Limited and The INSEAD in France. 2008 to December 2018), Shore Foundation Limited. management, execution of strategy, fostering innovation BHP (NZ) Steel Limited John is a former Director and taking advantage of new (1990 to 1991), Visa Inc. (2008 and Chair of Coffey emerging technologies. to 2011), Treasury Corporation International Limited and of Victoria and Clayton Utz. former Guardian of the Future Christine holds a Bachelor of Fund Board of Guardians. Science from the University of Sydney and has completed senior executive management programs at INSEAD. 45 James M. Millar AM Samantha Mostyn Peter Nash John Peters Elana Rubin BCom, FCA, FAICD BA, LLB BComm, FCA, F Fin BArch, AdvDipBCM, ARAIA, FAICD BA (Hons), MA, FFin, FAICD, FAIM Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive > Chair of the Audit, Risk and > Member of the Human > Member of the Audit, Risk > Member of the Human > Member of the Audit, Risk Compliance Committee Resources Committee and Compliance Committee Resources Committee and Compliance Committee > Member of the > Member of the Nomination Committee Samantha Mostyn was Peter Nash was appointed John Peters was appointed Nomination Committee appointed a Non-Executive a Non-Executive Director of a Non-Executive Director of James M. Millar was appointed Director of Mirvac in March Mirvac in November 2018. Mirvac in November 2011. Elana Rubin was appointed a Non-Executive Director of 2015. Samantha is a corporate He is currently the Chair of John brings to the Board a Non-Executive Director of Mirvac in November 2009. He advisor and is also a Director Johns Lyng Group Limited over 40 years’ experience in Mirvac in November 2010 and is the former Chief Executive of Transurban Holdings (appointed October 2017) and architectural design, project has extensive experience in Officer of Ernst & Young Limited (appointed December a Director of Westpac Banking management, property property and financial services. (EY) in the Oceania Region, 2010), the Chair of an Corporation (appointed development and property and was a Director on their Elana is a Director of Afterpay Australian APRA regulated March 2018) and ASX Limited management. global board. Touch Group Limited Citibank subsidiary Board, (appointed June 2019). John was the principal (appointed July 2017), James commenced his Chair of Carriageworks and a Peter was a Senior Partner of a private property and Slater & Gordon Ltd career in the Insolvency & Director of the GO Foundation. with KPMG until September development company (appointed March 2018). Reconstruction practice at EY, Samantha has significant 2017, having been admitted focused on substantial She is also a Director of being involved in a number of experience in the Australian to the partnership of KPMG mixed-use developments several unlisted and public sizeable corporate workouts. corporate sector both in Australia in 1993. He served and redevelopments in sector Boards in property, He has qualifications in both executive and non-executive as the National Chair of South East Queensland for infrastructure and insurance. business and accounting. capacities, in particular in the KPMG Australia from 2011 over 20 years. During this Elana is the former Chair and James is a Director of areas of human resources, until August 2017, where period, he has also consulted Director of Australian Super, Macquarie Media Limited corporate and government he was responsible for the to various investors and one of Australia’s leading (appointed April 2015), affairs, sustainability overall governance and other financial stakeholders superannuation funds, a Chair of the Export management and diversity. strategic positioning of in several Queensland former Chair and Director of Finance and Insurance Samantha has held senior KPMG in Australia. In this development projects. Victorian WorkCover Authority Corporation (appointed executive positions including role, Peter also served as a Prior to this, John was with and a member of the Federal December 2014) and Chair Group Executive Culture and member of KPMG’s Global Lend Lease Corporation Government’s Infrastructure of Forestry Corporation Reputation, IAG and Global and Regional Boards. Peter’s for 14 years, where he Australia and Climate Change NSW (appointed March 2013). Head HR and Culture, Cable & previous positions with KPMG was Queensland Manager Authority. Elana was also Wireless in London. She serves included Regional Head of James serves a number Lend Lease Development, a Director of Mirvac Funds on the Australian faculty of Audit for Asia Pacific, National of charities and is Chair of and Director, Lend Management Limited, the the Cambridge University Managing Partner for Audit in the Vincent Fairfax Family Lease Commercial. responsible entity and trustee Business & Sustainability Australia and Head of KPMG Foundation (appointed for Mirvac’s listed and unlisted Leadership Program. Financial Services. April 2009) and a Director funds. She was previously a of Vincent Fairfax Ethics Samantha was previously a Peter has worked in Director of a number of other in Leadership Foundation Director of Virgin Australia geographically diverse listed and unlisted companies. (appointed September 2016). Holdings Limited (September and complex operating 2012 to May 2019), a Director environments providing James is a former Chair of of the Sydney Theatre advice on a range of topics The Smith Family, and a Company, a Commissioner including business strategy, Company secretary former Director of Fairfax with the Australian Football risk management, business Media Limited (July 2012 to League and the Deputy processes and regulatory Sean Ward December 2018) and Slater Chair of the Diversity Council change. Peter has also BEc, BComm, FGIA, FFin, MBA (Dist) & Gordon Ltd (December of Australia. She has also provided financial and 2015 to December 2017). served on the boards of commercial advice to many Sean Ward was appointed Company Secretary the National Sustainability government businesses at in August 2013 and in May 2017 was also Council and the National both a Federal and state level. appointed Head of Risk. Sean joined Mirvac as Mental Health Commission. Peter is a former member Group Company Secretary in April 2013 and of the Business Council of has more than 20 years’ corporate experience. Australia and its Economic Prior to joining Mirvac, Sean was the Head of and Regulatory Committee. Subsidiaries at Westpac Banking Corporation, providing company secretarial support for all Peter is a board member of of Westpac’s listed and unlisted entities and the Koorie Heritage Trust and before this was a Senior Companies Advisor Reconciliation Australia Limited. at ASX Limited. Sean completed his Masters of Business Administration with the Australian Graduate School of Management in 2016. 46 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Directors’ report The Directors of Mirvac Limited present their report, together with the consolidated financial report of Mirvac Group (Mirvac or Group) for the year ended 30 June 2019. Mirvac comprises Mirvac Limited (parent entity) and its controlled entities, which include Mirvac Property Trust and its controlled entities. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal continuing activities of Mirvac consist of real estate investment, development, third party capital management and property asset management. Mirvac performs these activities across three major segments: Office & Industrial, Retail and Residential. DIRECTORS The Directors of Mirvac in office at any time during the financial year and up to the date of this report together with information on their qualifications and experience are set out on pages 44 to 45. REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration report as required under section 300A (1) of the Corporations Act 2001 is set out on pages 52 to 72 and forms part of the Directors’ report. MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS The number of Directors’ meetings held and attended by each Director during the year ended 30 June 2019 is detailed below: Audit, Risk & Human Resources Nomination Special Purpose 1 Board Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended John Mulcahy 12 12 6 6 5 5 3 3 — — Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz 12 12 — — — — — — — — Christine Bartlett 12 12 6 6 — — — — — — Peter Hawkins 12 12 6 6 5 5 3 3 — — Jane Hewitt 6 6 — — 2 2 — — — — James M. Millar AM 12 12 6 6 — — 3 3 3 3 Samantha Mostyn 12 12 — — 5 5 — — — — Peter Nash 7 7 4 4 — — — — — — John Peters 12 12 — — 5 5 — — — — Elana Rubin 12 12 6 6 — — 3 3 — — 1. A special purpose Due Diligence Committee was established by the Board in 2019 for the purposes of the equity raising announced to the market on 29 May 2019. OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS Details of all directorships of other listed companies held by each Director in the three years immediately before 30 June 2019 are as follows: Director Company Date appointed Date ceased John Mulcahy ALS Limited (formerly Campbell Brothers Limited) February 2012 Current GWA Group Limited November 2010 Current Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz Nil Christine Bartlett GBST Holdings Ltd June 2015 Current Sigma Healthcare Limited March 2016 Current Peter Hawkins MG Responsible Entity Limited April 2015 November 2016 Westpac Banking Corporation December 2008 December 2018 Jane Hewitt Nil James M. Millar AM Fairfax Media Limited July 2012 December 2018 Macquarie Media Limited April 2015 Current Slater & Gordon Ltd December 2015 December 2017 Samantha Mostyn Cover-More Group Limited December 2013 April 2017 Transurban Holdings Limited December 2010 Current Virgin Australia Holdings Limited September 2010 May 2019 Peter Nash ASX Limited June 2019 Current Johns Lyng Group Limited October 2017 Current Westpac Banking Corporation March 2019 Current John Peters Nil Elana Rubin Afterpay Touch Group Limited July 2017 Current Slater & Gordon Ltd March 2018 Current Touchcorp Limited January 2015 August 2017 47 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES Group outlook 5 FY19 FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS Despite a challenging year in some sectors, Mirvac has benefited from the strength and resilience of its diversified model, its urban strategy and FY19 saw Mirvac build on the success of recent years with yet another award-winning urban asset creation capability, enabling the Group to solid operating performance and robust set of metrics for the financial year successfully operate through market cycles. Its high-quality investment ended 30 June 2019. Mirvac’s strong capital position, which is underpinned portfolio with its secure income stream, $3.1bn active commercial by the strength of its diversified model and the passive income stream development pipeline and $1.7bn of exchanged residential pre-sales, from its high-performing investment portfolio, has enabled the Group to have resulted in a strong capital position and platform for future growth. capitalise on strategic investment opportunities. Mirvac further strengthened its reputation for prudent capital management Financial highlights for the year ended 30 June 2019: in FY19. Pleasingly, gearing has been reduced to 20.5 per cent, and the >> profit attributable to the stapled securityholders of $1,019m Group benefits from a diversified debt portfolio with a long weighted (June 2018: $1,089m), anchored by the strong performance of the average debt maturity, and excellent visibility of future cash flows. Mirvac Office & Industrial division and significant fair value gains in the is committed to maintaining its rigorous approach to capital management, investment portfolio as a result of capitalisation rate compression creating a firm foundation from which to continue to meet its strategic across all segments; objectives without increasing its overall capital management risk profile. >> operating profit after tax of $631m (June 2018: $608m 2) up 4 per cent, representing 17.1 cents per stapled security (cpss); As a result of Mirvac’s continued strong financial performance over several >> operating cash flow of $518m (June 2018: $663m); years, the Group begins FY20 poised to continue to capitalise on existing and new investment opportunities, actively invest in its people, technology >> full-year distributions of $440m, representing 11.6 cpss and and sustainability, and deploy its award-winning asset creation capability. growth of 5 per cent over FY18; and With its strong capital position, extensive development pipeline and highly >> net tangible assets (NTA) per stapled security 3 of $2.50 engaged, passionate workforce, Mirvac is confident it will continue to (June 2018: $2.31). generate value for securityholders and enrich the lives of its customers Capital management highlights for the year ended 30 June 2019: and communities for many years to come. >> successfully completed a fully underwritten $750m institutional Risks placement and $46.2m Security Share Plan in the fourth quarter. As a property group involved in property investment, residential and The placement was strongly supported and will assist the delivery commercial development and investment management, Mirvac faces a of the next generation of value accretive office, industrial, residential number of risks throughout the business cycle which have the potential and mixed-use projects; to affect the achievement of its targeted financial outcomes. Mirvac’s >> completed 58m of stapled security buy-backs, totalling $130m during risk management policy and framework is integrated with its day‑to‑day the first half, with a total of 59m stapled securities purchased since business processes and is supported by a dedicated Group Risk function. the commencement of the buy-back on 23 February 2018; For the year ended 30 June 2019, the Group continued to ensure internal >> issued $665m US Private Placement notes with tenors of 11,13, and external risks were identified and appropriate strategies were 15 and 20 years; implemented to manage the impact of those risks. Further information >> received an Arating with a stable outlook from Fitch Ratings on the material risks identified for each of the sectors is outlined on during the first half year and maintained its A3 rating from pages 36-37. Moody’s Investor Service (equivalent to A-); >> stable average borrowing costs at 4.8 per cent per annum (June 2018: 4.8 per cent), including margins and line fees, following the issuance of new debt and the repayment of lower cost revolving bank debt following the capital raising; >> reduced gearing to 20.5 per cent, within the Group’s target range of 20 to 30 per cent 4; >> increased liquidity to $1.4bn in cash and committed undrawn bank facilities; and >> increased weighted average debt maturity to 8.5 years from 6.8 years (June 2018). 2. Excludes specific non-cash items and related taxation. The June 2018 operating profit after tax has been restated to align with the new operating profit definition adopted by the Group from 1 July 2018. 3. NTA per stapled security, based on ordinary securities including Employee Incentive Scheme securities. 4. Net debt (at foreign exchange hedged rate) excluding leases (total tangible assets – cash). 5. These future looking statements should be read in conjunction with future releases to the ASX. 48 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Directors’ report continued REVIEW OF OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES CONTINUED >> Locomotive Workshops, South Eveleigh, Sydney, NSW: secured FY19 OFFICE & INDUSTRIAL HIGHLIGHTS planning approvals and commenced redevelopment in May 2019. Practical completion is targeted for FY21; Mirvac’s Office and Industrial (O&I) division creates some of the country’s >> 80 Ann Street, Brisbane QLD: demolition is progressing well with largest and most complex mixed-use, commercial and industrial precincts, a construction commencement ceremony scheduled for August and as at 30 June 2019 has $15bn 6 assets under management. Mirvac 2019. Suncorp has pre‑committed to over 39,600 square metres works with leading brands to deliver commercial assets featuring smart of office and retail space, representing approximately 66 per technology and design excellence. Its young, efficient, sustainable portfolio cent of the building’s total NLA, for a 10‑year term. Mirvac sold is comprised of over 95 per cent premium or A-grade office assets, with an a 50 per cent interest in the development to M&G Real Estate for 85 per cent overweighting to the strong Sydney and Melbourne markets a total consideration of $418m. Practical completion remains on providing a significant stream of passive, secured income to the Group. track for 2HFY22; For the year ended 30 June 2019, Mirvac’s Office & Industrial division >> 383 La Trobe Street, Melbourne, VIC: acquired in 1HFY19 and planning delivered earnings before interest and tax of $518m. is in progress for a potential 40,000 square metres office tower; Office >> 55 Pitt Street, Sydney, NSW: planning is progressing well for Highlights across the office portfolio for the year ended 30 June a potential office tower of greater than 40,000 square metres; and 2019 included: >> Corner of Walker Street and Pacific Highway, North Sydney, NSW: >> increased occupancy to 98.2 per cent 7, with a long WALE secured interests amounting to 25 per cent of unit entitlements of 6.4 years 8, in two North Sydney office towers. >> achieved like-for-like net operating income growth of 5.7 per cent; Outlook 11 >> completed 82 leasing deals over approximately 96,400 square While global uncertainty and softer economic growth locally are likely metres 9, with highlights including: to impact expansion plans of major office occupiers overall, the outlook >> Sirius House, 23 Furzer Street, Woden, ACT: renewed the for Sydney and Melbourne CBD markets remains well supported given Department of Health and Ageing for 100 per cent of the vacancy rates for both markets are around 4 per cent. While vacancy is 46,000 square metre office building for a further 10 years, set to rise a little in the Melbourne CBD near term due to a large volume of amounting to a 16-year lease term; new stock completing, the vast majority of this stock has been pre-leased >> Olderfleet, 477 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC: secured Lander as tenants seek better quality premises and space efficiencies. A more & Rogers and Urbis each for 5,000 square metres for a 10-year staggered and smaller supply pipeline in Sydney will mitigate vacancy lease term; and rises over the next few years. >> Locomotive Workshops, South Eveleigh, Sydney NSW: secured Tenant demand in Brisbane also reflects a flight to quality space as Quantium for 12,000 square metres for a 7-year term; demand for prime-grade stock has more than doubled that for secondary >> total office asset revaluations provided an uplift of $392m in the past year, a trend that is expected to continue. Similarly, the Perth (or 6.3 per cent) over the previous book value for the 12 months office market has seen a pick-up in net absorption over the past year as to 30 June 2019, supported by an overweight to prime assets in tenants consolidate from fringe locations into the CBD, with prime-grade Sydney and Melbourne; stock outperforming secondary. With very limited supply near term, >> maintained positive leasing spreads at 16.6 per cent; and prospects for better rental growth have lifted. >> reduced incentives to 15.6 per cent (June 2018: 22 per cent). Mirvac will continue to focus on the key urban markets of Sydney and Melbourne, as well as creating innovative, collaborative and flexible workplaces During the financial year, Mirvac continued to deploy its award‑winning that generate value for the Group, while improving the quality of the portfolio. asset creation capability in order to progress its $3.1bn active Industrial office development pipeline, which is 90 per cent 10 pre-committed. Progress includes: Highlights across the industrial portfolio for the year ended 30 June 2019 included: >> Olderfleet, Melbourne, VIC: construction is progressing on >> achieved 99.7 per cent occupancy 12, with a long WALE of 7.7 13 years; schedule and topped out in July 2019. The building is now 94 per cent 10 pre-leased. The Group remains on track to >> achieved like-for-like net operating income growth of 7.8 per cent; reach practical completion in FY20; >> total industrial asset revaluations of $50m, representing a 6.0 per cent uplift over the previous book value for the full year to >> South Eveleigh, Sydney, NSW (formerly Australian Technology 30 June 2019; and Park): in March 2019 practical completion was achieved on the >> completed over 91,700 square metres of leasing activity including: Axle building (Building 1). Commonwealth Bank’s lease commences August 2019 and the new workplace is now home to approximately >> Nexus Industrial Park Building 4, Lyn Parade, Prestons, NSW: 3,800 Commonwealth Bank employees. Yerrabingin House renewed Legrand for 7 years over 23,300 square metres to 2028; (Building 3), a community centre with Indigenous rooftop farm, >> Nexus Industrial Park Building 1, Lyn Parade, Prestons, public realm including sports courts, an oval and skatepark, and NSW: extended the lease to Amari Metals by 7 years over stage 1 retail elements were also completed in March 2019. 13,100 square metres to 2028; and Structural works on The Foundry (Building 2) are ongoing and it is >> 274 Victoria Road, Rydalmere, NSW: extended the lease to Thales due for practical completion in mid-2020. The project’s major tenant, for 10 years over 22,700 square metres to 2032. Commonwealth Bank, has pre-committed to 100 per cent of office space for a 15‑year lease term; 6. Includes IPUC. 7. By area, including equity accounted investments and OOP and excluding assets held for sale. 8. By income, including equity accounted investments and OOP and excluding assets held for sale. 9. Excludes leasing of assets under development. 10. Includes Heads of Agreement. 11. These future looking statements should be read in conjunction with future releases to the ASX. 12. By area. 13. By income. 49 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES CONTINUED Highlights across the retail portfolio for the year ended 30 June 2019 included: The Industrial business unit is an important growth area for the business and during the year Mirvac increased its future industrial development >> achieved solid net revaluation gains of 2.2 per cent underpinned pipeline in Sydney to $1.2 billion by securing the following sites: by like‑for‑like income growth of 2.6 per cent; >> Stage 1 of a future 244-hectare industrial estate at Badgerys Creek >> maintained high occupancy of 99.2 per cent; 19 in Western Sydney 14, NSW for a total consideration of $71m, under >> achieved comparable MAT sales growth of 2.7 per cent 20 and a put-and-call option arrangement. Located just 800 metres from comparable specialty sales growth of 2.0 per cent; the new Western Sydney International Airport and close to the M7 >> comparable specialty sales productivity of >$10,000 per square motorway and the proposed M12 motorway, Stage 1 is a 54-hectare metre, with specialty occupancy costs increasing to 15.5 per cent; and site set to benefit from approximately $20bn of infrastructure >> executed lease deals across approximately 61,900 square metres, improvements in the Western Sydney area by 2026; with leasing spreads of 1.0 per cent. >> a 56-hectare future industrial estate and logistics hub at Mamre The Group’s retail development and repositioning pipeline progressed Road, Kemps Creek, NSW, approximately 6km from the new during the financial year, including: Western Sydney International Airport. Similar to the Badgerys Creek site, this strategic site will benefit from its proximity to the M4, M7 >> South Village Shopping Centre, Kirrawee, NSW: opened on and proposed M12 motorways, as well as approximately $20bn of 14 November 2018. The centre is anchored by Coles and ALDI with infrastructure improvements to be rolled out across the Western a mixed offer including services, health and wellness operators and Sydney area; and a restaurant precinct including Criniti’s and Lone Star Rib House; >> a 14-hectare, future industrial estate and logistics hub at Manchester >> Kawana Shoppingworld, Sunshine Coast, QLD: completed the Road, Auburn, Sydney, 3.3km from Parramatta CBD and 18km from construction of a 6,900 square metre expansion of the centre the Sydney CBD, for $94.2m 15. The project is a joint venture with introducing Event Cinema’s only Gold Class offering on the an investment vehicle sponsored by Morgan Stanley Real Estate Sunshine Coast and an expanded dining precinct. The project Investing and has an end value of $250m 16. was 100 per cent leased at completion; Mirvac also sold a 50 per cent interest in Calibre at Eastern Creek, NSW >> Birkenhead Point Brand Outlet, Sydney, NSW: improved car park to the Mirvac Industrial Logistics Partnership for approximately $125m. circulation by introducing a ticketless and parking guidance system Practical completion was achieved on the Estate during the year and the and new wayfinding, together with redesigned entry and exit points, development is 100 per cent leased. resulting in a more seamless parking experience; >> Rhodes Waterside, Sydney, NSW: completed the construction of Outlook 17 Demand drivers for industrial are mixed with both weaker global trade a 3,700 square metre redevelopment of the asset, introducing and uncertainty impacting global production firms, while softer domestic ALDI and relocating Bing Lee to strengthen the fresh food and indicators, such as forward orders and confidence of wholesale trade homewares offer. The project was fully leased on completion; firms, point to softer take-up near term. Conversely, the structural shift to >> Toombul, Brisbane, QLD: construction is progressing on a $43m, growing e-commerce volumes and customer demands for convenience 4,500 square metre re-development, introducing a dining and and faster delivery times is spurring demand for logistics space. According entertainment precinct. The precinct will be anchored by Archie to Knight Frank 18, the Sydney industrial market continues to record the Brothers, Cirque Electriq and an upgraded cinema. The development lowest vacancy rate of any major industrial market, resulting in most is due for completion in mid-FY20; and major sub-markets recording annual rent growth greater than inflation. >> launched the first ultra-rapid electric vehicle (EV) charging station Mirvac’s strategic overweight to the strong Sydney market ensures that at Toombul in Brisbane, QLD in partnership with Chargefox. The the industrial portfolio will continue to provide a secure, growing income to portfolio now boasts the ultra-rapid station along with 38 universal the Group. EV charging bays, 14 Tesla Supercharging bays and 31 Tesla destination charging sites covering all current charging formats. FY19 RETAIL HIGHLIGHTS Outlook 17 Mirvac owns and manages a dynamic portfolio of urban shopping centres While the broader retail environment faces some challenges, shopping across Australia’s eastern seaboard with assets under management of centres with strong catchment fundamentals continue to be better over $4.5bn. The portfolio is focused on higher income, higher growth supported. Mirvac’s retail portfolio is located in the service-based economies and densely populated urban catchment areas, with an overweight to the of Sydney, South East Queensland and Melbourne, which continue to record strong Sydney market. Incorporating approximately 437,900 square metres stronger employment and higher jobs growth than populations within of space and more than 1,600 retailers, Mirvac’s intricate understanding regional areas. In addition, centres that offer vibrant customer experiences of its local markets enables the Retail team to constantly improve the continue to attract quality tenants. Mirvac’s focus on high-quality asset experience of their customers. management in urban catchments with strong fundamentals is expected to For the year ended 30 June 2019, the retail portfolio delivered operating support continued outperformance in the retail sector. earnings before interest and tax of $168m. 14. Subject to conditions precedent, rezoning and planning approvals. 15. Subject to conditions precedent. 16. Subject to planning approvals. 17. These future looking statements should be read in conjunction with future releases to the ASX. 18. Knight Frank Research, Industrial Vacancy Reports Q1 2019. 19. By area. 20. Total comparable MAT sales growth would equate to approximately 2 per cent adjusting for major supermarkets and DDS categories reporting 53 weeks of sales. 50 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Directors’ report continued REVIEW OF OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES CONTINUED Outlook 24 FY19 RESIDENTIAL HIGHLIGHTS Several gauges of market performance including auction activity, turnover and price results suggest a meaningful positive shift through Mirvac has long set the standard in residential design, quality and community June and July. Significant reduction in loan pricing across all product building, leveraging its integrated model to deliver complex projects that types following reductions in the official cash rate, fiscal policy stimulus require significant capital and resources. An attention to detail, focus on and better policy certainty post elections have contributed to a lift in home creating legacy and an absolute commitment to customer service has forged buying sentiment of late. The recent lift in borrowing capacity post APRA’s a reputation for creating exceptional, much-loved homes and communities in changes to the mortgage serviceability buffer indicate pre-conditions are Australia’s key cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. in place for a more positive spring selling season in the established market. For the year ended 30 June 2019, Residential delivered earnings before Better buying confidence is likely to lead to more solid demand for off-theinterest and tax of $201m. plan purchases over the next year as buyers seek high-quality projects Highlights across the residential business for the year ended that offer good connection to employment. 30 June 2019 included: BUILD-TO-RENT >> settled 2,611 residential lots, exceeding the Group’s target of more than 2,500 residential lot settlements in FY19. Defaults for the Mirvac sees huge growth potential for the sector in Australia, given the financial year remained below 2 per cent; lack of housing affordability and the growing numbers of Australians who >> secured future income with residential pre-sales of $1.7bn 21. Mirvac’s are renting. Mirvac believes BTR can revolutionise the rental experience existing pipeline supports the ability to release over 10,000 lots over with improved choice, quality and security of tenure. the next four years; Since it launched its Australian Build-to-Rent Club with the Clean Energy >> delivered gross development margins of 27 per cent 22, driven by our Finance Corporation in July 2018, Mirvac has been at the forefront of the ability to buy and sell in the right markets and at the right time in emerging BTR sector in Australia. capital efficient structures; Build-to-Rent highlights for the year ended 30 June 2019 included: >> released over 1,280 residential lots across both new and existing >> further progressed construction at Mirvac’s first purpose-built BTR projects, with over 1,700 exchanges. Successful releases included: asset in Australia, the Pavilions project at Sydney Olympic Park in >> Crest, Gledswood Hills, NSW: 86 per cent of released lots pre-sold; NSW. The project is due for completion in September 2020, with >> Woodlea, VIC: 96 per cent of released lots pre-sold; leasing to commence in June 2020; and >> Tullamore, VIC: 60 per cent of released MPC lots pre-sold; >> entered into a binding agreement with developer, PDG, to acquire >> Everleigh, QLD: 53 per cent of released lots pre-sold; 490 completed BTR apartments in the Munro development >> acquired a consolidated landholding at Henley Brook, WA, 22km within the Queen Victoria Market on a fund through basis for a north-east of Perth and 18km from Perth Airport. The 33.5-hectare total investment amount of $333.5m. The agreement is subject to site will comprise over 550 land lots with an estimated development conditions precedent, including planning and redesign, which will end value of approximately $140m 23; and ensure the building delivers purpose-built, BTR product. >> further supplemented the Group’s residential pipeline of approximately 28,000 lots by entering into an agreement with Boral to develop SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN THE STATE OF AFFAIRS a 171-hectare, quarry site at Wantirna South, located within the Details of the state of affairs of the Group are disclosed on pages 47 to 50. Dandenong Valley Parkland corridor approximately 25km south-east Other than those matters disclosed, there were no significant changes to of the Melbourne CBD. Mirvac proposes approximately 1,700 lots the state of affairs during the financial year. with an estimated development end value of $1.3bn 24. MATTER SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE YEAR As announced on 3 July 2019, the Group confirmed the successful completion of the non-underwritten Security Purchase Plan (SPP). A total of $46.2m was raised under the SPP, with 15.9m new stapled securities issued to eligible applicants on 4 July 2019. No other events have occurred since the end of the year which have significantly affected or may significantly affect Mirvac’s operations, the results of those operations, or Mirvac’s state of affairs in future years. 21. Adjusted for Mirvac’s share of JVA and Mirvac managed funds. 22. Excludes previously provisioned projects. 23. Subject to rezoning and planning approvals $1.3bn is 100 per cent of the expected project gross revenue. 24. These future looking statements should be read in conjunction with future releases to the ASX. 51 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS NON-AUDIT SERVICES Mirvac and its business operations are subject to compliance with both From time to time, Mirvac may engage its external auditor, Commonwealth and state environmental protection legislation. The Board PricewaterhouseCoopers, to perform services additional to their is satisfied that adequate policies and procedures are in place to ensure statutory audit duties. Details of the amounts paid or payable to Mirvac’s compliance with the applicable legislation. In addition, Mirvac is PricewaterhouseCoopers for audit and non-audit services provided during also subject to the reporting requirements of the National Greenhouse and the year ended 30 June 2019 are set out in note H5 to the consolidated Energy Reporting Act 2007 and Building Energy Efficiency Disclosure Act financial statements. 2010. Mirvac is not aware of any incidents that have resulted in material In accordance with the advice received from the ARCC, the Board is non-compliance with environmental regulations during the financial year. satisfied that the provision of non-audit services is compatible with CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by the Corporations Act 2001 and did not compromise the auditor independence Mirvac is committed to ensuring that its systems, procedures and requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the following reasons: practices reflect high standards of corporate governance. The Directors believe that a strong corporate governance framework is critical in >> all non-audit services were reviewed by the ARCC to ensure they did fostering a culture that values ethical behaviour, integrity and respect, to not affect the impartiality and objectivity of the auditor; and protect securityholders’ and other stakeholders’ interests. >> none of the services undermined the general principles relating to auditor independence as set out in Accounting Professional & Ethical During the year ended 30 June 2019, Mirvac’s corporate governance Standards 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, including framework was consistent with the third edition of the Corporate reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a management Governance Principles and Recommendations released by the ASX or a decision-making capacity for the Group, acting as advocate for Corporate Governance Council. the Group or jointly sharing economic risk and rewards. Mirvac’s Corporate governance statement for the year ended 30 June 2019 AUDITOR’S INDEPENDENCE DECLARATION and copies or summaries of the Group policies referred to in it are published on Mirvac’s website at: www.mirvac.com/about/corporate-governance. A copy of the Auditor’s independence declaration as required under section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 is set out on page 73 and forms TAX GOVERNANCE STATEMENT part of the Directors’ report. Mirvac has adopted the Board of Taxation’s Tax Transparency Code (TTC). ROUNDING OF AMOUNTS As part of the TTC, Mirvac has published a Tax governance statement (TGS) which details Mirvac’s corporate structure and tax corporate The amounts in the consolidated financial statements have been rounded governance systems. Mirvac’s TGS can be found on Mirvac’s website at: off to the nearest million (m) dollars in accordance with ASIC Corporations www.mirvac.com/about/corporate-governance. Instrument 2016/191. This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. FRAUD, BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Mirvac has zero tolerance regarding fraud, bribery and corruption and requires all employees and service providers to adhere to the highest standards of honesty and integrity in the conduct of all its activities. Mirvac will uphold all laws relevant to countering fraud, bribery and corruption in Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz the jurisdictions in which it operates. Director Any allegation of a person from within or associated with Mirvac Sydney (notwithstanding the capacity in which they are acting), acting in a manner 8 August 2019 inconsistent with this statement will be treated seriously, regardless of the seniority of those involved. Disciplinary action including dismissal may result. Where it is believed that a criminal offence may have been committed, the police and other relevant bodies may be informed. 52 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report Contents Page It has been great to see from the survey results that our people continue to understand and believe in our purpose and strategy, and that they are 1 Message from the Human Resources Committee 52 proud of the projects and services we are delivering for our customers. 2 Who is covered by this report 53 In addition to this, our people tell us that they value the work we do 3 Key questions 53 around health and safety, sustainability, diversity and inclusion, people leadership and flexibility. Some diversity and inclusion highlights include; 4 Our remuneration strategy and the link to business strategy 55 5 Executive KMP remuneration at Mirvac 58 >> Mirvac has been awarded with the Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation for the fifth year in a row. This prestigious citation 6 How remuneration is structured 58 acknowledges our ongoing commitment to gender equality; 7 Business and executive remuneration outcomes 62 >> the Group’s annual gender pay parity review showed that both the 8 Summary of FY19 remuneration 64 organisation-wide and the by-level gaps continue to decrease, and the 9 Actual remuneration received in FY19 65 like-for-like gender pay gap is zero for the third year; 10 Total remuneration in FY19 66 >> we continued to meet our target of women in senior leadership positions with more than 40 per cent of senior leadership roles held by 11 LTI grants in FY19 67 women; and 12 Equity instrument disclosures relating to KMP 68 >> we partnered with the GIANTS Foundation to launch the Mirvac Giant 13 Other transactions with KMP 70 Leadership Goals Program. This program is aimed at growing the 14 Service agreements for the Executive KMP 70 female talent pipeline by highlighting the career opportunities within the property industry and encouraging Year 9 females to consider 15 Governance and how remuneration decisions are made 70 selecting STEM subjects in high school. 16 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 71 More on our People Strategy and how this supports Mirvac’s performance 17 Additional required disclosures 72 can be found in the Our People section, page 30. 1 MESSAGE FROM THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE (HRC) Reward Framework The HRC wishes to thank you for your support at last year’s AGM and Throughout FY19, the HRC continued to oversee the performance and for sharing your views on our remuneration practices and is pleased remuneration of the CEO/MD and other Executive Leadership Team to present securityholders with the FY19 remuneration report. This members, along with the Group remuneration framework and incentive report outlines Mirvac’s approach to remuneration for its executives and schemes, ensuring that the financial reward balances performance in particular the link between Mirvac’s strategy and its remuneration with prudent risk-taking while also creating alignment between our framework and the link between performance and reward, and securityholders and other stakeholders. remuneration outcomes for senior executives. Mirvac’s remuneration framework reflects our commitment to deliver People and Culture – Key Highlights competitive remuneration for excellent performance in order to attract The HRC has oversight of Mirvac’s People Strategy, Culture and key the best and motivate and retain talented individuals, while aligning the Human Resources practices, and Mirvac’s remuneration framework is an interests of executives and securityholders. integral component of our People Strategy. At the heart of our remuneration framework are: We have maintained an overall engagement score of 90 per cent in the Willis >> incentives based on financial measures and strategic objectives that Towers Watson’s engagement survey. Our score places us well above the reflect key goals critical to sustained organisational success; industry and Australian norms, and above the Global High Performing Norm, >> consideration of business and operational risk through the the highest external benchmark. The results show that: design of performance objectives, clawbacks and the exercise of >> 97 per cent of our people are willing to work beyond what is required of Board discretion; them to assist Mirvac to succeed; >> incentives that align the interests of executives to those of >> 95 per cent of our people believe Mirvac is socially and environmentally securityholders; responsible and has a positive impact on the community; >> vesting periods for deferred incentives that reflect the time horizons >> 94 per cent of our people believe Mirvac supports diversity in the over which Mirvac invests, while providing appropriate stretch and workplace; and incentive for executives; >> 89 per cent of our people understand the risks in our business, are >> best-practice governance and ensuring remuneration outcomes comfortable raising issues and know who to report the issues to. are reasonable taking into account community and stakeholder expectations The HRC recognises the growing focus on culture as a driver of employee >> best-practice governance; and behaviours and their impact on strategy execution and performance. >> target remuneration levels and remuneration outcomes that Mirvac’s values define our desired behaviours and culture and are appropriately reflect the challenge and complexity of being an active measured via our annual employee survey. Pleasingly, this year’s survey developer and of being an integrated diverse property company. found that: >> 91 per cent of people believe Mirvac values are demonstrated through clear and visible actions by the employees; and >> 88 per cent believe management decisions are consistent with the values. 53 Pay for Performance: Remuneration Outcomes for FY19 Mirvac delivered strong performance against key financial measures and key strategic objectives in FY19, including security price growth of 44 per cent over the 12 months. Mirvac is now a leading property company recognised for its quality projects and assets; is trusted by investors (as indicated by the success of the capital raising in May 2019); has great people with exceptional employee engagement (90 per cent) and a culture that has become a source of competitive advantage; and, is a leader in sustainability (within the property sector and beyond). The strong, sustained performance – both financial and non-financial – has translated into full vesting of the long-term incentives and above target short‑term incentive outcomes. Combined with a 44 per cent securityprice increase over the last 12 months, this has resulted in increased actual earnings for our CEO/MD and other KMP. The Mirvac Board very strongly believes in aligning pay to performance and we believe the remuneration outcomes reflect this strong performance, outperforming the stretching targets that the Board sets for management each year. 2 WHO IS COVERED BY THIS REPORT This report covers the key management personnel (KMP) of Mirvac, who are the people responsible for determining and executing Mirvac’s strategy. This includes both the Executive KMP (the CEO/MD, CFO and heads of business units who are part of the Executive Leadership Team) as well as Non‑Executive Directors. For FY19, the KMP were: KMP Position Term as KMP Non-Executive KMP John Mulcahy Chair Full Year Christine Bartlett Director Full Year Peter Hawkins Director Full Year Jane Hewitt 1 Director Part Year James M. Millar AM Director Full Year Samantha Mostyn Director Full Year Peter Nash 2 Director Part Year John Peters Director Full Year Elana Rubin Director Full Year Executive KMP Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz CEO/MD Full Year Brett Draffen Chief Investment Officer Full Year Shane Gannon CFO Full Year Campbell Hanan Head of Office & Industrial Full Year Susan MacDonald Head of Retail Full Year Stuart Penklis Head of Residential Full Year 1. Jane Hewitt joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 10 December 2018. 2. Peter Nash joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 19 November 2018. The information provided in this remuneration report has been audited as required by section 308(3C) of the Corporations Act 2001. 3 KEY QUESTIONS Key questions Mirvac approach Further info Remuneration in FY19 1 How is Mirvac’s performance Mirvac’s remuneration outcomes are strongly linked to the delivery of sustainable securityholder Section 4 reflected in this year’s value over the short and long term. Page 56 remuneration outcomes? Short term: Mirvac has delivered strong performance in terms of operating profit, ROIC and delivery of strategic objectives, and while not a measure on the Group STI scorecard, security price growth of 44 per cent in 12 months. This has resulted in above-target performance on our balanced scorecard and a corresponding higher than usual payout of short-term incentives (STI). Long term: The three-year performance period for the FY17 long-term incentives (LTI) completed on 30 June 2019. The FY17 LTI was divided into two components, with half tested against relative TSR and the other half tested against ROIC, both over a three-year period. Mirvac’s absolute TSR performance of 72.97 per cent was at the 88th percentile of the comparator group, resulting in vesting of 100 per cent of the relative TSR component. Mirvac’s ROIC performance of 11.3 per cent outperformed the stretch target of 10 per cent, resulting in 100 per cent vesting for this component. As a result, total vesting for the FY17 LTI award is 100 per cent. The Board is committed to ensuring executives’ remuneration links to the achievement of sustainable value for securityholders and therefore will continue to use relative TSR and ROIC for the FY20 LTI award for the KMP. 54 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued Key questions Mirvac approach Further info 2 What changes have been made LTI: The performance measures continue to be relative TSR and ROIC for the FY19 LTI award for Section 6 to the remuneration structure the KMP. The weighting of the performance measures was adjusted from 50:50 to 40 per cent Page 58 in FY19? for relative TSR and 60 per cent for ROIC. This re-weighting maintains focus on relative TSR, an important measure in aligning remuneration outcomes for Executives with securityholder outcomes, but increases focus on ROIC, which is the key long-term financial measure that underpins longterm decision making and long-term value creation, and best aligns the LTI hurdles with Mirvac’s business and value-creation strategy. The comparator group for relative TSR will also no longer include Aveo and Lendlease and only consist of the A-REIT constituents, so as to better align the peer group to the market in which we compete for capital. There is also a change in the way in which the ROIC hurdle is set and measured. Taking into account the transition to a more normalised part of the property cycle, the Board believes that vesting of the ROIC component ought to commence on the achievement of Mirvac’s WACC, the point at which management creates value for securityholders, with full vesting on achieving a premium of 1.8 per cent outperformance of WACC, which represents both significant stretch and value creation for securityholders. So as not to encourage unnecessary risk-taking, 50 per cent of the award will vest one-third into the 1.8 per cent premium. That is, 50 per cent will vest upon 0.6 per cent outperformance of WACC. The remaining 50 per cent of the award will vest over the remaining 1.2 per cent outperformance. After calculating the outcome based on the vesting schedule detailed above, the Board shall have +/-20 per cent discretion to adjust the vesting outcomes for the ROIC performance hurdle to ensure vesting outcomes reflect management’s performance over the performance period. STI: There were no changes to STI methodology. Operating profit: Mirvac’s definition of operating profit has been updated to include the securitybased payment expense. This change has been implemented to align with market practice (ASX top 20 and A-REIT). Minimum securityholding requirement: The minimum securityholding requirement increased from: >> 100 per cent to 150 per cent of fixed remuneration for the CEO/MD; and >> 50 per cent to 100 per cent of fixed remuneration for other Executives. Executives will have five years from the commencement of their role on the Executive Leadership Team, or for current Executives three years from 1 July 2018, to establish their Mirvac security ownership to the minimum. Risk: We have incorporated more explicit consideration of risk and risk culture in determining Executives’ performance and reward outcomes, and for determining the Group STI pool. Individual changes: Stuart Penklis, Head of Residential, received a fixed pay increase from $700,000 to $800,000 per annum as at 1 July 2018. While Mirvac generally does not provide year-on-year increases to senior executives’ fixed remuneration, the adjustment to Stuart’s remuneration was appropriate to bring him into line with the remuneration of Susan MacDonald and Campbell Hanan, aligning the target remuneration for the three Heads of businesses. There were no increases to the fixed remuneration or total target remuneration for any other Executive KMP during FY19. 3 Are any changes planned for No, there are no significant changes planned for FY20. However, in line with previous years, the Section 6 FY20? Board will review and adjust (if necessary) the threshold and stretch performance levels for the Page 58 performance objectives applicable to the STI and LTI awards. Remuneration framework 4 Where does Mirvac’s remuneration Fixed and variable pay are both aimed at the market median, with remuneration opportunities for Section 6 sit relative to the market? outstanding performance extending up to the 75th percentile of the market Page 58 5 What proportion of The majority of Executive KMP’s remuneration is based on performance and is therefore at risk. Section 5 remuneration is “at risk”? The remuneration package for the CEO/MD is 70 per cent performance related pay, and for other Page 58 Executives the remuneration package is, on average, 58 per cent performance related pay. 6 Are there any clawback Yes, the Board has the ability to claw back incentives in the event of a material financial Section 6 provisions for incentives? misstatement, any misconduct that is, or may be, harmful to the Group, and/or gross negligence. Page 58 7 What is Mirvac’s minimum The minimum securityholding requirement is: Section 12 securityholding requirement? >> 150 per cent of fixed remuneration for the CEO/MD; Page 68 >> 100 per cent of fixed remuneration for other Executives; and Section 16 >> 50,000 securities for Non-Executive Directors. Page 71 Executives have five years from the commencement of their role on the Executive Leadership Team, or for current Executives five years from 1 July 2018, to establish their Mirvac security ownership to the minimum. Non-Executive Directors have three years from their date of appointment to the Board, or for NonExecutive Directors who were appointed to the Board prior to FY18 three years from 12 December 2017, to acquire securities up to the minimum. 55 Key questions Mirvac approach Further info Short term incentives (STI) 8 Are any STI payments Yes, 25 per cent of STI for Executive KMP are awarded as rights over Mirvac securities, half of which Section 5 deferred? vest in one year and half in two years. If the Executive resigns before the vesting period ends, the Page 58 rights do not vest and are forfeited. Section 6 Page 60 9 Are STI payments capped? Yes, an Executive’s STI is capped at double their STI target, achievable only in circumstances of Section 6 both exceptional individual and Group performance. Page 58 Long-term incentives (LTI) 10 What are the performance For the FY19 LTI award, performance is measured over a three-year period with 40 per cent of the Section 6 measures for the LTI? award subject to relative TSR and 60 per cent of the award subject to ROIC, with the Board having Page 60 over-arching discretion to ensure vesting outcomes are appropriately aligned to performance. For the FY17 and FY18 awards, performance is measured over a three-year period with 50 per cent of the award subject to relative TSR and 50 per cent of the award subject to ROIC, with the Board having over-arching discretion to ensure vesting outcomes are appropriately aligned to performance. 11 Does the LTI have re-testing? No, there is no re-testing. Section 6 Page 60 12 Are dividends/distributions paid No, dividends/distributions are not paid on unvested LTI awards. This ensures that Executives Section 6 on unvested LTI awards? are only rewarded when performance hurdles have been achieved at the end of the performance Page 60 period. 13 Is the size of LTI grants No, there is no adjustment to reflect the performance conditions. The grant price for allocation Section 6 increased in light of purposes is not reduced based on performance conditions. Mirvac uses a ‘face value methodology’ Page 60 performance conditions? for allocating performance rights to each Executive KMP, being the average security price for the month leading up to grant, discounted for the assumed value of dividends and distributions not paid during the three-year performance period. 14 Can LTI participants hedge No, this is prohibited. Section 6 their unvested LTI? Page 60 15 Does Mirvac buy securities For deferred STI awards, securities are purchased on-market. For LTI awards, the Board has Section 6 or issue new securities for discretion to issue new securities or buy existing securities on-market. Page 58 security-based awards? 16 Does Mirvac issue No, Mirvac uses performance rights for the deferred STI and LTI awards. Section 6 share options? Page 58 Executive service agreements 17 What is the maximum Executive KMP termination entitlements are limited to 12 months’ fixed remuneration. Section 14 an executive can receive Page 70 on termination? 4 OUR REMUNERATION STRATEGY AND THE LINK TO BUSINESS STRATEGY Mirvac’s remuneration strategy is designed to support and reinforce its business strategy. The at-risk components of remuneration are tied to measures that reflect the successful execution of our business strategy in both the short and long term. Our strategic drivers are reflected in STI performance measures and LTI performance measures. So, Mirvac’s actual performance directly affects what executives are paid. 56 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued Are reflected in STI And LTI performance Our strategic drivers… performance measures… measures… Result… Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Measures the performance of Mirvac securities over time, relative to other entities Capital in a comparison group. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) efficiency Reflects how efficiently Mirvac is using its assets to generate earnings. It is calculated and financial by dividing Total Return by average Invested Capital over the 3-year period. performance Operating Profit Reflects how much revenue the business has generated for the year, Reflects the alignment less operating costs and represents a key driver of securityholder value. of business strategy to create sustainable value Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) for securityholders. Reflects how efficiently Mirvac is using its assets to generate earnings. It is calculated by dividing total return by average invested capital over 12 months. Operational Ensures management delivers on core initiatives relating to Group strategy and operating model. excellence Measures include performance against Group or divisional specific initiatives and/or integrated projects. Customer and Represents how well Mirvac is meeting the expectations of key external stakeholders. investor satisfaction Measures include retail customer, office tenant and residential customer satisfaction surveys, as well as qualitative feedback Provide customers and investors an experience from key institutional investors and third party capital investors. that delivers excellence, consistently exceeds expectations and engenders loyalty. People & There is a strong correlation between high levels of employee engagement and a positive culture delivering Leadership securityholder returns. Measures include engagement, key talent retention, gender Have an engaged and motivated workforce diversity and flexibility targets. with superior skills and capabilities. Innovation A culture of innovation will drive and safeguard long term securityholder returns. leadership Measures include performance against agreed innovation missions. HSE&S Mirvac is committed to providing a safe workplace for its employees, suppliers and communities and leadership to ensuring its activities do not have an adverse impact on the environment. Be recognised as a leader in Measure include lost time injury frequency rate, total sustainability. Provide workplaces recordable injury frequency rate, timely incident free from harm and supported by reporting and sustainability targets. a culture where safety remains an absolute priority. 1. Consistent with the financial statements disclosures, the FY18 operating profit has been updated from $580m to $608m as a result of the 1 July 2018 operating profit definition change. 57 Mirvac’s actual performance… Directly affects what Measures include executives are paid From FY17-FY19 > Mirvac’s absolute TSR performance of 72.97 per cent was at the 88th percentile relative to its comparator group. > Mirvac’s average annual ROIC was 11.3% over the period. LTI vesting outcome for Executive KMP in FY19 = 100% In FY19 > Operating profit was $631m, up from $608m 1 in FY18. of target > ROIC was 10.1% down from 11.4% in FY18. Capital partnerships > sold down a 50% interest in Calibre at Eastern Creek to the Mirvac Industrial Logistics Partnership (MILP), a partnership between Mirvac and a vehicle sponsored by Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing, August 2018 > facilitated the acquisition of a 50 per cent interest in 10-20 Bond Street, Sydney by an investment vehicle sponsored by Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing (MSREI), in March 2019. > acquired a 14-hectare, future industrial estate and logistics hub at Manchester Road, Auburn, Sydney from PAYCE for $94.2 million in June 2019. The acquisition is a joint venture with an investment vehicle sponsored by Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing (MSREI). CEO/MD STI Overall a successful year for operational excellence initiatives in terms delivering new capabilities and functionality within budget. Key initiatives and agreed outcomes for delivered successfully throughout FY19. outcome in FY19 = 128% Customer satisfaction targets set for each of our key divisions were exceeded. of target Continued positive feedback being received from investors on our delivery of our strategy. People & Leadership targets set were either met or exceeded. > Maintained employee engagement score of 90%, placing Mirvac above the Global High Performing Norm, the survey’s highest external benchmark (target >GHPN). > 43% of senior leadership positions held by females (target >40%). > 75% of employees have some sort of flexible arrangement in place, evenly spread across both males and females (target >75%). > Our continued strategic focus on gender balance is having a positive impact on gender pay parity, the organisation-wide pay and by-level gaps continue to decrease and the like-for-like gender pay gap is zero for the third year (target = 0 like-for-like). > Attrition of employees identified as key talent is 4 per cent, which is well within range of less than 10 per cent (target >90% retention). The Hatch innovation program is a platform to facilitate a strategic approach to innovation at Mirvac and ensure it is supported by a robust innovation process, funding, resources, and innovation strategy. Some of the mission highlights for FY19: Average STI > 3 start-ups created by intrapreneurs focused across the following industries: construction tech, agri-tech (Cultivate) and retail (The Third Space). One initiative spun out with a Mirvac employee as co-founder; in FY19 for > Strengthened Mirvac’s innovation culture via 25 per cent of the workforce trained in our Hatch methodology and involvement other eligible with over 60 business projects; > Reinforced Mirvac’s customer centric culture with over 2,200 customer interactions aimed at solving ‘jobs to be done’ and pain points. Executives Sustainability FY19 = 131% of target The Group achieved a sustainability score of The focused approach has been well-received by Mirvac also achieved a number of 93 per cent against a hurdle of 80 per cent. the market through ongoing recognition of our industry leading sustainability ratings Following the refresh of the sustainability ESG performance, with Macquarie Bank rating in its office portfolio, including: strategy in FY18, each division focused on MGR in the top performance quintile, CGI Glass > 1 Darling Island, Pyrmont – the ESG areas that align with their social and Lewis naming Mirvac an ESG leader, and JPM 6 Star NABERS Energy rating, environmental impacts and capabilities. This ranking Mirvac the number 1 ESG company in without the use of GreenPower has enabled progress on key areas, including: Australia in their ESGQ Australia ladder. > 200 George Street, Sydney – > Launching Mirvac’s first Social Return on Mirvac won various sustainability 6 Star Green Star Performance rating Investment (SROI) report and distributing awards, including: > 275 Kent Street, Sydney – that report to ESG-interested investors > Two PCA Innovation and Excellence Awards, a recertified 6 Star Green > Developing Mirvac’s community including the award for Best Sustainable Star Performance rated building engagement standard Development for the EY Centre, and the Best Sustainable Development – Existing HSE > A significant increase in community investment Mirvac’s thorough and proactive approach reporting and for-purpose procurement Buildings for 23 Furzer Street to safety resulted in another year of positive > Launching Planet Positive, Mirvac’s plan to > 2018 Green Globe Built Environment Award, results in FY19. We have continued to see a reach net positive in carbon by 2030 in recognition of the Bay Centre, Pyrmont steady improvement of both the lost time > Understanding enterprise-wide climate risk and injury frequency rate (LTIFR) and the critical reporting under the Task Force on Climateincident frequency rate (CIFR). More details related Financial Disclosures framework can be found in the Safety section, page 32. > Preparing to manage modern slavery and other human rights issues in the supply chain. 58 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued 5 EXECUTIVE KMP REMUNERATION AT MIRVAC Mirvac’s executive remuneration approach is strongly performance focused. A significant proportion of executive remuneration is based on sustained performance, aligned with the business strategy. Executive remuneration at Mirvac is: >> performance based: >> the remuneration package for the CEO/MD is 70 per cent performance related pay; >> the remuneration package for other Executive KMP is, on average, 58 per cent performance related pay; and is therefore at risk; >> equity focused: >> 52 per cent of the CEO/MD’s total remuneration is paid in equity; and >> about one-third of other Executive KMP members’ total remuneration is paid in equity; >> encouraging an ownership mindset: as a minimum securityholding: >> the CEO/MD is required to hold 150 per cent of fixed remuneration as Mirvac securities; and >> all other Executive KMP are required to hold 100 per cent of their fixed remuneration as Mirvac securities; and >> multi-year focused: >> 50 per cent of STI deferral is subject to a one-year holding lock and the remaining 50 per cent to a two-year holding lock; and >> LTI performance is measured over a three-year period. The graphs below set out the remuneration structure and mix for the CEO/MD and other Executive KMP members at Mirvac: CEO/MD Performance Dependent Fixed remuneration Target STI Maximum LTI 2 30% 24% 46% Cash Deferred 1 Relative TSR ROIC (40% of award) (60% of award) 18% 6% 18% 28% Other Executive KMP Performance Dependent Fixed remuneration Target STI Maximum LTI 2 42% 31% 27% Cash Deferred 1 Relative TSR ROIC 23% (40% of award) (60% of award) 8% 11% 16% 1. Deferred STI: 50 per cent deferred for 12 months and 50 per cent deferred for 24 months. Subject to clawback. 2. LTI granted as performance rights with performance measured over a three-year period. Subject to clawback. 6 HOW REMUNERATION IS STRUCTURED MARKET POSITIONING OF FIXED AND TOTAL REMUNERATION Mirvac has adopted a market positioning strategy designed to attract and retain talented employees, and to reward them for delivering strong performance. The market positioning strategy also supports fair and equitable outcomes between employees. Fixed remuneration acts as a base-level reward for a competent level of performance. It includes cash, compulsory superannuation and any salarysacrificed items (including fringe benefits tax). Fixed remuneration at Mirvac is targeted at the median (50th percentile), with flexibility based on: >> the size and complexity of the role; >> the criticality of the role to successful execution of the business strategy; >> role accountabilities; >> skills and experience of the individual; and >> market pay levels for comparable roles. Total target remuneration (being fixed remuneration, STI and LTI) is positioned at the median (50th percentile), with the opportunity to earn total remuneration up to the upper quartile (75th percentile) in the event that both the individual and the business exceed stretch targets. When determining the relevant market for each role, Mirvac considers the companies from which it sources talent, and to whom it could potentially lose talent. From time to time, the Board engages its independent remuneration advisor to provide remuneration benchmarking data as input into setting remuneration for Executive KMP. Refer section 15, Page 70. For business roles >> primary comparison group: A-REIT, plus Lendlease; and >> secondary comparison group: general industry with a similar market capitalisation (50 per cent to 200 per cent of Mirvac’s 12-month average market capitalisation). 59 For corporate roles >> primary comparison group: general industry with a similar market capitalisation (50 per cent to 200 per cent of Mirvac’s 12-month average market capitalisation). The use of general industry reflects the greater transferability of skills for these roles; and >> secondary comparison group: specific peers in the A-REIT, plus Lendlease. STI: HOW DOES IT WORK? Purpose Motivate and reward employees for contributing to the delivery of annual business performance. Eligibility All permanent Mirvac employees are eligible to participate in the STI plan, subject to having more than three months’ active service during the financial year and remaining employed on, or not having provided notice of termination before, the award date. Target, minimum A target STI is set for each individual, which will be earned if Group and individual performance meets the stretch targets. Actual and maximum STI STI awards depend on Group and individual performance but can range from zero up to the maximum of 200 per cent of the opportunity target opportunity. Group STI scorecard/ Gateway: Group operating profit must be at least 90 per cent of plan before any STI payments are made. pool funding The STI pool funding is calculated based on operating profit and ROIC (both with 50 per cent weighting) and moderated by the Board, based on achievement of strategic objectives. The targets for the individual strategic objectives are not disclosed as some are commercially sensitive; however, our performance against targets will be disclosed retrospectively as we have done this year on pages 56 and 57. The objectives are quantitative in nature and are set in line with the shortand medium-term strategic objectives. Category Measure Rationale for using Measurement Financial Operating Reflects the underlying performance For both financial performance measures on measures profit of Mirvac’s core business operations the Group STI scorecard, a threshold, plan and represents a key driver of and stretch goal is set at the start of the securityholder value. financial year, with the outcome calculated ROIC Reflects how efficiently Mirvac is using based on the following scale: its assets to generate earnings. Group STI score Performance level % target <Threshold 0% Threshold 75% Plan 100% Stretch 150% A sliding scale operates between threshold and plan, and between plan and stretch. At the start of the year, a scorecard of objectives is agreed with management. At the end of the year, the Board makes a rigorous assessment, taking into account quantitative and qualitative factors. The Board has discretion to increase or decrease the pool funding taking into account performance against these strategic objectives and the Group’s risk framework and tolerance. Strategic Financial Reflects the alignment of business Progress on strategic capital allocation objectives performance strategy to create sustainable value for initiatives, and third party funds under and capital securityholders. management growth. efficiency Operational Ensures management delivers on core Measures include performance against excellence initiatives relating to Group strategy and Group or divisional specific initiatives and/or operating model. integrated projects. Customer Represents how well Mirvac is meeting the Measures include retail customer, office and investor expectations of key external stakeholders. tenant and residential customer satisfaction satisfaction surveys, as well as qualitative feedback from key institutional investors and third party capital investors. High There is a strong correlation between high Measures include engagement, key talent performing levels of employee engagement and a retention, gender diversity and flexibility people and positive culture with securityholder returns. targets. culture Innovative A culture of innovation will drive and Measures include performance against culture safeguard long-term securityholder returns. agreed innovation missions. HSE&S Mirvac is committed to providing a safe Measures include Lost Time Injury Frequency leadership workplace for its employees, suppliers and Rate, Critical Incident Frequency Rate, timely communities and to ensuring its activities do not incident reporting and sustainability targets. have an adverse impact on the environment. Risk There is a clear link between risk and reward. The Measures include assessment of risk culture scorecard includes specific risk objectives and and compliance (including training and the HRC makes an overall assessment of how open audit items), with a broad view of risk each individual ELT member has managed risk including financial and non-financial risks. before approving individual STI outcomes. 60 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued Individual Each Executive KMP agrees an individual scorecard of performance objectives at the start of the year against which their performance performance will be assessed. Individual performance objectives are set based on the specific responsibilities for each role and objectives include specific risk objectives, and an assessment by the HRC at year-end on risk leadership and risk outcomes. Deferral For Executive KMP: >> 75 per cent is paid as cash; and >> 25 per cent of any STI award is deferred into performance rights over Mirvac securities (granted on the same date as the cash payment is made). The rights vest in two tranches: 50 per cent after one year and 50 per cent after two years. If the deferred rights vest, entitlements are satisfied by the purchase of existing securities on-market. Executives are expected to retain the resulting securities they receive until they satisfy the minimum securityholding guidelines. Termination/ The deferred portion of a STI award is forfeited if an employee resigns or is dismissed for performance reasons prior to the forfeiture vesting date. Unvested deferred STI awards may be retained if an employee leaves due to circumstances such as retirement, redundancy, agreed transfer to an investment partner, total and permanent disablement or death. Clawback policy The policy gives the Board the ability to claw back incentives in the event of a material financial misstatement, any misconduct that is, or may be, harmful to the Group, and/or gross negligence. Hedging Consistent with the Corporations Act 2001, participants are prohibited from hedging their unvested performance rights. LTI: HOW DOES IT WORK? Purpose Assist in attracting and retaining the required executive talent; focus executive attention on driving sustainable long-term growth; and align the interests of executives with those of securityholders. Eligibility LTI grants are generally restricted to those Executives who are most able to influence securityholder value. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the LTI plan. Instrument Awards under this plan are made in the form of performance rights. A performance right is a right to acquire one fully paid Mirvac security provided a specified performance hurdle is met. No dividends/distributions are paid on unvested LTI awards. This ensures that Executives are only rewarded when performance hurdles have been achieved at the end of the performance period. LTI opportunity The maximum LTI opportunity during FY19 was equivalent to: > 150 per cent of fixed remuneration for the CEO/MD; and > 50 per cent to 90 per cent of fixed remuneration for other Executive KMP. Grant value/ price Mirvac uses a ‘face value methodology’ for allocating performance rights to each Executive KMP, being the average security price for the month leading up to grant, discounted for the assumed value of dividends and distributions not paid during the three-year performance period. The grant price for allocation purposes is not reduced based on performance conditions. Performance period Performance is measured over a three-year period. The FY19 grant has a performance period commencing 1 July 2018 and ending 30 June 2021. Performance hurdles The HRC reviews the performance conditions annually to determine the appropriate hurdles based on Mirvac’s strategy and prevailing market practice. Two performance measures apply to the LTI grants made during FY19: Relative TSR (40 per cent of the LTI allocation) Relative TSR is used because it is an objective measure of securityholder value creation and is widely understood and accepted by the various key stakeholders. Mirvac’s TSR performance is measured relative to a comparison group consisting of Mirvac’s primary market competitors (the A-REIT) as this is aligned to the peer group in which we compete for capital. ROIC (60 per cent of the LTI allocation) ROIC is used because it is aligned to Mirvac’s strategic drivers, in particular financial performance and capital efficiency. ROIC is calculated as Total Return divided by average Invested Capital. Taking into account the transition to a more normalised part of the property cycle, the Board believes that vesting of the ROIC component ought to commence on the achievement of Mirvac’s WACC, the point at which management create value for securityholders, with full vesting on achieving a premium of 1.8 per cent outperformance of WACC, which represents both significant stretch and value creation for securityholders. So as not to encourage unnecessary risk-taking, 50 per cent of the award will vest one-third into the 1.8 per cent premium. That is, 50 per cent will vest upon 0.6 per cent outperformance of WACC. The remaining 50 per cent of the award will vest over the remaining 1.2 per cent outperformance. After calculating the outcome based on the vesting schedule detailed above, the Board shall have +/-20 per cent discretion to adjust the vesting outcomes for the ROIC performance hurdle to ensure vesting outcomes reflect management’s performance over the performance period. 61 Vesting schedule Relative TSR ROIC Relative TSR Percentage of TSR-tested Average annual Percentage of ROIC-tested (percentile) rights to vest ROIC (%) rights to vest < 50th Nil < WACC Nil 50th 50% Between WACC and Pro-rata between 0% WACC + 0.6% and 50% >50th to 75th Pro-rata between 50% Between WACC + 0.6% Pro-rata between 50% and 100% and WACC + 1.8% and 100% 75th and above 100% > WACC + 1.8% 100% Vesting/ Vesting of LTI grants is dependent on achieving relative TSR performance and ROIC targets over a three-year period, with the delivery Board having over-arching discretion to ensure vesting outcomes are appropriately aligned to performance. The performance rights will automatically exercise if and when the Board determines the performance conditions are achieved. If the performance rights vest, entitlements are satisfied by either an allotment of new securities to participants or by the purchase of existing securities on-market. Any performance rights that do not vest at the end of the performance period will lapse. There is no re-testing. Executive KMP members will be expected to retain the resulting securities until they satisfy the minimum securityholding guidelines. Termination/ Resignation or dismissal: all unvested performance rights are forfeited. forfeiture Retirement, redundancy, agreed transfer to an investment partner, total and permanent disablement or death: the HRC determines the number of rights which will lapse or are retained, subject to both the original performance period and hurdles. Change of control event: the Board, in its absolute discretion, determines the number of performance rights that vest, if any, taking into account the performance from the date of grant to the event. Clawback The policy gives the Board the ability to claw back incentives in the event of a material financial misstatement, any misconduct policy that is, or may be, harmful to the Group, and/or gross negligence. Dilution Dilution that may result from securities being issued under Mirvac’s LTI plan is capped at the limit set out in ASIC Class Order 14/1000, which provides that the number of unissued securities under those plans must not exceed 5 per cent of the total number of securities of that class as at the time of the relevant offer. Hedging Consistent with the Corporations Act 2001, participants are prohibited from hedging their unvested performance rights. 62 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued 7 BUSINESS AND EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION OUTCOMES HOW THE GROUP’S PERFORMANCE HAS TRANSLATED INTO STI AWARDS Mirvac’s financial performance directly affects the STI awards in two ways: 160% 18.00 >> the STI pool has a gateway requirement of Group operating profit being at least 90 per cent of target; and 140% 15.00 Operating earnings per stapled security >> the Group’s STI scorecard has two financial measures, each worth 50 per cent of the total pool: operating profit and ROIC. 120% 12.00 Performance was strong across the Group in FY19, with operating profit and Per cent of target ROIC outperforming targets set by the Board. The Group’s STI scorecard of 100% 9.00 125 per cent (of a potential 150 per cent) reflects the strong financial results. In addition, the security price increased by 44 per cent and management 80% 6.00 executed the successful capital raising. 60% 3.00 This graph shows how the average STI outcome for all employees has been closely tied to performance on these two measures. 40% 0 Financial performance in each case is expressed as a percentage of the FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 business target set for the year, while the STI outcome represents the average Operating profit ROIC STI award to participants that year as a percentage of target. STI score Operating earnings per stapled security The diagram below sets out Mirvac’s performance and the resulting STI outcomes: Gateway achieved (over 90% of target operating profit achieved) ▼ Operating Strategic + + ROIC profit (50%) (50%) objectives The HRC approved a Group STI score of 125% of target (from a maximum potential pool of 150% of target) FY19 cash STI pool – $34 million (5.4% of Mirvac’s operating profit) ▼ Individual Individual STI Fixed Remuneration X Individual STI target X Group STI score (0-150%) X STI score (0-150%) = award (capped at 200% of target) ▼ Each Executive KMP is awarded an individual STI score between zero and 150% of their target. Scores are based on an assessment of their performance for the year against their individual objectives. HOW THE GROUP’S PERFORMANCE HAS TRANSLATED INTO LTI AWARDS Mirvac’s financial and security price performance directly affects the vesting of the LTI awards. For the FY17 award: >> half of the LTI is subject to a relative TSR performance measure; and >> the remaining half is subject to a ROIC performance measure. Vesting of LTI grants is dependent on achieving relative TSR performance and ROIC targets over a three-year period, with the Board having over-arching discretion to ensure vesting outcomes are appropriately aligned to performance. The three years to 30 June 2019 saw strong performance against both measures for the FY17 award: >> Mirvac’s absolute TSR performance of 72.97 per cent was at the 88th percentile of the comparator group, resulting in vesting of 100 per cent of the relative TSR component; >> the Group ROIC performance was 11.3 per cent which outperformed the stretch target of 10 per cent resulting in 100 per cent vesting of the ROIC component; and >> as a result, total vesting for the FY17 award is 100 per cent. 63 The diagram below sets out the Group’s performance and the resulting LTI outcomes for the Executive KMP: FY17 LTI grants to eligible participants and relative TSR and ROIC performance hurdles are set ▼ 30 June 2019: three-year performance period ends for the FY17 grants and performance is measured for relative TSR and ROIC ▼ RELATIVE TSR MIRVAC’S SECURITY PRICE AND DISTRIBUTIONS OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS MIRVAC TSR (1 JULY 2016 TO 30 JUNE 2019) $4.0 80% $450 $400 60% $350 $3.0 $300 40% $250 $2.0 $200 20% $150 $1.0 $100 0% $50 $0 $0.0 -20% FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 30 Jun 16 31 Dec 16 30 June 17 31 Dec 17 30 June 18 31 Dec 18 30 Jun 19 Distributions ($m) Security price at 30 June ($) MGR 25th Percentile 50th Percentile 75th Percentile Mirvac’s absolute TSR performance of 72.97 per cent was at the 88th percentile of the comparator group. 100 per cent of the performance rights linked to the relative TSR measure vested + ROIC ROIC PERFORMANCE MIRVAC’S ROIC PERFORMANCE OVER THE THREE YEARS Mirvac’s ROIC has been consistent over 14 the past three years: 12 >> FY17 exceeded the threshold; >> FY18 exceeded the threshold; and Stretch 10% 10 >> FY19 exceeded the threshold. 8 Threshold 9% ROIC (%) Mirvac’s average annual ROIC over the three-year performance period was 11.3 per cent, resulting in the stretch target being exceeded. 6 4 2 12.4% 11.4% 10.1% 11.3% 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 3 year average 100 per cent of the performance rights linked to the ROIC measure vested = 100 per cent of the total FY17 LTI award vested 64 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued EXECUTIVE KMP VESTING OUTCOMES FOR THE PAST THREE YEARS A summary of vesting under Mirvac’s performance-based equity grants that have vested in the last three years is shown in the following table: Performance Performance Grant year Performance hurdle period period ended Vested % FY15 Relative TSR and ROIC 3 years 30 June 2017 50 FY16 Relative TSR and ROIC 3 years 30 June 2018 84 FY17 Relative TSR and ROIC 3 years 30 June 2019 100 PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The table below provides summary information on the Group’s earnings and securityholders’ wealth for the five years to 30 June 2019: FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15 Profit attributable to the stapled securityholders of Mirvac ($m) 1,019 1,089 1,164 1,033 610 Operating profit ($m) 1 631 608 534 482 455 Distributions paid ($m) 440 408 386 355 336 Security price at 30 June ($) 3.13 2.17 2.13 2.02 1.85 Operating earnings per stapled security (EPS) – diluted (cents) 17.1 15.6 14.4 13.0 12.3 Statutory EPS – basic (cents) 27.6 29.4 31.4 27.9 16.5 1. Consistent with the financial statements disclosures, the FY18 operating profit has been updated to $608m as a result of the 1 July 2018 operating profit definition change. 8 SUMMARY OF FY19 REMUNERATION Strong financial performance and sound capital management are reflected in above-target STI payouts for Executive KMP in FY19. The performance period for the FY17 LTI award ended on 30 June 2019. Vesting of 100 per cent reflects the strong results in both the relative TSR and ROIC performance. CEO/MD remuneration The CEO/MD’s remuneration was not changed during FY19. Remuneration for the CEO/MD in the table in section 9 increased from $5.9m to $7.0m in FY19 due to 100 per cent vesting of the FY17 LTI award v 84 per cent vesting of the FY16 award, and the increase in security price ($3.13 at 30 June 2019 v $2.17 at 30 June 2018). The CEO/MD has not had an increase to her fixed remuneration since she commenced in 2012. The Board recognises and thanks the CEO/MD for her exceptional leadership over the shortand long-term (FY19 highlights including financial and non-financial performance, success of the capital raising, 44% security price increase over the last 12 months, sustaining the Mirvac culture and employee engagement at 90%, and quality projects that are Reimagining Urban Life). And as a result, the Board is pleased to see her rewarded for her exceptional leadership through 100% vesting of her FY17 LTI and an above target STI outcome for FY19. Fixed and total target Stuart Penklis received a fixed pay increase from $700,000 to $800,000 per annum as at 1 July 2018. remuneration There were no increases to the fixed remuneration or total target remuneration for any other Executive KMP during FY19. STI Strong results across all operating metrics resulted in an above-target STI pool of 125 per cent, down from 130 per cent in FY18. The STI pool in FY19 was driven by: >> operating profit increasing to $631m from $608m 1 in FY18; >> ROIC performance of 10.1 per cent down from 11.4 per cent in FY18; and >> strong performance against the scorecard of the strategic objectives. The STI pool was lower despite strong overall performance of the Group reflecting increasingly stretching targets set by the HRC. LTI Vesting of LTI grants is dependent on achieving relative TSR performance and ROIC targets over a three-year period, with the Board having over-arching discretion to ensure vesting outcomes are appropriately aligned to performance. The three years to 30 June 2019 saw strong performance against both measures for the FY17 award. Mirvac’s absolute TSR performance of 72.97 per cent was at the 88th percentile of the comparator group, resulting in vesting of 100 per cent of the relative TSR component. The Group ROIC performance was 11.3 per cent which outperformed the stretch target of 10 per cent, resulting in 100 per cent vesting of the ROIC component. As a result, total vesting for the FY17 award was 100 per cent. Non-Executive Director fees No changes. 1. Consistent with the financial statements disclosures, the FY18 operating profit has been updated to $608m as a result of the 1 July 2018 operating profit definition change. 65 9 ACTUAL REMUNERATION RECEIVED IN FY19 The following table sets out the actual value of the remuneration received by Executive KMP members during the year. The figures in this table are different from those shown in the accounting table in section 10 which includes an apportioned accounting value for all unvested STI and LTI grants during the year (some of which remain subject to satisfaction of performance and service conditions and may not ultimately vest). The table below, on the other hand, shows the: cash STI: the cash portion of STI payments to be made in September 2019 in recognition of performance during FY19; deferred STI vested: the value of the deferred STI from prior years that vested in FY19 (being the number of rights that vested multiplied by the security price on the vesting date); and LTI vested: the value of performance rights whose performance period ended 30 June 2019 (being the number of performance rights that vested multiplied by the security price on 28 June 2019, being the last business day of the performance period). Actual remuneration received in FY19 Fixed Cash Deferred STI LTI remuneration STI vested vested Other 1 Total Executive KMP Year $ $ $ $ $ $ Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz FY19 1,500,000 1,153,125 467,100 3,890,881 24,716 7,035,822 FY18 1,500,000 1,199,250 514,572 2,680,427 24,585 5,918,834 Brett Draffen 2 FY19 950,000 740,625 308,984 1,478,534 15,451 3,493,594 FY18 950,000 770,250 349,028 1,018,623 15,307 3,103,208 Shane Gannon FY19 900,000 703,125 293,329 1,400,716 14,365 3,311,535 FY18 900,000 731,250 291,485 965,010 14,618 2,902,363 Campbell Hanan 3 FY19 800,000 553,125 230,703 691,711 12,447 2,287,986 FY18 800,000 575,250 105,091 — 12,953 1,493,294 Susan MacDonald 4,5 FY19 800,000 553,125 203,301 605,248 14,100 2,175,774 FY18 775,000 558,188 199,757 416,980 12,953 1,962,878 Stuart Penklis 6,7 FY19 800,000 553,125 82,843 345,856 12,175 1,793,999 FY18 700,000 507,000 — 238,273 10,520 1,455,793 1. Includes long service leave accrued during the year. 2. In FY18, Brett Draffen elected to purchase additional leave: the amount shown above reflects fixed remuneration before deducting the purchased leave. 3. In FY18, Campbell Hanan took a period of unpaid leave; the amount shown above reflects fixed remuneration before deducting the unpaid leave period. 4. In both FY19 and FY18, Susan MacDonald elected to purchase additional leave: the amount shown above reflects fixed remuneration before deducting the purchased leave. 5. Susan MacDonald received a fixed remuneration increase from $700,000 to $800,000 per annum effective 1 October 2017. 6. In FY18, Stuart Penklis cashed out $78,000 of annual leave; the amount shown above reflects fixed remuneration before the addition of the cashed out leave. 7. Stuart Penklis received a fixed remuneration increase from $700,000 to $800,000 per annum effective 1 July 2018. EXECUTIVE KMP STI AWARDS IN FY19 The following table shows the actual STI outcomes (including any deferred component) for each of the Executive KMP for FY19: STI target % of STI max % of Actual STI STI forfeited Actual STI Executive KMP fixed remuneration fixed remuneration % max % max (total) $ Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz 80 160 64 36 1,537,500 Brett Draffen 80 160 65 35 987,500 Shane Gannon 80 160 65 35 937,500 Campbell Hanan 70 140 66 34 737,500 Susan MacDonald 70 140 66 34 737,500 Stuart Penklis 70 140 66 34 737,500 66 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued 10 TOTAL REMUNERATION IN FY19 The following table shows the total remuneration for members of the Executive KMP for FY18 and FY19. These disclosures are calculated in accordance with the accounting standards and accordingly differ from the information presented in the actual remuneration received in FY19 table in section 9. PostOther long term Short term benefits employment Security based payments benefits Performance SuperValue of related Cash salary Non-cash annuation Value of Deferred Long service Termination Total remuneration and fees 1 Cash STI 2 benefits 3 contributions LTI rights 4 STI rights 4 leave 5 benefits remuneration % of total Executive KMP Year $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ remuneration Susan LloydFY19 1,479,469 1,153,125 274 20,531 1,723,182 421,561 24,442 — 4,822,584 68% Hurwitz FY18 1,479,951 1,199,250 — 20,049 1,926,221 416,725 24,585 — 5,066,781 70% Brett Draffen 6 FY19 920,447 740,625 9,132 20,531 654,809 270,890 15,341 — 2,631,775 63% FY18 847,852 770,250 9,022 20,049 731,979 270,633 15,307 — 2,665,092 67% Shane Gannon FY19 879,469 703,125 116 20,531 620,345 257,193 14,249 — 2,495,028 63% FY18 879,951 731,250 — 20,049 693,454 256,965 14,618 — 2,596,287 65% Campbell Hanan 7 FY19 779,469 553,125 — 20,531 306,344 202,402 12,447 — 1,874,318 57% FY18 754,554 575,250 — 20,049 221,423 207,923 12,953 — 1,792,152 56% Susan FY19 764,084 553,125 1,226 20,531 290,517 197,895 12,874 — 1,840,252 57% MacDonald 8 FY18 741,105 558,188 — 20,049 311,492 185,660 12,953 — 1,829,447 58% Stuart Penklis 9 FY19 726,088 553,125 53,493 20,531 231,186 175,782 12,062 — 1,772,267 54% FY18 677,258 507,000 80,770 20,049 206,777 117,813 10,520 — 1,620,187 51% 1. Cash salary and fees includes accrued annual leave paid out as part of salary. 2. STI payments relate to cash portion of STI awards accrued for the relevant year, payable September 2019. 3. Non-cash benefits include salary-sacrificed benefits and related FBT where applicable. 4. Valuation of rights is conducted by an independent advisor. 5. Long service leave relates to amounts accrued during the year. 6. In FY18, Brett Draffen elected to purchase additional leave. The amount shown above reflects the accounting expense relating to cash salary and is therefore net of any purchased leave amounts. There was no change to fixed remuneration. 7. In FY18, Campbell Hanan took a period of unpaid leave. The amount shown above reflects the accounting expense relating to cash salary and is therefore net of any unpaid leave period. There was no change to fixed remuneration. 8. In both FY19 and FY18, Susan MacDonald elected to purchase additional leave. The amount shown above reflects the accounting expense relating to cash salary and is therefore net of any purchased leave amounts. Susan MacDonald received a fixed remuneration increase from $700,000 to $800,000 per annum effective 1 October 2017. 9. In FY18, Stuart Penklis cashed out $78,000 of annual leave, this is included as cash salary and fees. Stuart Penklis also received a fixed remuneration increase from $700,000 to $800,000 per annum effective 1 July 2018. 67 11 LTI GRANTS IN FY19 The table below shows LTI grants made during FY19, subject to performance conditions over the three-year performance period ending 30 June 2021. Accounting standards require the estimated valuation of the grants be recognised over the performance period. The minimum value of the grant is nil if the vesting conditions are not met. The maximum value is based on the estimated fair value calculated at the time of the grant and amortised in accordance with the accounting standard requirements. Fair value per Maximum LTI max as a Number of performance total value % of fixed Performance performance right of grant 1 remuneration measure rights granted $ $ Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz Relative TSR 463,917 0.88 410,103 ROIC 695,876 1.47 1,022,938 Total 150 1,159,793 1,433,041 Brett Draffen Relative TSR 176,288 0.88 155,839 ROIC 264,433 1.47 388,717 Total 90 440,721 544,556 Shane Gannon Relative TSR 167,010 0.88 147,637 ROIC 250,515 1.47 368,257 Total 90 417,525 515,894 Campbell Hanan Relative TSR 82,474 0.88 72,907 ROIC 123,711 1.47 181,855 Total 50 206,185 254,762 Susan MacDonald Relative TSR 82,474 0.88 72,907 ROIC 123,711 1.47 181,855 Total 50 206,185 254,762 Stuart Penklis Relative TSR 82,474 0.88 72,907 ROIC 123,711 1.47 181,855 Total 50 206,185 254,762 1. The value of performance rights reflects the fair value at the time of grant. For the LTI grants subject to ROIC, 75 per cent vesting is assumed in the above valuation. Key inputs used in valuing performance rights granted during FY19 were as follows: Grant date 3 December 2018 Exercise price $nil Performance hurdles Relative TSR and ROIC Expected life 2.6 years Performance period start 1 July 2018 Volatility 18.731% Performance period end 30 June 2021 Risk-free interest rate (per annum) 2.085% Security price at grant date $2.23 Dividend/distribution yield (per annum) 4.93% The valuation of rights is conducted by an independent advisor. The fair value is determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation for the relative TSR component and a Binomial tree methodology for the ROIC component. 68 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued 12 EQUITY INSTRUMENT DISCLOSURES RELATING TO EXECUTIVE KMP SECURITYHOLDINGS Executive KMP members are expected to establish and maintain a minimum securityholding (excluding performance rights) to the value of 150 per cent of fixed remuneration for the CEO/MD and 100 per cent of fixed remuneration for all other Executive KMP members. Executive KMP members have three years from 1 July 2018, or five years from the date they became an Executive KMP (whichever is later), to build up their securityholding to the expected level. As at 30 June 2019, the number of ordinary securities in Mirvac held by Executive KMP, including their personally related parties, is set out below: Minimum Value securityholding Date Balance Balance 30 June 2019 guideline securityholding Executive KMP 1 July 2018 Changes 30 June 2019 $ $ to be attained 1 Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz 2,154,912 1,105,923 3,260,835 10,206,414 2,250,000 June 2021 Brett Draffen 1,262,492 127,005 1,389,497 4,349,126 950,000 June 2021 Shane Gannon 383,638 (334,725) 48,913 153,098 900,000 June 2021 Campbell Hanan 145,181 94,819 240,000 751,200 800,000 June 2021 Susan MacDonald 562,109 50,722 612,831 1,918,161 800,000 June 2021 Stuart Penklis 2 2,272 (2,272) — — 800,000 May 2022 1. Attainment date is based on the minimum securityholding requirement effective from FY19. 2. Stuart Penklis has five years from the date he became an Executive KMP, May 2017, to build up his securityholding to the expected level. OPTIONS No options (i.e. a right to acquire a security upon payment of an exercise price) were granted as remuneration during FY19 and no unvested or unexercised options are held by Executive KMP as at 30 June 2019. PERFORMANCE RIGHTS HELD DURING THE YEAR The number of performance rights in Mirvac held during the year by each Executive KMP, including their personally related parties, is set out below: LTI Deferred STI Rights vested/ forfeited relating to performance Balance period ending Rights Rights vested/ Balance Executive KMP 1 July 2018 Rights issued 30 June 2019 issued forfeited 30 June 2019 Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz 2,599,521 1,159,793 (1,243,093) 189,454 (191,997) 2,513,678 Brett Draffen 1,069,036 440,721 (472,375) 121,682 (127,005) 1,032,059 Shane Gannon 1,013,171 417,525 (447,513) 115,521 (120,570) 978,134 Campbell Hanan 554,148 206,185 (220,994) 90,876 (94,828) 535,387 Susan MacDonald 509,413 206,185 (193,370) 90,876 (83,565) 529,539 Stuart Penklis 343,695 206,185 (110,497) 80,094 (34,052) 485,425 69 Details of the movement in the number and value of performance rights held by Executive KMP during the year are set out below: Vested Lapsed Number Value at % of % of Grant of rights grant Vesting Number total Value Number total Value of Executive KMP Plan date granted date 1 date of rights grant of rights of rights grant rights Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz STI 23 Sep 16 88,885 178,659 23 Sep 18 88,885 100% 178,659 — 0% — LTI 6 Dec 16 1,243,093 1,712,360 30 Jun 19 1,243,093 100% 1,712,360 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 103,112 220,660 26 Sep 18 103,112 100% 220,660 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 103,111 210,346 26 Sep 19 — — — — LTI 6 Dec 17 1,061,320 1,599,940 30 Jun 20 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 94,727 214,083 30 Sep 19 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 94,727 204,610 30 Sep 20 — — — — LTI 3 Dec 18 1,159,793 1,433,041 30 Jun 21 — — — — Total 3,948,768 5,773,699 1,435,090 2,111,679 — — Brett Draffen STI 23 Sep 16 60,651 121,909 23 Sep 18 60,651 100% 121,909 — 0% — LTI 6 Dec 16 472,375 650,696 30 Jun 19 472,375 100% 650,696 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 66,354 141,998 26 Sep 18 66,354 100% 141,998 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 66,354 135,362 26 Sep 19 — — — — LTI 6 Dec 17 403,302 607,977 30 Jun 20 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 60,841 137,501 30 Sep 19 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 60,841 131,417 30 Sep 20 — — — — LTI 3 Dec 18 440,721 544,556 30 Jun 21 — — — — Total 1,631,439 2,471,416 599,380 914,603 — — Shane Gannon STI 23 Sep 16 57,557 115,690 23 Sep 18 57,557 100% 115,690 — 0% — LTI 6 Dec 16 447,513 616,449 30 Jun 19 447,513 100% 616,449 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 63,013 134,848 26 Sep 18 63,013 100% 134,848 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 63,012 128,544 26 Sep 19 — — — — LTI 6 Dec 17 382,076 575,979 30 Jun 20 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 57,761 130,540 30 Sep 19 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 57,760 124,762 30 Sep 20 — — — — LTI 3 Dec 18 417,525 515,894 30 Jun 21 — — — — Total 1,546,217 2,342,706 568,083 866,987 — — Campbell Hanan STI 23 Sep 16 45,181 90,814 23 Sep 18 45,181 100% 90,814 — 0% — LTI 6 Dec 16 220,994 304,419 30 Jun 19 220,994 100% 304,419 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 49,647 106,245 26 Sep 18 49,647 100% 106,245 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 49,646 101,278 26 Sep 19 — — — — LTI 6 Dec 17 188,680 284,435 30 Jun 20 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 45,438 102,690 30 Sep 19 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 45,438 98,146 30 Sep 20 — — — — LTI 3 Dec 18 206,185 254,762 30 Jun 21 — — — — Total 851,209 1,342,789 315,822 501,478 — — Susan MacDonald STI 23 Sep 16 39,766 79,930 23 Sep 18 39,766 100% 79,930 — 0% — LTI 6 Dec 16 193,370 266,367 30 Jun 19 193,370 100% 266,367 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 43,799 93,730 26 Sep 18 43,799 100% 93,730 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 43,798 89,348 26 Sep 19 — — — — LTI 6 Dec 17 188,680 284,435 30 Jun 20 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 45,438 102,690 30 Sep 19 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 45,438 98,146 30 Sep 20 — — — — LTI 3 Dec 18 206,185 254,762 30 Jun 21 — — — — Total 806,474 1,269,408 276,935 440,027 — — Stuart Penklis LTI 6 Dec 16 110,497 152,210 30 Jun 19 110,497 100% 152,210 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 34,052 72,871 26 Sep 18 34,052 100% 72,871 — 0% — STI 26 Sep 17 34,052 69,466 26 Sep 19 — — — — LTI 6 Dec 17 165,094 248,879 30 Jun 20 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 40,047 90,506 30 Sep 19 — — — — STI 1 Oct 18 40,047 86,502 30 Sep 20 — — — — LTI 3 Dec 18 206,185 254,762 30 Jun 21 — — — — Total 629,974 975,196 144,549 225,081 — — 1. The calculation of the value of performance rights used the fair value as determined at the time of grant. For the LTI grants subject to ROIC performance, the initial accounting treatment assumes 75 per cent vesting, which is reflected in the above valuation. 70 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued 13 OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH KMP There are a number of transactions between KMP and the Group. The terms and conditions of these transactions are considered to be no more favourable than in similar transactions on an arm’s length basis. On occasions, Directors and other KMP may purchase goods and services from Mirvac. These purchases are on terms and conditions available to Mirvac employees generally. As set out in the Directors’ report, a number of the Directors of Mirvac are also Directors of other companies. On occasions, the Group may purchase goods and services from or supply goods and services to these companies. These transactions are undertaken on normal commercial terms and conditions and the Director or other KMP does not directly influence these transactions. 14 SERVICE AGREEMENTS FOR THE EXECUTIVE KMP Each Executive KMP member, including the CEO/MD, has a formal contract, known as a service agreement. These agreements are of a continuing nature and have no fixed term of service. There were no changes to the service agreements for Executive KMP in FY19. The key terms of the service agreements for the CEO/MD and other Executive KMP members are summarised below: Notice period Termination Contract term Employee Group payment 1 Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz No fixed term 6 months 6 months 6 months Other Executive KMP No fixed term 3 months 3 months 9 months 1. Payable if Mirvac terminates employee with notice, for reasons other than unsatisfactory performance. 15 GOVERNANCE AND HOW REMUNERATION DECISIONS ARE MADE The Board, the HRC, advisors and management work closely to apply our remuneration principles and ensure our strategy supports sustainable securityholder value. BOARD Oversees remuneration With advice from: HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE > Four independent Non-Executive Directors > Advises Board on remuneration strategy > Specific recommendations on Director remuneration > Approves KMP terms of employment Based on: REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES > Align and contribute to Mirvac’s key > Support Mirvac’s desired strategic business objectives and performance based culture desired business outcomes > Encompass the concept of pay parity > Align the interests of employees and be fair and equitable with those of securityholders > Be simple and easily understood > Assist Mirvac in attracting and retaining the employees required to execute the business strategy The HRC has appointed Ernst & Young as its external remuneration advisor. Ernst & Young provides both information on current market practice and independent input into key remuneration decisions. Ernst & Young’s terms of engagement include specific measures designed to protect its independence. To effectively perform its role, Ernst & Young needs to interact with members of Mirvac management, particularly those in the Human Resources team. However, to ensure independence, members of Mirvac’s management are precluded from requesting services that would be considered to be a ‘remuneration recommendation’ as defined by the Corporations Act 2001. During FY19, Ernst & Young provided the HRC with: >> market remuneration benchmarking and information, used as an input to the annual review of Executive KMP remuneration; and >> regulatory updates and market trend analysis. No remuneration recommendations were provided by Ernst & Young or any other advisor during the year. 71 16 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION APPROACH TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES In contrast to Executive KMP remuneration, the remuneration of Mirvac’s Non-Executive Directors is not linked to performance. This is consistent with Non-Executive Directors being responsible for objective and independent oversight of the Group. Mirvac Limited’s Constitution provides that Non-Executive Directors may determine their own remuneration, but the total amount provided to all Directors (not including the CEO/MD and any other Executive Directors) must not exceed the sum agreed by securityholders at a general meeting. The maximum aggregate remuneration of $2.25m per annum was approved by securityholders at the 2014 AGM. Non-Executive Directors have not received any fees other than those described in this section, and do not receive bonuses or any other incentive payments or retirement benefits. The Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for expenses properly incurred in performing their duties as a Director of Mirvac. The schedule of fees for Non-Executive Directors during FY19 is set out in the table below and fees are annual fees, unless otherwise stated: Board/committee $ Mirvac Limited and Mirvac Funds Limited Board Chair 480,000 1 Mirvac Limited and Mirvac Funds Limited Board member 185,000 ARCC and HRC Chair 30,000 2 Committee member 18,000 3 Due Diligence Committee (per diem fee) 4,000 1. Chair fee covers all Board and committee responsibilities. 2. The ARCC and HRC Chair fee is in addition to the committee member fee. 3. The single committee fee is paid once for all committee memberships. ACTUAL REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Short-term Postbenefits employment 1 Cash salary Superannuation and fees contributions Total Year $ $ $ John Mulcahy FY19 459,469 20,531 480,000 FY18 459,951 20,049 480,000 Christine Bartlett FY19 185,388 17,612 203,000 FY18 185,388 17,612 203,000 Peter Hawkins FY19 212,785 20,215 233,000 FY18 212,951 20,049 233,000 Jane Hewitt 2 FY19 104,465 9,924 114,389 FY18 — — — James M. Millar AM FY19 212,785 20,215 233,000 FY18 212,951 20,049 233,000 Samantha Mostyn FY19 188,911 14,089 203,000 FY18 186,269 16,731 203,000 Peter Nash 3 FY19 116,266 9,840 126,106 FY18 — — — John Peters FY19 178,804 24,196 203,000 FY18 181,616 21,384 203,000 Elana Rubin FY19 185,388 17,612 203,000 FY18 185,388 17,612 203,000 Total FY19 1,844,261 154,234 1,998,495 FY18 1,624,514 133,486 1,758,000 1. Relates to payments required under superannuation legislation. 2. Jane Hewitt joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 10 December 2018. 3. Peter Nash joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 19 November 2018. 72 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Remuneration report continued MINIMUM SECURITYHOLDING FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ACTUAL SECURITYHOLDING In order to further strengthen the alignment of interests between Non-Executive Directors and securityholders, the Board established minimum Mirvac Securityholding Guidelines which recommend Non-Executive Directors build up to a minimum securityholding level. In December 2017, this minimum securityholding level was increased from 25,000 Mirvac securities to 50,000 Mirvac securities. Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Mirvac Board will have three years to establish their securityholding to the minimum level from their date of appointment. In addition to this minimum securityholding requirement, in FY18 a voluntary Non-Executive Director Fee Sacrifice Rights Plan was introduced to further encourage Directors to build an ownership stake in Mirvac. Minimum Date Balance Balance securityholding securityholding 1 July 2018 Changes 30 June 2019 requirement to be attained John Mulcahy 100,000 — 100,000 50,000 December 2020 Christine Bartlett 50,000 — 50,000 50,000 December 2020 Peter Hawkins 596,117 — 596,117 50,000 December 2020 Jane Hewitt 1 — — — 50,000 December 2021 James M. Millar AM 50,000 — 50,000 50,000 December 2020 Samantha Mostyn 19,676 17,593 37,269 50,000 December 2020 Peter Nash 2 — 20,445 20,445 50,000 November 2021 John Peters 70,000 — 70,000 50,000 December 2020 Elana Rubin 54,343 — 54,343 50,000 December 2020 1. Jane Hewitt joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 10 December 2018. 2. Peter Nash joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 19 November 2018. 17 ADDITIONAL REQUIRED DISCLOSURES OTHER BENEFITS Fees paid by Mirvac for Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance are not itemised for each Director as their disclosure would breach the terms of the policy. Executives and Directors (including Non-Executive Directors) are entitled to participate in arrangements available to directly purchase Mirvac developed residential property, on the same terms and conditions as for other employees within the Group. TERMS USED IN THIS REMUNERATION REPORT Term Meaning A-REIT S&P/ASX 200 Australian Real Estate Investment Trust Index. Clawback Mirvac’s clawback policy gives the HRC the ability to claw back incentives in the event of a material financial misstatement, for misconduct that is, or may be, harmful to the Group, and/or gross negligence. The clawback provisions apply to unvested STI and LTI awards received after the introduction of the policy in February 2013. Executive KMP Includes the CEO/MD, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Head of Office and Industrial, Head of Residential and the Head of Retail. Executives Members of Mirvac’s Executive Leadership Team (including the Executive KMP) Invested Capital Invested Capital equals investment properties, inventories and indirect investments, less fund through adjustments (deferred revenue) and deferred land payable. Average invested capital is the average of the current period and the prior two reporting periods. KMP Key management personnel are those people with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly. Performance right A right to a Mirvac security at the end of a performance period, subject to the satisfaction of performance measures. ROIC ROIC is calculated as Total Return divided by average Invested Capital. Total Return Total Return is the profit for the year attributable to securityholders adjusted for development interest costs and other interest costs; net gain or loss on financial instruments; and income tax expense. TSR Total Shareholder Return measures the percentage growth in a company’s security price together with the value of dividends/distributions received during the period, assuming that all of those dividends/distributions are reinvested into new securities. 73 Auditor’s independence declaration For the year ended 30 June 2019 Auditor’s Independence Declaration As lead auditor for the audit of Mirvac Limited for the year ended 30 June 2019, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. This declaration is in respect of Mirvac Limited and the entities it controlled during the period. Jane Reilly Partner Sydney PricewaterhouseCoopers 8 August 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 74 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Financial report CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 75 Consolidated statement of financial position 76 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 77 Consolidated statement of cash flows 78 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A BASIS OF PREPARATION 79 B RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 83 B1 Segment information 83 B2 Revenue 86 B3 Expenses 88 B4 Events occurring after the end of the year 89 B5 Income tax 89 C PROPERTY AND DEVELOPMENT ASSETS 91 C1 Property portfolio 91 C2 Investment properties 93 C3 Investments in joint ventures 94 C4 Inventories 96 C5 Commitments 97 D CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RISKS 98 D1 Capital management 98 D2 Borrowings and liquidity 98 D3 Derivative financial instruments 99 D4 Financial risk management 100 D5 Fair value measurement of financial instruments 102 E EQUITY 104 E1 Distributions 104 E2 Contributed equity 104 E3 Reserves 105 E4 Security-based payments 105 F OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 107 F1 Receivables 107 F2 Other financial assets 108 F3 Intangible assets 108 F4 Payables 110 F5 Provisions 110 G GROUP STRUCTURE 111 G1 Group structure and Deed of Cross Guarantee 111 G2 Parent entity 113 G3 Non-controlling interests 113 H OTHER DISCLOSURES 114 H1 Contingent liabilities 114 H2 Earnings per stapled security 114 H3 Related parties 114 H4 Cash flow information 115 H5 Auditors’ remuneration 116 I APPENDICES 117 I1 Property listing 117 I2 Controlled entities 119 75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 30 June 2019 2019 2018 Note $m $m Revenue B2 2,186 2,159 Other income Revaluation of investment properties and investment properties under construction C2 516 478 Share of net profit of joint ventures C3 69 143 Gain on financial instruments B2 7 22 Total revenue and other income 2,778 2,802 Development expenses 1,043 1,035 Cost of goods sold interest 21 46 Investment property expenses and outgoings 190 181 Employee and other expenses B3 178 178 Selling and marketing expenses 34 40 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 52 41 Finance costs B3 126 115 Loss on financial instruments B3 63 — Profit before income tax 1,071 1,166 Income tax expense B5 (52) (77) Profit for the year attributable to stapled securityholders B1 1,019 1,089 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges E3 (13) (4) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations, net of tax E3 — (2) Other comprehensive income for the year (13) (6) Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to stapled securityholders 1,006 1,083 Earnings per stapled security (EPS) attributable to stapled securityholders Cents Cents Basic EPS H2 27.6 29.4 Diluted EPS H2 27.6 29.4 The above consolidated statement of comprehensive income (SoCI) should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO STAPLED SECURITYHOLDERS FY19 $631m $388m FY18 $608m $481m Operating profit after tax Non-operating items 76 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated statement of financial position As at 30 June 2019 2019 2018 Note $m $m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 134 221 Receivables F1 239 192 Inventories C4 621 599 Derivative financial assets D3 — 3 Other financial assets F2 — 81 Other assets 43 33 Total current assets 1,037 1,129 Non-current assets Receivables F1 156 76 Inventories C4 1,063 1,171 Investment properties C2 10,640 9,294 Investments in joint ventures C3 885 943 Derivative financial assets D3 325 118 Other financial assets F2 60 40 Other assets 47 — Property, plant and equipment 43 40 Intangible assets F3 79 78 Deferred tax assets B5 436 456 Total non-current assets 13,734 12,216 Total assets 14,771 13,345 Current liabilities Payables F4 454 578 Deferred revenue B2 181 98 Borrowings D2 — 135 Derivative financial liabilities D3 1 1 Provisions F5 262 239 Total current liabilities 898 1,051 Non-current liabilities Payables F4 55 51 Deferred revenue B2 50 250 Borrowings D2 3,448 2,938 Derivative financial liabilities D3 102 77 Deferred tax liabilities B5 338 313 Provisions F5 6 10 Total non-current liabilities 3,999 3,639 Total liabilities 4,897 4,690 Net assets 9,874 8,655 Equity Contributed equity E2 7,444 6,825 Reserves E3 23 33 Retained earnings 2,376 1,797 Total equity attributable to the stapled securityholders 9,843 8,655 Non-controlling interests 31 — Total equity 9,874 8,655 The above consolidated statement of financial position (SoFP) should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 77 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 30 June 2019 Attributable to stapled securityholders NonContributed Retained controlling Total equity Reserves earnings Total interests equity Note $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance 1 July 2017 6,819 36 1,117 7,972 — 7,972 Profit for the year — — 1,089 1,089 — 1,089 Other comprehensive income for the year — (6) — (6) — (6) Total comprehensive income for the year — (6) 1,089 1,083 — 1,083 Transactions with owners of the Group Security-based payments Expense recognised – LTI and STI E2/E4 — 11 — 11 — 11 LTI vested E2/E4 8 (7) — 1 — 1 STI vested E2/E4 — (1) — (1) — (1) Legacy schemes vested E2 1 — (1) — — — Distributions E1 — — (408) (408) — (408) Stapled securities buy-back E2 (3) — — (3) — (3) Total transactions with owners of the Group 6 3 (409) (400) — (400) Balance 30 June 2018 6,825 33 1,797 8,655 — 8,655 Profit for the year — — 1,019 1,019 — 1,019 Other comprehensive income for the year — (13) — (13) — (13) Total comprehensive income for the year — (13) 1,019 1,006 — 1,006 Transactions with owners of the Group Security-based payments Expense recognised – EEP E2 1 — — 1 — 1 Expense recognised – LTI and STI E2/E4 — 13 — 13 — 13 LTI vested E2/E4 9 (9) — — — — STI vested E2/E4 — (1) — (1) — (1) Legacy schemes vested E2 1 — — 1 — 1 Distributions E1 — — (440) (440) — (440) Stapled securities buy-back E2 (130) — — (130) — (130) Stapled securities issued E2 738 — — 738 — 738 Non-controlling interests on acquisition of subsidiary G3 — — — — 31 31 Total transactions with owners of the Group 619 3 (440) 182 31 213 Balance 30 June 2019 7,444 23 2,376 9,843 31 9,874 The above consolidated statement of changes in equity (SoCE) should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 78 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 30 June 2019 2019 2018 Note $m $m Cash flows from operating activities Receipts from customers (inclusive of GST) 2,770 2,834 Payments to suppliers and employees (inclusive of GST) (2,215) (2,107) 555 727 Interest received 4 11 Distributions received from joint ventures 112 82 Distributions received 2 1 Interest paid (155) (155) Tax paid — (3) Net cash inflows from operating activities H4 518 663 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for investment properties (895) (628) Payments of loans to related parties (79) — Payments of loans to unrelated parties (63) — Payments for property, plant and equipment (12) (14) Proceeds from sale of investment properties — 299 Repayments of loans from unrelated parties 98 55 Contributions to joint ventures (9) (34) Proceeds from joint ventures 31 74 Payments for financial assets (14) (7) Net cash outflows from investing activities (943) (255) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 4,733 3,542 Repayments of borrowings (4,618) (3,442) Distributions paid (416) (390) Payments for stapled securities buy-back (130) (3) Proceeds from stapled securities issued 750 — Equity raising costs (12) — Proceeds from non-controlling interests 31 — Net cash inflows/(outflows) from financing activities 338 (293) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (87) 115 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 221 106 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 134 221 The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. CASH FLOW MOVEMENTS $5,514m ($5,176m) $2,888m ($2,370m) $129m ($1,072m) $221m $134m $0m FY18 Operating Operating Investing Investing Financing Financing FY19 closing inflows outflows inflows outflows inflows outflows closing 79 A Basis of preparation MIRVAC GROUP – STAPLED SECURITIES CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS A Mirvac Group stapled security comprises one Mirvac Limited share The preparation of financial statements requires estimation and ‘stapled’ to one unit in Mirvac Property Trust (MPT) to create a single judgement. The areas involving a higher degree of estimation or listed security traded on the ASX. The stapled securities cannot be traded judgement are discussed in the following notes: or dealt with separately. Mirvac Limited (the deemed parent entity) and Mirvac Funds Limited (as responsible entity for MPT) have common Note directors and operate as Mirvac Group. Mirvac Limited and MPT have Revenue B2 a Deed of Cooperation to recharge each other on a cost recovery basis, where permitted by law, to maintain the best interests of Mirvac as a whole. Income tax B5 Investment properties C2 The stapled security structure will cease to operate on the first of: Investments in joint ventures C3 >> Mirvac Limited or MPT resolving by special resolution in a general Inventories C4 meeting, and in accordance with its Constitution, to terminate the stapled security structure; or Fair value measurement of financial instruments D5 >> Mirvac Limited or MPT commencing winding up. Security-based payments E4 Intangible assets F3 The ASX reserves the right (but without limiting its absolute discretion) to remove entities with stapled securities from the official list if their securities NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP cease to be stapled together, or either one or more stapled entities issues The Group adopted AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue any equity securities of the same class which are not stapled. from Contracts with Customers during the current reporting period. As a Mirvac Limited and MPT remain separate legal entities in accordance with result of adopting these new standards, the Group amended its accounting the Corporations Act 2001. For accounting purposes, Mirvac Limited has policies. There has been no impact to the 1 July 2018 opening retained been deemed the parent entity of MPT. earnings or net assets as a result of adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15, with new disclosures included where required. Refer to the Changes in STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE accounting policies and Financial statement impact on adoption at 1 July These consolidated financial statements are general purpose financial 2018 sections below for further details. statements. They have been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and other authoritative pronouncements of the Other amended standards and interpretations adopted by the Group for Australian Accounting Standards Board, the Corporations Act 2001 and the year ended 30 June 2019 have not had a significant impact on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the current period or any prior period and are not likely to have a significant International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). impact in future periods. The other amendments are listed below: >> AASB 2016-5 Amendments to Australian Accounting BASIS OF PREPARATION Standards – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Mirvac Group is a for-profit entity for the purposes of preparing the Payment Transactions financial statements. >> AASB 2017-1 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern Transfers of Investment Property, Annual Improvements 2014-2016 basis, using historical cost conventions except for investment properties, Cycle and Other Amendments investment properties under construction, derivative financial instruments >> Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and and other financial assets and financial liabilities which have been Advance Consideration measured at fair value. All figures in the financial statements are presented in Australian dollars and have been rounded to the nearest million (m) dollars in accordance with ASIC Corporations Instrument 2016/191, unless otherwise indicated. Where necessary, comparative information has been restated to conform to the current year’s disclosures. 80 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 A Basis of preparation continued CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES This section explains the changes to accounting policies that have been applied from 1 July 2018 following the Group’s adoption of AASB 9 Financial Instruments and AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Note the changes in accounting policies specified below only apply to the current period. The accounting policies included in the Group’s last annual financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2018 are the relevant policies for the purpose of comparatives. Accounting standard AASB 9 Financial Instruments Nature of change AASB 9 replaces AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requirements. AASB 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets, financial liabilities and hedging and a new impairment model for financial assets. Application Mirvac has adopted AASB 9 from 1 July 2018. The standard has been applied retrospectively, with the practical expedients permitted under the standard. Comparatives for 30 June 2018 have not been restated; rather, any differences arising from the adoption are recognised in the opening retained earnings as at 1 July 2018. Impact on financial Classification and measurement statements From 1 July 2018, under AASB 9 the Group classifies its financial assets as measured at amortised cost; fair value through other comprehensive income; or fair value through profit or loss. Management has assessed the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its financial instruments into the new AASB 9 categories. The Group’s receivables and other assets, previously classified as loans and receivables, are now classified as financial assets at amortised cost. This classification is based on the Group holding these assets to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms being solely payments of outstanding principal and interest. This change in classification has not impacted the carrying value of the Group’s financial assets. There has been no impact on the Group’s accounting for financial liabilities. Impairment of financial assets AASB 9 introduces a new impairment model which requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL) rather than only incurred credit losses. For Mirvac, the new ECL model applies to its trade receivables, loans to unrelated parties and loans to joint ventures. The Group applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring ECL as appropriate based on the different characteristics of each financial asset class. To measure the ECL, management has grouped together its financial assets based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The Group uses judgement in making assumptions about risk of default and ECL rates and the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s past history, existing market conditions and future looking estimates at the end of each reporting period. Management have assessed the impact of the adoption of the ECL model under AASB 9 with Mirvac’s trade receivables balance predominantly relating to development recharges, whereby receipts are tied to the delivery of commercial projects. In assessing the ECL of these recharges, management have applied the simplified model and have assessed each debtor on an individual basis. The credit risk for these financial assets has been assessed as low based on the historic recovery rates, quality of capital partners and Mirvac’s control of the project delivery. There was no 1 July 2018 opening retained earnings adjustment required on adoption. Derivatives and hedge accounting The Group has elected to adopt the new general hedge accounting model in AASB 9. The new hedge accounting rules align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. The adoption of AASB 9 has not impacted the Group’s derivatives and hedge accounting, with all previously existing hedge relationships continuing to qualify. The Group’s hedge documentation has been updated to align with the requirements of AASB 9. 81 Accounting standard AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Nature of change AASB 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service is transferred to a customer. AASB 15 replaces AASB 118 Revenue, AASB 111 Construction Contracts and several revenue-related Interpretations. Application Mirvac has adopted AASB 15 from 1 July 2018 using the modified retrospective approach. This means that the cumulative impact of the adoption will be recognised in 1 July 2018 opening retained earnings and comparatives have not been restated. In accordance with the transition guidance, AASB 15 has only been applied to contracts that are incomplete as at 1 July 2018. Impact on financial Classification and measurement statements Under AASB 15, revenue is recognised over time if: >> The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits as the entity performs the obligations; >> The customer controls the asset as the entity creates or enhances it; or >> The seller’s performance does not create an asset for which the seller has alternative use and there is a right to payment for performance to date. Where the above criteria are not met, revenue is recognised at a point in time. Management’s assessment of the changes with respect to the timing of revenue recognition following the adoption of AASB 15 is as follows: Development revenue: Residential The Group develops and sells residential properties with revenue recognised when control over the property has been transferred to the customer. Residential revenue on apartment and masterplanned communities continues to be recognised at settlement unless the sale of land is completed prior to construction of a building. In that case, there are two performance obligations, being the sale of the land, and the construction of the building. The revenue on the land sale will be recognised at a point in time, separate to any revenue recognised over-time for construction of a building. The revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under the contract. Sales commissions, previously expensed when incurred, will be capitalised as an asset included within other assets on the SoFP and expensed when associated revenue is recognised. Commercial Mirvac’s commercial development activities include office, industrial and retail projects with each project generally considered as one performance obligation. The Group has determined that all revenue on commercial developments will move to recognition of revenue over-time. Estimates of revenue, costs or percentage of completion are revised if circumstances change, with any resulting increases or decreases reflected in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. This is in contrast to the previous policy where most development revenue was recognised at practical completion and fees such as project management fees were recognised as services were performed. Investment property rental revenue: The Group derives revenue from investing in properties for rental yields and capital appreciation over time. There are no changes to the measurement or timing of investment property rental revenue have arisen from adoption of AASB 15. Asset & funds management revenue: The Group generates from the performance of property management and leasing, investment funds management, and facilities management services. These services are provided on an ongoing basis and revenue is calculated and recognised based on the contract term and upon delivery of service over time. The adoption of AASB 15 has minimal impact on the Group’s asset and funds management revenue which is recognised over time upon delivery of services. FINANCIAL STATEMENT IMPACT ON ADOPTION AT 1 JULY 2018 As noted above, there is no 1 July 2018 opening retained earnings adjustment from the Group’s adoption of AASB 9 and AASB 15. The consolidated SoFP movements from the adoption of AASB 15 resulted predominantly from changes in the timing of recognition of commercial development revenue and residential selling costs as shown in the table below, with comparatives not restated due to the application of the modified retrospective approach. 82 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 A Basis of preparation continued The following table shows the adjustments for AASB 15 recognised for each individual line item. Line items that were not affected by the changes have been included within “All other”. Consolidated statement of financial position (extract) 30 June 2018 Total As originally AASB 15 1 July 2018 presented impact Restated $m $m $m Current assets Receivables 192 4 196 Inventories 599 146 745 Other assets 33 10 43 All other current assets 304 — 304 Total current assets 1,128 160 1,288 Non-current assets Inventories 1,171 (276) 895 Investments in joint ventures 943 2 945 Deferred tax assets 456 (35) 421 All other non-current assets 9,647 — 9,647 Total non-current assets 12,217 (309) 11,908 Total assets 13,345 (149) 13,196 Current liabilities Deferred revenue 98 36 134 All other current liabilities 953 — 953 Total current liabilities 1,051 36 1,087 Non-current liabilities Deferred revenue 250 (150) 100 Deferred tax liabilities 313 (35) 278 All other non-current liabilities 3,076 — 3,076 Total non-current liabilities 3,639 (185) 3,454 Total liabilities 4,690 (149) 4,541 Net assets 8,655 — 8,655 Equity Retained earnings 1,797 — 1,797 All other equity 6,858 — 6,858 Total equity 8,655 — 8,655 NEW STANDARDS NOT YET ADOPTED BY THE GROUP Certain new accounting standards have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2019 and have not been early adopted by the Group. The Group’s assessment of the impact of these new standards is set out in the table below: Accounting standard AASB 16 Leases Nature of change AASB 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. This standard will result in almost all leases being recognised on the consolidated SoFP of lessees, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed. Under the new standard, an asset (the right to use the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised. The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases. Impact on financial Group as lessee: The Group enters into lease agreements as lessee for some commercial tenancies and operating equipment; statements these are currently disclosed as operating lease commitments in note C5. Management has assessed the effects of applying the new standard on the Group’s financial statements and on transition at 1 July 2019 expects a decrease in opening retained earnings to be less than $25m and the decrease net assets to be less than $25m. Group as lessor: Where the Group is the lessor in a lease agreement, adjustments may be required to align accounting for these leases with the new definitions of lease term, variable lease payments, and extension/termination options. However, there are no significant impacts expected. Mandatory Mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2019. The Group will adopt this standard for the year ending application date 30 June 2020, and is expected to apply the modified retrospective approach with the cumulative impact of the adoption to be recognised in 1 July 2019 opening retained earnings and comparatives not been restated. There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions. 83 B Results for the year This section explains the results and performance of the Group, including segmental analysis and detailed breakdowns. B1 SEGMENT INFORMATION The Group identifies its operating segments based on the internal reporting provided to the Executive Leadership Team, who are the Group’s chief operating decision makers. The segments are consistent with those in the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2018. The Group’s operating segments are as follows: Office & Industrial Residential Manages the Office & Industrial property portfolio to Designs, develops, markets and sells residential produce rental income along with developing office and properties to external customers including industrial projects. masterplanned communities and apartments in This segment also manages joint ventures and core metropolitan markets in conjunction with properties for third party investors and owners. strategic partners. Retail Corporate Manages the Retail property portfolio, including Covers Group-level functions including governance, shopping centres, to produce rental income. finance, legal, risk management and corporate This segment also develops shopping centres and secretarial. This segment holds an investment in the manages joint ventures and properties for third party Tucker Box Hotel Group joint venture (refer to note C3). investors and owners. Geographically, the Group operates predominantly in Australia. No single customer in the current or prior period provided more than 10 per cent of the Group’s revenue. Three-year performance review Key highlights $1,164m Achieved: $1,089m $1,019m >> Statutory profit after tax in excess of $1bn for a fourth consecutive year; $835m $849m >> 2% increase from FY18 in earnings before interest and tax; and $750m >> 4% increase from FY18 in operating profit after tax. $608m $631m $534m Statutory profit after tax Earnings before interest and tax Operating profit after tax FY17 FY18 FY19 84 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 B Results for the year continued As announced at Mirvac’s FY18 results briefing, from 1 July 2018, Mirvac’s definition of operating profit has been updated to include security-based payments expense and exclude the amortisation of all lease incentives and leasing costs. The comparatives below have been restated to align with these changes. Presented below are the key profit metrics, a breakdown of revenue by function and other required information for each segment: KEY PROFIT METRICS Office & Industrial Retail Residential Corporate Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Property NOI 391 348 175 175 — — 16 18 582 541 Development EBIT 125 65 6 — 219 316 — — 350 381 Asset and funds management EBIT 19 15 — — — — 1 — 20 15 Management and administration expenses (17) (17) (13) (13) (18) (18) (55) (54) (103) (102) Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) 1 518 411 168 162 201 298 (38) (36) 849 835 Development finance costs 2 (4) (2) — — (38) (74) — — (42) (76) Other net interest costs 3 — — — — — — (101) (74) (101) (74) Income tax expense — — — — — — (75) (77) (75) (77) Operating profit after tax 514 409 168 162 163 224 (214) (187) 631 608 1. EBIT includes share of net profit of joint ventures. 2. Includes cost of goods sold interest of $4m in Office & Industrial and $17m in Residential (2018: $3m in Office & Industrial and $43m in Residential). 3. Includes interest revenue of $4m (2018: $10m). Operating EBIT: FY18 to FY19 EBIT by segment $107m $6m ($97m) $835m ($2m) $849m Residential $201m Retail $298m Office & Industrial $168m Corporate $162m $518m $411m ($36m) ($38m) FY18 Office & Retail Residential Corporate FY19 FY18 FY19 Industrial REVENUE BY FUNCTION Office & Industrial Retail Residential Corporate Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Property rental revenue 461 414 287 281 — — — — 748 695 Development revenue 1 569 179 20 12 817 1,233 — — 1,406 1,424 Asset and funds management revenue 2 23 17 9 9 — — 2 3 34 29 Other revenue 4 6 5 4 7 10 8 12 24 32 Total operating revenue 1,057 616 321 306 824 1,243 10 15 2,212 2,180 Share of net profit of joint ventures 26 26 — 1 53 61 16 19 95 107 Other income 26 26 — 1 53 61 16 19 95 107 Total operating revenue and other income 1,083 642 321 307 877 1,304 26 34 2,307 2,287 Non-operating items 3 426 398 74 85 — — (29) 32 471 515 Total statutory revenue and other income 1,509 1,040 395 392 877 1,304 (3) 66 2,778 2,802 1. Includes management fees. 2. Property management revenue incurred on the Group’s investment properties of $10m in Office & Industrial and $8m in Retail has been eliminated (2018: $9m in Office & Industrial and $8m in Retail). 3. Relates mainly to fair value of investment properties and investment properties under construction. 85 B1 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION Office & Industrial Retail Residential Corporate Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Segment assets and liabilities Assets Investment properties 1 7,071 6,071 3,441 3,223 128 — — — 10,640 9,294 Inventories 116 351 7 10 1,561 1,409 — — 1,684 1,770 Indirect investments 2 605 573 3 3 302 347 341 229 1,251 1,152 Other assets 131 62 27 19 86 113 952 935 1,196 1,129 Total assets 7,923 7,057 3,478 3,255 2,077 1,869 1,293 1,164 14,771 13,345 Total liabilities 217 460 76 75 446 441 4,158 3,714 4,897 4,690 Net assets 7,706 6,597 3,402 3,180 1,631 1,428 (2,865) (2,550) 9,874 8,655 Other segment information Share of net profit of joint ventures 30 44 — 1 53 60 (14) 38 69 143 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 27 18 16 15 1 1 8 7 52 41 Acquisitions of investments and PPE 617 460 161 261 2 32 9 12 789 765 1. Includes investment properties under construction. 2. Includes carrying value of investments in joint ventures and other indirect investments. RECONCILIATION OF STATUTORY PROFIT TO OPERATING PROFIT AFTER TAX The following table shows how profit for the year attributable to stapled securityholders reconciles to operating profit after tax: 2019 2018 Office & Industrial Retail Residential Corporate Total Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Profit for the year attributable to stapled securityholders 913 226 163 (283) 1,019 1,089 Exclude specific non-cash items Revaluation of investment properties and investment properties under construction 1 (442) (74) — — (516) (490) Share of net (profit)/loss of joint ventures relating to movement of non-cash items 2 (4) — — 31 27 (24) Straight-lining of lease revenue 3 (7) (1) — — (8) (7) Net (gain)/loss on foreign exchange and financial instruments (5) — — 61 56 (22) Amortisation of lease incentives and leasing costs 59 17 — — 76 62 Tax effect Tax effect of non-cash and significant items 4 — — — (23) (23) — Operating profit after tax 514 168 163 (214) 631 608 1. Includes Mirvac’s share in the joint ventures’ revaluation of investment properties which is included within Share of net profit of joint ventures. 2. Included within Share of net profit of joint ventures. 3. Included within Revenue. 4. Included within Income tax expense. 86 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 B Results for the year continued B2 REVENUE The Group has two main revenue streams; development revenue and property rental revenue. Development revenue is derived from constructing and then selling properties. Property rental revenue comes from holding properties as investment properties and earning rental yields over time. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade allowances and duties and taxes paid. The Group recognises revenue from the transfer of goods or services over time and at a point in time in the following revenue streams. DEVELOPMENT REVENUE Settlement revenue The Group develops and sells properties comprising apartments, land lots, masterplanned communities and commercial properties held as inventory. The sales contracts typically contain one performance obligation satisfied when control of the property is transferred to the customer. This generally occurs on settlement at which point revenue is recognised. The revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under the contract. Construction service revenue The Group provides services to construct office, industrial, retail or residential buildings on customer owned land. There is ordinarily one performance obligation, being the ‘macro-promise’ to deliver a completed building to the customer including the design, construction and leasing (if applicable) of the building. The performance obligation is satisfied, and revenue including costs and margin is recognised, over time with progress determined in line with the building’s percentage of completion. The percentage of completion is determined by costs incurred to date as a percentage of total expected costs. This method best represents the passing of control of the building to the customer as it is being built. Estimates of costs and project completion and associated revenue are revised if circumstances change, with any resulting increases or decreases reflected in the consolidated SoCI. Certain development contracts may include variable revenue which is dependent on predetermined metrics for example, capitalised net rental income. Variable revenue is recognised when highly probable based on historical experience, forecasts and current economic conditions. Development management service revenue Development management fees are received to remunerate the Group for management services, time and the risk of developing a commercial or residential project. Contracts can include one or multiple performance obligations depending on the terms of the contract. Revenue is recognised as the performance obligations are satisfied. Hourly rate fees are recognised when service is provided and fixed rate fees are recognised on a percentage of completion basis. DEFERRED REVENUE Some development contracts are funded by a capital partner throughout the life of the project or construction phase, generally known as fund through projects. Payments received for these projects are recognised as deferred revenue which is classified as a liability in the consolidated SoFP. Deferred revenue is recognised in the consolidated SoCI when the performance obligations are satisfied. At 30 June 2019, the Group held $231m of deferred revenue which mainly related to Melbourne projects: The Eastbourne, 477 Collins Street, Queensland project: 80 Ann Street and Sydney project: Green Square (2018: $348m mainly related to Melbourne projects: The Eastbourne, 477 Collins Street and Sydney projects: Green Square and South Eveleigh). PROPERTY RENTAL REVENUE The Group invests in properties for rental yields and capital appreciation. Rental revenue from investment properties is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, net of any incentives. The Group also provides services to the lessees which primarily consist of general building management and operations in accordance with their lease agreements. Service income, representing the recovery of associated costs from the lessees, are recognised over time when the services are provided. ASSET AND FUNDS MANAGEMENT REVENUE The Group provides property management and leasing, investment funds management, and facilities management services. These services are provided on an ongoing basis and over the term of the agreements. The management fees are generally calculated based upon the value of the managed assets which is a variable consideration and recognised upon delivery of services. 87 B2 REVENUE CONTINUED FY19 Revenue by function Revenue: FY17 to FY19 2% 1% $2,275m Development $2,159m $2,186m Property rental 33% Assets and funds management Interest and other 64% FY17 FY18 FY19 2019 2018 $m $m Revenue Settlement revenue 880 1,233 Construction and development management services revenue 526 191 Total development revenue 1,406 1,424 Lease revenue 1 631 589 Service revenue 91 85 Total property rental revenue 722 674 Asset and funds management revenue 34 29 Interest revenue 4 10 Other revenue 20 22 Total revenue 2,186 2,159 1. Includes straight-lining of lease revenue of $8m (2018: $7m). COSTS TO FULFIL A CONTRACT Sales commissions, incurred to fulfil a contract, were previously expensed when incurred, is now capitalised and included within other assets on the SoFP and expensed when the associated residential settlement revenue is recognised. 2019 1 $m Expensed during the period 2 12 Costs to fulfil a contract Current 7 Non-current 13 Total costs to fulfil a contract 20 1. As permitted under the transitional provisions in AASB 15 the comparative of 30 June 2018 is not disclosed. 2. No impairment loss was recognised during the period. TRANSACTION PRICE ALLOCATED TO REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS The transaction price allocated to partially unsatisfied performance obligations at 30 June 2019 is as set out below. 2019 1 $m Within one year 1,237 More than one year 914 Total 2,151 1. As permitted under the transitional provisions in AASB 15 the comparative of 30 June 2018 is not disclosed. 88 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 B Results for the year continued 2019 2018 $m $m Gain on financial instruments Gain on interest rate derivatives — 4 Gain on assets at fair value through profit or loss 5 9 Gain on cross currency derivatives 1 7 Gain on foreign exchange 1 2 Total gain on financial instruments 7 22 B3 EXPENSES DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES Development expenses are initially capitalised as inventory on the consolidated SoFP until the associated revenue is recognised. These expenses include the costs of acquisition and development and all other costs directly related to the specific projects, including an allocation of direct overhead expenses. COST OF GOODS SOLD INTEREST Interest previously capitalised to incomplete inventory is expensed when the associated revenue is recognised. Upon completion of project, borrowing costs and other holding charges are expensed as incurred. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES EXPENSES AND OUTGOINGS Investment properties expenses relate to those costs which are required to be incurred to allow for the occupation and maintenance of investment properties in order to continue to earn rental revenue. Expenses include statutory levies, insurance and other property outgoings and are recognised on an accruals basis. DEPRECIATION Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. They are depreciated as follows: >> plant and equipment 3-15 years; and >> land is not depreciated. SELLING AND MARKETING EXPENSES Costs to promote and market projects are expensed as incurred. Direct costs incurred in obtaining a contract such as sales commissions are capitalised as a contract asset and included within other assets on the SoFP. These costs are expensed when the associated revenue is recognised. 2019 2018 Profit before income tax includes the following specific expenses: $m $m Total employee and other expenses Employee benefits expenses 104 105 Security-based payments expense 14 13 Total employee expenses 118 118 Compliance, consulting and professional fees 17 25 Rent, office and administration expenses 24 24 IT infrastructure and other expenses 19 11 Total other expenses 60 60 Total employee and other expenses 178 178 Interest and borrowing costs Interest paid/payable 151 152 Interest capitalised 1 (29) (40) Borrowing costs amortised 4 3 Total finance costs 126 115 Add: cost of goods sold interest (previously capitalised and now expensed) 2 21 46 Total interest and borrowing costs 147 161 Loss on financial instruments Loss on interest rate derivatives 63 — Total loss on financial instruments 63 — 1. Relates to residential projects $13m (2018: $26m) and commercial projects $16m (2018: $14m). 2. Relates to residential projects $17m (2018: $44m) and commercial projects $4m (2018: $2m). 89 B4 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE END OF THE YEAR As announced on 3 July 2019, the Group confirmed the successful completion of the non-underwritten Security Purchase Plan (SPP). A total of $46.2m was raised under the SPP, with 15.9m new stapled securities issued to eligible applicants on 4 July 2019. No other events have occurred since the end of the year which have significantly affected or may significantly affect Mirvac’s operations, the results of those operations, or Mirvac’s state of affairs in future years. B5 INCOME TAX Most of the Group’s profit is earned by trusts which are not subject to taxation. Income from these trusts is instead attributed to unitholders who pay income tax at their marginal tax rates. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAX Income tax expense is calculated at the applicable tax rate (currently 30 per cent in Australia) and recognised in the profit for the year, unless it relates to other comprehensive income or transactions recognised directly in equity. The tax expense comprises both current and deferred tax. Broadly, current tax represents the tax expense paid or payable for the current year. Deferred tax accounts for tax on temporary differences. Temporary differences generally occur when income and expenses are recognised by tax authorities and for accounting purposes in different periods. Deferred tax assets, including those arising from tax losses, are only recognised to the extent it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to utilise the losses in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is not recognised on the initial recognition of goodwill. Mirvac estimates future taxable profits based on approved budgets and forecasts extending five years. Future taxable profits are influenced by a variety of general economic and business conditions, which are outside the control of Mirvac. A change in any of these assumptions could have an impact on the future profitability of the Group and may affect the recovery of deferred tax assets. TAX CONSOLIDATION LEGISLATION Mirvac Limited and its wholly-owned Australian controlled entities are in a tax consolidated group. The entities in the tax consolidated group have entered into a tax sharing agreement which, in the opinion of the Directors, limits the joint and several liability of the wholly-owned entities in the case of a default by the head entity, Mirvac Limited. The entities in the tax consolidated group have also entered into a tax funding agreement to fully compensate/be compensated by Mirvac Limited for current tax balances and the deferred tax assets for unused tax losses and credits transferred. INCOME TAX ANALYSIS 2019 2018 Reconciliation to effective tax rate $m $m Profit before income tax 1,072 1,166 Less: Group elimination entries not subject to corporate taxation (1) — Less: MPT profit not subject to taxation (893) (921) Profit which is subject to taxation 178 245 Income tax expense calculated at 30% 53 74 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income Non-deductible expenses — 1 Other non-deductible/non-assessable items — 2 53 77 Over provision in prior years (1) — Income tax expense 1 52 77 Effective tax rate 2 29% 31% 1. The income tax expense represents both current and deferred tax. 2. Effective tax rate is calculated as the income tax expense divided by the profit which is subject to taxation. 90 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 B Results for the year continued 2019 2018 Reconciliation of income tax expense to tax paid $m $m Current tax — 3 Deferred tax 52 74 Total income tax expense 52 77 Temporary differences Deferred revenue (25) 101 Inventories 8 (137) Unrealised derivative financial instrument revaluations 20 2 Receivables (5) — Other temporary differences (4) 2 Transfer from tax losses (46) (42) Tax paid 1 — 3 1. Tax paid relates to tax payable in the USA. 2019 2018 Unrecognised tax and capital losses $m $m Unused tax losses which have not been recognised as deferred tax assets due to uncertainty of utilisation 1 58 58 Unused capital losses which have not been recognised as deferred tax assets due to uncertainty of utilisation 2 230 226 Total unrecognised tax and capital losses 288 284 Potential tax benefit at 30 per cent 86 85 1. Unused tax losses relate to losses from the James Fielding Group in 2005 which can only be utilised after the Mirvac Ltd tax group tax losses have been utilised and are then subject to an annual utilisation factor of less than 1%. 2. Unused capital losses can only be utilised against capital gains. Recognised Recognised Balance Recognised in other Balance Recognised 1 July Recognised in other Balance 1 July in profit comprehensive 30 June in retained 2018 in profit comprehensive 30 June 2017 or loss income 2018 earnings 1 Restated 1 or loss income 2019 Movement in deferred tax $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Unearned gains and losses with joint ventures 15 1 — 16 — 16 (1) — 15 Accruals 25 (2) — 23 — 23 1 — 24 Employee provisions and accruals 8 1 — 9 — 9 — — 9 Deferred revenue 35 101 — 136 (35) 101 (25) — 76 Derivative financial instruments 31 3 — 34 — 34 19 (10) 43 Impairment of loans to unrelated parties 4 (2) — 2 — 2 (2) — — PPE 1 — — 1 — 1 — — 1 Tax losses 255 (42) — 213 — 213 (46) — 167 Foreign exchange translation losses 21 — 1 22 — 22 — 79 101 Deferred tax assets 395 60 1 456 (35) 421 (54) 69 436 Investments in joint ventures (4) 2 — (2) (1) (3) (4) — (7) Inventories (130) (137) — (267) 39 (228) 8 — (220) Derivative financial instruments (35) (1) — (36) — (36) — (61) (97) Land and buildings (4) 3 — (1) — (1) — — (1) Prepayments — — — — (3) (3) (2) — (5) Receivables — — — — — — (5) — (5) Other (6) (1) — (7) — (7) 4 — (3) Deferred tax liabilities (179) (134) — (313) 35 (278) 1 (61) (338) Net deferred tax assets 216 (74) 1 143 — 143 (53) 8 98 1. Amounts recognised through retained earnings in 2019 relate to the adoption of AASB 15 during the period. Refer to Section A – Impact of new accounting standards for further details. Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months are $381m (2018: $421m). 91 C Property and development assets This section includes investment properties, investments in joint ventures and inventories. They represent the core assets of the business and drive the value of the Group. C1 PROPERTY PORTFOLIO Mirvac holds a property portfolio for long-term rental yields. Depending on the specific arrangements for each property, they are classified as investment properties or properties held through joint ventures. Refer to note I1 for a detailed listing of Mirvac’s property portfolio. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Investment properties are properties owned by Mirvac and not occupied by the Group. Investment properties include investment properties under construction, which will become investment properties once construction is completed. Mirvac accounts for its investment properties at fair value and revaluations are recognised as other income. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES (JV) Mirvac enters into arrangements with third parties to jointly own investment properties. If Mirvac has joint control over the activities and joint rights to the net assets of an arrangement, then it is classified as a JV. The JV holds investment property at fair value and Mirvac recognises its share of the JV’s profit or loss as other income. For further details on accounting for JV, refer to note C3. JUDGEMENTS IN FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants. Fair value is based on the highest and best use of an asset – for all of Mirvac’s property portfolio, the existing use is its highest and best use. The fair values of properties are calculated using a combination of market sales comparison, discounted cash flow and capitalisation rate. To assist with calculating reliable estimates, Mirvac uses external valuers on a rotational basis. Approximately half of the portfolio is externally valued each year, with management internally estimating the fair value of the remaining properties. The fair values are a best estimate but may differ to the actual sales price if the properties were to be sold. The key judgements for each valuation method are explained below: Market sales comparison: Utilises recent sales of comparable properties, adjusted for any differences including the nature, location and lease profile. Discounted cash flow (DCF): Projects a series of cash flows over the property’s life and a terminal value, discounted using a discount rate to give the present value. The projected cash flows incorporate expected rental income (based on contracts or market rates), operating costs, lease incentives, lease fees, capital expenditure, and a terminal value from selling the property. The terminal value is calculated by applying the terminal yield to the net market income. The discount rate is a market rate reflecting the risk associated with the cash flows, the nature, location and tenancy profile of the property relative to comparable investment properties and other asset classes. Capitalisation rate: The rate or yield at which the annual net income from an investment is capitalised to ascertain its capital value at a given date. The annual net income is based on contracted rents, market rents, operating costs and future income on vacant space. The capitalisation rate reflects the nature, location and tenancy profile of the property together with current market evidence and sales of comparable properties. Investment properties under construction: There generally is not an active market for investment properties under construction, so fair value is measured using DCF or residual valuations. DCF valuations for investment properties under construction are as described above but also consider the costs and risks of completing construction and letting the property. Residual: Estimates the value of the completed project, less the remaining development costs which include construction, finance costs and an allowance for developer’s risk and profit. This valuation is then discounted back to the present value. Note C2 explains the key inputs and sensitivity to changes in the measurement of fair value of investment properties. LEASE INCENTIVES The carrying amount of properties includes lease incentives provided to tenants. Lease incentives are deferred and recognised on a straight‑line basis over the lease term. 92 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 C Property and development assets continued Composition of Mirvac’s property portfolio by sector 2019 2018 Office Industrial Retail Residential Total Total Note $m $m $m $m $m $m Investment properties 5,586 877 3,441 — 9,904 9,011 Investment properties under construction 608 — — 128 736 283 Total investment properties C2 6,194 877 3,441 128 10,640 9,294 Investments in JV 1 461 — — — 461 457 Total property portfolio 6,655 877 3,441 128 11,101 9,751 1. Represents Mirvac’s share of the JV’s revaluation gain which is included within the share of net profit of JV. PROPERTY PORTFOLIO AS AT 30 JUNE 2019 1% 3% 8% 5% Office NSW Retail 11% VIC Industrial QLD Residential WA ACT By segment By geography 18% 31% 60% 63% Office Industrial Retail > $936m increase in Office assets > $68m increase in Industrial > $218m increase Retail assets > 6.4% net valuation uplift assets > 2.2% net valuation uplift > Weighted average capitalisation > 6.0% net valuation uplift > Weighted average capitalisation rate of 5.43% > Weighted average capitalisation rate of 5.41% rate of 5.72% REVALUATION OF PROPERTY PORTFOLIO FY19 Net revaluation gain ($516m) FY18 Net revaluation gain ($490m) $392m $50m $74m $369m $24m $85m IP/IPUC IP/IPUC $12m JV1 $0m JV1 Office Industrial Retail 1. Represents Mirvac’s share of the JV’s revaluation gain which is included within the share of net profit of JV. 93 C2 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Investment properties, including investment properties under construction, are held at fair value and any gains or losses are recognised in revenue and other income. The fair value movements are non-cash and do not affect the Group’s distributable income. 2019 2018 Office Industrial Retail Residential Total Total Movements in investment properties $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance 1 July 5,262 809 3,223 — 9,294 8,278 Expenditure capitalised 393 23 160 7 583 475 Acquisitions 200 — 1 30 231 255 Disposals — — — — — (300) Net revaluation gain from fair value adjustments 392 50 74 — 516 478 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations — — — — — (1) Transfer from inventories — — — 91 91 15 Transfer from joint venture — — — — — 156 Amortisation (53) (5) (17) — (75) (62) Balance 30 June 6,194 877 3,441 128 10,640 9,294 Fair value measurement and valuation basis Investment properties are measured as Level 3 financial instruments. Refer to note D5 for explanation of the levels of fair value measurement. The discounted cash flow, capitalisation rate and residual valuation methods all use unobservable inputs in determining fair value; ranges of the inputs are included below: Inputs used to measure fair value 10-year compound Level 3 Net market annual Capitalisation Terminal Discount fair value income growth rate rate yield rate Segment $m $/sqm % % % % 2019 Office 6,194 200 – 1,531 3.10 – 4.00 4.75 – 8.00 5.00 – 8.00 6.25 – 8.25 Industrial 877 100 – 470 2.92 – 3.47 5.00 – 7.00 5.27 – 7.50 6.75 – 7.75 Retail 3,441 206 – 1,374 2.80 – 4.04 4.50 – 8.00 4.75 – 8.25 6.50 – 9.50 2018 Office 5,262 418 – 1,415 3.19 – 3.77 5.00 – 8.00 5.25 – 8.25 6.50 – 8.50 Industrial 809 98 – 450 2.86 – 3.00 5.22 – 7.25 5.47 – 7.50 6.92 – 8.25 Retail 3,223 203 – 1,402 3.35 – 4.30 4.50 – 8.00 4.75 – 8.25 6.50 – 9.50 Movement in any of the unobservable inputs is likely to have an impact on the fair value of investment property. The higher the net market income or 10-year compound annual growth rate, the higher the fair value. The higher the capitalisation rate, terminal yield or discount rate, the lower the fair value. 94 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 C Property and development assets continued C3 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES A joint venture (JV) is an arrangement where Mirvac has joint control over the activities and joint rights to the net assets. Refer to note G1 for details on how Mirvac decides if it controls an entity. Mirvac initially records its JV at the cost of the investment and subsequently accounts for them using the equity method. Under the equity method, the Group’s share of the JV’s profit or loss is added to/deducted from the carrying amount each year. Distributions received or receivable are recognised by reducing the carrying amount of the JV. When transactions between Mirvac and its JV create an unrealised gain, the Group eliminates the unrealised gain relating to Mirvac’s proportional interest in the JV. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way unless there is evidence of impairment, in which case the loss is realised. JUDGEMENT IN TESTING FOR IMPAIRMENT OF INVESTMENTS IN JV JV are tested for impairment at the end of each year, and impaired if necessary, by comparing the carrying amount to the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as the estimated present value of future distributions to be received from the JV and from its ultimate disposal. At 30 June 2019, none of the investments in JV is considered to be impaired (2018: none). All JV are established or incorporated in Australia. Information relating to JV is at follows: MOVEMENTS IN THE CARRYING AMOUNT OF JV $1,100m $9m $2m ($30m) $99m ($31m) ($107m) $950m $943m $885m $800m FY18 Share of net Equity Other Share of net loss Repayment Distributions received/ FY19 profits – other acquired movements on IP and hotel of capital receivable revaluations 95 The tables below provides summarised financial information for those JV that are significant to the Group. The Group does not have any associates. The information presented reflects the total amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant JV and not the Group’s share, unless otherwise stated. The information has been amended to reflect any unrealised gains or losses on transactions between Mirvac and its JV. Mirvac Mirvac 8 Chifley (Old Treasury) Mirvac SLS Tucker Box Trust 1 Trust 1 Development Trust 1 Hotel Group Other JV Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Property Property Residential Hotel Principal activities investment investment development investment Various Summarised SoFP Cash and cash equivalents 2 2 6 5 2 13 2 2 71 70 83 92 Other current assets 1 1 1 1 435 — 6 7 120 165 563 174 Total current assets 3 3 7 6 437 13 8 9 191 235 646 266 Total non-current assets 479 485 444 429 — 234 583 627 202 249 1,708 2,024 Borrowings — — — — 159 — — — — 52 159 52 Other current liabilities 3 3 6 5 30 9 11 10 21 50 71 77 Total current liabilities 3 3 6 5 189 9 11 10 21 102 230 129 Borrowings — — — — — — 188 176 49 9 237 185 Other non-current liabilities — — — — 4 — 1 1 1 1 6 2 Total non-current liabilities — — — — 4 — 189 177 50 10 243 187 Net assets 479 485 445 430 244 238 391 449 322 372 1,881 1,974 Group’s share of net assets in % 50 50 50 50 51 51 50 50 — — — — Group’s share of net assets in $ 240 243 223 215 124 121 196 225 159 190 942 994 Carrying amount in Group’s consolidated SoFP 223 226 215 208 105 106 195 224 147 179 885 943 1. The difference between the carrying amount and the Group’s share in the net assets of its investment is a result of elimination due to the Group’s transactions with its investee. Mirvac Mirvac Mirvac SLS 8 Chifley (Old Treasury) Development Tucker Box Trust Trust Trust Hotel Group Other JV Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Summarised SoCI Revenue 26 55 47 43 — — (17) 86 341 527 397 711 EBITDA 26 25 26 25 (1) (1) 41 44 106 154 198 247 Interest income — — — — — — — — 1 1 1 1 Interest expense — — — — — — 7 7 1 10 8 17 Income tax expense — — — — — — — — 1 1 1 1 Profit after tax 20 50 40 36 (1) (1) (27) 76 105 143 137 304 Non-operating items 6 (25) (14) (11) — — 61 (39) — 1 53 (74) Operating profit after tax 26 25 26 25 (1) (1) 34 37 105 144 190 230 Profit after tax 20 50 40 36 (1) (1) (27) 76 105 143 137 304 Other comprehensive income — — — — — — — — (2) — (2) — Total comprehensive income 20 50 40 36 (1) (1) (27) 76 103 143 135 304 Distributions received/ receivable by the Group from JV 13 13 13 13 — — 15 17 66 41 107 84 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS At 30 June 2019, the Group’s share of its JV’s capital commitments which have been approved but not yet provided for was $47m (2018: $nil). 96 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 C Property and development assets continued C4 INVENTORIES The Group develops some residential and commercial properties for sale, and not to hold as an investment property. Inventories are classified as current if they are expected to be settled within 12 months or otherwise classified as non-current. DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Development projects are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value (NRV). No inventories required write-downs to NRV during the year (2018: nil). Cost includes the costs of acquisition, development, interest capitalised and all other costs directly related to specific projects. An allocation of direct overhead expenses is also included. JUDGEMENT IN CALCULATING NRV OF INVENTORIES NRV is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs to complete and sell the development. NRV is estimated using the most reliable evidence available at the time including expected fluctuations in selling price and estimated costs to complete and sell. 2019 2018 Current Non-current Current Non-current $m $m $m $m Residential apartments Acquisition costs 48 170 51 226 Development costs 375 375 192 414 Interest capitalised during development 10 41 10 42 NRV write-downs provision (5) (57) (2) (60) Total residential apartments 428 529 251 622 Residential masterplanned communities Acquisition costs 94 388 118 308 Development costs 26 70 45 50 Interest capitalised during development 9 27 13 28 NRV write-downs provision (4) (6) (20) (6) Total residential masterplanned communities 125 479 156 380 Total Residential 553 1,008 407 1,002 Office & Industrial Acquisition costs 34 4 39 55 Development costs 32 45 143 108 Interest capitalised during development 1 — 4 2 Total Office & Industrial 67 49 186 165 Retail Development costs 1 6 6 4 Total Retail 1 6 6 4 Total inventories 621 1,063 599 1,171 Residential Office & Industrial Retail > Key movements in inventory > Practical completion achieved for: > Practical completion achieved for during the year included Sydney > Building 1 and 3 for South Kawana Shoppingworld – Cinema Olympic Park, Marrickville, Hope Eveleigh, NSW (Office); and and Dining Street, Tullamore, The Eastbourne > Warehouse 2 and 5 for Calibre, > 2,611 lots settled during the year NSW (Industrial) > Key active developments: South Eveleigh, 477 Collins Street and 80 Ann Street 97 INVENTORIES AS AT 30 JUNE 2019 7% Apartments 15% NSW Masterplanned communities VIC Office & Industrial QLD WA 33% By product line 15% By geography 57% 36% 37% 2019 2018 Movements in inventories $m $m Balance 1 July 1,770 1,667 Costs incurred 1,059 1,159 Settlements (1,070) (1,067) Provision utilisation 16 26 Transfer to investment properties (91) (15) Balance 30 June 1,684 1,770 C5 COMMITMENTS CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS At 30 June 2019, capital commitments on Mirvac’s property portfolio were $273m (2018: $237m). There are no properties pledged as security by the Group (2018: nil). LEASE COMMITMENTS Lease revenue from investment properties is accounted for as operating leases. The revenue and expenses are recognised in the consolidated SoCI on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Payments for operating leases are made net of any lease incentives. The future receipts and payments are shown as undiscounted contractual cash flows. Future operating lease receipts as a lessor Future operating lease payments as a lessee $525m $1,555m $1,453m $9m $32m $15m 2019 2019 $443m $1,291m $950m $9m $34m $22m 2018 2018 Within one year Between one and five years Later than five years 98 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 D Capital structure and risks This section outlines the market, credit and liquidity risks that the Group is exposed to and how it manages these risks. Capital comprises stapled securityholders’ equity and net debt (borrowings less cash). D1 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Mirvac has a capital management framework, approved and monitored by the Board. The framework aims to address the market, credit and liquidity Gearing Ratio risks while also meeting the Group’s strategic objectives. The Group seeks to maintain a minimum investment-grade credit rating of BBB+ or Baa1 to reduce the cost of capital and diversify its sources of debt 21.3% 20.5% capital. The Group’s target gearing ratio is between 20 and 30 per cent. If the Group wishes to change its gearing ratio, it could adjust its dividends/ distributions, issue new equity (or buy back securities), or sell property to repay borrowings. 30 June 2018 30 June 2019 At 30 June 2019, the Group was in compliance with all regulatory and debt covenant ratios. The Group uses derivatives to hedge its underlying exposures to changes in interest rates on its borrowings and to changes in foreign exchange rates on its foreign currency transactions. D2 BORROWINGS AND LIQUIDITY The Group enters into borrowings at both fixed and floating interest rates and also uses interest rate derivatives to reduce interest rate risks. During the year, the Group refinanced its syndicated bank facility, to effectively extend the term of the facility and establish additional facilities of $1.29bn, of which $nil were drawn as at 30 June 2019. The Group also issued $664m of new debt in the US Private Placement market and successfully completed an equity raising of $750m (before costs) which was used to repay debt and provides additional funding flexibility. Refer to note E4 for further details on the equity raise. At 30 June 2019, the Group had $1,426m of cash and committed undrawn facilities available. Drawn debt maturities as at 30 June 2019 Drawn debt sources as at 30 June 2019 $2,442m 100% $200m $220m $250m FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY24 onwards Bonds Bonds BORROWINGS Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Under the amortised cost method, any difference between the initial amount recognised and the redemption amount is recognised in the consolidated SoCI over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. 99 2019 2018 Total Total carrying Total carrying Total Current Non-current amount fair value Current Non-current amount fair value $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Unsecured facilities Bank loans — — — — — 415 415 415 Bonds — 3,448 3,448 3,486 135 2,523 2,658 2,633 Total unsecured borrowings — 3,448 3,448 3,486 135 2,938 3,073 3,048 Undrawn facilities 1,292 685 The fair value of the bank loans is considered to approximate their carrying amount; although some loans have fixed interest rates, the impact is immaterial. The fair value of the bonds is calculated as the expected future cash flows discounted by the relevant current market rates. The following table sets out Mirvac’s net exposure to interest rate risk by maturity periods. Exposures arise predominantly from liabilities bearing variable interest rates as the Group intends to hold fixed rate liabilities to maturity. 2019 2018 Fixed interest maturing in: Fixed interest maturing in: Floating Less Floating Less interest than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over interest than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over rate 1 year years years 5 years Total rate 1 year years years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans — — — — — — 415 — — — — 415 Bonds 2,065 — 200 300 547 3,112 1,767 — — 250 565 2,582 Interest rate derivatives (1,800) 100 300 1,000 400 — (1,500) 200 100 800 400 — Total 265 100 500 1,300 947 3,112 682 200 100 1,050 965 2,997 D3 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Mirvac uses derivative financial instruments to economically hedge its exposure to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates and not for trading or speculative purposes. Refer to note D4 for further details of how Mirvac manages financial risk. The chart below shows the net amount of debt subject to fixed interest rates and the maximum average fixed interest rate payable each year: HEDGING PROFILE AT 30 JUNE 2019 2.88% 2.85% 2.75% 2.71% 2.70% 2.61% 2.48% 2.38% FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 Interest rate derivatives Fixed debt Rate Derivatives are classified as held for trading and accounted for at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedges. All derivative financial instruments used for hedge accounting are recognised initially at fair value and reported subsequently at fair value in the statement of financial position. 100 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 D Capital structure and risks continued DERIVATIVES THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING Mirvac’s treasury policy sets out the hedging strategy and objectives to manage exposures arising from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. During the year, Mirvac adopted hedge accounting for foreign currency bonds only. At implementation, Mirvac formally designates and documents the relationship between hedging instruments (cross currency interest rate swaps only) and the hedged items (foreign currency bonds) as well as the proposed effectiveness of the risk management objective that the hedge relationship addresses. On an ongoing basis, Mirvac documents its assessment of retrospective and prospective hedge effectiveness of all hedge relationships for changes in fair values or cash flows. Fair value hedge A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability (such as a bond) that is attributable to a particular risk (such as movements in interest rates). Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the consolidated SoCI, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset/liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. Cash flow hedge A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with an asset, liability or highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity via the cash flow hedge reserve. Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated SoCI immediately. Cost of hedging Currency basis spread is a liquidity premium that is charged for exchanging different currencies, and changes over time impacting the fair value of cross currency swaps. Mirvac defers the change in fair value relating to currency basis spreads in the cost of hedging reserve. All derivatives require settlement on a monthly or quarterly basis. Translation gains or losses on the net investment in foreign operations are recorded through the foreign currency translation reserve. 2019 2018 Asset Liability Asset Liability $m $m $m $m Current Interest rate derivatives – through profit or loss — 1 — 1 Cross currency interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges — — 3 — Total current derivative financial instruments — 1 3 1 Non-current Interest rate derivatives – through profit or loss 1 102 2 39 Cross currency interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges 324 — 116 38 Total non-current derivative financial instruments 325 102 118 77 Total derivative financial assets/liabilities 325 103 121 78 D4 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Mirvac’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Mirvac seeks to minimise the potential impact of these financial risks on financial performance, for example by using derivative financial instruments to protect against interest rate and foreign exchange risk. Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Mirvac Group Treasury) under policies approved by the Board. The Board provides overall risk management principles and policies covering specific areas. Mirvac Group Treasury identifies, evaluates, reports and manages financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units in accordance with Board policy. 101 The table below summarises key financial risks and how they are managed: Risk Definition Exposures arising from Management of exposures Market risk – The risk that the fair value >> Borrowings issued at fixed >> Interest rate derivatives manage cash flow interest rate risk interest rate or cash flows of financial rates and variable rates by converting floating rate borrowings to fixed or capped instruments will fluctuate due to >> Derivatives rates with target of 55 per cent. changes in market interest rates >> Mirvac does not manage the fair value risk for debt instruments from interest rates, as it does not have an impact on the cash flows paid by the business. >> Refer to note D2 for details on the interest rate exposure for borrowings. Market risk – The risk that the fair value of >> Bonds denominated in other >> Cross currency interest rate swaps to convert nonAustralian foreign a financial commitment, asset currencies dollar borrowings to Australian dollar exposures. These cross exchange or liability will fluctuate due to >> Receipts and payments currency interest rate swaps have been designated as cash changes in foreign exchange which are denominated in flow hedges with the movements in fair value recognised while rates other currencies they are still in an effective hedge relationship. >> Foreign currency borrowings as a natural hedge for foreign operations. Market risk – The risk that the fair value >> Other financial assets at >> The Group is exposed to minimal price risk and so does not price of other financial assets at fair value through profit or manage the exposures. fair value through profit or loss, with any resultant gain loss will fluctuate due to or loss recognised in other changes in the underlying comprehensive income share/unit price Credit risk The risk that a counterparty will >> Cash and cash equivalents >> Setting credit limits and obtaining collateral as security not make payments to Mirvac as >> Receivables (where appropriate). they fall due >> Derivative financial assets >> Diversified trading spread across large financial institutions >> Other financial assets with investment-grade credit ratings. >> Regularly monitoring the exposure to each counterparty and their credit ratings. >> Refer to note F1 for details on credit risk exposure on receivables. The Group deems the exposure to credit risk as immaterial for all other classes of financial assets and liabilities. Liquidity risk The risk that Mirvac will not be >> Payables >> Regular forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements. able to meet its obligations as >> Borrowings Surplus funds are only invested in highly liquid instruments. they fall due >> Derivative financial liabilities >> Availability of cash, marketable securities and committed credit facilities. >> Ability to raise funds through issue of new securities through placements or DRP. >> Refer to note D2 for details of liquidity risk of the Group’s financing arrangements. MARKET RISK Notional amount and expiry of CCIRS $2,065m Foreign exchange risk $1,895m The cross-currency interest rate swaps that are in place cover 100 per cent of the $1,767m foreign denominated bonds (interest payments and redemption value) with the $1,463m same maturity profiles as the bonds. This removes exposure to foreign exchange movements between the foreign currencies and Australian dollar. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the entity’s functional currency using the exchange rate at the transaction date. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settling foreign currency transactions and from translating foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at year end are recognised in the $170m $170m consolidated SoCI. $134m $0m 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Over 5 years Total 30 June 2019 30 June 2018 102 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 D Capital structure and risks continued Sensitivity analysis – interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk This sensitivity analysis shows the impact on profit after tax and equity if Australian interest rates, USD:AUD, JPY:AUD and HKD:AUD exchange rates changed by 50 basis points (bp): 2019 2018 Total impact on profit after tax and 50 bps 50 bps 50 bps 50 bps equity $m $m $m $m Sensitivity in: Changes in: Interest rate risk1 Australian interest rates $28m increase $30m decrease $27m increase $28m decrease Foreign exchange risk2 Foreign interest rates — — — — Foreign exchange risk2 Foreign exchange rates — — — — 1. This calculation shows the impact on borrowings, cash and derivative financial instruments held as an economic hedge. It assumes that no interest is capitalised into qualifying assets as discussed in note B3. If fair value movements were excluded, operating profit would reduce if interest rates were to rise. 2. The Group has borrowings and cross currency interest rate swaps which reference foreign interest rates and foreign exchange rates; however, these are hedge accounted in effective hedge relationships, therefore the net profit impact is nil. LIQUIDITY RISK Maturities of financial liabilities and derivative financial assets Mirvac’s maturity of financial liabilities and derivative financial assets is provided in the following table. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2019 2018 Maturing in: Maturing in: Less Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total 1 year years years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Payables 1 635 25 55 25 740 676 273 24 3 976 Unsecured bank loans — — — — — 12 110 323 — 445 Bonds 132 333 884 3,160 4,509 245 106 751 2,448 3,550 Net settled derivatives Interest rate derivatives – floating to fixed 24 22 33 6 85 13 10 11 (1) 33 Gross settled derivatives (cross currency swaps) – Outflow 67 64 366 2,240 2,737 205 71 392 1,815 2,483 – (Inflow) (85) (89) (480) (2,448) (3,102) (206) (67) (414) (1,823) (2,510) 773 355 858 2,983 4,969 945 503 1,087 2,442 4,977 1. Includes deferred revenue. D5 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Mirvac measures various financial assets and liabilities at fair value which, in some cases, may be subjective and depend on the inputs used in the calculations. The different levels of measurement are described below: > Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; > Level 2: not traded in an active market but calculated with significant inputs coming from observable market data; and > Level 3: significant inputs to the calculation that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Mirvac holds no Level 1 financial instruments. The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of Mirvac’s financial instruments are as follows: DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Mirvac’s derivative financial instruments are classified as Level 2, as the fair values are calculated based on observable market interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The fair values of interest rate derivatives are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves. 103 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS Other financial assets include units in unlisted entities and loan notes issued by unrelated parties; refer to note F2 for further details. The carrying value of other financial assets is equal to the fair value. Investments in unlisted entities are traded in inactive markets and the fair value is determined by the unit or share price as advised by the trustee of the unlisted entity, based on the value of the underlying assets. The unlisted entity’s assets are subject to regular external valuations using the valuation methods explained in note C1. The fair value of loan notes is calculated based on the expected cash inflows. Expected cash inflows are determined based on the repayment terms, interest rates, agreed project costs and credit risk. The following table summarises the financial instruments measured and recognised at fair value on a recurring a basis: 2019 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets carried at fair value Investments in unlisted entities — — 60 60 — — 40 40 Loan notes — — — — — — 81 81 Derivative financial instruments — 325 — 325 — 121 — 121 — 325 60 385 — 121 121 242 Financial liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial instruments — 102 — 102 — 78 — 78 — 102 — 102 — 78 — 78 There were no transfers between the fair value hierarchy levels during the year. The following table presents a reconciliation of the carrying value of Level 3 instruments held by the Group (excluding investment properties): 2019 2018 Investments Total other Investments Total other in unlisted Loan financial in unlisted Loan financial entities notes assets entities notes assets $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance 1 July 40 81 121 24 131 155 Acquisitions 15 — 15 7 — 7 Net gain recognised in gain on financial instruments 5 — 5 9 — 9 Repayment — (81) (81) — (50) (50) Balance 30 June 60 — 60 40 81 121 Refer to note C2 for a reconciliation of the carrying value of investment properties, also classified as Level 3. 104 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 E­ Equity This section includes details of distributions, stapled securityholders’ equity and reserves. It represents how the Group raised equity from its stapled securityholders (equity) in order to finance the Group’s activities both now and in the future. E1 DISTRIBUTIONS Half-yearly ordinary distributions paid/payable and distribution per security: 5.0% growth 11.6 cpss 11.0 cpss 6.3 cpss 6.0 cpss 5.3 cpss 5.0 cpss $440m $408m paid/payable paid $194m $186m $246m $222m paid on paid on payable on paid on 28 Feb 2019 28 Feb 2018 30 Aug 2019 31 Aug 2018 31 December 30 June Annual FY19 FY18 All distributions in the current and prior periods were unfranked. Franking credits available for future years, based on a tax rate of 30 per cent, total $24m (2018: $23m). E2 CONTRIBUTED EQUITY Mirvac’s contributed equity includes ordinary shares in Mirvac Limited and ordinary units in MPT which are stapled to create stapled securities. Each ordinary security entitles the holder to receive distributions when declared, to one vote at securityholders’ meetings and on polls and to a proportional share of proceeds on winding up of Mirvac. During the year, the Group completed 58m of stapled securities buy-backs totalling $130m. Since the commencement of the buy-back on 23 February 2018 a total of 59m stapled securities have been purchased. The Group also successfully completed an equity raising of a fully underwritten $750m institutional placement as announced to the market on 29 May 2019. The equity raising will support the delivery of the next generation of value accretive office, industrial, residential and mixed-use projects, repay debt and replenish funding for its existing development pipeline. It will provide additional funding flexibility, enabling Mirvac to continue investing through the property cycle, with the objective of delivering strong, visible and secure cash flows, sustainable distribution growth and attractive rolling average returns on invested capital above the Group’s cost of capital. When new securities or options are issued, the directly attributable incremental costs are deducted from equity, net of tax. CONTRIBUTED EQUITY 2019 2018 No. securities Securities No. securities Securities m $m m $m Mirvac Limited – ordinary shares issued 3,909 2,154 3,708 2,075 MPT – ordinary units issued 3,909 5,290 3,708 4,750 Total contributed equity 7,444 6,825 The total number of stapled securities issued as listed on the ASX at 30 June 2019 was 3,911m (2018: 3,710m) which included 2m of stapled securities issued under the LTI plan and EIS (2018: 2m). Securities issued to employees under the Mirvac employee LTI plan and EIS are accounted for as options and are recognised in the security-based payments reserve, not in contributed equity. 105 MOVEMENTS IN PAID UP EQUITY 2019 2018 Securities Securities No. securities $m No. securities $m Balance 1 July 3,707,614,815 6,825 3,703,308,255 6,819 Securities issued under EEP 430,731 1 — — LTI and STI vested 6,660,092 9 5,311,367 8 Legacy schemes vested 242,063 1 256,253 1 Security buy-back (58,079,881) (130) (1,261,060) (3) Securities issued 1 252,525,253 738 — — Balance 30 June 3,909,393,073 7,444 3,707,614,815 6,825 1. Represents $750m of stapled securities issued less $12m of transaction costs. Mirvac issues securities to employees as security-based payments; refer to note E3 for details. E3 RESERVES COST OF HEDGING RESERVE The cost of hedging reserve is used to record gains or losses on derivatives that relate to the currency basis spread. Currency basis spread is the liquidity premium that is charged for exchanging different currencies, and changes over time impacting the fair value of a cross currency swap. CASH FLOW HEDGE RESERVE The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record gains or losses on derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges and that are recognised in other comprehensive income. SECURITY-BASED PAYMENTS (SBP) RESERVE The SBP reserve recognises the SBP expense. Further details on SBP are explained in note E4. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS (NCI) RESERVE The NCI reserve was used to record the discount received on acquiring the non-controlling interest in MREIT in December 2009. Cash flow Cost of hedge SBP NCI Capital Total hedging reserve FCTR reserve reserve reserve reserves Note reserve $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance 1 July 2018 — (4) — 30 8 (1) 33 Hedging reserve movements 6 — — — — — 6 Cash flow hedge movements — (19) — — — — (19) SBP movements E4 — — — 3 — — 3 Balance 30 June 2019 6 (23) — 33 8 (1) 23 Balance 1 July 2017 — — 2 27 8 (1) 36 Cash flow hedge movements — (4) — — — — (4) Foreign currency translation differences D4 — — (2) — — — (2) SBP movements E4 — — — 3 — — 3 Balance 30 June 2018 — (4) — 30 8 (1) 33 E4 SECURITY-BASED PAYMENTS Mirvac currently operates the following SBP schemes: >> Employee Exemption Plan (EEP); >> Long-term Incentives Plan (LTI); and >> Short-term incentive (STI) awards. The total of all securities issued under all employee security schemes is limited to five per cent of the issued securities of the stapled group in any five year period. EEP The EEP provides eligible employees with up to $1,000 worth of Mirvac securities at no cost. Employees cannot sell the securities for three years or until they cease employment with the Group, in which case they keep any securities already granted. Other than the restriction on selling, holders have the same rights and benefits as other securityholders. 106 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 E­ Equity continued LTI The LTI provides senior executives with performance rights to reward executives based on the Group’s performance, thus retaining executives and providing them with an interest in the Group’s securities. The performance rights vest based on Mirvac’s TSR and ROIC performance over a three-year period. ACCOUNTING FOR THE SBP SCHEMES The EEP securities issued each year are recognised as an expense and directly in contributed equity immediately. The securities issued in FY19 were issued on 5 March 2019 when the stapled security price was $2.58. At 30 June 2019, a total of 8.1m (2018: 7.7m) stapled securities have been issued to employees under the EEP. The LTI, STI and legacy EIS are accounted for as equity-settled SBP. The fair value is estimated at grant date and recognised over the vesting period as an expense and in the SBP reserve. When the SBP vest, ordinary securities are issued and recognised as a transfer from the SBP reserve to contributed equity. Reconciliation of rights outstanding under SBP schemes Balance Balance 1 July Issued Vested Forfeited 30 June LTI 13,605,204 7,721,056 (6,882,196) (393,107) 14,050,957 STI 1,098,001 808,259 (709,930) — 1,196,330 Total rights FY19 14,703,205 8,529,315 (7,592,126) (393,107) 15,247,287 LTI 15,820,721 6,737,496 (6,660,067) (2,292,946) 13,605,204 STI 1,114,730 776,147 (792,876) — 1,098,001 Total rights FY18 16,935,451 7,513,643 (7,452,943) (2,292,946) 14,703,205 The weighted average remaining contractual life at 30 June 2019 was 1.47 years (2018: 1.42 years). SBP expense recognised within employee benefits expenses is as follows: 2019 2018 $m $m LTI 11 11 STI 2 — Total SBP expense taken to SBP reserve 13 11 EEP recognised directly in contributed equity 1 — EEP purchased via on-market purchase — 2 Total SBP expense 14 13 2019 2018 The movements in the SBP reserve are as follows: $m $m Balance 1 July 30 27 Total SBP expense taken to SBP reserve 13 11 LTI vested and taken to contributed equity (9) (7) STI vested (1) (1) Balance 30 June 33 30 JUDGEMENT IN CALCULATING FAIR VALUE OF SBP To calculate the expense for equity-settled SBP, the fair value of the equity instruments at grant date has to be estimated. The fair value is determined using the Monte-Carlo simulation for the relative TSR component (key judgements and assumptions include exercise price, vesting and performance criteria, security price at grant date, volatility, distribution yield and risk-free interest rate) and a Binomial tree method for the ROIC component. These judgements and assumptions relating to fair value measurement may impact the SBP expense taken to profit or loss and reserves. Assumptions used for the fair value of performance rights awarded during the current year are as follows: Grant date 3 December 2018 Exercise price $nil Performance hurdles Relative TSR and ROIC Expected life 2.6 years Performance period start 1 July 2018 Volatility 18.731% Performance period end 30 June 2021 Risk-free interest rate (per annum) 2.085% Security price at grant date $2.23 Distribution yield (per annum) 4.93% 107 F Operating assets and liabilities F1 RECEIVABLES Receivables are initially recognised at the fair value. Receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment if required. Due to the short-term nature of current receivables, their carrying amount (less loss allowance) is assumed to be the same as their fair value. For the majority of the non-current receivables, the carrying amount is also not significantly different to their fair value. The expected credit loss of receivables is reviewed on an ongoing basis. From 1 July 2019, the Group applies the simplified or general approach to measuring ECL as appropriate based on the different characteristics of each financial asset class. To measure the ECL, management has grouped together its receivables based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The Group uses judgement in making assumptions about risk of default and ECL rates and the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s past history, existing market conditions and future looking estimates at the end of each reporting period. In the prior year, the impairment of trade receivables was assessed based on the incurred loss model. Receivables which are known to be uncollectable are written off. 2019 2018 Loss Loss Gross allowance Net Gross allowance Net Note $m $m $m $m $m $m Current receivables Trade receivables 65 (3) 62 151 (4) 147 Loans to related parties H3 79 — 79 4 — 4 Loans to unrelated parties 17 — 17 22 (11) 11 Other receivables 81 — 81 30 — 30 Total current receivables 242 (3) 239 207 (15) 192 Non-current receivables Loans to related parties H3 — — — 22 (22) — Loans to unrelated parties 168 (36) 132 112 (36) 76 Other receivables 24 — 24 — — — Total non-current receivables 192 (36) 156 134 (58) 76 Total receivables 434 (39) 395 341 (73) 268 LOSS ALLOWANCE 2019 2018 $m $m Balance 1 July (73) (71) Amounts utilised for write off of receivables 33 — Loss allowance released/(recognised) 1 (2) Balance 30 June (39) (73) AGEING Days past due Not past due 1 – 30 31 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 120 Over 120 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Total receivables 420 4 2 1 1 6 434 Loss allowance (36) (1) (1) — — (1) (39) Balance 30 June 2019 384 3 1 1 1 5 395 Total receivables 295 3 2 — 3 38 341 Loss allowance (36) (1) (1) — (1) (34) (73) Balance 30 June 2018 259 2 1 — 2 4 268 The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to a single customer. The Group holds collateral over receivables of $246m (2018: $300m). The collateral held equals the carrying amount of the relevant receivables. Refer to note D4 for further details on the Group’s exposure to, and management of, credit risk. 108 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 F Operating assets and liabilities continued F2 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS INVESTMENTS IN UNLISTED ENTITIES The Group may hold units in unlisted entities which do not give Mirvac control, as explained in note G1, or significant influence, as explained in note C3. Distributions received are recognised in revenue and any changes in fair value are recognised in the gain or loss on foreign exchange and financial instruments in the consolidated SoCI. LOAN NOTES Loan notes of $156m were issued as partial payment for the sale of non-aligned assets during FY15 with interest accrued on the notes. All capitalised interest and partial repayment of the original principal were made during FY16, with an additional $50m repayment received during FY18 and final payment of $80m received during FY19. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Other financial assets are carried at fair value. Fair value is estimated as explained in note D5. Collectability of other financial assets is reviewed on the same basis as receivables. Refer to note F1 for details. 2019 2018 $m $m Current Loan notes issued by unrelated parties — 81 Total current other financial assets — 81 Non-current Investments in unlisted entities 60 40 Total non-current other financial assets 60 40 F3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Mirvac has two types of intangible assets, goodwill and management rights. The goodwill acquired in a business combination is attributable to the profitability of the acquired business, as well as benefits derived from the acquired workforce and other intangible assets that cannot be separately recognised. The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax. Management rights are the rights to manage properties and funds and have been initially recognised at fair value as part of business combinations. Management rights relating to Office & Industrial are estimated to have a useful life of 10 years and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Management rights relating to Retail are considered to be open-ended and therefore have no expiry. Management considers the useful life as indefinite and the management rights are tested annually for impairment. The breakdown of intangible assets by operating segment is set out below. Balance Amortisation of Balance Amortisation of Balance 1 July management 30 June management 30 June 2017 Additions rights 2018 Additions rights 2019 Carrying amounts $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill Office & Industrial 671 — — 67 1 — — 67 Total goodwill 67 — — 67 — — 67 Management rights Office & Industrial 8 1 (1) 8 2 (1) 9 Retail 3 — — 3 — — 3 Total management rights 11 1 (1) 11 2 (1) 12 Total intangible assets 78 1 (1) 78 2 (1) 79 1. Goodwill of $5m previously allocated to the Corporate segment has been reallocated to Office & Industrial segment to better align with the synergies in the Office portfolio. Comparative information has been restated accordingly. 109 IMPAIRMENT TESTING Goodwill and indefinite-life management rights are tested annually for impairment. Finite life management rights are tested when an indicator of impairment exists. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and allocated to cash generating units (CGU). The allocation is made to groups of CGU identified according to operating segments. An asset is impaired if the recoverable amount, calculated as the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell, is less than its carrying amount. KEY ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE VALUE IN USE AND THE HIGHER OF FAIR VALUE LESS COSTS TO SELL Intangible assets are measured as Level 3 financial instruments. Refer to note D5 for explanation of the levels of value measurement. The estimation of the recoverable amount depends on the nature of the CGU. For CGU relating to the Group’s property portfolio, the value in use is the discounted present value of estimated cash flows that the CGU will generate. The cash flow projections are based on approved forecasts covering a 10year period. AASB 136 Impairment of Assets recommends that cash flow projections should cover a maximum period of 5 years, unless a longer period can be justified. As the cash flow projections used for budgeting and forecasting are based on long-term, predictable and quantifiable leases, with renewal assumptions based on sector and industry experience, management is comfortable that a 10-year cash flow projection is more appropriate. The key assumptions used to determine the forecast cash flows included net market rent, capital expenditure, Capitalisation rate, growth rate, discount rate and market conditions. The growth rate has been adjusted to reflect current market conditions and does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates. A terminal growth rate of three per cent has also been applied. The discount and growth rates applied to the cash flow projections are specific and reflect the risks of each segment. The growth rate applied beyond the initial period is noted in the table below. The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for each CGU. 2019 2018 Growth Pre-tax Growth Pre-tax rate 1 discount rate rate 1 discount rate Cash generating units % pa % pa % pa % pa Goodwill Office & Industrial —2 6.7 —2 7.1 Management rights Retail 3.0 13.0 3.0 13.0 1. Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period. 2. The value in use calculation is based on forecasts approved by management covering a 10-year period. No forecast growth rate is assumed as the value in use calculations are based on forecast cash flows from existing projects and investment properties. No intangible assets were impaired in 2019 (2018: nil). The Directors and management have considered reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions and have not identified any reasonably possible changes that could cause an impairment. 110 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 F Operating assets and liabilities continued F4 PAYABLES Payables are measured at amortised costs. Due to the short-term nature of current payables, their carrying amount is assumed to be the same as their fair value. For the majority of non-current payables, the carrying amount is also not significantly different to their fair value. Trade payables due more than 12 months after year end are classified as non-current 2019 2018 $m $m Current Trade payables 142 122 Accruals 229 311 Deferred payment for land 16 54 Annual leave accrual 15 15 Other payables 52 76 Total current payables 454 578 Non-current Deferred payment for land 35 36 Other payables 20 15 Total non-current payables 55 51 Total payables 509 629 F5 PROVISIONS LONG SERVICE LEAVE (LSL) Where the LSL provision is expected to be settled more than 12 months after year end, the expected future payments are discounted to present value. The corporate bond rates used to discount the expected future payments have maturities aligned to the estimated timing of future cash flows. In calculating the LSL provision, management judgement is required to estimate future wages and salaries, on-cost rates and employee service periods. DISTRIBUTIONS PAYABLE A provision is made for the amount of distributions declared at or before year end but not yet paid; refer to note E1. WARRANTIES The Group is obliged to rectify any defective work during the warranty period of its developments. Warranties are also known as post-completion maintenance costs. Movements in each class of provision during the year are set out below: Long service Distributions leave payable Warranties Other Total $m $m $m $m $m Balance 1 July 2018 14 222 7 6 249 Additional provisions — 440 3 — 443 Payments made/amounts utilised — (416) (4) (6) (426) Net long service leave movement 2 — — — 2 Balance 30 June 2019 16 246 6 — 268 Current 11 246 5 — 262 Non-current 5 — 1 — 6 111 G Group structure This section explains how the Group is structured, the Deed of Cross Guarantee between Group companies and disclosures for the parent entity. G1 GROUP STRUCTURE AND DEED OF CROSS GUARANTEE CONTROLLED ENTITIES The consolidated financial statements of Mirvac incorporate the assets, liabilities and results of all controlled entities. Controlled entities are all entities over which the Group has power to direct the activities of the entity and an exposure to and ability to influence its variable returns from its involvement with the entity. Controlled entities are fully consolidated from the date of control is obtained until the date that control ceases. Inter-entity transactions and balances are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the assets transferred. STRUCTURED ENTITIES A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity. Mirvac considers that all funds and trusts in which it currently has an investment, or from which it currently earns income, to be structured entities. Depending on the Group’s power to direct the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own returns, it may consolidate the entity. In other cases, it may sponsor or have some form of exposure to a structured entity but not consolidate it. If Mirvac does not control a structured entity but has significant influence it is treated as an associate. The Group does not have any associates. FUNDS AND TRUSTS Mirvac invests in a number of funds and trusts which invest in real estate as investment properties. The funds and trusts finance their operations through borrowings and through equity issues. The Group determines whether it controls or has significant influence over these funds and trusts as discussed above. CLOSED GROUP Mirvac Limited and certain wholly-owned entities (collectively the Closed Group) are parties to a Deed of Cross Guarantee. The members of the Closed Group guarantee to pay any deficiency in the event that another member winds up. Refer to note I2 for a list of Closed Group members. 2019 2018 Closed Group SoCI $m $m Revenue 1,994 1,695 Other income Revaluation of investment properties and investment properties under construction — 3 Share of net profit of joint ventures 53 63 Gain on financial instruments 2 11 Total revenue and other income 2,049 1,772 Development expenses 1,446 1,118 Investment properties expenses and outgoings 13 14 Employee and other expenses 179 179 Selling and marketing expenses 34 40 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 11 10 Finance costs 131 146 Loss on financial instruments 63 4 Net loss on sale of assets — 5 Profit before income tax 172 256 Income tax expense (54) (77) Profit for the year 118 179 112 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 G Group structure continued 2019 2018 Closed Group SoFP $m $m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 109 189 Receivables 200 187 Inventories 292 679 Derivative financial assets — 3 Other assets 28 19 Total current assets 629 1,077 Non-current assets Receivables 1,598 1,380 Inventories 1,530 1,231 Investment properties 161 307 Investments in joint ventures 272 289 Derivative financial assets 325 118 Other financial assets 925 784 Property, plant and equipment 42 40 Intangible assets 40 42 Deferred tax assets 437 463 Total non-current assets 5,330 4,654 Total assets 5,959 5,731 Current liabilities Payables 519 541 Deferred revenue — 143 Borrowings — 134 Derivative financial liabilities 1 1 Provisions 16 17 Total current liabilities 536 836 Non-current liabilities Payables 45 46 Deferred revenue 76 309 Borrowings 3,448 2,938 Derivative financial liabilities 102 77 Deferred tax liabilities 359 312 Provisions 5 10 Total non-current liabilities 4,035 3,692 Total liabilities 4,571 4,528 Net assets 1,388 1,203 Equity Contributed equity 2,154 2,075 Reserves 14 25 Retained earnings (780) (897) Total equity 1,388 1,203 113 G2 PARENT ENTITY The financial information for the parent entity, Mirvac Limited, is prepared on the same basis as the consolidated financial statements, except as set out below: Tax consolidation legislation – Mirvac Limited is the head entity of a tax consolidated group as discussed in note B5. As the head entity, Mirvac Limited recognises the current tax balances and the deferred tax assets for unused tax losses and credits assumed from other members as well as its own current and deferred tax amounts. Amounts receivable from or payable to the other members are recognised by Mirvac Limited as intercompany receivables or payables. 2019 2018 Parent entity $m $m Current assets 4,820 4,822 Total assets 5,440 5,243 Current liabilities 3,153 3,036 Total liabilities 3,154 3,037 Equity Contributed equity 2,153 2,075 SBP reserve 33 30 Retained earnings 100 101 Total equity 2,286 2,206 Loss for the year (1) (17) Total comprehensive loss for the year (1) (17) The parent entity is party to the Deed of Cross Guarantee discussed in note G1 and therefore guarantees the debts of the other Closed Group members. At 30 June 2019, the parent entity did not provide any other guarantees (2018: $nil), have any contingent liabilities (2018: $nil), or any capital commitments (2018: $nil). G3 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS On 31 July 2018, the Group launched the Australian Build to Rent Club (the Club) with the Clean Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC) committing to a 30.1% non-controlling interest. The Club was established in Australia. Non-controlling interests are shown separately in the consolidated SoCI, consolidated SoCE and consolidated SoFP. The financial information, before intercompany eliminations of the Club is provided below. There was no profit for the year. 2019 Summarised SoFP $m Current assets 4 Total assets 110 Current liabilities 7 Total liabilities 7 Equity Contributed equity 103 Total equity 103 Attributable to: Stapled securityholders 72 Non-controlling interest 31 2019 Summarised cash flow information $m Operating — Investing (99) Financing 103 Net increase in cash 4 114 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 H Other disclosures This section provides additional required disclosures that are not covered in the previous sections. H1 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES A contingent liability is a possible obligation that may become payable depending on a future event or a present obligation that is not probable to require payment/cannot be reliably measured. A provision is not recognised for contingent liabilities. 2019 2018 $m $m Bank guarantees and performance bonds granted in the normal course of business 256 280 Health and safety claims 1 1 As at 30 June 2019, the Group had no contingent liabilities relating to joint ventures (2018: $nil). H2 EARNINGS PER STAPLED SECURITY Basic earnings per stapled security (EPS) is calculated by dividing: >> the profit attributable to stapled securityholders; by >> the weighted average number of ordinary securities (WANOS) outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS adjusts the WANOS to take into account dilutive potential ordinary securities from security-based payments. 2019 2018 Basic and diluted EPS (cents) Profit for the year attributable to stapled securityholders used to calculate basic and diluted EPS ($m) 1,019 1,089 27.6 29.4 WANOS used in calculating basic EPS (m) 3,694 3,708 WANOS used in calculating diluted EPS (m) 3,696 3,710 FY19 FY18 H3 RELATED PARTIES Key management personnel compensation The Remuneration report on pages 52 to 72 provides detailed disclosures of key management personnel compensation. The total expense is summarised below: 2019 2018 $000 $000 Short-term employment benefits 11,714 11,436 Security-based payments 5,352 5,547 Post-employment benefits 278 254 Other long-term benefits 91 91 Total key management personnel compensation 17,435 17,328 There are no outstanding loans to directors or employees (2018: nil). 115 TRANSACTIONS WITH JV AND OTHER RELATED PARTIES $331,848 $36,269 $1,273 $136 $4,593 $6,612 $8,545 $8,079 Interest income Development revenue Property management and other fees Trustee fees FY19 ($000) FY18 ($000) 2019 2018 $000 $000 Loans due from JV and other related parties Balance 1 July 4,047 14,809 Loans advanced 79,275 6,445 Loan repayments received (4,047) (18,130) Interest capitalised — 923 Balance 30 June 79,275 4,047 Transactions between Mirvac and its related parties were made on commercial terms and conditions. Distributions received from JV were on the same terms and conditions that applied to other securityholders. Equity interests in JV are set out in note C3. H4 CASH FLOW INFORMATION For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and short-term deposits at call. RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT TO OPERATING CASH FLOW 2019 2018 $m $m Profit for the year attributable to stapled securityholders 1,019 1,089 Net loss/(gain) on financial instruments 57 (20) Net gain on foreign exchange (1) (2) Share of net profit of joint ventures (69) (143) Joint venture distributions received 112 82 Revaluation of investment properties and investment properties under construction (516) (478) Depreciation and amortisation expenses 52 41 Security-based payments expense 14 13 Change in operating assets and liabilities Increase in receivables (51) (111) Decrease/(increase) in inventories 86 (87) (Decrease)/increase in payables (216) 207 (Decrease)/increase in provisions (5) 2 Decrease in tax effected balances 46 72 Increase in other assets/liabilities (10) (2) Net cash inflows from operating activities 518 663 116 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 H Other disclosures continued NET DEBT RECONCILIATION Cash and cash Current Non-current equivalents borrowings borrowings Net debt $m $m $m $m Balance 1 July 2018 221 (135) (2,938) (2,852) Net cash flow movements (87) 134 (249) (202) Other non-cash movements — 1 (261) (260) Balance 30 June 2019 134 — (3,448) (3,314) H5 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 2019 2018 $000 $000 Audit services Audit and review of financial reports 1,651 1,600 Other assurance services 471 626 Total audit services 2,122 2,226 Other services Advisory services 246 16 Tax advice and compliance services — 145 Total other services 246 161 Total auditors’ remuneration 2,368 2,387 117 I Appendices This section provides detailed listings of Mirvac’s properties and controlled entities. I1 PROPERTY LISTING This table shows details of Mirvac’s properties portfolio. Refer to notes C1 to C3 for further details. Book value Capitalisation rate Discount rate 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Office $m $m % % % % 1 Darling Island, Pyrmont NSW 291 283 5.50 5.50 6.75 6.75 101-103 Miller Street, North Sydney NSW (50% interest) 296 255 5.38 5.75 6.75 7.00 10-20 Bond Street, Sydney NSW (50% interest) 325 290 5.00 5.25 6.50 6.75 189 Grey Street, Southbank QLD 87 85 6.50 7.00 7.25 7.50 2 Riverside Quay, Southbank VIC (50% interest) 140 129 5.13 5.25 6.50 7.00 200 George Street, Sydney NSW (50% interest) 496 442 4.75 5.00 6.50 6.75 23 Furzer Street, Phillip ACT 303 268 6.00 6.75 7.00 7.50 275 Kent Street, Sydney NSW (50% interest) 757 720 5.00 5.00 6.75 6.75 340 Adelaide Street, Brisbane QLD 72 65 6.75 7.25 7.25 7.75 367 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 389 328 5.38 5.88 6.75 7.25 37 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 100 87 5.75 6.00 6.75 7.00 380 St Kilda Road, Melbourne VIC 176 176 6.00 6.00 6.75 6.75 383 La Trobe Street, Melbourne VIC 1 124 — 5.38 — 7.00 — 40 Miller Street, North Sydney NSW 147 151 6.25 6.25 7.00 7.00 51 Pitt Street, Sydney NSW 40 35 5.75 6.00 6.75 7.00 Various lots, 53 Walker Street & 97 Pacific Highway, North Sydney NSW 1 26 — — — — — 55 Coonara Avenue, West Pennant Hills NSW 77 78 8.00 8.00 8.25 8.25 60 Margaret Street, Sydney NSW (50% interest) 340 281 5.13 5.75 6.25 7.13 65 Pirrama Road, Pyrmont NSW 183 155 5.75 5.88 6.50 7.00 664 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC (50% interest) 143 138 5.13 5.13 6.50 6.50 6-8 Underwood Street, Sydney NSW 21 19 5.75 6.00 6.75 7.00 699 Bourke Street, Melbourne VIC (50% interest) 103 102 5.25 5.25 6.50 6.50 75 George Street, Parramatta NSW 88 88 5.75 5.75 7.00 7.00 90 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 260 232 5.25 5.75 6.50 7.25 Allendale Square, 77 St Georges Terrace, Perth WA 239 243 6.75 7.00 7.25 7.50 Locomotive Carpark, South Eveleigh NSW 13 13 7.50 8.00 8.25 9.75 Locomotive Workshops, Locomotive Street, South Eveleigh NSW 2 — 72 — 7.00 — 7.00 Quay West Carpark, 109-111 Harrington Street, Sydney NSW 39 38 6.50 6.75 7.75 8.50 Riverside Quay, Southbank VIC 311 273 5.88 6.00 7.13 7.25 Total investment properties 5,586 5,046 Investment properties under construction 477 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC (50% interest) 177 94 — 5.00 — 7.00 CBA Buildings, Locomotive Street, South Eveleigh NSW (33.3% interest) 275 122 5.25 5.50 7.25 7.87 80 Ann Street, Brisbane QLD (50% interest) 1 72 — — — — — Locomotive Workshops, Locomotive Street, South Eveleigh NSW 2 84 — — — — — Total investment properties under construction 608 216 Total investment properties and investment properties under construction 6,194 5,262 Investments in joint ventures 8 Chifley Square, Sydney NSW (50% interest) 240 242 4.88 5.00 6.50 6.63 David Malcolm Justice Centre, 28 Barrack Street, Perth WA (50% interest) 221 215 5.50 5.50 7.25 7.25 Total investments in joint ventures 461 457 Total Office 6,655 5,719 118 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 I Appendices continued I1 PROPERTY LISTING CONTINUED Book value Capitalisation rate Discount rate 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Industrial $m $m % % % % 1-47 Percival Road, Smithfield NSW 45 44 6.50 6.75 7.25 8.00 271 Lane Cove Road, North Ryde NSW 38 39 7.00 7.00 7.75 7.75 274 Victoria Road, Rydalmere NSW 52 49 5.25 6.50 6.75 7.75 34-39 Anzac Avenue, Smeaton Grange NSW 31 28 6.50 7.25 7.50 8.25 36 Gow Street, Padstow NSW 35 33 6.25 6.25 7.25 7.25 39 Britton Street, Smithfield NSW 24 23 6.25 6.25 7.25 7.25 39 Herbert Street, St Leonards NSW 187 183 5.75 6.13 7.38 7.38 8 Brabham Drive, Huntingwood NSW 23 23 6.10 6.75 7.00 7.50 Calibre, 60 Wallgrove Road, Eastern Creek NSW (50% interest) 3 130 64 4.88-5.13 6.00-6.25 6.75 7.25-7.50 Hoxton Distribution Park, Hoxton Park NSW (50% interest) 171 170 5.22 5.22 6.92 6.92 Nexus Industry Park, Lyn Parade, Prestons NSW 141 137 6.00-6.75 6.50-6.75 7.00-7.25 7.50-7.75 Total investment properties 877 793 Investment properties under construction Calibre, 60 Wallgrove Road, Eastern Creek NSW (50% interest) 3 — 16 5.00-5.13 — 6.75 — Total Investment properties under construction — 16 Total investment properties and investment properties under construction 877 809 Total industrial 877 809 Book value Capitalisation rate Discount rate 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Retail $m $m % % % % 1-3 Smail Street, Ultimo NSW (50% interest) 35 32 5.50 5.50 6.75 6.75 80 Bay Street, Glebe NSW (50% interest) 13 12 5.50 5.50 6.75 6.75 Birkenhead Point Brand Outlet, Drummoyne NSW 4 427 416 5.25-8.00 5.25-8.00 7.25-9.50 7.25-9.50 Broadway Sydney, Broadway NSW (50% interest) 427 422 4.50 4.50 6.50 6.50 Cherrybrook Village, Cherrybrook NSW 97 97 6.00 6.25 7.50 7.50 Cooleman Court, Weston ACT 68 60 6.50 6.50 7.25 7.50 East Village, Zetland NSW 326 319 5.25 5.25 7.00 7.00 Greenwood Plaza, North Sydney NSW (50% interest) 119 117 5.50 5.75 7.50 7.50 Harbourside, Sydney NSW 262 262 5.75 5.75 6.75 6.75 Kawana Shoppingworld, Buddina QLD (50% interest) 209 197 5.50 5.50 7.25 7.50 Metcentre, Sydney NSW (50% interest) 82 81 5.50 5.75 7.00 7.50 Moonee Ponds Central, Moonee Ponds VIC 90 84 6.00 6.00 7.00 7.25 Orion Springfield Central, Springfield QLD 440 370 5.00 5.50 7.50 7.50 Rhodes Waterside, Rhodes NSW (50% interest) 207 200 5.25 5.25 7.00 7.25 South Village, Kirrawee NSW 5 108 — 5.75 — 7.50 — St Marys Village Centre, St Marys NSW 50 49 6.50 6.50 7.50 7.50 Stanhope Village, Stanhope Gardens NSW 147 140 5.75 6.00 7.00 7.50 Toombul, Nundah QLD 292 269 6.00 6.00 7.50 7.50 Tramsheds Sydney, Glebe NSW 42 45 5.75 5.50 7.00 7.25 Total investment properties 3,441 3,172 Investment properties under construction Orion Springfield land, Springfield QLD 6 — 18 — — — — South Village, Kirrawee NSW 5 — 33 — — — — Total investment properties under construction — 51 Total investment properties and investment properties under construction 3,441 3,223 Total Retail 3,441 3,223 119 Book value Capitalisation rate Discount rate 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Residential $m $m % % % % Investment properties under construction Amber (Building 3) and Indigo (Building 5), Sydney Olympic Park NSW 7 128 — — — — — Total investment properties under construction 128 — — — — — Total Residential 128 — Property portfolio Total investment properties and investment properties under construction 10,640 9,294 Total investments in joint ventures 461 457 Total property portfolio 11,101 9,751 1. Investment property acquired during the year. 2. Investment property commenced redevelopment during the year and was reclassified to investment properties under construction. 3. Buildings 2 and 5 reached practical completion during the year and were reclassified to investment property from investment properties under construction. 4. Book value includes Birkenhead Point Marina, Drummoyne NSW and 64 Roseby Street, Drummoyne NSW. 5. Investment property reached practical completion during the year and was reclassified to investment property. 6. During the year, the Orion Springfield land was transferred from investment properties under construction to investment property. 7. Investment property under construction was transferred from inventories during the year. I2 CONTROLLED ENTITIES All entities controlled by the Group are shown below. Unless otherwise noted, they are wholly owned and were incorporated or established in Australia during the current year and prior years. Members of the Closed Group Mirvac Capital Pty Limited 1 197 Salmon Street Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Commercial Sub SPV Pty Limited 1 A.C.N. 087 773 859 Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Constructions (Homes) Pty. Limited 1 A.C.N. 110 698 603 Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Constructions (QLD) Pty Limited A.C.N. 150 521 583 Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Constructions (SA) Pty Limited 1 A.C.N. 165 515 515 Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Constructions (VIC) Pty Limited CN Collins Pty Ltd Mirvac Constructions (WA) Pty Limited EZ Power Pty Ltd 1, 2 Mirvac Constructions Pty Limited Fast Track Bromelton Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Design Pty Limited Fyfe Road Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Developments Pty Limited 1 Gainsborough Greens Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Doncaster Pty Limited HIR Boardwalk Tavern Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Energy Pty Limited 1 HIR Golf Club Pty Limited 1 Mirvac ESAT Pty Limited 1 HIR Golf Course Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Finance Limited HIR Property Management Holdings Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Funds Limited 1 HIR Tavern Freehold Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Funds Management Limited 1 Hoxton Park Airport Limited Mirvac George Street Holdings Pty Limited 1 HPAL Holdings Pty Limited 1 Mirvac George Street Pty Limited 1 Industrial Commercial Property Solutions (Constructions) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Green Square Pty Limited 1 Industrial Commercial Property Solutions (Finance) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Group Finance Limited Industrial Commercial Property Solutions (Holdings) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Group Funding Limited Industrial Commercial Property Solutions (Queensland) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Harbourtown Pty Limited 1 Industrial Commercial Property Solutions Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Harold Park Pty Limited 1 JF ASIF Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Hatch Pty Ltd 1, 3 Magenta Shores Finance Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Holdings (WA) Pty Limited 1 Marrickville Projects Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Holdings Limited Mirvac (Beacon Cove) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Home Builders (VIC) Pty Limited Mirvac (Docklands) Pty Limited Mirvac Homes (NSW) Pty Limited Mirvac (Old Treasury Development Manager) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Homes (QLD) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac (Old Treasury Hotel) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Homes (SA) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac (Retail and Commercial) Holdings Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Homes (VIC) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac (WA) Pty Limited Mirvac Homes (WA) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac (Walsh Bay) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Hotel Services Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Advisory Pty Limited 1 Mirvac ID (Bromelton) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Aero Company Pty Limited 1 1. This entity was a member of the Closed Group during the current and prior year. Mirvac AOP SPV Pty Limited 1 A Revocation Deed dated 1 June 2019 was lodged with ASIC on 13 June 2019 to Mirvac Birkenhead Point Marina Pty Limited 1 release this entity from the Closed Group which is expected to become operative in accordance with the terms of the Revocation Deed on 14 December 2019. Mirvac Capital Investments Pty Limited 2. Previously registered as Hexham Project Pty Limited. Mirvac Capital Partners Investment Management Pty Limited 1 3. Previously registered as Mirvac Commercial Funding Pty Ltd. Mirvac Capital Partners Pty Limited 1 120 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 I Appendices continued I2 CONTROLLED ENTITIES CONTINUED Members of the Closed Group (continued) Interests in controlled entities of Mirvac not included Mirvac ID (Bromelton) Sponsor Pty Limited 1 in the Closed Group Mirvac Industrial Developments Pty Limited 107 Mount Street Head Trust Mirvac International (Middle East) No. 2 Pty Limited 1 107 Mount Street Sub Trust Mirvac International No. 3 Pty Limited 1 477 Collins Street No. 2 Trust Mirvac International Investments Limited 699 Bourke Street Services Pty Limited Mirvac Investment Manager Pty Ltd 1 ABTRC Head Trust A 1 Mirvac JV’s Pty Limited 1 ABTRC Head Trust B 1 Mirvac Kent Street Holdings Pty Limited 1 Banksia Unit Trust Mirvac Mandurah Pty Limited 1 BL Developments Pty Ltd Mirvac National Developments Pty Limited BTR indigo Trust A 1 Mirvac Newcastle Pty Limited 1 BTR Indigo Trust B 1 Mirvac Office Developments Pty Ltd Eveleigh Commercial Holdings Pty Limited Mirvac Old Treasury Holdings Pty Limited 1 Eveleigh Commercial Pty Ltd Mirvac Pacific Pty Limited Eveleigh Precinct Pty Ltd Mirvac Parking Pty. Limited 1 JFM Hotel Trust 2 Mirvac Precinct 2 Pty Limited 1 Joynton North Pty Ltd Mirvac Procurement Pty Limited 1 Kirrawee South Centre Pty Ltd Mirvac Projects (Retail and Commercial) Pty Ltd 1 Kirrawee South Centre Trust Mirvac Projects Dalley Street Pty Limited 1 La Trobe Office Trust 1 Mirvac Projects George Street Pty Limited 1 Magenta Shores Unit Trust Mirvac Projects No. 2 Pty. Limited 1 Magenta Unit Trust Mirvac Projects Pty Ltd Mirvac 275 Kent Street Services Pty Ltd Mirvac Properties Pty Limited 1 Mirvac 699 Bourke Street Trust Mirvac Property Advisory Services Pty. Limited 1 Mirvac Auburn Industrial Trust 3 Mirvac Property Services Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Badgery’s Creek Industrial Trust 1 Mirvac Queensland Pty Limited Mirvac Blue Trust Mirvac Real Estate Debt Funds Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Bourke Street No. 3 Sub-Trust Mirvac Real Estate Pty Limited Mirvac BTR Head Company A Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac REIT Management Pty Limited 1 Mirvac BTR Head Company B Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Residential (NSW) Developments Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac BTR Head SPV Pty Ltd Mirvac Retail Developments Pty Ltd Mirvac BTR Head Trust Mirvac Retail Head SPV Pty Limited 1 Mirvac BTR Sub Company A Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Retail Sub SPV Pty Limited 1 Mirvac BTR Sub Company B Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Rockbank Pty Limited Mirvac BTR Sub SPV Pty Ltd Mirvac Services Pty Limited 1 Mirvac BTR Sub Trust 1 Mirvac South Australia Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Capital Assurance Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Spare Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Chifley Holdings Pty Limited Mirvac Spring Farm Limited Mirvac Commercial Finance Pty Limited 1 Mirvac SPV 1 Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Duck River Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Trademarks Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Green Trust Mirvac Treasury Limited Mirvac Harbourside Sub Trust Mirvac Treasury No. 3 Limited Mirvac Harold Park Trust Mirvac Victoria Pty Limited Mirvac Hoist Pty Ltd Mirvac Wholesale Funds Management Limited Mirvac Industrial No. 2 Sub Trust Mirvac Wholesale Industrial Developments Limited Mirvac Industrial Sub SPV Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Woolloomooloo pty Limited Mirvac Kemps Creek Trust 1 MRV Hillsdale Pty Limited 1 Mirvac King Street Pty Ltd MWID (Brendale) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Living Investment Company Pty Ltd MWID (Mackay) Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Living Investment Manager Pty Ltd Newington Homes Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Living Real Estate Services Pty Ltd Oakstand No.15 Hercules Street Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Locomotive Trust Planned Retirement Living Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Nike Holding Pty Ltd Spring Farm Finance Pty Limited 1 Mirvac North Sydney Office Holdings Pty Limited 1 Springfield Development Company Pty Limited 1 Mirvac North Sydney Office Holdings Trust 1 SPV Magenta Pty Limited 1 Mirvac Parramatta Sub Trust No. 2 TMT Finance Pty Limited 1 1. This entity was incorporated/established during the year. Tucker Box Management Pty Limited 1 2. This entity was transferred from MPT during the year. 3. Previously known as Mirvac Kirrawee Trust No 3. 1. This entity was a member of the Closed Group during the current and prior year. A Revocation Deed dated 1 June 2019 was lodged with ASIC on 13 June 2019 to release this entity from the Closed Group which is expected to become operative in accordance with the terms of the Revocation Deed on 14 December 2019. 121 Interests in controlled entities of Mirvac not included Interests in controlled entities of MPT (continued) in the Closed Group (continued) Mirvac Collins Street No.1 Sub-Trust Mirvac Pennant Hills Residential Trust Mirvac Commercial No.3 Sub Trust Mirvac Precinct Trust Mirvac Commercial Trust 1 Mirvac Projects Dalley Street Trust Mirvac Group Funding No. 2 Pty Limited Mirvac Projects George Street Trust Mirvac Group Funding No. 3 Pty Limited Mirvac Projects Norwest Trust Mirvac Hoxton Park Trust Mirvac Projects Norwest No. 2 Trust Mirvac Industrial No. 1 Sub Trust Mirvac Project Trust Mirvac Showground Pty Ltd Mirvac Kirrawee Trust No. 1 Mirvac Showground Trust Mirvac Kirrawee Trust No. 2 Mirvac St Leonards Pty Limited Mirvac La Trobe Office Trust 4 Mirvac St Leonards Trust Mirvac Living Trust Mirvac T6 Pty Ltd 1 Mirvac Padstow Trust No. 1 Mirvac T6 Trust 1 Mirvac Parramatta Sub Trust No. 1 Mirvac Ventures Pty Limited Mirvac Pitt Street Trust MWID (Brendale) Unit Trust Mirvac Property Trust No. 3 Pigface Unit Trust Mirvac Property Trust No. 4 Rovno Pty Limited Mirvac Property Trust No. 5 Suntrack Holdings Pty Limited Mirvac Property Trust No. 6 Suntrack Property Trust Taree Shopping Centre Pty Limited Mirvac Property Trust No. 7 Mirvac Real Estate Investment Trust 1. This entity was incorporated/established during the year. Mirvac Retail Head Trust Interests in controlled entities of MPT Mirvac Retail Sub-Trust No. 1 10-20 Bond Street Trust Mirvac Retail Sub-Trust No. 2 367 Collins Street No. 2 Trust Mirvac Retail Sub-Trust No. 3 367 Collins Street Trust Mirvac Retail Sub-Trust No. 4 380 St Kilda Road Trust 1 Mirvac Rhodes Sub-Trust 477 Collins Street No. 1 Trust Mirvac Rydalmere Trust No. 1 Australian Office Partnership Trust Mirvac Rydalmere Trust No. 2 Eveleigh Trust Mirvac Smail St Trust James Fielding Trust Mirvac Toombul Trust No. 1 Joynton Properties Trust 2 Mirvac Toombul Trust No. 2 Joynton North Property Trust 3 Old Treasury Holding Trust Meridian Investment Trust No. 1 Springfield Regional Shopping Centre Trust Meridian Investment Trust No. 2 The George Street Trust Meridian Investment Trust No. 3 1. One unit on issue held by Mirvac Limited as custodian for MPT. Meridian Investment Trust No. 4 2. This entity was transferred from Mirvac Projects Pty Ltd during the year. 3. The 50.1 per cent of units previously held by Mirvac Projects Pty Ltd were purchased Meridian Investment Trust No. 5 by MPT during the year. Meridian Investment Trust No. 6 4. This entity was established during the year. Mirvac 90 Collins Street Trust Mirvac Allendale Square Trust Mirvac Ann Street Trust Mirvac Bay St Trust Mirvac Bourke Street No.1 Sub-Trust Mirvac Broadway Sub-Trust Mirvac Capital Partners 1 Trust 122 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Directors’ declaration For the year ended 30 June 2019 In the Directors’ opinion: (a) the financial statements and the notes set out on pages 74 to 121 are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: (i) complying with Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements; and (ii)1 g iving a true and fair view of the consolidated entity’s financial position at 30 June 2019 and of its performance for the financial year ended on that date; (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable; and (c) at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the members of the extended Closed Group identified in note I2 will be able to meet any obligations or liabilities to which they are, or may become, subject by virtue of the Deed of Cross Guarantee described in note G1. The basis of preparation note confirms that the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB. The Directors have been given the declarations by the CEO & Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001. This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz Director Sydney 8 August 2019 123 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Mirvac Limited Independent auditor’s report To the stapled securityholders of Mirvac Limited Report on the audit of the financial report Our opinion In our opinion: The accompanying financial report of Mirvac Limited (the Company) and its controlled entities (together the Group) is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: (a) giving a true and fair view of the Group's financial position as at 30 June 2019 and of its financial performance for the year then ended (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. What we have audited The Group’s financial report comprises: ● the consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 June 2019 ● the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended ● the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended ● the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended ● the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies ● the directors’ declaration. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the Group in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 124 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Independent auditor’s report continued Our audit approach An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Group, its accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it operates. Materiality Audit scope Key audit matters ● For the purpose of our audit ● Our audit focused on where ● Amongst other relevant topics, we used overall materiality of the Group made subjective we communicated the following $31.9 million, which judgements; for example, key audit matters to the Audit represents approximately 5% significant accounting and Risk Committee: of the adjusted profit before estimates involving tax of the Group. assumptions and inherently uncertain future events. − Carrying value of ● We applied this threshold, inventories together with qualitative ● The Group owns and manages considerations, to determine investment property assets the scope of our audit and the across Sydney, Melbourne, − Fair value of investment Brisbane and Perth. The properties nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to Group's development activities evaluate the effect of also create and deliver − Recoverability of deferred misstatements on the financial commercial assets and tax assets report as a whole. residential projects across these locations. The ● These are further described in ● We chose adjusted profit accounting processes are before tax of the Group as, in the Key audit matters section of structured around a Group our report. our view, it is a metric against finance function at its head which the performance of the office in Sydney. Our audit Group is measured. procedures were predominantly performed at ● Profit before tax is adjusted for the Group head office, along fair value movements in with a number of property and investment property, unlisted development site visits being equity investments, derivatives performed across the year. and foreign exchange 125 movements because they are significant non-cash items. ● We utilised a 5% threshold based on our professional judgement, noting it is within the range of commonly acceptable thresholds. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current period. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of inventories Refer to note C4 $1,684m We tested the Group’s quarterly review and approval of Inventories are stated at the lower of the cost and net their estimate of net realisable value for a sample of the realisable value for each development project. Group’s development projects. Cost is calculated using actual costs of acquisition, We tested the capitalisation of a sample of expenses development, interest capitalised and all other costs and interest into inventory during the period. directly related to specific projects. An allocation of direct overhead expenses is also included. We recalculated the cost of goods sold recognised for a sample of settled residential development sales and The Group’s estimate of net realisable value includes construction and development management revenues assumptions about future market and economic based on the project’s forecast profit margin and conditions which inherently are subject to the risk of progress towards completion. change. These assumptions include future sales prices, future settlement rates, forecast costs of completion, We obtained publicly available independent property selling costs and the nature, quality and location of market reports to inform our understanding of market inventory held. conditions. In the same period that a property is sold, costs We performed a risk based assessment to determine associated with the development of that property are those development projects at greater risk of being sold expensed to the income statement as development at a price below the cost of development to the Group. expenses and cost of goods sold interest. The profit Our risk based selection criteria are informed by our recognised on costs expensed requires judgment as it is knowledge of the development progress of each project, affected by the assumptions used to estimate net site visits during the year and our understanding of realisable value of a development project outlined current economic conditions relevant to individual above. project locations. This was a key audit matter given the relative size of For those projects which met our selection criteria, we the inventory balance in the Consolidated Statement of performed procedures to assess the reasonableness of Financial Position and the significant judgment key assumptions used in the Group’s assessment of net 126 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Independent auditor’s report continued involved in the estimates used to calculate net realisable value. Our audit procedures included, realisable value. amongst others: ● Obtained and discussed the project feasibility model with management to develop an understanding of project status and risks and the basis for assumptions used in determining estimates of net realisable value. ● Testing of key inputs into individual development project feasibility models, including: Comparing estimated sales prices to market sales data for comparable properties in similar locations during the year. Assessing the reasonableness of forecast cost estimates where we identified significant changes to cost assumptions from the prior year. Assessing reasonableness of the allocation of costs across stages on multistage projects. ● Assessing whether the carrying value was the lower of cost and net realisable value, including testing the sensitivity of certain assumptions used by the Group in their estimation of net realisable value in a sample of projects. Fair value of investment properties Refer to note C2 $10,640m The carrying value of investment properties is For a sample of properties we checked compliance with measured at the fair value of each property. the Group’s policy that properties had been externally valued at least once in the last two years and checked The fair value of investment property is inherently that the Group followed its policy on rotation of subjective and impacted by, among other factors, valuation firms. prevailing market conditions, the individual nature and condition of each property, its location and the For a sample of properties we agreed the fair values of expected future income for each property. Amongst those properties to the external valuations or internal others, the capitalisation rate, discount rate, market valuation models and assessed the competency, rents and capital expenditure assumptions used in the capability and objectivity of the relevant valuer. valuation process are key in establishing fair value. We read recent independent property market reports to develop our understanding of the prevailing market At each reporting period the Directors determine the conditions in locations in which the Group invests. fair value of the Group’s investment property portfolio 127 having regard to the Group’s valuation policy which We met with management to discuss the specifics of requires all properties to be externally valued by the property portfolio including any new leases entered independent valuation experts at least once every two into during the year, lease expiries, vacancy rates and years. planned capital expenditure. In the period between external valuations the We performed a risk based assessment over the Directors’ valuation is supported by internal Mirvac investment property portfolio to determine those valuation models. properties at greater risk of being carried at an amount above fair value. Our risk based selection criteria This was a key audit matter because the: include quantitative and qualitative measures and are informed by our knowledge of each property, site visits during the year and our understanding of current ● investment property balances are financially market conditions. significant in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position For those properties which met our selection criteria, we performed procedures to assess the reasonableness ● impact of changes in the fair value of of key assumptions used in the external valuations and investment properties can have a significant internal valuation models (together the ‘valuations’). effect on the consolidated entity’s These procedures included, amongst others: comprehensive income ● Assessing the reasonableness of the capitalisation rate, discount rate and market ● investment property valuations are inherently rents used in the valuations against market subjective due to the use of assumptions in the sales data for comparable properties. valuation methodology ● We reconciled the rental income and outgoings data used in the valuations with ● sensitivity of valuations to key input rental income and outgoings amounts assumptions, specifically capitalisation and recorded in the general ledger for each discount rates and market rents. property. ● We considered the reasonableness of other assumptions in the valuations that were not so readily available such as vacancies, rent free periods and let up allowances and incentives. Recoverability of deferred tax assets Refer to note B5 $98m Our audit focused on the recoverability of deferred tax We assessed the Group’s ability to utilise the deferred assets in the normal course of our audit, but also in tax assets by: light of the materiality of unused tax losses recognised by the Group within this balance. The Group carries an ● Obtaining calculations of forecast taxable asset of $167m for the benefit expected to be received income for the next five years and agreeing in the future from carried forward tax losses and also these to the latest Board approved budget and discloses a total of $86m in tax losses which have not forecast. been recognised due to uncertainty of utilisation. ● Comparing the latest Board approved budget To assess whether the Group will receive the benefit to historical performance to assess the from using these tax losses, the Group estimates and consistency and accuracy of the Group’s projects the likely taxable profits each year of Mirvac approach to budgeting as compared to prior Limited (the parent entity of the Tax Consolidated periods. Group) based on current and approved Board strategies. While Mirvac Property Trust generates ● Considering the key selected assumptions in taxable profits each year, this Trust income is the cashflow budget and forecasts. 128 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Independent auditor’s report continued distributed each year in full and is taxed in the hands of ● Evaluating whether the cashflows had been the stapled security holders as a Trust Distribution. appropriately adjusted for the differences between accounting profits, as presented in This was a key audit matter as it involves the the approved Board budget and forecast, to assessment of the Group’s significant judgements on taxable income. future taxation events. Changes in the Group’s estimates also have a material impact on the deferred ● Recalculating deferred tax asset balances tax asset and the financial position of the Group. which comprise a combination of timing differences between tax and accounting bases and tax losses. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report for the year ended 30 June 2019, but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 129 if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor's report. Report on the remuneration report Our opinion on the remuneration report We have audited the remuneration report included on pages 52 to 72 of the directors’ report for the year ended 30 June 2019. In our opinion, the remuneration report of Mirvac Limited for the year ended 30 June 2019 complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Responsibilities The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. PricewaterhouseCoopers Jane Reilly Sydney Partner 8 August 2019 130 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Security information For the year ended 30 June 2019 MANAGING YOUR SECURITYHOLDING Securityholders with queries concerning their holding, distribution payments or other related matters should contact Mirvac’s registry, Link Market Services Limited, as follows: >> Mirvac information line (toll free within Australia): +61 1800 356 444; or >> Website: www.linkmarketservices.com.au When contacting the registry, please quote your current address details together with your Securityholder Reference Number (SRN) or Holder Identification Number (HIN) as shown on your Issuer Sponsored or CHESS statements. The most efficient way to access your securityholding details is online at www.linkmarketservices.com.au. You will need your SRN or your HIN (this reference number is recorded in statements that you receive about your holding in Mirvac) when you log-in online. You can do the following online at www.linkmarketservices.com.au: >> elect to receive important communications by email; >> choose to have your distribution payments paid directly into your bank account; >> provide your tax file number (TFN) or Australian Business Number (ABN); >> lodge your votes for securityholder meetings; and >> Complete Tax Residency Certification (CRS/FATCA). Managing your securityholding online is speedier, cost-effective and environmentally friendly. If it is easier for you to update your securityholding information by post, you can download the forms from www.linkmarketservices.com.au or by contacting the Mirvac information line (toll free within Australia) on +61 1800 356 444 to request the appropriate forms to be sent out to you. The information set out below was prepared at 31 July 2019 and applies to Mirvac’s stapled securities (ASX code: MGR). As at 31 July 2019 there were 3,927,061,345 stapled securities on issue. SUBSTANTIAL SECURITYHOLDERS As disclosed in substantial holding notices lodged with the ASX at 31 July 2019: Percentage of Number of issued equity 1 Name Date of change stapled securities % BlackRock Group 18/02/2019 342,191,415 9.35 State Street Corporate and subsidiaries 30/05/2019 260,302,828 7.11 The Vanguard Group, Inc 01/06/2018 351,916,040 9.48 1. Percentage of issued equity held as at the date notice provided. RANGE OF SECURITYHOLDERS Range Number of holders Number of securities 1 to 1,000 5,926 2,655,210 1,001 to 5,000 8,442 22,970,716 5,001 to 10,000 4,283 31,190,443 10,001 to 100,000 5,304 123,434,429 100,001 and over 228 3,746,810,547 Total number of securityholders 24,183 3,927,061,345 131 20 LARGEST SECURITYHOLDERS Percentage of Number of issued equity Name stapledsecurities % 1. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 1,767,573,072 45.01 2. J P Morgan Nominees Australia Pty Limited 967,015,885 24.62 3. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 368,056,923 9.37 4. National Nominees Limited 197,761,076 5.04 5. BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <Agency Lending Drp A/C> 140,760,251 3.59 6. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited <Colonial First State Inv A/C> 68,023,019 1.73 7. BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd <DRP> 47,144,859 1.20 8. AMP Life Limited 25,632,661 0.65 9. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited-GSCO ECA 18,212,766 0.47 10. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 10,997,486 0.28 11. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 9,832,631 0.25 12. Solium Nominees (Australia) Pty Ltd <VSA A/C> 8,635,409 0.22 13. BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <Agency Lending Collateral > 8,264,500 0.21 14. National Nominees Limited <N A/C> 7,388,485 0.19 15. Argo Investments Limited 6,000,551 0.15 16. BNP Paribas Noms (NZ) Ltd 5,322,656 0.14 17. Avanteos Investments Limited <Encircle IMA A/C> 5,198,632 0.13 18. One Managed Investment Funds Limited <Charter Hall Maxim Property Securities A/C> 4,275,000 0.11 19. Buttonwood Nominees Pty Ltd 3,680,691 0.09 20. CS Fourth Nominees Pty Limited <HSBC CUST NOM AU LTD 11 A/C> 3,137,056 0.08 Total for 20 largest securityholders 3,672,913,609 93.53 Total other securityholders 254,147,736 6.47 Total stapled securities on issue 3,927,061,345 100.00 Number of securityholders holding less than a marketable parcel (being 156 securities at the closing market price of $3.22 on 31 July 2019): 1,061. VOTING RIGHTS Subject to the Constitutions of Mirvac Limited and of MPT and to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached to any class or classes of shares, units or stapled securities: >> on a show of hands, each Member present in person or by proxy, attorney, or representative has one vote; and >> on a poll, each Member has: >> in the case of a resolution of Mirvac Limited, one vote for each share in Mirvac Limited held; and >> in the case of a resolution of MPT, one vote for each whole $1.00 of unit value in MPT held. 132 MIRVAC GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Glossary AASB Australian Accounting Standards Board IP Investment properties ABN Australian Business Number IPUC Investment properties under construction AGM Annual General and General Meeting JV Joint ventures ANZ Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited KMP Key management personnel ARCC Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee LSL Long service leave ARSN Australian Registered Scheme Number LTI Long-term incentives ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rates ASX Australian Securities Exchange MAT Moving annual turnover AUD Australian dollar MMRs Mirvac Minimum Requirements BTR Build-to-Rent MPT Mirvac Property Trust CCIRS Cross currency interest rate swaps MREIT Mirvac Real Estate Investment Trust CEO Chief Executive Officer MTN Medium-term notes CEO/MD Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director NABERS National Australian Built Environment Rating System CFO Chief Financial Officer NED Non-Executive Directors CGU Cash generating unit NLA Net lettable area CHESS Clearing House Electronic Subregister System NOI Net operating income CPSS Cents per stapled security NRV Net realisable value DCF Discounted cash flow PPE Property, plant and equipment DRP Dividend/distribution reinvestment plan PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers EBIT Earnings before interest and tax RAP Reconciliation action plan EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ROIC Return on invested capital EEP Employee Exemption Plan SBP Security-based payments EIS Employee Incentive Scheme SoCE Statement of changes in equity EPS Earnings per stapled security SoCI Statement of comprehensive income EV Electric vehicle SoFP Statement of financial position FCTR Foreign currency translation reserve SRN Securityholder Reference Number FY17 Year ended 30 June 2017 SROI Social Return on Investment FY18 Year ended 30 June 2018 STI Short-term incentives FY19 Year ended 30 June 2019 TFN Tax file number FY20 Year ending 30 June 2020 TGS Tax governance statement GLA Gross lettable area TRIFR Total recordable injury frequency rate HIN Holder Identification Number TSR Total Shareholder Return HRC Human Resources Committee TTC Tax Transparency Code HSE Health, safety and environment USPP US Private Placement HSE&S Health, safety, environment and sustainability WACC Weighted average cost of capital IASB International Accounting Standards Board WALE Weighted average lease expiry IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards 133 Directory & upcoming events REGISTERED OFFICE/PRINCIPAL OFFICE Mirvac Group (comprising Mirvac Limited ABN 92 003 280 699 and Mirvac Funds Limited ABN 70 002 561 640, AFSL 233121 as responsible entity of MPT ARSN 086 780 645) Level 28 200 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone +61 2 9080 8000 Facsimile +61 2 9080 8111 www.mirvac.com SECURITIES EXCHANGE LISTING Mirvac is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX code: MGR) DIRECTORS John Mulcahy (Chair) Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz (CEO/MD) Christine Bartlett Peter Hawkins Jane Hewitt James M. Millar AM Samantha Mostyn Peter Nash John Peters Elana Rubin COMPANY SECRETARY Sean Ward STAPLED SECURITY REGISTRY Link Market Services Limited 1A Homebush Bay Drive Rhodes NSW 2138 Telephone +61 1800 356 444 SECURITYHOLDER ENQUIRIES Telephone +61 1800 356 444 Correspondence should be sent to: Mirvac Group C/Link Market Services Limited Locked Bag 14 Sydney South NSW 1235 Further investor information can be located in the Investor Centre tab on Mirvac’s website at www.mirvac.com. AUDITOR PricewaterhouseCoopers One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay Barangaroo NSW 2000 ANNUAL GENERAL AND GENERAL MEETING Mirvac Group’s 2019 AGM will be held at 11.00am (Brisbane Time) on Tuesday, 19 November 2019 at Hilton Brisbane Queen’s Ballroom Level 5, 190 Elizabeth St Brisbane, QLD 4000 UPCOMING EVENTS This report is printed on Supreme Laser and is 22 October: First Quarter Operational Update an environmentally responsible paper produced 19 November: Annual General and General Meetings in an ISO 14001 accredited facility ensuring all production processes are of the highest environmental standards. Supreme Laser is DesignDavey manufactured Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and PEFC Chain of Custody certification and well managed forests. mirvac.com a force for good.
