SICPA Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 Enabling trust CEO INTRODUCTION Constant evolution is essential for a company like SICPA which aims to tackle global challenges. Continually adapting to market requirements and best practice is the hallmark of our approach. In 2018 we went one step further, undertaking a review of our internal structures and engaging in an internal transformation programme to set the scene for the 2020s. The programme reinforced our fundamental values and strengthened our capacity to continue innovating in a sustainable way. It underlined the importance we attach to our internal R&D and development capabilities whilst opening ourselves up to external partnerships which extend our ability to offer ever more effective and efficient solutions. The relevance of SICPA’s mission ‘Enabling Trust’ is underlined by increasing public concerns about the impact of new technologies. These technologies offer unparalleled opportunities to governments and their citizens but come with new risks and unintended consequences. Growing threats to Integrity and the security of Identity, increasing divergence between and within nations, the costs of social exclusion, the difficulty of determining genuine from fake. These are all areas where SICPA makes a difference and can mitigate risks: using our expertise to propose solutions combining both material and digital technologies which are secure and safe by design, which work across borders and promote international cooperation and which protect scarce resources. Our vision is to be a key player in the creation of an Economy of Trust. This is the driver behind the Square One initiative which over the coming years will see the creation of a unique campus in Lausanne to house key actors in the sector, hosting a wider community to promote the vision. The initiative will benefit from the propitious Swiss environment and sense of excellence, bringing together leading local governmental and academic institutions with international partners and companies, both established and start-ups. It gives us good reason to be optimistic. This is SICPA’s 6th annual CSR report. It shows that 2018 was a year of both continuity and change, in which we demonstrated our ambition to continue to be the best at what we do. This will remain a constant as we look forward with energy and enthusiasm to 2019. CEO and Chairman Philippe Amon II EXECUTIVE SUMMARY A SICPA’s working s a member of the United Nations Global OUR PEOPLE Compact, SICPA’s aim is to integrate the In terms of professional excellence, SICPA’s workworld’s best practices in sustainability ing environment reflects the importance attributin its business and operations, adapting to a fued to ensuring the highest technical and scientific environment reflects ture where sustainability is ever more essential. standards and capabilities. The company mainSICPA’s approach respects and capitalises on the company’s heritage, culture and values. tains its work on integrated talent management processes and continues to develop its Employthe importance The company’s approach is based on 4 key pilee Branding programme. In terms of training and development over 2000 learning programmes attributed to lars: our markets, our people, communities were delivered. We maintained our ranking in the and environment. SICPA integrates sustainability in its strategy at three levels: compliance, TOP 100 Best Employers awards in Switzerland, for the 5th year in a row. ensuring the highest reputation and business integration. COMMUNITIES technical and scientific standards SICPA has launched a number of initiatives over In 2018, SICPA contributed, mainly scientific, edurecent years, which enable us to demonstrate our cational, cultural and environmental projects. The commitment to key market issues, such as ethics, SICPA FitForCharity programme in Switzerland sustainable products and more recent products that contribute specifically to minimising environcontinued in its on-going mission to promote a healthy work life balance. More than 100 emand capabilities. mental and social impact. In 2018, SICPA updated ployees participated along the year to the variits organisational structure through a Transformaous activities, raising 5000 CHF for the Terre des tion Programme in order to deliver current busiHommes NGO. ness more efficiently and to develop new markets and products in the coming years. SICPA has also ENVIRONMENT improved its performance in other aspects such The environmental footprint of the company is as material and resource utilisation and waste closely monitored. SICPA’s production processes reduction. are energy intensive and the company is implementing projects to optimise energy use. In 2018, OUR MARKETS SICPA increased its FTEs by 136, while its energy SICPA is currently taking on the challenge of consumption remained stable, resulting in an linking the security of the physical world with its increase by FTEs of 5% in electricity and 7% in digital counterpart in order to protect goods and fossil energy. It is important to note that SICPA repeople from the vulnerabilities created by today’s duced its fossil fuel use, now representing 39% of global digitalised economy and governance. Durall energy consumed, compared to 67% in 2016. ing the year, SICPA was a key sponsor and particiOver 60% of waste is recycled and treated, folpant at the 2018 Banknote Conference in Dallas, lowing which 41% is classified as dangerous/ Texas– an opportunity for broad engagement with hazardous waste. leaders of that industry. SICPA also maintained its Banknote Ethical Initiative (BnEI) accreditation. Also this year, SICPA took the opportunity of the COP8 in Geneva to demonstrate the power of our technology to support tobacco control. SICPA Enabling trust 5 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH Corporate Responsibility is important for SICPA’s business and Since launching in 2013 its Group-wide initiative on Corporate Somarkets. Customer requirements have evolved to include social cial Responsibility, SICPA has initiated multiple programmes and and environmental issues. This applies not only to the selection monitors and manages its social and environmental performance criteria for choosing partners, product and solution providers, but closely. also to their attitude to developing lasting business relationships. SICPA’s CSR programme consists of 4 key pillars: Our markets Our people Communities Environment Interaction and impact on the Engagement with employees. Participation within Impact of the company’s sustainability of economies the communities where operations on the environment. and markets. the company operates. This approach reflects the way SICPA conducts its business and Since 2016, the company measures and monitors its sustainability how it impacts economies, society and the environment. actions at 3 strategic levels: Including regulatory and product compliance compliance, and elements of risk management. Ensuring sustainability is a driver for positive reputation and managing negative reputation reputational risks. Including closer cooperation with key stakeholders on sustainability issues business and the development integration of sustainability technologies and solutions. 1. Since 2016 SICPA has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. 6 SICPA Enabling trust 7 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 6 ECONOMIC 5 4 5 Sustainable and safe materials Major 3 6 Safe products 7 Secure supply chain 2 9 7 9 Business ethics 1 8 10 Corporate governance 13 Stakeholder engagement TS 11 15 Responsible investment 10 C 17 Sustainable innovation and improvement PE EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS AS 14 Significant CE 12 SOCIAL C A PE 16 EC L O 13 2 Diversity and equal opportunities TP 15 Hum 17 3 Child labour ON an rig 4 Security practices Ethics RK E OM E PL 18 8 OCC health and safety hts Prod 11 Talent acquisition, reward and retention MA I uc 1 12 19 Learning and development Community engagement ts H Go re um so an ve ur 20 21 rna ce s Moderate nc 19 ENVIRONMENTAL e L ASPECTS 1 Climate change SOCIA al 14 Energy efficiency HOW WE DO ation Oper ty 2 16 Waste management Stakeho ri 18 Water management lders BUSINESS integ 20 Biodiversity 21 Sustainable packaging Moderate Significant Major Water IMPACT INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Com ON MARKETS eng munit age y ste me nt Wa SECTIONS (STATUS AND ACTIONS) In 2018, SICPA continued to role out its proMATERIALITY ASPECTS EN gy er gramme of measures based on our Sustainability Materiality Assessment. Materiality aspects were Economic aspects Phi VI R change En ity defined based on SICPA’s experience with CSR ers EN lan TY and the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Corporate governance Governance Bio thr o ON Major and significant aspects of the materiality Business ethics Business ethics VI d iv NI Climate assessment include: Sustainable and safe products, materials M RO N py U M and supply chain Quality / Procurement M M EN EN TA T CO Social aspects L AS Occupational health and safety Operational integrity PE Talent acquisition, retention and reward Workplace excellence CT Learning and development Workplace excellence S Diversity and equal opportunities, Workplace excellence / Human rights non-discrimination Security practices Human rights Child labour Human rights Environmental aspects Waste management Environment / Waste and climate change Climate change Environment / Waste and climate change 1 Diversity and equal opportunities, talent acquisition, retention, reward, learning and development 2 Health and safety 8 SICPA Enabling trust 9 ECONOMIC ASPECTS OUR MARKETS GOVERNANCE Throughout the year SICPA teams were also acSICPA’s governing structures reflect its long-term tive in a range of traceability and international fora view on markets and economic sustainability. The company is headed by a Board of Directors made enabling discussion and briefing of government representatives and policy makers and other key Policies Revised, implemented up of shareholders and external non-executive stakeholders. and relevant directors. The company’s strategy and operaInternal Standards tions are overseen by the Executive Committee, BUSINESS ETHICS supported by a number of committees addressSICPA’s long-standing commitment to conducting strategic topics. In 2018, SICPA updated its ing its business in an ethical manner and with inorganisational structure through a Transformategrity is reinforced by the public availability of its tion Programme in order to deliver current busicore principles on the SICPA corporate website. ness more efficiently and to develop new markets The Code of Business Conduct, the ABC Policy and products in the coming years. To fully achieve and the Competition Law Policy are pro-actively Focus on: this, the company moved away from a two Divishared with and signed by all partners and availaWHO Conference in sion setup to one based on Strategic Business Areas (SBA) and Initiatives (SBI) which support the ble for consultation as part of the general governance of the company. These documents are also Geneva – FCTC new transversal organisation. provided to customers and suppliers to ensure In 2018, SICPA took the opportunity of the they are aware of the standards of practice that COP8 in Geneva to demonstrate the power SICPA policies reflect a set of robust governing SICPA expects of them in their dealings. of our technology to support tobacco conprinciples and rules. These are revised to reflect trol. At the COP8, the World Health Organithe latest depending on international standards. SICPA ensures that all key stakeholders, includsation (WHO) brought together 148 parties ing the company’s management and related third to put into force the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) Protocol to STAKEHOLDERS parties are aware and receive training on integrity Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products. SICPA’s partnerships with numerous stakeholdand ethics principles. The company keeps reThis global strategy aims to strengthen ers reflect its respectful entrepreneurship and its cords of all staff and third parties who have read the implementation of the FCTC to reincontinuous commitment. As an example, in 2018, and approved these documents. force government policies and accelerate the company renewed its Joint Venture Agreethe implementation of the tobacco control ment with Pakistan Security Printing Corporation Under the leadership of the Board Audit Comtreaty. On this occasion, SICPA presented for another 10 years. In addition, and among othmittee Compliance and Risk specialists oversee its Track & Trace solution, SICPATRACE® to ers, SICPA partnered with blockchain and cryptothe business and operational application of the demonstrate its efficiency to fight tobacco currency specialist Metaco to evaluate concept, Principles and ensure any incidents or potential counterfeiting. feasibility and solutions in the area of digital curbreaches are appropriately investigated and rencies. dealt with. SICPA is currently taking on the challenge of PROGRESS: 2018 ACTIONS linking the security of the physical world with its Update SICPA Policies digital counterpart in order to protect goods and people from the vulnerabilities created by today’s Legend: completed on-going pending global digitalised economy and governance. In this context, we seek, establish and nurture strong partnerships with both academia (EPFL, LOOKING FORWARD: 2019-2020 – Actively support and apply UN Global CSEM, IMD, HEC Lausanne) and industry – from Compact principles long established companies to newcomers in – Update grievance mechanism blockchain or data analytics. This creates an – ISO9001: 2015 and ISO14001: 2015 certifications (new version) evolving ecosystem for co-innovation and new market approaches, from which we all derive network effects and economic growth. The launch of the Square1 initiative, a future centre of the trust economy in the Vaud region, will further nurture this approach over coming years. 12 SICPA Enabling trust 13 PRODUCTS SICPA products and solutions have an underlying social benefit. The company contributes to the well-being of society-at-large by actively contributing to ensuring cash systems, value documents and sensitive goods are safer and more secure for use or consumption. QUALITY In 2018, SICPA received the GOOD DESIGN In 2018, SICPA continued to establish itself as a The quality and safety of its products and solutions Award, an international industrial design program traceability solutions provider that helps minimise is key to the sustainability of SICPA as a successcomposed of professionals and experts in the negative environmental impact from counterfeit ful company and this is reflected in the company’s field, for its new SICPA AIR detection device. This and sub-standard products and the prevention consistently renewed certifications, such as ISO is a successful conclusion of more than ten years of environmentally harmful activities such as the 9001. SICPA seeks to minimise the negative enof innovation at the heart of SICPA’s research and adulteration and illegal “cleaning” of fuel products. vironmental impact inherent in the use and disdevelopment in the field of inks, optics and elecposal of its products. Substitution programmes tronics. In few words, SICPA AIR identifies, through Authentication and traceability are increasingly for a number of chemicals continue to contribute a very sophisticated optics, specific SICPA inks important in a growing number of industry sectors, to the management and reduction of risks for huprinted on a product and then gives the user one such as food or pharmaceuticals, especially as eman beings. A dedicated programme continues to or more digital information about this product. The commerce expands. There is growing pressure on develop a broader range of markers for the secure detection device is both a printed code reader, albrand owners to demonstrate supply chain integrimarking of oil, minimising environmental impact lowing the traceability of products, and a sensor of ty and transparency, and manage associated ecoand risk and broadening applications. the inks properties, allowing their authentication as nomic, social and environmental risks. Throughout SICPA inks. 2018, SICPA continued to develop its solutions in PROCUREMENT this area, working with different stakeholders to The economic sustainability and quality of SICPA Future of Cash make this world a safer place. The company has products is closely linked to its suppliers. This is Initiative to promote and defend cash now a strong evidence on ever more reliable and reflected in the company’s Supplier Code of ConIn 2018, SICPA continued to participate in the usable solutions for consumer applications enaduct – this code sets out requirements for busiCashEssentials initiative to promote the use of bling them to verify products at points of sale. ness continuity and contingency plans, product cash and to ensure its longevity as a sustainable changes and phase out. Further, SICPA pays parpayment method. At the Intergraf Security PrintFurther, SICPA sponsored the 2018 Applied Maticular attention to environmental and social issues ers Conference in Dublin, SICPA invited industry chine Learning Days at the EPFL in Lausanne. in its dealings with suppliers. The Supplier Code of leaders to view cash from the public’s perspective. Following the evolution of digital technology, it is Conduct covers ethics, security, environmental Cash is not losing ground, on the contrary the cash essential for SICPA to integrate data analytics in and human rights rules and principles. In terms of demand has grown everywhere in the world and its strategy to extend the effectiveness of its sehuman rights, particular attention is given inter alia encourages to think about how the industry can curity solutions. This event gathered top speakers to employment conditions, child labour and noncontribute in shaping its future. As part of this initiafrom around the world on the themes of Machine discrimination guidelines. tive, a photo contest was organised for the second Learning and artificial intelligence. As a sponsor, year in a row. This year’s theme was Cash me if SICPA’s engineers in collaboration with external 2018 status and achievements you can – The traveller’s discreet companion. The experts, organised a full day workshop where parIn May, SICPA unveiled its latest technologies at the contest was opened to amateur and professional ticipants had to solve a case of fraud detection in 2018 Banknote Conference held in Dallas, Texas, photographers across the globe who were free to an oil distribution network. USA. This conference gathers each year attracting focus on any aspects of the theme. The aim was to technology providers, security printers and governrepresent the feelings that cash can evoke in your ment officials from all over the world. SICPA invited escapades, your relations and your lives. CashEsLOOKING FORWARD: 2019-2020 several clients to visit the manufacturing plant of sentials provides an overview of the benefits of On-going replacement of harmful substances its cutting-edge covert security technologies. On cash for society which includes the universal use of Sustainable solutions this occasion, central bank officials had a unique cash, efficiency, reliability and connecting people. opportunity to see how these forensic markers are Social inclusion and cash as a support to critical Legend: completed on-going pending made and how they can optimise the cash cycle. national infrastructure planning are key drivers for During this event, SICPA also launched its new semaintaining well-functioning national cash sysries of SPARK Live dynamic effects. tems. The website provides fact-based information about cash and payment methods and also Throughout the year, to present some of its most includes an opinion based weekly blog as well as a recent developments for banknote security, SICPA repository of documents and reports. participated to various conferences dedicated to cash technologies such as African Currency Forum, International Banknote Design Conference and Mint and Print International Conference. 14 SICPA Enabling trust 15 SOCIAL ASPECTS 16 SICPA Enabling trust 17 OUR PEOPLE The SICPA workplace reflects the importance of technical and scientific excellence and capabilities to the company, as well as the long-term and diverse nature of its business and markets. WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE for the 5th year in a row in the Top 100 Most AttracNatural turnover % of employees that leave of their own volition The three topics below are major and significant tive Employers in Switzerland. aspects of SICPA’s Materiality Assessment. Learning & Development Talent Acquisition, Retention & Reward In 2018, more than 2000 learning activities were 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 During the year, SICPA continued working todelivered, including formal and distance learnwards implementing integrated talent manageing and on-the-job knowledge transfer. SICPA Performance reviews ment processes. The initial focus is on acquisihas specific programmes to develop leadership, % employees with formal performance review tion, i.e. to strengthen recruitment processes management and innovation capabilities and overall and roll out procedures, tools and comskills. mon practices globally. New processes and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 tools are objective driven focusing on quality of In addition, to improve work efficiency, the comnew hires, which is reflected in the retention rate pany decided to launch a new programme, the Training hours of 94% in 2018. “SICPA Digital Workplace” from 2018 to 2020. It Number of annual training hours will allow us to improve IT functionalities through per employee During the year, various employer branding initiaa new operating system as well as new collaboratives were launched by targeting key stakeholdtive features to better work in teams. ers and engaging people internally and external2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ly. The company continued its extensive efforts Diversity & Equal Opportunities to build its engagement with young graduates Equal Opportunities and Non-Discrimination are Average training ratio and professionals, through a variety of academic part of SICPA’s values and Code of Business Con% of total employee costs spent on training and business partnerships including its Student duct. This is reflected in SICPA’s workforce with Champion network. In 2018, SICPA sponsored more than 70 nationalities and ethnicities reprea Business Game (a case on counterfeit prodsented. In 2016, SICPA undertook an independent ucts) organised by the Junior Enterprise of HEC third-party assessment on gender equality. A high Lausanne. This workshop was also offered to proportion of women were identified as top talents 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 students from the Geneva University (UniGE). with high-performance ratings. In 2018, the comThanks to these academic partnerships and stupany continued to monitor actions concerning Gender ratio % of employees (male/female) dent engagement activities, SICPA was elected equal opportunities at work. male female Focus on: PROGRESS: 2018 ACTIONS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia New Employees Competency Model Employee of Choice Equal opportunities In 2018, in conjunction with the World Cup in % of employees in management – grade 11 Maintain low health and safety incident rates Russia, SICPA organised a worldwide interand above (male/female) nal prediction contest. For a month, employmale Legend: completed on-going pending ees lived a unique and friendly experience with their colleagues all around the world. female In a spirit of camaraderie, participants faced LOOKING FORWARD: 2019-2020 each other to predict the results of each – Deploy the SICPA Digital Workplace 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 – Integrate talent management processes match during the competition. The three – Implement equal opportunities actions best forecasters were rewarded at the end – Finalise human rights impact assessment Note: Figures for 2013 and 2014 represent of the World Cup. On the same subject, the – Roll out grievance mechanism Switzerland only. From 2015 to 2017, figures represent 80% of SICPA worldwide Bank of Russia also honoured the World employees except for the training ratio. Cup by issuing a new 100 rouble commemThe 2018 figures represent all SICPA worldwide employees except for the annual orative note where SICPA participated with turnover and the training ratio. Starting in its SPARK Live inks. 2017, the training ratio is calculated based on the figures from SICPA Group annual consolidated financial accounts. It includes all training costs worldwide except related travel expenses. 18 SICPA Enabling trust 19 Elected 5th year in a row among Top 100 most attractive employers in Switzerland 0.22% 1 Lost days of total Occupational days worked illnesses As part of the Swiss “Journée des métiers”, SICPA 2018 status and achievements creased from 39 in 2017 to 68 in 2018, for a popuin Switzerland, since 2003, allows employees’ SICPA ensures that all relevant human rights islation of more than 2500 employees worldwide. children to share a working day with one of their sues are covered by the company’s policies and It is important to highlight that there was only one parents or relatives to discover their profession guidelines and communicated accordingly to reported occupational illness and no fatalities and work environment. This initiative is organised staff worldwide. Due to the nature of its business during the year. by local authorities to allow children from 7th to 9th SICPA maintains the highest security standards. year to participate in workshops and discover new There is an on-going requirement to ensure we professions. Currently, educational choices reidentify the impact these practices may have on main strongly influenced by gender stereotypes. the respect of human rights, in particular in relaTherefore, on this day, children are encouraged to tion to physical and data security, and ensure that Focus on: discover jobs outside cliché and without limiting adequate guidelines and training are given to International themselves to traditionally female or male jobs. security personnel, both SICPA and third parties. Women’s Day Values & Corporate Culture SICPA staff in Switzerland voted in 2015 against Since a few years now, SICPA is committed In recent years, SICPA has gone through several the establishment of a staff association explicto actions and projects promoting diversity organisational changes and is now focused on itly renewing their trust in management when and professional opportunities. By offering a rose to each woman colleague on the Inpromoting a common SICPA culture and buildit comes to the management and resolution of ternational Women’s Day, SICPA supported ing a transversal organisation by introducing a labour issues. In other countries, the freedom of in 2018 the programme “A woman… A rose” common competency framework. Leading and association and collective bargaining principal is of the association “Marraines du cancer managing teams of different people with different applied through a trade union as and when deterdu sein Vaud” (breast cancer). In Pakistan, personalities, career goals, communication styles mined by staff. activities were organised during the day to and culture, is one of the most challenging asaddress the significant role of women in pects of a manager’s role. Given the importance In the 2016 Materiality Assessment results identisociety and emphasize the importance of of people management, SICPA introduced in 2018 fied several human rights aspects, such as secuwomen empowerment through education a new Competency Model which is designed to rity practices and child labour, as important for the and career. identify the critical behaviors leading to success company’s business. The UN Principles on Busiwithin SICPA culture. For the first time, all managness and Human Rights and the Global Reporting ers around the globe received the same training Initiative (GRI) is used as a basis for internal ason people management skills. sessments. SICPA has an on-going programme Focus on: to identify potential gaps and address them acIn addition, the SICPA values were promoted cordingly. SICPA Product through several internal events such as the World Compliance Cup contest and the End-of-year celebrations for OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY SICPA takes very seriously the risks for the the staff and their families. The health and safety of SICPA employees and environment and the health of its staff and the communities in which the company opergeneral public. In 2018, a communication HUMAN RIGHTS ates is essential for the operational integrity and campaign was set up to remind employSICPA aims to conduct its business in full respect sustainability of the SICPA business. SICPA has ees of the chemical regulations. To ensure of prevailing human rights standards and legisrigorous health and safety processes and OHSAS correct understanding of dangers to conlation. Human Rights elements such as non18001 certification. The company provides perisumers, professionals and industrial users, discrimination and respectful labour and security odic and continuous training to its employees on SICPA provided a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) practices are incorporated in the company’s polioccupational hazards and professional safety. explaining how to correctly handle hazardcies, in particular the Code of Business Conduct, ous materials. Every product marketed by HR and Security Policies. The Supplier Code of 2018 status and achievements SICPA is shipped with its SDS and a proacConduct looks closely at issues, such as freeIn 2018 SICPA continued to maintain a low incitive communication with clients and supdom of association, child labour, employment dent rate with only 30 incidents per million hours pliers is in place to ensure that the latest conditions, human treatment and freely-chosen worked, which is below the industry average. The hazard information is always available. employment. number of accidents with or without lost time in20 SICPA Enabling trust 21 COMMUNITIES SICPA continues to engage with the communities in which 1,398 it conducts business and operates by being involved KCHF invested in community and participating in social, cultural, education and scientific projects activities. The focus of the company’s corporate sponsorship and donations is in Switzerland, the home country and main production centre, and in countries where SICPA has existing 74 businesses and operations. Community projects supported 2018 STATUS AND ACHIEVEMENTS Through various events such as The Lausanne Total financial contributions (KCHF) Sponsorships and donations to community In 2018, SICPA contributed approximately CHF 1.4 Marathon, Bike to work or DEFI, employees in million to 74 community initiatives, mainly to culSwitzerland covered more than 2300 km which tural, education and environmental projects. allowed to collect 5000 CHF for the Terre des Hommes Association. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In Switzerland, SICPA continues to be a proud sponsor of La Nuit des Musées, a local cultural Some examples of SICPA Community projects Number of community projects supported event that takes place once a year in Lausanne outside Switzerland this year include SICPA Morocand Pully, near the SICPA Headquarters. During co participating to the Charity Football Tournament the 2018 event, 25 museums participated and welorganised by the Casablanca Central School. The comed no less than 15,000 visitors for more than funds raised during this tournament were donated 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 60,000 visits. The onlookers pushed the doors of to the humanitarian association of Casablanca the museums discovering more than 100 activities Central School to support its humanitarian caravan Average project value (CHF) and 36 exhibitions such as performances, workin the village of Imin Oumghaz. SICPA Morocco’s shops and musical improvisation. In 2018, SICPA employees also went into action through different participated in the design and production of the operations such as blood donation and campaign event entry tickets using colour shifting inks. SICPA for the distribution of food baskets to disadvan2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 also sponsored various cultural events and confertaged families. ences in the area of Lausanne such as concerts of Impact assessment and follow up* Number of projects with implemented Geneva Camerata, the JIYU Conference or even Another example comes from Pakistan where SICimpact assessments and development the TEDxLausanne. PA has implemented several actions to encourage programmes employees’ involvement in health, education and In addition, as part of SICPA’s on-going mission to community issues. In 2018, SICPA Pakistan started promote a healthy work life balance, SICPA Swita new initiative “Going Green” to help in making the zerland continued its FitForCharity Programme environment healthier and greener near their of2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to encourage health and fitness activities among fices. The volunteer employees began by cleaning FitForCharity employees and collect funds for charities. a park before planting nearly 200 trees. * A substantial number of donations are given to cultural events as one-off contributions which do not require follow up. Note: the above figures are indicative and exclude, to the extent that it was possible to identify them, commercial donations, membership of associations, Focus on: subscriptions and documentation. DEFI 2018 – 10 Years! In 2018, SICPA participated for the 10th time to this sport competition for companies. During a decade, this event offered the opportunity to 29 athletes to live an incredible sporting and human experience. After weeks of preparation, our athletes were finally ready to compete against the other teams in a threeday competition gathering disciplines such LOOKING FORWARD: 2019-2020 as running, mountain biking, orienteering – Continue to support community projects – Continue FitForCharity programme cycling or archery. 22 SICPA Enabling trust 23 ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ENVIRONMENT SICPA attaches great importance to optimiswhere halogen & mercury lights continued to be Electricity intensity Annual kWh electricity consumed/FTE ing the environmental footprint of its operations. replaced by LED technology and building isolaThis is reflected in the company’s QHSSE policy tion, heating system and ventilation flows were and relevant processes developed as part of ISO optimised. Finally, water intensity has declined by 14001 certification. Throughout the year SICPA 10% per FTE. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 continued to evaluate the environmental impact of the company’s business and operations, inWaste & Climate Change Fossil energy Annual kWh consumption/FTE cluding human health, climate change, resource Waste Management and Climate Change were and ecosystems impact. SICPA’s environmental identified amongst the top significant aspects in performance is closely linked to the intensity of the Materiality Assessment. its operations, in particular ink manufacturing. This 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 accounts for 65% of the company’s electricity In 2018, over 60% of generated waste was reconsumption, 75% of fossil energy consumption cycled or required special treatment. It is worthWater intensity Annual water purchase/FTE and 89% of waste generation. In 2018, environwhile noting that in line with previous years and mental initiatives and projects were related mainly the nature of our products, 41% of SICPA waste to energy and waste management. is categorised as dangerous under European and national waste rules, which requires special 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 STATUS AND ACHIEVEMENTS treatment. 78% of such waste was generated Energy and Water in the company’s Swiss manufacturing facility Waste intensity Energy efficiency is an important factor for SICPA which has partnered with CRIDEC for disposal Total annual waste (kg)/FTE given its manufacturing operations. The energy and reuse. CRIDEC uses such waste to generate KPIs calculation is based on the number of FTEs materials and energy for a nearby cement plant, in December of the year. In 2018, SICPA’s FTEs inan example of SICPA’s contribution to the concept 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 creased slightly by 136 compared to 2017. At the of circular economy. Greenhouse gas emission same time, the energy and water consumptions actions continue to be regulation driven and by per FTE increased reflecting a number of annual contractual obligations in some cases. Hazardous waste intensity Annual hazardous waste (kg)/FTE variations in production volumes. Importantly, the quantity of manufactured products in tons has risen by 18% for a smaller amount of energy consumption. Focus on: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, the electricity intensity per FTE increased Energy Target Agreement Non-hazardous waste intensity by 5% (compared to 17% in 2017) and fossil enwith the Swiss Federal Annual non-hazardous waste (kg)/FTE ergy intensity per FTE by 7% (compared to 1% in 2017). During this time, SICPA continued to install Authorities energy efficient solutions, such as in Switzerland In 2018, SICPA Chavornay validated the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Energy Target Agreement with the Swiss Federal Authorities in charge of energy and Recyclable and recoverable environment. As part of the “2050 Energy Industrial waste (kg)/FTE Strategy”, SICPA committed itself over a 10LOOKING FORWARD: 2019-2020 year period to optimise energy in order to reduce its consumption and CO2 emissions. Energy efficiency obligations Other modifications are planned up to 2025 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Waste management solutions such as the efficiency of the compressed CO2 measurement (regulatory compliance) air supply and the ventilation system to fulfil Note: figures are based on 90% Full Time SICPA’s objectives. In addition to reducing Equivalents (FTEs), compared to 86% and Note. The time horizon for these actions is 3-5 years. energy costs, this agreement also exempts 80% in 2015 and 2014 respectively. SICPA Chavornay from the CO2 tax for fossil Legend: completed on-going pending energy until the end of 2020. 26 SICPA Enabling trust 27 OTHER CSR ACTIONS +500 SICPA employees +120 and managers New employees contributed to CSR briefed on CSR in 2018 In 2018, the SICPA The company’s approach to sustainability was formally approved by the Executive Committee Focus on: seven years ago. Since then, over 900 employwebsite was ees and 400 SICPA managers, including corpoSICPA on French rate functions, divisional management and counTV demonstrating renewed and try entities management, participated in CSR awareness sessions. technologies against oil fraud the CSR section In 2018, CSR training sessions were held as part SICPA is becoming a recognised stakeof the SICPA Induction Programme and over 120 holder in the fight against oil fraud. was reviewed to new employees were briefed. In December, a French television team came include additional The company continues to ensure its approach to sustainability issues is communicated externally. to SICPA Headquarters to better understand how SICPA technologies such as oil markIn 2018, the SICPA website was renewed and the ers can help in the fight against the different examples of SICPA CSR section was reviewed to include additional types of oil trade fraud and trafficking. examples of SICPA achievements worldwide. In achievements addition, communications on CSR topics continued to be published on the company’s global inThe programme Complément d’enquête was broadcast December 6 on France 2. worldwide. tranet. Finally, the 2017 CSR report was distributed to interested customers and partners. In Pakistan, SICPA was awarded the ‘Best Practices in Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2018’ by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH), for a third consecutive year. SICPA has also communicated selectively on sustainability issues with peer groups, such as the UN Global Compact Network and plans to continue such actions in 2019. 28 SICPA Enabling trust 29 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 CSR REPORT 2018 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS 2018 REFERENCE/SECTION Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection — Policies inclusive of human rights Human Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights — Grievance mechanism and remediation Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human — Policies inclusive of human rights Procurement / rights abuses Human Rights Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom — Policies inclusive of Labour Practices Human Rights of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced — Code of Conduct Procurement / and compulsory labour — Supplier Code of Conduct Human Rights — Clear contractual basis Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour — Code of Conduct Procurement / — Supplier Code of Conduct Human Rights — National labour laws and regulations — Verification mechanisms Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect — Code of Conduct Procurement / of employment and occupation — HR police and procedures Professional Excellence / — Records of recruitment, training and promotion Human Rights — Grievance and remediation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach — Policies inclusive of environment Governance / to environmental challenges — Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders / — Governance structures Environment — Grievance mechanism Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater — Sustainable products programme Products / environmental responsibility — Target and objectives Quality / Traceability Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion — Lifecycle assessment Products / of environmentally friendly technologies — Product design Quality — More sustainable materials Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms — Code of Conducts, and related Policies Business Ethics — Business ethics training — Group Compliance Committee — Grievance mechanism 30 SICPA Enabling trust 31 ABOUT SICPA SICPA is a leading global provider of secured authentication, identification and traceability solutions and services. Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Lausanne, the privately owned Swiss company is a long-trusted advisor to governments, central banks, high-security printers, and industry. SICPA’s mission is to Enable Trust through constant innovation. For more than 70 years SICPA has been at the forefront of research and innovation in security inks which are at the core of the company’s expertise. SICPA inks and special features protect the majority of the world’s banknotes, security and value documents from counterfeiting and fraud. The company also integrates these security features with digital technologies, such as software and data management systems, to offer solutions and services to governments, ensuring product authentication, traceability and protection as well as tax reconciliation and production control. SICPA systems protect governments from tax revenue loss on products most often subject to illicit trade, such as excisable goods like alcohol, tobacco and fuel and support broader policy objectives in the fields of health and the environment. Systems also allow manufacturers to protect and authenticate their products and to engage consumers. SICPA also continues to be focused on innovation in the digital area, working with inhouse R&D and external partners to provide solutions for e-government services. Today, SICPA is a global company with offices and factories on five continents. With about 2,500 staff of over 50 nationalities, the company provides technologies and services to most nations worldwide. www.oxyde.ch SICPA World Headquarters Tel +41 21 627 55 55 Worldwide locations: Av de Florissant 41 Fax +41 21 627 57 27 Visit www.sicpa.com/map 1008 Prilly info@sicpa.com Switzerland www.sicpa.com © 2019 SICPA HOLDING SA, Switzerland SPARK ® and SICPATRACE ® are trademarks of SICPA HOLDING SA, registered in Switzerland and other countries or otherwise protected by law. SICPA is certified to ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007, according to a worldwide deployment programme, in the framework of a unique Integrated Management System. All material CSR.REP.00006.V1.04.19 in these pages, including text, layout, presentation, logos, icons, photos and all other artwork including any derivative work, is the intellectual property of SICPA (for the purpose of this document the word “SICPA” shall mean SICPA HOLDING SA or any of its parent or affiliate companies) unless otherwise stated, and is protected by trademark, patent or copyright. No reproduction, derivative, or commercial use of any material is authorised with-out the prior express written permission by SICPA. Information contained in, or derived from, these pages shall not be used for development, production, marketing of any product or service, or for any other purpose, without the express prior written permission of SICPA.
