UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018/2019 2 Our philosophy Messe Frankfurt connects the world. Last year, some 4.6* million people, including approximately 102,000* exhibitors, from almost every nation around the globe took advantage of our international encounter formats. For a few days in the year, the industries come together at one location. This gives rise to unique networking hubs within the individual communities that offer countless opportunities for forging innovative, successful and without a doubt exceptional and special collaborations, © Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera business models and customer relationships. People are at the centre of all we do. Developing together, finding solutions together, thinking in terms of present and future successes – cooperative dialogue with our customers is the basis for our success. Respect and fairness in our dealings with business partners, with our shareholders, with our employees, alongside the principles of sustainable management and a commitment to social responsibility, are embedded in Messe Frankfurt’s corporate identity and form an essential part of our corporate culture. The principles of sustainable and responsible business practices and our commitment to social responsibility are our benchmark. We implement our CSR measures in line with the principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2010, Messe Frankfurt was the first German exhibition company to sign up to the United Nations Global Compact, committing ourselves to its Ten Principles of good practice in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We feel it is our duty to uphold these principles. Best regards, Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer Messe Frankfurt 4.6* m people, including approx. 102,000* exhibitors, were connected through Messe Frankfurt’s events in the financial year 2018. 3 Our responsibility > 490* Trade fairs and events under the roof of Messe Frankfurt. Creating value for business and society If there is one medium that is well-placed to serve the economy in a good and balanced way whilst also meeting today’s business requirements, it is B2B trade fairs. Our trade fairs are the leading platforms in their respective communities. They unite the international industry experts 30* with a maximum of networking, knowledge transfer and International subsidiaries. exchange of experience. Messe Frankfurt is the world’s largest trade fair organiser with its own exhibition grounds. In the business segments “Fairs & Events”, “Locations” and “Services”, we specifically support the interests of our customers and organise successful encounters 50*/190* with services from a single source. In line with its corporate stratMore than 50 sales partners egy, Messe Frankfurt is systematically expanding its expertise in in around 190 countries. defined sectors. These are: Building Technologies, Safety, Security & Fire, Environmental Technologies, Textile Care, Cleaning & Cleanroom Technologies, Food Technologies, Electronics & Automation Technologies and Manufacturing Technologies & Components, Consumer Goods, Textiles & Textile Technologies, Mobility & Logistics as well as Entertainment, Media & Creative Industries. > 2,500* More than 2,500 employees Messe Frankfurt’s corporate mission is to leverage its global worldwide. industry expertise and establish itself as the first choice for its customers. Trade fairs have been held in Frankfurt for around 800 years. We have a tried and tested business model that provides an established and solid foundation for continued evolution and growth going forward. When further developing our events, rather than seeking to change their DNA we adapt the > 592,000 m2 various parameters to the framework conditions. This is what Exhibition grounds. 11 Halls, two makes them first-class brands deserving of the trust our customcongress centres, multifunctional hall, ers place in them. Despite an increasingly networked world, Festhalle, Operation & Security Center, despite the many possibilities digitalisation offers, we have over 90 congress and conference rooms noticed – and this is corroborated by our key figures – that the and much more besides. desire for direct and authentic experiences and encounters is growing. Hardly surprisingly, especially in light of the current volatile world economic and political situation, people are increas60/40 ingly seeking intensive personal exchanges. The group is publicly owned; the shareholders are the City of Frankfurt Messe Frankfurt is a global player and nevertheless has strong with 60 percent and the State of Hesse economic and cultural roots at its home venue in Frankfurt and with 40 percent. the Rhine-Main region. This also comes as a result of the rewarding collaboration with our shareholders, the City of Frankfurt and the Federal State of Hesse. They enable our group to develop its entrepreneurial potential. We cooperate with many public institutions and create synergies between our events, the city, its inhabitants and society in general. Messe Frankfurt’s strong national event portfolio makes an immense contribution to the inflow of exponential purchasing power in Germany, currently with 3.6 billion euros a year, and also secures 33,260 jobs across Germany. *preliminary key figures for 2018. 4 Our mission statement Messe Frankfurt is a service company with a long tradition. Our actions and our strategic decisions are based on the group’s long-term success and are geared to the needs of our customers. At the heart of our successful business model are personal encounters between us as a platform provider and our customers, between different customer groups and between our customers and their customers. As a partner to our customers, it is our core mission to flexibly accompany the changes taking place in the various sectors with individual and industry-specific formats and to implement them at our events for the practical benefit of our customers. The sustainable development of our brands creates trust and gives us the opportunity to gain deep insights into the different industry sectors. As a provider of ser© Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera vices covering all aspects of a successful trade fair presentation, we continuously invest in analogue and digital offerings which provide the greatest added value for our customers. Messe Frankfurt is connected with its customers worldwide at around 150 of its own events held around the globe. At its home venue in Frankfurt, it provides a platform for up to 280 guest events a year, from trade fairs and congresses to functions and shows. The many encounters between people from all nations at the Frankfurt Exhibition Centre show that our exhibition venue is an ideal event location. A wide variety of different formats, parallel events and a high degree of flexibility are requirements that our premises have to meet. Safety regulations with regard to architecture, infrastructure and the implementation of events have also increased in recent years. Accordingly, we are continually investing in our home venue in order to make our halls and congress centres functional, technically state-of-the-art, aesthetically pleasing and sustainable. © Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera Our mission statement 5 CSR focus areas We group our wide-ranging CSR activities relating to sustainable development into four Compliance – the commitment areas of activity: Environment/Sustainability, of each individual counts Social Responsibility, Education/Science The guiding principle of our successful business operations and Commitment to Culture. By designating is based not least on our tradition as a reliable company. Statuour activities in these areas with the “simply tory and voluntary obligations, guidelines and best practices sustainable” claim and a special logo, we are the cornerstones of this system. Clear, binding purchasing are able to further increase the focus on sustainrules and the efficient design of internal regulations and proability while also raising awareness for this cedures ensure reliable prevention in the fight against corruption issue. In all our initiatives we attach great and other rule violations. In addition to training our employees, importance to long-term impact, transparency the personal commitment of each individual makes a decisive and credibility. contribution to ensuring that compliance is an integral part of our corporate code of conduct. Environment/Sustainability Partnerships In the field of Environment/Sustainability we are implementing numerous measures to Messe Frankfurt is committed to long-term and sustainable conserve resources and protect our environment, partnerships and cooperation, both with respect to its worldsuch as systematic energy management wide events and its CSR pledge. Intensive networking within and the resource-saving development of our the national and international business community as well as exhibition grounds. with central associations, specialist and development institutes is beneficial to the quality of our events and therefore also to our customers. Not least, this also allows us to help shape the Social Responsibility trade fair industry on a sustainable basis. We demonstrate our CSR commitment through our participation in the United Nations For Messe Frankfurt, Social Responsibility Global Compact, to which we signed up in 2010. We support begins at home. We see ourselves as a reliable the “fairpflichtet – right and fair” industry code for sustainable partner – around the world and on our own organisation and implementation of events and participate in doorstep. We support social institutions at our the Charter of Diversity initiative. business locations and offer better-than-average working conditions. Commitment to Culture and Sport Commitment to Culture at Messe Frankfurt is expressed in cooperation and support for cultural institutions and events. Our focus is on the fields of art and music. For many years, we have sponsored the Schirn Kunsthalle in Frankfurt as well as the Rheingau Music Festival. Every year, the Mainova Frankfurt Marathon, one of the most popular races in Germany, ends in the Festhalle on our exhibition grounds as part of a long-standing, strong partnership. Education/Science Education/Science is an area in which Messe Frankfurt has been taking specific, long-term steps – for example with its endowment of the Bachelor study programmes Real Estate and Facility Management and Real Estate and Integral Building Technology at Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences (Frankfurt UAS). 6 Incorporating sustainability within the company Energy management 2020 – continuing along the home straight with our action plan 100 percent green electricity From the event year 2020, Messe Frankfurt will switch completely to green electricity and obtain 100 percent of its power supply from renewable energy sources. This includes the stand, hall and site power supply at the Frankfurt venue. By completely 2020 = 100% switching to renewable energies, the company is saving around 19,000 tonnes of CO2 annually. That is the equivalent of 1.52 million trees per year that would need to be planted to offset this amount of CO2 (80 trees/1 tonne of CO2). With this measure, From 2020, the Frankfurt venue will switch 100 percent Messe Frankfurt is committing to the ambitious climate protecto electricity from renewable sources. This will save tion plans of its shareholders, the City of Frankfurt and the State 19,000 tonnes of CO2 annually. That is the equivalent of of Hesse. 1.52 million trees per year that would have to be planted to offset this amount of CO2. Messe Frankfurt has an average electricity requirement comparable to that of a medium-sized small town of around 40,000 inhabitants. The large number of buildings on our exhibition grounds, their different structural characteristics and utilisation properties require individual facility analyses. For new and refurbished buildings, foresighted, energy-optimised construction and efficient operation must be taken into account, for example with integrated compound cooling systems between the exhibition halls. In 2014, we set up an energy team, made up of the responsible senior management representative and Vice President as well as other Messe Frankfurt experts. Implementation of the goals defined for Messe Frankfurt by the energy team is coordinated and systematically advanced by the company’s energy manager. The real challenge when it comes to achieving our set energy targets is and remains adapting the use of technical equipment to requirements and constantly monitoring its efficiency to enable prompt action in the case of deviations. This not only requires the cooperation of technical personnel, but also of all employees. Saving energy is a painstaking task with a multitude of smalland large-scale measures that have a cumulative effect. For example, via the exhibition grounds’ energy web portal it 90% is possible to regulate resource consumption more efficiently for all exhibition halls. Cross-company exchange of experience Around 90% of waste is recycled. Messe Frankfurt is a member of the Business Energy Efficiency Network in Frankfurt. The close cooperation and knowledge transfer with other companies from the Rhine-Main area allows Messe Frankfurt to play a part in actively shaping the energy transition and promote the expansion of renewable energies at the exhibition grounds in a targeted manner. Incorporating sustainability within the company 7 Energy efficient Exhibition Hall 12 The new Hall 12 has been interfaced to the grid since September 2018. It is designed to be particularly energy-efficient and will consume 45 percent less energy than required by law. It was built in compliance with the criteria for a “KfW* 55 Energy House”. The figure 55 stands for the percentage of energy consumption compared to the currently valid German Energy Saving Ordinance. * KfW is one of the world‘s leading development banks and supports, among other things, the planning of new buildings with the aim of saving energy and reducing CO2 emissions. Third photovoltaic system in operation On the roof of Hall 12, the third photovoltaic system at our exhibition grounds has been producing energy from solar radiation since the end of 2018. It is designed to meet the company’s own needs and with around 9,000 square metres and 5,300 solar panels is the size of our other two systems combined. In future, it is planned to harvest around 2 GWh of electricity annually. That is equivalent to the requirement of around 500 households. Recyclables management Up to 300 events, trade fairs, congresses and all manner of functions are held at the Frankfurt Exhibition Centre every year. Thousands of tonnes of waste, including paper, cardboard, plastic materials, wood and carpeting, accumulate during the construction and dismantling periods of the events. This calls for efficient waste management in order to return as many materials as possible to the recycling process. Messe Frankfurt recycles up to 90 percent of its waste. For example, paper is used as a raw material for paper production, wood partly for the production of new chipboard and as fuel at the Flörsheim/Wicker biomass power plant. Plastics are processed separately into granules according to type and are also used for production. The thousands of metres of carpeting are also recycled and converted into plastic granulate. Since 1990, Messe Frankfurt has been working with Meinhardt Städtereinigung GmbH & Co. KG in the area of waste disposal. The company, with headquarters in Wallau and a branch in Gustavsburg, offers full-service recycling and disposal concepts. The company is certified in accordance with Germany’s Ordi© Messe Frankfurt / Jean-Luc Valentin nance on Specialised Waste Management Companies (Entsorgungsfachbetriebeverordnung) and DIN EN ISO 9001:2015. In addition, the company is subject to control by the Darmstadt Regional Administrative Council (Regierungspräsidium). 8 Sustainable mobility management Environmentally friendly travel – to and in Frankfurt The basis for sustainable mobility and logistics is not least the proximity to the city centre and easy accessibility of the Frank© Messe Frankfurt / Jean-Luc Valentin furt exhibition grounds with excellent connections to all major transport routes. The combined admission ticket introduced in 2002 includes admission to the trade fair and free use of local public transport within the entire tariff zone. In cooperation with Deutsche Bahn, Messe Frankfurt has been offering its customers round-trip tickets to and from all DB stations in Germany since 2007. Since 2013, Messe Frankfurt customers have travelled on DB long-distance services with 100 percent green electricity. Uwe Behm, Member of the Executive Board of Messe Frankfurt, in front Climate-neutral travel with electricity of electric vehicles from Messe Frankfurt’s in-house fleet. from the socket Messe Frankfurt uses electromobility wherever it makes sense and is economical. Since 2011, Messe Frankfurt’s in-house fleet has included several electric vehicles. The demand for charging infrastructure on the part of exhibitors and visitors is also growing. There are now some 20 recharging points for customers 20 and Messe Frankfurt company vehicles at the exhibition grounds and the Rebstock multi-storey car park. As part of a two-year pilot project for it’s exhibitors and visitors, since autumn 2018 Messe Frankfurt has been operating three recharging points are available for customers StreetScooter electrified transport vehicles for zero-emission and Messe Frankfurt service vehicles. transport journeys within the exhibition grounds. The vehicles can drive around 200 kilometres per battery charge and with a maximum additional load of 900 kilograms. They are charged at a standard earthed socket and do not require separate infrastructure. Messe Frankfurt’s catering subsidiary Accente Gastronomie Service GmbH also intends to use the light-duty e-buses to push ahead with its ambitious goals in the field of green catering and a completely emission-free vehicle fleet. 2,629,660 km In 2018, Deutsche Bahn attested that last year, within the scope of the DB event ticket, visitors and exhibitors clocked up 2,629,660 passenger kilometres with 100 percent green electricity, and therefore emission-free. Sustainable mobility management 9 Level of bicycle traffic among employees 340 to be raised to 15 percent More than ten percent of employees at Messe Frankfurt already cycle to and from work every day. Like this, they are making a valuable contribution to more sustainable mobility in the city and also doing something positive to stay healthy. As a cyclistfriendly company, Messe Frankfurt is making its own contribution to this commitment. In 2017, it received the bike + business bicycle stands at the Frankfurt Award from the Regionalverband FrankfurtRheinMain, the exhibition grounds. German Cycling Club (ADFC) Hesse and the Zweckverband Raum Kassel. To promote the further development of the bicycle-friendly infrastructure at the exhibition grounds, the Bicycle working group founded by employees has been integrated into Messe Frankfurt’s Logistics business segment, which provides the necessary resources for further measures at the exhibition grounds. The goal is to raise the proportion of employees who cycle to work to 15 percent by 2020. To this end, the Bicycle working group has set up a dedicated community that provides regular news updates and receives suggestions from employees. There are now over 340 bicycle stands, showering facilities and a 24-hour repair set at the exhibition grounds. Around 140 service bicycles are the ideal means of transport for getting around our extensive exhibition grounds. In addition, we maintain a bicycle pool that is also available for customer use when required. © Messe Frankfurt 10 Messe Frankfurt as an employer – diversity and teamwork The wellbeing of our staff is close to the heart of our management team. Our employees are the group’s greatest assets. We want them to stay with the company for the long term and therefore ensure better-than-average working conditions, a good working atmosphere and development opportunities. The fluctuation rate in the company has been extraordinarily low for many years. This is a sign that our employees feel comfortable in their working environment. We offer a company pension plan as well as company health management. One aspect of this is an Employee Assistance Programme, an external advisory service for employees in all situations. Independent experts provide support with private and professional problems, ranging from workplace to legal issues. At its home base, Messe Good compatibility of work and family life Frankfurt offers training in Messe Frankfurt is proud of the numerous family-friendly meafive different professions sures the company provides. These include flexible working time models such as part-time work and teleworking. In cooperation and dual courses of study. with a family service, employees are offered back-up care (emergency care and/or holiday programme, a total of 15 days a year), as well as free seminars on the subject of family and upbringing, and a holiday programme for children. This is one reason why the proportion of women in management positions has increased further in recent years and currently stands at over one third at the Frankfurt venue. The Messe Frankfurt Group currently has more than 2,500 employees. Innovative strength, flexibility and enthusiasm are essential success factors in our daily work, while the company’s in-service training and further education build on transparency and efficiency. With competence-based training management, we focus on targeted and systematic employee development in which each employee is further qualified in line with their respective area of responsibility. The basis of training management is to map requirements transparently, to provide orientation through dialogue rather than categorisation, and to focus on individual and needs-based staff qualification. Besides leadership and specialist skills, the development of soft skills is also one of the principles of our further training programme. In addi© Messe Frankfurt tion to established training courses, new topics such as gender awareness or cross-generational leadership are continuously being added. Messe Frankfurt as an employer 11 At its home base, Messe Frankfurt offers vocational training in five different professions and dual courses of study. At the Frankfurt venue, the As a company that hires trainees, we attach great importance proportion of women in to high-quality training that challenges and promotes our junior staff and is based on mutual respect. For this reason, we have management positions currently also committed to the training code of the event industry https://100pro.org/, which advocates concrete quality standards stands at over one third. for companies and universities and makes the corresponding quality of training transparent and visible. And because our junior staff are so convinced about their training programme, they used the “Einstieg” vocational training and recruitment fair to promote their employer, provide information about training opportunities at our headquarters in Frankfurt and hold stimulating discussions with interested parents and students. By the way: Messe Frankfurt was honoured by the Frankfurt Chamber of Industry and Commerce in the summer of 2018 for its commitment to vocational training. Did you know? According to an independent survey conducted by the national current affairs magazine FOCUS, Messe FrankWe promote family-friendly furt is regularly rated among Germany’s top employers. Together with the business network Xing and the employer rating platmeasures within the company, form Kununu, FOCUS evaluated 70,000 ratings in 22 sectors on for example flexible working the topics of workplaces, leadership style, working atmosphere and career opportunities. time models such as part-time For every single employee in the company these distinctions are work and teleworking. a confirmation of their dedication and commitment. Targeted and systematic employee development is focused and promoted through competence-based training management. 12 Messe Frankfurt as an employer For our Korean colleagues Friday is Family Day In order to further improve the work-life balance, our subsidiary Messe Frankfurt Korea Ltd. last year extended the Family Day introduced in 2017 to twice a month. Our colleagues can start into the weekend and go home to their families two hours earlier. As a result, job satisfaction has increased. Change of perspective – slipping into the role of our service providers Service offerings underscore the high quality standards and contribute to the success of our events. How can we, as the client, make it easier for our service partners to work on site, how can we optimise work processes, how can we compensate for any defects? To answer such questions, Messe Frankfurt has introduced the so-called “Frontdays”. During Frontdays, our colleagues can slip into the role of one of around 15 jobs provided by our service providers – for example waste consultant, FRONTDAYS cloakroom attendant, stand constructor or traffic officer – for © Messe Frankfurt a day or a few hours during major events at the Frankfurt Exhibition Centre. Colleagues’ appraisals are collected, analysed NEW JOB FOR ONE DAY and the findings and suggestions for improvement are used to further optimise our customer service. Frontdays During Frontdays, our colleagues can slip into the role of one of around 15 jobs provided by our service providers – for example waste consultant, cloakroom attendant, stand constructoror traffic officer – for a day or a few hours during major events at the Frankfurt Exhibition Centre. 13 Promoting healthcare Occupational health and safety are key elements of Messe Frankfurt’s active health management. As a responsible employer, the company is committed to maintaining and promoting the health of its workforce. And we are happy to put our money where our mouth is. As in the past several years, Messe Frankfurt’s Messe Vital occupational health programme helped to promote a healthy lifestyle through tried and tested and new measures in the year under review. Once again, we offered employees free flu vaccinations and skin screening for cancer prevention. The “Healthy Work Mindfulness in the The Messe Vital working group Business Environment” seminar is taking place for the second time this year. The professional Corporate Running workout has been promoting a healthy programme is being continued as part of the Messe Vital platform. Once again, our colleagues took part in a blood donation work environment for 14 years. campaign organised by the German Red Cross. Successful fifth Health Day “Breathe” was the motto of the fifth Health Day. In addition to a large number of workshops, e.g. on tai chi and qigong, employees were also able to inform themselves about a wide range of offerings, with tips on how to prevent illnesses and ideas for sports and relaxation that are good for the respiratory tract. Creature comforts were provided in the form of a colourful buffet with healthy snacks, soups and drinks. The company actively encourages its staff to visit the Health Day and even makes this possible during working hours. The Health Day was launched in 2010 and takes place every two years, each time with a different focus. This year’s motto “Breathe” was inspired by a health report published by the Techniker Krankenkasse health insurance fund, which found that in 2016 respiratory diseases, at 35 percent, were the most common cause of illness in companies. The Messe Vital working group has been promoting a healthy work environment for 14 years. © Messe Frankfurt / Jean-Luc Valentin 14 Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood When children need help quickly Messe Frankfurt supports the “Noteingang – hier finden Kinder Hilfe” (“Kids’ rescue point – help for children”) prevention project Messe Frankfurt supports the for children, an initiative that offers help and shelter for children in public spaces. In Frankfurt, there are many safe places along “Noteingang – hier finden Kinder routes to/from kindergarten and school where kids can go if they need help. A sticker on the entrance door to the building shows Hilfe” (“Kids’ rescue point – help children that in an emergency they can get help here quickly – for children”) prevention project whether they have a day-to-day problem such as a lost door key or are in acute danger. Since last year, the Kap Europa congress for children, an initiative that offers centre has been the point of contact at Messe Frankfurt – centrally located outside the exhibition grounds in the urban help and shelter for children in Europaviertel district and easy to access in an emergency. public spaces. By joining the initiative’s extensive network, our company is helping to promote safety and trust in our neighbourhood. “Noteingang” was developed in 2008 in cooperation with the Prevention Committee of the City of Frankfurt am Main and the Frankfurt police department and makes an important contribution to supporting social responsibility in Frankfurt. Information about the importance of the project and the meaning of the stickers is provided regularly in kindergartens, schools and through parental notices. With children. For children! Messe Frankfurt regularly supports the work of the children’s aid organisation Children for a Better World e.V. with the aim of overcoming child poverty. Under the motto “Mit Kindern. Für Kinder!” (“With children. For children!”) we regularly sponsor a childcare facility in the immediate vicinity of the exhibition grounds. Our donation enables the children to have a cooked lunch every day. The multi-generation house combines day-care centres, educational and advisory services, homework supervision, discussion groups and a family restaurant under one roof. Our financial support guarantees care and social activities for disadvantaged children and young people. And within the framework of the already traditional Christmas campaign, our colleagues fulfil children’s wishes with lovingly compiled packages. © Children for a better World / Patrick Meroth In 1994, the children’s aid organisation Children for a Better World e.V. was founded under the motto “With children. For children!”. Since then, the organisation has supported around 250 projects annually, reaching more than 10,000 children and young people worldwide. Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood 15 Doing good with high-quality second-hand clothing The Frankfurt branch of the “Kinderschutzbund” (German Association for Child Protection) organises an annual charity bazaar at the Hilton Frankfurt City, at which high-quality second-hand clothing is sold. The proceeds go towards supporting children Charity bazaar in Frankfurt: supported and adolescents traumatised by violence. Many colleagues supported the bazaar in March by donating high-quality clothing and by our colleagues, donations of high-quality helping to raise a generous sum of money. clothing help to raise a generous sum of money that benefits children and adolescents Don’t bin it, donate it traumatised by violence. For years, our Argentine colleagues have been on a mission to stop unused food and food that is still perfectly good to eat from being thrown away at the end of an event by donating it to charitable institutions instead. For example, at the end of the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC)*, 200 meals were handed over to the Plato Lleno Foundation. * At the conference, heads of government, managers and policy-makers discussed the major challenges currently facing the tourism industry Healthy food consistent with social commitment Messe Frankfurt Argentina was co-organiser of the G20 summit in Argentina in December of last year. During the conference breaks, participants were offered healthy snacks of fruit and nuts supplied by the two organisations “En Buenas Manos” and “Cooperativa Ora del Inca”. In this way, two not-for-profit © Messe Frankfurt organisations were supported, while at the same time promoting consumption of healthy food. Christmas box initiative Sometimes it only takes small things to make people happy. Our colleagues from Messe Frankfurt UK Ltd. took part in an initiative in their office complex and put together surprise Christmas packages for elderly people, especially those on their own. Filled with useful everyday items such as gloves, socks, scarves, cosmetic products, books, puzzles and sweet treats, the colourful packages were distributed to local retirement and care homes. Our colleagues from Messe Frankfurt UK Ltd. took part in an initiative and put together surprise Christmas packages filled with useful items for elderly people, especially those on their own. The colourful packages were distributed to local retirement and care homes. 16 Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood With Johann Wolfgang von Goethe through the city’s and trade fair’s 800-year history The relationship between the city and the Frankfurt fair is as unique as their shared history. The idea of bringing the history of Messe Frankfurt onto a theatre stage was therefore just as unprecedented. To mark the opening of the new reconstructed Old Town of Frankfurt, our company took part in the public celebrations by putting on a play. The story anecdotally describes the company’s evolution from an imperially privileged trade fair venue to a globally leading corporate group. The play was © Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera written by the Dramatische Bühne Frankfurt and premiered on 28 and 30 September 2018. Admission to the eleven performances was free for all citizens. Soundscapes – the Messe Frankfurt Advent Concert For 32 years now, Messe Frankfurt’s Advent Concert on the 2nd Sunday of Advent has been part of the festive end-of-year celebrations. When the renowned organist Professor Edgar Krapp was awarded the Frankfurt Music Prize in 1983, the idea was born to organise an organ concert for business partners and Messe Frankfurt employees in order to foster dialogue and enjoy music in an informal setting and relaxed atmosphere. Initially alternating with the Bach Trumpet Ensemble and the Süddeutscher Kammerchor, young soloists and artists from the music industry put on an annual performance. In 2018, the Advent Concert with soprano Katja Stuber once again formed the prelude to the festive season. International Trade Fair City Footfall Tournament – kicking together unites Football unites people and cultures. And at the annual Interna© Messe Frankfurt tional Trade Fair City Football Tournament, getting to know one another is just as important as the game itself. Last year, Messe Frankfurt once again hosted the traditional tournament, which takes place alternately in one of the participating trade fair cities. From 25 to 27 May, teams and delegations from Amsterdam, Utrecht, Berlin, Hamburg, Hanover, Cologne, Düsseldorf and, for the first time, Reed Exhibitions followed the invitation to the Main metropolis for the 39th edition of the tournament. The tournament was organised by our Football company sports group, which received plenty of support from colleagues. A large number of enthusiastic volunteers and even more fans made sure everything went smoothly and an eventful and memorable weekend with a great atmosphere and summer temperatures © Messe Frankfurt was enjoyed by all. As well as an exciting and fair competition on the pitch, the welcome party and gala evening with award ceremony following the final were also a huge success. The International Trade Fair City Football Tournament has taken place in its present form since 1979, but the first “Coupe des villes de foires” was held as early as 1955. This competition was the forerunner of the UEFA Cup, which was subsequently opened to all clubs. Practising social responsibility in the immediate neighbourhood 17 Commitment to the next generation of technical education From the start of the 2018/2019 winter semester, Messe Frankfurt is supporting the Real Estate and Facility Management and Real Estate and Integral Building Technology Bachelor’s programmes at Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences (Frankfurt UAS) for the next five years. As part of its sponsoring and donation strategy, Messe Frankfurt is not only partnering an academic institution at its home venue through this commitment; it is also investing in the training of skilled future employees. The study courses train specialists in facility management and integral building technology – specialists that Messe Frankfurt also needs to plan, manage, maintain and optimise its real estate. Especially amid calls to achieve greater resource efficiency, energy savings, networking and safety, there is likely to be an increased need for well-trained specialists in the future. The cooperation will finance a total of 54 study places. Expert lectures given by Messe Frankfurt employees at the university and qualified, hands-on excursions 54 study places funded at the exhibition grounds with a focus on building technology will create added value for the students. through cooperation. With more than 70 events covering the entire technology spectrum, Messe Frankfurt hosts the leading international trade fairs in the field of building technology. These include 27 events in the Building Technologies segment worldwide, such as ISH, the world’s leading exhibition for water, heating and air-conditioning, with brand events in India and China, and Light + Building, the world’s leading trade fair for lighting and building technology. Trade fairs are also part of the ideal marketing mix for millennials In cooperation with Messe Frankfurt, students from EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht (Wiesbaden and Rheingau) investigated what millennials – and thus potential future trade fair participants – want from trade fairs of the future. The findings reveal that trade fairs need to develop even more strongly into must-attend events. © Messe Frankfurt / Marc Jacquemin 18 Sustainability at our events Building technology plays key role The target in the climate action plans of the Paris Agreement is to achieve greenhouse gas emissions neutrality worldwide by the second half of this century. Areas of action include energy supply and buildings. Efficient and intelligent building technology plays a key role given a growing world population and increasing urbanisation, combined with sustainable management of water and energy resources. Digitalisation and interconnectivity of systems make a valuable contribution here, as do the rapid innovation cycles of building services engineering in the areas of water, heat and air conditioning. For the global industry players and experts, flagship trade fairs showcasing building technologies are therefore an important platform for discussing global challenges and presenting solutions in an interdisciplinary exchange. One of the largest energy consumption sectors is the heating market, which also offers the highest potential for energy savings and CO2 reduction. Not only in Germany and Europe are existing plants obsolete and consume too much energy. With © Messe Frankfurt / Jochen Günther a view to global energy policy, the declared aim of ISH, the leading international trade fair for water, heating and air conditioning, in March was therefore to promote efficient and sustainable technologies without sacrificing on comfort. As well as the overarching themes Internet of Things (IoT) and Building Information Modelling (BIM), the world’s leading trade fair spotlighted sustainable sanitation solutions, intelligent water management and drinking water hygiene. Responsible textile innovations At the World Climate Conference in Poland in December 2018, 40 leading fashion companies, organisations and associations signed the first global climate protection agreement for the textiles industry. Sustainability has now become a central element at Messe Frankfurt’s 50-plus textile events worldwide – from production, processing and materials to fashion. Messe Frankfurt systematically supports the development towards greater sustainability in the textiles industry. And at the end of the day, environmental change holds enormous potential for our exhibitors also from an economic perspective. At Heimtextil, the leading international trade fair for home and contract textiles, the Green Village offers a point of contact for eco-certifications, innovations and changes throughout the value chain. The Green Directory, which currently includes around © Messe Frankfurt / Petra Welzel 150 companies, lists exhibitors with especially progressive, sustainable manufacturing processes and provides visitors with valuable impulses in a dedicated series of lectures. In January, for example, numerous exhibitors showed progressive approaches to solutions such as recycling ocean plastic and PET bottles and using certified natural materials. Sustainability at our events 19 Sustainable innovations, technological developments and concepts are among the central elements at Techtextil, the leading international trade fair for technical textiles and nonwovens, and Texprocess, the leading international trade fair for processing textile and flexible materials. For the first time, both events in May highlighted the sustainability efforts of the exhibitors with © Messe Frankfurt / Patrice Brylla Innovation Awards and the Texprocess Forum with an offshoot of the international conference format Fashionsustain. This Messe Frankfurt conference on sustainable textile innovations focuses exclusively on sustainability in the textile and fashion industry. The trend theme “Urban Living City of the Future” at Techtextil attracted a great deal of attention with a look to the future and the question of how technical textiles will shape urban life moving forward. The goal of Neonyt is to identify and actively promote changes towards value-based growth in the fashion and textile industry. The hub concept combines fashion, sustainability and innovation with business and knowledge to create a special event. Neonyt’s comprehensive sustainability concept runs like a green thread through the entire event, from the collections of the exhibiting fashion labels, to sustainable catering, the recycling of building materials from trade fair stands and stage constructions, and donations to charitable and social initiatives. At Neonyt in January, around 800 kilograms of reusable material was saved from the rubbish container. For the first time, the United Nations, as a partner of the Conscious Fashion Campaign, was represented with a stand at the Neonyt Trade Fair and presented its sustainability agenda – known as Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) to a fashion audience in the context of Berlin Fashion Week. The Conscious Fashion Campaign represents sustainable fashion brands that are committed to rethinking the industry. © Messe Frankfurt / Patrice Brylla 20 Sustainability at our events Silkworm breeding “Proyecto Seda” is a Latin American initiative aimed at promoting © Projecto Seda silkworm breeding. It was set up by the Argentine INTI (National Institute for Industrial Technology) with the support of the EU in order to foster cooperation in a spirit of partnership. The project aims to help sustainably combat poverty in a number of Latin American and Caribbean countries, support economic growth in agricultural and suburban areas and thus promote sustainable Silk production is an artisanal activity that is ideally suited to family economic growth. At our textile trade fairs Emitex, Simatex and businesses, allowing them to secure an income. Confemaq in Buenos Aires, our Messe Frankfurt Argentina subsidiary gave the initiative an opportunity to present itself to a broad specialist audience on a special exhibition area. The different breeding stages of the silk moth (Bombyx mori) were shown as well as products made from the silk thread. The spectrum ranges from clothing and jewellery to hygiene articles, medicines and cosmetics such as dental floss and exfoliating creams. Silk production is an artisanal activity that can be ideally carried out in family businesses. It does not require large cultivation areas, special technology or skilled workers and is therefore well suited to quickly and easily generating a new source of income. Professional further training for junior staff and “old hands” Due to their high innovation density, trade fairs are the perfect meeting platform for industry and commerce, as well as for finding young recruits, promoting talent and searching for skilled professionals. And conversely, many students, trainees and young graduates make valuable contacts at our events. Messe © Messe Frankfurt / Jochen Günther Frankfurt promotes the training and further education of young people across the industry sectors it represents. There are also many practical training opportunities for specialists with experience. One example is Automechanika, the leading international trade fair for the automotive service industry in the field of equipment, parts, accessories, management and services. Like many other industries, the automotive sector – franchised body shops in particular, but independent body shops, too – faces major challenges, for example through digitalisation and measures aimed at conserving resources. Fields of activity such as electric mobility, alternative drives and autonomous vehicles are driving the industry forward. Reflecting this development, the Promotion of young talent take-up of the advanced training offering at the event in Septemacross our industries. ber last year was correspondingly high, with experts from leading companies and professional associations providing insights into the many different career options available. Young professionals had the opportunity to get hands on and demonstrate their skills. Over 700 participants from more than 20 countries © Messe Frankfurt / Jochen Günther attended the 15 free daily workshops, for which they received a certificate at the end. The Automechanika Academy’s offerings ranged from leading-edge specialist lectures, discussion rounds and presentations to workshops. Sustainability at our events 21 Focus on people Fair trade, socially acceptable and innovative sustainable production in the consumer goods sector are no longer marginal phenomena. Consumers are showing a growing interest in © Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera where products come from and how they have been processed. At Ambiente, the leading international trade fair for the consumer goods sector, manufacturers with an excellent track record in this field are listed in a separate booklet, the Ethical Style Guide. Three initiatives from the area of fair trade and sustainability were also guests in Frankfurt in February and presented their dedicated projects. Worldwide demand for handcrafted products is increasing. This is an ideal prerequisite for MADE51 to present itself to a broad international audience. The global initiative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which cooperates with business partners, has set itself the long-term India was the partner country of Ambiente 2019 and inspired with its countless facets, traditions, creative visions and talents. task of helping refugee artisans to establish a new livelihood, Traditional craftsmanship is one of India’s strengths, both in while supporting them in preserving traditional skills and craftsclassical and modern products. Executive Board member Detlef manship. The high level of internationality at Ambiente creates Braun at the opening of the partner country presentation. optimum conditions for sustainably integrating traditional crafts into value chains. Promoting alternative business models and fairness is the objective of the World Fair Trade Organization (WFTO). The global community is made up of over 400 members, including 330 fair trade companies and 70 organisations and networks. In Frankfurt, the organisation found the right setting to establish valuable contacts. The range of products shown ranged from gifts, homeware and fashion to health and food products. The aim of the Centre for the Promotion of Imports from developing countries (CBI) is to make small-scale regional manufacturers from developing countries export-ready to enter international economic markets. CBI was founded in 1971 by the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Products from suppliers in Egypt and the Lebanon and products from the MADE51 initiative were on display at Ambiente. © Messe Frankfurt / Jean-Luc Valentin 22 Sustainability at our events “Creative Aid” – donations to the Frankfurt Children’s Office Creativeworld, the leading international trade fair for hobby, arts and crafts supplies, together with Paperworld and Christmasworld, is the international meeting place for the respective communities in January, with around 3,120 exhibitors from almost 70 countries at its most recent edition. A nice ending to Creativeworld is the tradition whereby exhibitors donate craft and creative products to the Frankfurt Children’s Office at the end of the event. From there, materials such as canvases, brushes, paints, pencils, fabrics, modelling dough and stickers are distributed to more than 50 children’s and youth institutions in the city. Toddler groups, family centres and primary schools as well as refugee shelters all benefit. © Messe Frankfurt This year’s campaign, in which around 90 national and international exhibitors took part, was again a great success. The fundraising campaign is coordinated by the Creativeworld organisation team in close cooperation with the Frankfurt Children’s Office. Our colleagues make a stand at the international trade fair available to the Children’s Office free of charge, allowing it to make direct contact with exhibitors. The “Children’s Art!” exhibition shows how the donated materials are transformed into small works of art and features paintings A nice tradition: after the end of the Creativeworld event, and objects created by children and young people between the exhibitors donate craft and creative products to the Frankfurt ages of two and 14. Visitors to the exhibition can purchase the Children’s Office, from where they find their way to more works of art via a donation, which goes towards the Frankfurt than 50 children’s and youth facilities in the city. Children’s Office Sponsorship Fund for children up to 14 years of age whose parents cannot afford to pay for art, music or sport instruction. Paperworld donates books Kindergartens, schools, retirement homes and social institutions were once again able to enjoy numerous boxes of books from the “Mr. Books & Mrs. Paper” special show. Traditionally, renowned publishers donate their latest books together with stationery and gift articles from the special show at Paperworld, the international Frankfurt fair for paper, office supplies and stationery, to the Arbeiterwohlfahrt* Kreisverband Frankfurt am Main (AWO) after the fair has closed. It distributes the publications and articles to kindergartens, schools, retirement homes and social institutions in Frankfurt. Messe Frankfurt has been organising the fundraising campaign together with Arbeiterwohlfahrt since 2013. * A rbeiterwohlfahrt is one of the six leading voluntary welfare work associations in Germany © Messe Frankfurt Sustainability at our events 23 Discover music… … is the established young talent promotion project (formerly Musik4Kidz) at Musikmesse Frankfurt and only one of many educational offerings at the largest European music industry fair. With its hands-on activities, top-class lectures, workshops, discussions and competitions, Musikmesse is aimed at everyone involved in musical education. More than 140,000 children alone 140,000 children on a musical have embarked on a musical voyage of discovery at the voyage of discovery. Frankfurt Exhibition Centre in recent years. Messe Frankfurt is increasingly taking up new topics and expanding the Education programme at the event, for example to include music therapy and its methods. Music therapy is a recognised medical procedure that is used to successfully treat a whole range of conditions. Many therapists benefit from this innovative industry, which is constantly evolving. In addition to handcrafted therapy instruments, digitalisation has long since found its way into this profession, in the form of applications such as music apps. This year for the first time, Messe Frankfurt and the Deutsche Musiktherapeutische Gesellschaft (DMtG, German Music Therapy Society) held the “New Therapy Instruments” competition, with the aim of providing a prominent platform for forward-looking projects in the industry. © Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera © Messe Frankfurt / Pietro Sutera The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human rights 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 02 that Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 04 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 05 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 06 elimination Businesses should support the of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 07 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 08 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 09 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Messe Frankfurt GmbH environmentally friendly technologies. Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Phone +49 69 7575-5764 Anti-corruption csr@messefrankfurt.de www.messefrankfurt.de 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Responsibility for content under German press law: Iris Jeglitza-Moshage extortion and bribery. Editor: Claudia Lehning-Berge
