COP – Communication On Progress 2018 in AKTOR SA AKTOR, subsidiary of ELLAKTOR Group, which is a signatory member of UN Global Compact, publishes its environmental, social and business performance through the Sustainability Reports of ELLAKTOR Group. AKTOR is a member of the local Global Compact Network Hellas – GCNH. The most recent version of the Sustainability Report has been published in the website www.ellaktor.com, while the Sustainability Report of ELLAKTOR Group for the year 2018 is being compiled and will be published in the above-mentioned website during July 2019. The Sustainability Report 2018 for ELLAKTOR Group conforms to the criteria and requirements of UN Global Compact – UNGC G4. The publication of Sustainability Reports aims at establishing communication with the stakeholders, in order to provide information about subjects relevant to the environment, the society, the employees and the financial market. AKTOR’s performance in the sector of Sustainable development is measured and reported annually, including the actions of adopting and implementing the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact and every commitment against these principles. Therefore, concerning the actions taken for the support – implementation of the UNGC 10 Principles, AKTOR presents a continuous improvement in environmental, labor and social subjects, as well as in subjects concerning the financial market. More specifically:  The acceptance of human rights and their violation as reported in the UNGC Principles 1, 2 and 3: AKTOR has adopted the aspects of human rights declaration, preventing their violations, while equal opportunities are given to all employees.  Discriminations in employment, child and forced labor prohibition, as mentioned in Principles 4, 5 and 6 of the UNGC: in AKTOR, child and forced labor as well as any discrimination in employment are forbidden.  Initiatives for the encouragement of further environmental responsibility as it is mentioned in the UNGC Principles 7, 8 and 9: AKTOR implements Environmental Management System, certified by ISO 14001:2015 and verified by EMAS III and publishes the environmental actions and benefits for the environment and the Corporate Responsibility, through the annual Environmental Statement, in the website of the European Union http://ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/index_en.htm, the Hellenic Environmental Ministry http://www.ypeka.gr/Default.aspx?tabid=577&locale=en-US&language=elGR and the website of the company http://www.aktor.gr .  AKTOR complies with the ELLAKTOR Group Code of Conduct, which was approved in July 2016 by the Board of Directors. Based on the Code of Conduct, the Group promotes and encourages behaviors based on the best business ethics principles, as well as on the 10 principles of UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption. In the context of strengthening ethical behavior and principles, the Ethical and Regulatory Compliance Program for ELLAKTOR Group and its subsidiaries’ was approved and implemented. In the context of the company’s concern about the impact of energy consumption on the environment, AKTOR has proceeded to implement an Energy Management System, certified by ISO 50001:2011 in the year 2017. The above certification aims at an integrated management of every type of energy and thus the energy saving through the appropriate actions. Through energy saving, the reduction of GHG (greenhouse gases) and especially CO2 is achieved, along with the company’s contribution to greenhouse effect containment. Alexandros Exarchou Managing Director AKTOR Athens, June 2019
