Enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 WELCOME TO DRAX GROUP CONTENTS Our purpose: > STRATEGIC REPORT 01 2018 Highlights 02 At a glance 04 Chair’s statement Enabling a zero 06 Chief Executive’s review 10 Business Model 12 Market Context carbon, lower cost 14 Acquisition of generation assets 16 Pellet Production 18 Power Generation 20 B2B Energy Supply energy future 22 Building a sustainable business 32 Stakeholder relations 34 Group financial review 42 Viability statement 44 Principal risks and uncertainties Drax’s goals are to enable: > 50 GOVERNANCE Letter from the Chair •A  zero carbon economy: Meeting climate 52 54 Board of directors Executive Committee change commitments and leaving our 56 64 Corporate governance report Nomination Committee report environment better than we found it 69 Audit Committee report 75 Remuneration Committee report •A  lower cost energy system: Ensuring the 101 104 Directors’ report Directors’ responsibilities statement energy system is delivered at a lower cost 105 Verification statement •G  reater security and control: Providing > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 Independent auditor’s report to and supporting a reliable supply of the members of Drax Group plc 114 Financial statements renewable energy and giving customers 117 Financial statements contents greater control of their energy 118 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated cash flow statement 123 Financial performance 135 Operating assets and working capital 142 Financing and capital structure 148 Other assets and liabilities 153 Our people 163 Risk management 173 Reference information 182 Company financial statements Company balance sheet Company statement of changes in equity 184 Notes to the Company financial statements > SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 188 Shareholder information 191 Company information 192 Glossary Cover photo: Cruachan dam and reservoir above See more online at Cruachan Power Station, acquired by Drax on www.drax.com 31 December 2018 (case study on page 14). Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Adjusted revenue Adjusted gross profit Adjusted EBITDA(1) £4,237m £601m (2017: £3,685m) (2017: £545m) £250m (2017: £229m) Total revenue Total gross profit Total operating profit £4,229m £639m (2017: £3,684m) (2017: £368m) £60m (2017: (£138m)) Net debt(2) Percentage of total UK renewable Total recordable electricity generated(3) injury rate £319m (2017: £367m) 12% (2017: 15% ) 0.22 (2017: 0.27) Dividend per share B2B Energy Supply meter points Wood pellets produced 14.1p (2017: 12.3p) 396k (2017: 376k) 1,351kt (2017: 822kt) (1) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. (2) Net debt is defined as borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt does not include the £687 million which was paid on 2nd January 2019 for the acquisition of the generation business from ScottishPower. (3) Drax estimates that it produced around 12% of the UK’s renewable electricity between Q4 2017 and Q3 2018 (Q4 2016 to Q3 2017). This is based upon the latest BEIS Energy Trends 6.1 data. WHAT’S INSIDE 06 O ur Group CEO, Will Gardiner, 10 Our business model describes our 22 Sustainability is at the heart reviews the year and progress activities and how we generate of our business made against our strategy value from our resources Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 1 OUR CORE ACTIVITIES AT A GLANCE Drax Group operates an integrated value chain across three principal areas of activity: sustainable wood pellet production; flexible, low carbon and renewable energy generation; and energy sales and services to business customers. Our activities PELLET are underpinned by safety, PRODUCTION sustainability, operational excellence and expertise in our markets. A leading producer of wood pellets from sustainable POWER GENERATION low-value commercial forestry residues. Power generation Manufacture and supply of good quality wood pellets at the lowest cost to our Power Generation business for 18.3TWh use in the generation of renewable electricity. (2017: 20TWh) OUR ASSETS: • 2 x 525 ktonne pellet plants • 1 x 450 ktonne pellet plant Biomass 75% • 2.1 Mtonne export facility at Baton Rouge port Coal 25% TOTAL REVENUE BY BUSINESS AREA 1,351kt Total revenue £4,229m pellets produced (2017: £3,684m) Power Generation 47% B2B Energy Supply 53% EMPLOYEES BY BUSINESS AREA Employees 2,716 (2017: 2,558) B2B Energy Supply 53% Power Generation 30% Pellet Production 9% Corporate 8% Current sites Find out more at www.drax.com Read more page 16 2 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information POWER B2B ENERGY GENERATION SUPPLY A portfolio of flexible, low carbon and renewable A leading supplier of renewable energy UK power generation. solutions to industrial and business customers. A multi-site, multi-technology generation portfolio providing Supplier of power, gas and value-adding services to power and system support services to the electricity grid. industrial, corporate and small and medium-sized businesses, representing an 11% share of the B2B power market. OUR ASSETS: OUR ASSETS: • 2.6GW biomass generation and system support • Opus Energy • 1.3GW coal generation and system support • Haven Power • On 31 December 2018 we acquired a 2.6GW portfolio of assets from ScottishPower (see pages 14 and 15 for further details) • Option for 4 x 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbines (OCGT) Generation Capacity Customer meters Power sales 18.3TWh 3.9GW (6.5GW from 396k 20.9TWh Renewables 75% 31 December 2018) Drax Power Station Options for OCGT projects Assets acquired from ScottishPower Current sites Read more page 18 Read more page 20 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 3 CHAIR’S STATEMENT Our flexible, low carbon and renewable approach is delivering high quality earnings and further opportunities for growth.” Philip Cox CBE Chair, Drax Group INVESTMENT CASE INTRODUCTION Notwithstanding these events we In 2018 we made good progress with continued to provide a significant 1 Critical to the strategy we first announced in amount of the UK’s renewable power and decarbonisation of the December 2016. completed the conversion of a fourth unit from coal to biomass – on schedule UK’s energy system The strategy is to focus on our flexible, and budget. and a major source of low carbon and renewable generation, flexible, low carbon and combined with a customer-focused We have continued to develop options renewable power from a approach to energy supply. The Group for gas generation at four sites around the aims to deliver higher quality earnings, UK as well as the option for coal-to-gas nationwide portfolio of a reduction in commodity exposure and repowering at Drax Power Station. These generation technologies opportunities for growth aligned with the options could provide new sources of country’s ambitious low carbon energy flexible generation and support the UK’s 2 Underlying growth in needs. I expect the Group to be at the decarbonisation targets while delivering the core business and centre of this change and to work in attractive returns to our shareholders, partnership with Government to help subject to the right long-term support attractive investment the UK meet its energy objectives. mechanism being in place. opportunities In December 2018 we completed the Good quality, sustainable, low cost 3 Increasing earnings acquisition of a portfolio of pumped biomass is central to our business and, visibility, reducing storage, hydro and gas generation assets in Pellet Production, we successfully commodity exposure from ScottishPower, following shareholder commissioned our third pellet plant – approval at the General Meeting held on LaSalle Bioenergy – ahead of schedule 21 December 2018. These assets are highly and on budget. We also relocated our US 4 Strong financial position complementary to our strategy, and will administration to Monroe, Louisiana to and clear capital form a very important part of our portfolio. bring increased focus and efficiency to our allocation plan business. Although pellet quality improved Operationally, the Power Generation in 2018 it was below the level we targeted business managed a major unplanned and we are focused on delivering further generator outage in early 2018, as well as improvements during 2019. an unrelated outage in December 2017 due to a fire at our rail unloading facility. In B2B Energy Supply we have increased Both outages restricted biomass customer meters and margin, although the generation in early 2018. We have learned market for many of our customers remains important lessons from these events challenging. This has contributed to as we continuously strive for improved an increase in bad debt provisioning. safety and operational performance. 4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance page 50 RESULTS AND DIVIDEND We are also delighted to welcome Andy SUSTAINABILITY Adjusted EBITDA in 2018 of £250 million Skelton to the Board as CFO from January A key part of our approach to corporate grew by 9% compared to 2017 (£229 million). 2019. Andy is a highly experienced CFO governance is sustainability. This remains This reflects high levels of renewable having previously served as CFO at Fidessa. at the heart of the Group and part of power generation from sustainable I extend my thanks to Den Jones who did its culture. It covers both biomass biomass as well as Adjusted EBITDA an excellent job as Interim CFO, supporting sustainability and, more broadly, long-term growth in our Pellet Production business. the delivery of the strategy and the sustainability – achieving a positive acquisition of the ScottishPower assets. economic, social and environmental At the 2018 half year results we confirmed Den will remain with the Group until May impact and considering long, medium an interim dividend of £22 million 2019 to support the integration process. and short-term factors in our stewardship (5.6 pence per share) representing 40% of the business. of the full year expected dividend of Drax remains committed to the highest £56 million (14.1 pence per share) standards of corporate governance. The We measure our performance as part (2017: £50 million, 12.3 pence per share). Board and its committees play an active of our Group Scorecard, which covers a Accordingly, the Board proposes to pay role in guiding the Company and leading its range of matters that we see as crucial to a final dividend in respect of 2018 of strategy. We greatly value the contribution the longevity of the Group. We therefore £34 million, equivalent to 8.5 pence made by our Non-Executive Directors and use the Scorecard as a key element of our per share. This represents a 12% increase during a time of transition their role Bonus and Long Term Incentive plans. on 2017 and is consistent with our policy remains especially important. to pay a dividend which is sustainable OUR PEOPLE and expected to grow as the strategy During 2018, as part of our structured Our people – employees and contractors delivers an increasing proportion of succession planning, we welcomed two – remain a key asset of the business and stable earnings and cash flows. new Non-Executive Directors to the Board. we are all focused on creating a diverse Nicola Hodson has valuable experience in and inclusive working environment that is The Group has a clear capital allocation technology, business transformation and both safe and supportive. Employee safety policy which it has applied throughout energy. Vanessa Simms has over 20 years’ is a long-held and central commitment 2018. In determining the rate of growth experience in senior finance roles, with of our operational philosophy. While the in dividends from one year to the next the a particular focus on implementing number of incidents we have experienced Board will take account of contracted cash strategic change. remains low, we need to remain vigilant flows, the less predictable cash flows from and reduce the number of high potential the Group’s commodity based business David Lindsell will step down at the Annual incidents. We remain committed to the and future investment opportunities. General Meeting (AGM) in April 2019. David highest standards of safety and wellbeing If there is a build-up of capital, the Board has served for ten years and remained on across the Group. will consider the most appropriate the Board during 2018 to assist with the mechanism to return this to shareholders. onboarding of the new CFO and Chair I would also like to welcome colleagues of the Audit Committee. Tony Thorne will from ScottishPower. We believe they will Reflecting this approach to capital step down in June 2019 and Tim Cobbold provide highly complementary expertise allocation, in February 2018 the Group will step down in September 2019, each and a strong cultural fit, to create an announced a £50 million share buy-back having served nine years. Nicola will expanded world-class engineering programme, which was successfully succeed Tony as Chair of the Remuneration and operations capability. completed in January 2019. Committee and Vanessa will succeed David as Chair of the Audit Committee. My sincere thanks to all of my colleagues CORPORATE GOVERNANCE David Nussbaum will take over as our for their ongoing commitment, dedication In January 2018 Will Gardiner, who was Senior Independent Director. and hard work. previously Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO), became Group Chief Executive I would like to thank each of David Lindsell, In concluding, I would like to say that Officer, succeeding Dorothy Thompson Tony and Tim for their very significant the Board remains totally committed to CBE. His appointment followed a thorough contributions to the Board and, for David the complementary aims of delivering review of internal and external candidates and Tony, their invaluable leadership sustainable long-term value for the Group, and was a natural progression after of the Audit and Remuneration supporting the communities in which two years working alongside Dorothy Committees respectively. we operate and enabling a zero carbon, developing a strategy which I am lower cost energy future for the UK. confident will continue to create significant benefits for all stakeholders. Philip Cox CBE Chair Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Progressing our strategy and supporting the UK’s transition to a low carbon economy.” Will Gardiner Group CEO, Drax Group 2018 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGY During 2019 we will be strengthening Our purpose is ‘to enable a zero carbon, our focus to reduce the number of high 1  cquisition of A lower cost energy future’, and this is the potential incidents. ScottishPower basis of our strategy. SUMMARY OF 2018 generation assets Over time we expect the UK’s power We have made good progress with the system to become increasingly dominated delivery of our strategy during 2018 and 2 Adjusted EBITDA growth by intermittent wind and solar power. delivered a Group Scorecard performance A smaller, but important, part of our power ahead of target. 3 Group Scorecard will need to be provided by other forms performance ahead of low carbon generation that is available Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR), our of target when wind and solar power are not primary safety measure, was 0.22. This available. Our strategy is to meet that reflects a strong performance in Power 4 Conversion of need and support the UK power system. Generation but with a significant failing in Pellet Production. As always there is more fourth biomass unit Through addressing UK energy needs, we can do in our pursuit of zero incidents, and those of our customers, our strategy and in 2019 we will be redoubling our 5 Commissioning is designed to help us deliver long-term efforts to improve our safety performance. and full production financial performance across the Group. at LaSalle Bioenergy In doing so we are reducing our historic Adjusted EBITDA, a financial KPI, was exposure to commodity markets and £250 million, in line with our expectation 6 Completion of US delivering higher quality earnings with and significantly ahead of 2017. In Power opportunities for growth. Generation the impact of unplanned bond issue biomass outages in early 2018 restricted Further growth will come from flexible renewable power output. However, 7 Share buy-back operation of the Group’s expanded a strong team effort, the flexible and programme generation portfolio and the provision of responsive operation of our coal system support services as well as growth generating units and the conversion 8 Launch of Bioenergy in our Pellet Production and B2B Energy of a fourth unit to biomass helped to Carbon Capture and Supply businesses. As we integrate mitigate the impact. Pellet Production Storage (BECCS) pilot the ScottishPower assets in 2019 we increased output and reduced cost per will be reassessing our longer term pellet, although challenges remain on financial targets. pellet quality. B2B Energy Supply grew its market share and margin per meter, The Group’s commitment to safety remains but faced a challenging market for strong and, while the number of overall customers and competitors. incidents was low, we did have a serious injury in one of our pellet plants in the US. 6 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group Financial Review page 34 In December 2018 we completed the our target for 2018 and are focused demonstrates the combustible nature of acquisition of a portfolio of assets on addressing this issue in 2019. biomass and the need for strong controls from ScottishPower for an initial net and processes. Throughout the year we consideration of £687 million (based on Increased volumes, operational commenced installation of suppression total consideration of £702 million, less improvements and a continuing focus equipment throughout our biomass customary working capital adjustments). on cost contributed to a year-on-year handling plant. These complement our We expect the portfolio to provide high reduction in cost per tonne of 10%. This existing processes and respond to the quality earnings and financial returns represents good progress, but there are detection of ingition events in milliseconds. significantly ahead of the Group’s cost more opportunities for cost reduction of capital. Integration of these assets in order to achieve our goal of making In August 2018 we completed the will take place during 2019. biomass power generation viable without conversion of a fourth generating unit subsidy. We will do this by using a greater from coal to biomass. This allows us to During the year we replaced floating debt proportion of the very cheapest wood produce a greater amount of renewable with fixed rate bonds, reducing our overall residues and expanding the use of power at times of high demand, which are cost of debt and extending the maturity sustainably sourced low-cost materials. typically periods of higher carbon intensity. profile to further strengthen our already In this way we plan to deliver more strong balance sheet. Net debt to Adjusted Early progress in this regard was the renewable power, while providing system EBITDA was 1.3x at the end of December signing of a co-location agreement with support at minimum cost to the consumer. 2018, ahead of the forecast contained Hunt Forest Products, a sawmill operator, The operational experience to date has in the Shareholder Circular, dated which will see them build and operate been encouraging. 5 December 2018, of around 1.5x for a sawmill next to LaSalle. The agreement the full year. The acquisition consideration will enable a greater proportion of lower In May 2018 we commenced a low-cost was paid on 2 January 2019. cost sawmill residues to be used, reducing pilot project looking at the potential for transportation and the number of steps in Bioenergy Carbon Capture and Storage OPERATIONAL REVIEW the production process, thereby reducing (BECCS). While at an early stage, the Our TRIR in Pellet Production was 0.63, a the cost. scheme is capturing carbon and offers reduction on the previous year (2017: 0.83). the potential for biomass to deliver carbon We had five recordable safety incidents, We have also built a new rail spur linking negative generation, which will be required three at our LaSalle plant and two at LaSalle to the regional rail network and if the UK is to achieve its decarbonisation Amite. Morehouse completed the year our port facility at Baton Rouge. This will targets, further supporting the case for with no incidents. increase transportation efficiency, provide biomass generation in the long-term. economies of scale and reduce both cost Our Pellet Production operations saw and carbon footprint. Stronger power prices in 2018, reflecting growth in Adjusted EBITDA and record colder weather and higher underlying levels of pellets produced, with output of We continue to evaluate opportunities for global commodity prices, led to an increase 1,351kt, up 64% year-on-year. This reflects the acquisition of pellet capacity as well in the level of coal generation in the latter the successful commissioning of our as the expansion of our existing sites. half of the year. However, the market for third pellet plant, LaSalle, which has now coal generation was challenging and our achieved full production – ahead of plan – In Power Generation, the unplanned two remaining units increasingly focus on as well as consistent production at our biomass unit outages in early 2018 short-term power market opportunities, Amite and Morehouse plants. resulted in reduced generation. Biomass rather than baseload power generation. availability is a KPI for the Group. Since The focus of our activity is the US Gulf returning to service the units have In 2018 Value from Flexibility (a Scorecard region – an area with strong commercial performed well, with high availability measure of the value from flexible power forestry, and good infrastructure and during the remainder of the year. In 2018 generation, support services provided to sustainability credentials. Recognising the availability of our biomass units was the power network and attractively priced the importance of the region, we relocated 91%, ahead of target. coal fuels) was £79 million, in line with plan. our US administration from Atlanta, Given the structural shift in UK generation Georgia to Monroe, Louisiana, providing Notwithstanding outages our biomass towards intermittent renewables we operational savings and supporting our units produced 12% of the UK’s renewable expect greater power price volatility, a focus on delivering good quality power – enough to power four million growing need for system support services sustainable pellets at the lowest cost. homes. This level of renewable generation, and increasing value from flexibility. combined with the flexibility of our Pellet costs and pellet quality, which we expanding portfolio, allows the Group to Our heritage is coal but our business is measure based on the amount of fines support the continued deployment of now flexible, low carbon and renewable (smaller particles of wood pellet material) intermittent renewables and the UK’s power. We believe gas generation is in each cargo, are KPIs for the Group. High ambitious targets for decarbonisation. consistent with supporting the transition levels of fines lead to higher levels of dust, of the energy system. To that end we are which can create health and safety risks The protection of both our people and making progress with the development of through the supply chain. Year-on-year we our assets is a top priority. The fire options for four 299MW Open Cycle Gas have seen a significant improvement in we experienced in December 2017 Turbine (OCGT) plants and up to 3.6GW of pellet quality, although we did not achieve Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued Adjusted EBITDA coal-to-gas repowering at Drax Power route to market for more than 2,000 small £250m Station. These projects would require embedded renewable generation sites. support through the Capacity Market (once re-established) and if successful in POLITICS, REGULATION AND POLICY a future auction could result in 15-year Brexit remains a key issue for the UK. (2017: £229m) index-linked capacity agreements, To date the impact on the Group has been providing a clear investment signal and limited, with the principal risk being a extending visibility of our contract-based weakening of sterling and the cost of Total operating profit earnings through the late 2030s. biomass which is generally denominated £60m in other currencies. Through our use of As part of the acquisition of the medium-term foreign exchange hedges ScottishPower generation assets, the the Group has protected its position out Group also acquired a permitted option for to 2022 at rates close to those that we (2017: (£138m)) the development of a 1.8GW Combined saw before the Brexit referendum vote. Cycle Gas Turbine at Damhead Creek, Kent. Most of our wood pellets are imported B2B Energy Supply customer meters In B2B Energy Supply, we increased our from North America and Europe. The 396k market share by 1%(1). This was a creditable potential for delays at ports is a challenge, performance in what is a competitive but with access to facilities at four UK market, although below target. ports and associated freight links, in addition to storage throughout our supply (2017: 376k) The quality of business (a measure of the chain, we have a good degree of resilience margin from power sales) was below our should delays occur. target, reflecting exceptionally cold winter Total Recordable Injury Rate weather, the costs associated with In the event of a ‘hard’ Brexit, the UK has 0.22 competitor failure, and a challenging indicated that it will leave the European market for customers resulting in Energy Union and EU Emissions Trading increased bad debt expense and Scheme. This mechanism is an important provisioning. In the context of the wider part of the UK’s total carbon price (the (2017: 0.27) market this reflects a good performance. combined UK Carbon Price Support (CPS) and the European Union Emissions Trading Integration of Opus Energy is progressing Scheme – (EU ETS). The Government has and we have now consolidated our confirmed that were this to happen the Northampton operations into a single site, UK would increase the carbon tax to which we expect to deliver additional £34/tonne, compensating for the loss operational efficiencies and cost savings. of the EU ETS until 2021. CPS has been the single most effective instrument in We are making progress in reducing our reducing the level of carbon emissions in cost to serve against target, which will power generation and Drax continues to be an important source of competitive support an effective carbon price signal advantage in the future. We are currently for investment in low carbon technology. progressing the implementation of a new technology platform which will provide CAPACITY MARKET further opportunities for efficient In November 2018 the Court of Justice operations. Technology has a key role of the European Union declared that the in shaping the market and our business process used by the European Commission and we remain alert to opportunities this to approve the UK Capacity Mechanism may present. was not valid. Following this decision the UK Government suspended capacity Digital offerings are a growing feature payments whilst the European of the market. We believe our investment Commission conducted a formal in this area will provide commercial investigation. The European Commission opportunities, a reduced cost to service is also challenging the Court’s ruling. and an enhanced customer experience. It will also provide scalable data analytics The suspension of the Capacity Market and build on the roll-out of smart meters impacted Group Adjusted EBITDA during to deliver tailored customer propositions. 2018. In Generation we continued to meet our obligation and provide capacity but The business has a strong renewable did not receive or accrue the revenue proposition, with 69% of power sales expected from this activity during the final (1) Based on the year-on-year change to the number renewable in 2018, a level which we expect three months of the year. In B2B Energy of SME customer meters on supply to increase. Opus Energy also provides a Supply we provided for all costs associated 8 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information with the Capacity Market in 2018. Our carbon emissions are 131kgCO2-eq/MWh employees spend in the wider consumer approach was based on continuing to of electricity, less than half the UK economy – was £1.6 billion, supporting include charges in customer bills, with Government’s 285 kgCO2-eq/MWh limit. 17,500 jobs across the UK in 2017. cash collected from those customers during the period. The cash will be paid to The sustainability credentials of biomass OUTLOOK Elexon, as the collection agent, and held in have been further reinforced by the EU’s Our focus remains on the delivery of our escrow pending the re-establishment of Renewable Energy Directive which was strategy and long-term earnings growth, the capacity market for generators, at a agreed by both the European Parliament underpinned by safety, sustainability, date yet to be determined during 2019. and Council in June. This includes operational excellence and expertise The net impact across the Group in 2018 biomass sustainability criteria which in our markets. was a £7 million loss to Adjusted EBITDA. should reinforce the credentials of sustainable biomass. During the year In Pellet Production we remain focused The Group assumes £68 million of we also became participants of the CDP, on the production of good quality pellets capacity payment revenues in 2019. a global disclosure system to measure at the lowest cost, cross-supply chain Of this, up to £47 million is derived from and manage environmental impacts. optimisation and identifying low-cost the ScottishPower assets. As part of the We reported our performance for the options to increase self-supply. acquisition of these assets we agreed a climate and forest programmes. compensation mechanism with Iberdrola. In Power Generation, 2019 will see the In the event that capacity payments are During 2018, we published our second integration of the ScottishPower assets not received in respect of these assets in statement on the prevention of slavery and into our generation business and 2019, the mechanism provides, subject to human trafficking in compliance with the opportunities to operate as a coordinated gross margin thresholds, up to £26 million UK Modern Slavery Act (2015) and have portfolio of flexible, low-carbon and of payments to Drax. The agreement also joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC). renewable generation. allows for payments of up to £26 million to We are committed to promoting the UNGC Iberdrola by Drax, subject to significantly principles on respect for human rights, We believe that biomass has an important higher than expected gross margin. These labour rights, the environment and role to play in the UK power market. We payments, if made, would not form part of anti-corruption. also believe that existing and new gas Adjusted EBITDA for 2019. generation has an important role to play in PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES supporting the transition to a zero carbon, We believe that the Capacity Market is Our people are critical to the success of lower cost, energy future and we continue an important cornerstone energy policy, the business. Through 2018 we have to develop our projects in that area. a cost-effective safeguard for security continued the implementation of our of supply and necessary to underpin people strategy focused on driving In B2B Energy Supply, we are investing the development of new generation performance and developing and retaining in digital infrastructure which we believe projects, including our own gas projects. talent to deliver the Group’s objectives. will enable us to continue to grow, offer Our view that the Capacity Market will be We have established Group-wide practices, market leading propositions and develop re-established on the same or similar terms including a behaviour framework focused our presence in the market for flexible is consistent with the position expressed on performance and personal development, demand management and other valueby the UK Government. We expect the and a Group-wide approach to recognising added services. issue to be resolved during 2019 and we and retaining talent. reflect this in our expectations for the year. We have made good progress with the We are committed to having a diverse delivery of our strategy and will continue SAFETY, SUSTAINABILITY AND and inclusive workforce, where every to build on this as we progress our targets, GOVERNANCE employee has the opportunity to realise while playing an important role in our The health, safety and wellbeing of their potential. As part of this we aim to markets and enabling a zero carbon, our employees and contractors is vital have, by the end of 2020, 40% of senior lower cost energy future for the UK. to the success of the Group and remains leadership roles held by women. our priority. We believe that a safe and Will Gardiner sustainable business model is critical to In March 2018 we published our first Group CEO the delivery of our strategy and crucial gender pay gap data. While the data for long-term performance. showed that our businesses were in line with the energy sector overall, it We have continued to maintain our highlighted that we still have work to do. rigorous and robust approach to biomass sustainability, ensuring the wood pellets We continue to make an important we use are fully compliant with the UK’s contribution to the UK economy and to the mandatory sustainability standards. The local communities in which we operate. biomass we use to generate renewable According to a study published by Oxford power provides an 86% carbon emissions Economics in 2018, Drax’s total economic saving against coal, inclusive of supply impact – including our supply chain and chain emissions. Our biomass life cycle the wages our employees and suppliers’ Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 9 BUSINESS MODEL Flexible, low carbon and renewable power, enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. OUR ASSETS OPERATIONS FOCUS AND RESOURCES GROUP • Enabling a zero carbon, FINANCIAL Drax operates an integrated value lower cost energy future • Multi-site, multi-technology chain across three principal areas • Growth in the core business portfolio of assets of activity: sustainable wood and attractive investment • Growing proportion of non pellet production; flexible, low opportunities aligned to UK commodity-related earnings carbon and renewable power energy needs • Efﬁcient debt, foreign exchange generation; and energy sales and • Increasing earnings visibility and trading facilities services to business customers. • Strong financial position and • Sustainable and growing dividend clear capital allocation plan PRODUCTION • Flexible, low-carbon and renewable power generation PELLET PRODUCTION • Development of options for • Pellet production capabilities Manufacture and supply of optimisation and efficiencies good quality wood pellets to • Consistent production and INTELLECTUAL our Power Generation business quality of pellets • World leaders in sustainable for use in the generation of • Continued cost reduction biomass generation and logistics renewable electricity. and Adjusted EBITDA growth • Innovation in Bioenergy Carbon • Options for expansion Capture and Storage (BECCS) HUMAN POWER GENERATION • Reliable biomass generation • Wide range of knowledge and skills Flexible, low carbon and • Sustainably sourced biomass from renewable power generation our Pellet Production business NATURAL and system support. and third parties • Low-value, sustainable forestry • Integration of ScottishPower assets residues sourced from working • System support services forests, supports forest health • Development of options for and growth gas generation • Continued cost reduction SOCIAL and Adjusted EBITDA growth • Strong links to local communities • Visitor centres at plant sites • Employees volunteer in local B2B ENERGY SUPPLY • Investment in systems to communities Supplier of power, gas and support growth and Smart value-adding services to compliance SAFETY industrial, corporate and small • Development of value-added • Strong health and safety culture and medium-sized businesses. services • Continued cost reduction and growth in Adjusted EBITDA UNDERPINNING EVERYTHING WE DO: SAFETY (1) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. (2) Net debt is defined as borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt does not include the £687 million which was paid on 2nd January 2019 for the acquisition of the generation business from ScottishPower. (3) Group Scorecard shows growth in market share of 0.8%. 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information GROUP SCORECARD PERFORMANCE* Group Adjusted EBITDA(1) Group NET DEBT(2) TOTAL RECORDABLE £250m £319m 0.22 INJURY RATE (2017: £229m) (2017: £367m) (2017: 0.27) Ahead of plan Good progress on delivering strategy progress on sustainability $9.37/GJ 8.0% cost of production fines (a measure of (2017: $10.40/GJ) wood pellet quality) (2017: 9.6%) CREATING SUSTAINABLE 91% biomass £79m value from VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS availability flexibility (2017: 79%) (2017: £88m) 11% market share (3) (2017: 10%) SUSTAINABILITY EXPERTISE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE * For further details please see page 92. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 11 MARKET CONTEXT Delivering tomorrow’s sustainable energy Drax operates in a dynamic, rapidly changing market. 2018 saw the 10th Anniversary of long-term strategy is only slightly less the Climate Change Act (the ‘Act’) which bullish when it concludes electricity has transformed the UK energy market will need to meet 50% of primary and has demonstrated that market energy demand. instruments can drive a cost-effective transition of the energy sector in line with The International Panel on Climate Change climate goals. Since the Act became law concluded that as much as 85% of this the UK has seen its grid carbon content energy could come from renewable energy fall by more than 250g CO2 /kWh and coal – mainly wind and solar. Due to their generation has fallen by over 75%. intermittent nature this scale will only be achieved if the remaining 15% comes from Despite this progress there is more to do. sources which complement wind and solar, Decarbonisation of power generation, balancing the system and providing the transport and heat remains a key driver of increasingly valuable support services that change across the energy sector. The UK’s a well-functioning energy system requires. ambitious targets to reduce carbon emissions by 80% of 1990 levels means The challenges and opportunities our power sector will almost certainly presented by climate change are have to be net zero carbon by 2060. significant but they are not the only trends affecting the energy sector. Others Decarbonisation at this scale, across all include a need for more power generation, sectors, is likely to require an absolute as the transport and heat sectors embrace increase in the amount of electricity new technologies, a need to manage produced and consumed due to the more volatile sources of power, widely electrification of heating and transport. distributed sources of generation and A report from the Energy Transitions customers who increasingly want more Commission (November 2018) estimates control over the way they use or generate that electricity’s contribution to global their own energy. On page 13 we explore energy supply must rise from 20% to 60% Drax’s response to these trends in by 2060. The European Commission’s more detail. 12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1 Drive to reduce carbon emissions 3 Need to safeguard the The UK Government aims to end unabated coal generation by UK’s security of supply 2025. Coal produced 5% of UK power in 2018 compared to 39% More distributed generation and the increase in intermittent in 2012. renewables are driving increased levels of volatility in short-term prices and a need for assets to provide system support services. > OUR RESPONSE There is an increasing need for flexible sources of power which We have reduced our coal generation facilities over the last five can provide services such as response, reserve, reactive power, years, converting four of Drax Power Station’s six generation black start and inertia. units to use sustainable biomass. In 2018 we generated 13.8 TWh of renewable power, which represents 12% of the UK’s At peak times UK power supply has been getting close to the total total renewable power supply and means Drax is the largest available generation capacity. Increasing intermittent renewable renewable generator in the UK. We also launched a Bioenergy generation has resulted in higher levels of volatility in short-term Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) pilot project. prices and a need for flexible generation. > OUR RESPONSE THERMAL GENERATION VS RENEWABLE Drax is becoming a truly national power generator with (TWh) generation assets distributed across Scotland, Northern England 600 and the South East, and options to develop generation assets in Wales and the East of England. The Group’s total generation 500 capacity now stands at 6.5 GW and we have options to develop a further 6.6GW. As well as adding capacity this increases our 400 ability to provide the system services the grid relies upon. 300 200 4 Increasing market convergence 100 and changing customer behaviour As the energy market evolves, our businessto-business 0 customers increasingly seek to create value from their portfolios 2009 2013 2017 2021 2025 through the installation of their own generation capabilities, Historic the provision of demand side response and energy trading. Carbon intensity decline Source: electricinsights.co.uk > OUR RESPONSE Smart meter technology presents an opportunity to offer behind-the-meter services and the aggregation of information 2 Evolving mix of generation and capacity to customers large and small. This means Drax can The use of intermittent renewables, such as wind and solar, open up power and flexibility markets to more customers. With is increasing and flexible, thermal generation, such as coal, flexible, renewable, low-carbon generation and trading expertise, is declining. This places additional pressure to balance the Drax is strongly placed in this market to create shared value for energy system. customers and the Group. > OUR RESPONSE Drax’s portfolio of flexible generation (biomass, hydro and 5 A need for affordable, sustainable power gas) provide these increasingly important services and The business-to-business energy market is highly competitive bring more development opportunities. and customers are demanding access to both low cost and renewable power. As much as 85% > OUR RESPONSE Drax now supplies more of its business-to-business customers with 100% renewable power, at no premium, than any of our competitors. Our investment in digital technologies is providing of the energy of the future could new opportunities, a reduced cost to serve and an enhanced come from renewable sources customer experience. See more online at www.drax.com Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 13 ACQUISITION OF SCOTTISHPOWER GENERATION ASSETS Acquisition of 2.6GW of flexible, low-carbon and renewable UK power generation In December Drax completed the acquisition of ScottishPower’s portfolio of pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired generation assets for an initial net consideration of £687m – flexible, renewable and low carbon generation closely aligned to Drax’s generation model. Expected Adjusted EBITDA of £90m–£110m* in 2019 252 operational roles transferred to Drax as part of the acquisition, complementing and reinforcing Drax’s existing engineering and operational capabilities. * See page 15 for further details. 14 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information HIGHLIGHTS STRONG FINANCIAL INVESTMENT CASE • Group net debt/Adjusted EBITDA • A unique portfolio of pumped storage, • High quality earnings expected to be around 2x by the end hydro and gas-fired generation assets • Expected returns from the acquisition of 2019, subject to the Capacity Market • Compelling strategic rationale significantly ahead of the stand-alone • Supportive of credit rating and –Growing – system support opportunity Drax Group’s Weighted Average Cost reduced risk profile for Drax for the UK energy system of Capital • Strengthens ability to pay a growing –Significant – expansion of Drax’s • Expected Adjusted EBITDA of and sustainable dividend generation model £90 million–£110 million in 2019, subject –Diversified – generation capacity – to reinstatement of the Capacity Market* multi‑site, multi-technology –Opportunities – in trading and operations * Expected 2019 Adjusted EBITDA is stated before any allocation of Group overheads (as these will be an allocation of the existing Drax Group cost base which is not expected to increase as a result of the acquisition). STRONG ASSET BASE Cruachan Power Station • 440MW of large-scale storage Galloway and Lanark and flexible generation hydro schemes • A wide range of system • Combined 126MW of stable support services and and reliable renewable power generation generation • Over 35% of the UK’s • Lanark benefits from pumped storage by volume – index-linked Renewable long‑duration storage with Obligation Certificate (ROC) the ability to achieve full load revenues extending to 2027 in 30 seconds, which it can • Galloway operates a reservoir maintain for over 16 hours and dam system providing storage capabilities and opportunities for peak Daldowie demand generation and • 50k tonne biomass-fromsystem support services waste facility. • Firm offtake contract agreement with Scottish Water until 2026 Combined Cycle Gas Turbine power stations Damhead Creek (805MW) Find out more: Rye House (715MW) Shoreham (420MW) Blackburn (60MW) www.drax.com/acquisition2018 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 15 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: PELLET PRODUCTION Increased production and Adjusted EBITDA growth Our pellets provide a sustainable, low-carbon fuel source – one that can be safely and efficiently delivered through our global supply chain and used by Drax’s Power Generation business to make flexible renewable electricity for the UK. Our manufacturing operations also promote forest health by incentivising local landowners to actively manage and reinvest in their forests. INCREASING SUPPLY CHAIN ForestScope was launched at two Sales of pellets in the TRANSPARENCY AND FOSTERING stakeholder engagement briefings in year ending 31 December STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT June and July 2018. The London and 2018 totalled £214 million, We launched ForestScope.info, an Brussels events led to important an increase of 57% interactive digital tool that tracks Drax’s discussions with organisations such global supply chains in order to showcase as WWF, Client Earth and the Natural the location and types of fibre we source, Resources Defence Council (NRDC). as well as key growth and inventory trends in the areas from which we source. We invite feedback from stakeholders over 2017 to improve ForestScope and the Its depth of information, and accessibility sustainability of our operations. for non-experts, makes it an important tool for informing and engaging Find out more: the range of stakeholders with an interest in Drax’s biomass sustainability and sourcing practices. http://forestscope.info 16 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CASE STUDY Hunt Forest Products The wood products industry produces large quantities of residual materials. Drax is making use of this and forming part of a virtuous cycle that benefits the forestry sector, rural communities and the environment. With the world growing increasingly FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND KPIs Through incremental investment in plant digital, the markets for residuals for Adjusted EBITDA of £21 million grew enhancements we expect to see further pulp have been in decline. But with the significantly compared to 2017 (£6 million), benefits from efficiencies and greater growth of markets for biomass, in the driven by increasing volumes of pellets utilisation of lower cost residues. form of sustainable wood pellets – produced and sold to the Power which can utilize the same residuals Generation business (on an arms-length Operating costs vary with throughput and for production of pellets and other basis) and lower production costs per increased in 2018, reflecting increased parts of the process – there remains tonne. This reflects operational pellet production levels and throughput a sustained demand and market for efficiencies and greater utilisation of lower at the Port of Baton Rouge. this material. value forestry materials such as sawmill residues. Revenue in the year ended KPIs reflect a good performance on As this alternative market continues to 31 December 2018 totalled £214 million, reducing the cost of production, which grow, so will demand. Finding ways in an increase of over 50% versus 2017. was ahead of target offset by the level which this market can be made more of fines being significantly below target. efficient now could lead to benefits Raw fibre procurement, transportation Good quality pellets at the lowest cost is in the long term. and processing comprised the majority a key focus for the business and we will of cost of sales and as such this continue to work to improve quality and A collaboration between Drax and remains an important area of focus reduce cost during 2019. Louisiana-based Hunt Forest Products and an opportunity for the business. is helping to do precisely this through investment in a co-location site in Urania, LA, which will see a sawmill FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE and pellet facility sitting side by side. Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Exceptional Exceptional This innovative co-operation will help Adjusted items and Total Adjusted items and Total cut costs at our LaSalle plant, save £m 2018 Remeasurements results 2017 Remeasurements results time, reduce transportation emissions, Revenue 213.7 – 213.7 135.7 – 135.7 and deliver further efficiencies. Cost of sales (148.6) – (148.6) (96.7) – (96.7) Gross profit 65.1 – 65.1 39.0 – 39.0 Find out more: Operating costs (44.3) – (44.3) (33.5) – (33.5) Adjusted EBITDA 20.8 5.5 www.drax.com/sawmill KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI Unit of measure 2018 2017 Fines % 8.0 9.6 Cost of production $/GJ 9.4 10.4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 17 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: POWER GENERATION Flexible, low carbon and renewable generation Long-term earnings stability and opportunities to optimise returns from the transition to a low carbon economy. Drax Power Station remains the largest power station in the UK. Between Q4 2017 and Q3 2018 the station met 5% of the UK’s electricity needs, whilst providing 12% of its renewable electricity, alongside important system support services. With an increase in intermittent renewables and a reduction in the thermal generation provided by coal, the energy system of the future will require solutions which are flexible and able to respond quickly to changes in system demand. These long-term needs inform our generation model and options for future growth. 18 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND KPIs FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Adjusted EBITDA of £232 million was a Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 reduction of £5 million compared to 2017, principally reflecting the impact of forced Exceptional Exceptional Adjusted items and Total Adjusted items and Total outages in January and February 2018. £m 2018 Remeasurements results 2017 Remeasurements results Revenue 3,331.6 (8.3) 3,323.3 2,719.6 (0.9) 2,718.7 Contracts for Difference (CfD) generation contributed to a £73 million increase in Cost of sales (2,935.6) 46.7 (2,888.9) (2,321.2) (176.0) (2,497.2) revenue from 2017, following a full year Gross profit 396.0 38.4 434.4 398.4 (176.9) 221.5 of output. This was offset by lower Operating costs (163.6) – (163.6) (160.9) – (160.9) margins from coal generation and lost Adjusted EBITDA 232.4 237.5 capacity payments. Biomass remains the single largest cost KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS for the Group. We remain focused on KPI Unit of measure 2018 2017 opportunities for long-term cost reduction through efficiencies in operations, Biomass unit technical availability* % 91 79 optimisation of our supply chain and Value from flexibility £m 79 88 expansion of the fuel envelope to include lower cost sustainably sourced material. * Excludes Unit 4 Operating costs included works associated KPIs were ahead of Scorecard targets, Value from flexibility reduced £9 million with unplanned outages. These were reflecting good biomass availability year-on-year, reflecting a specific ancillary offset by a deferral of a major planned beyond the forced outages at the services contract in 2016-2017 which did outage on Unit 4 until summer 2019, beginning of 2018, and value from not extend into 2018. and by the implementation of lean flexibility – a measure of flexible management programmes to improve generation, system support services business performance. and attractively priced coal fuels. Remeasurements reflect gains and losses on derivative contracts. Not all MWs are equal, the energy market requires more than just low-carbon electricity Historically non-generation system support services have been provided by baseload thermal generation – coal and gas. As these assets withdraw from the market, and at the same time the level of intermittent generation increases, Drax is well positioned to meet these system needs and provide increasingly important and valuable services to the UK energy system. Biomass, pumped storage, hydro and gas are all strategically aligned with these needs and enable Drax to offer a full suite of services to the grid: • Renewable and low carbon • Voltage control electricity • Reactive Power • Flexible dispatchable generation • Black start • Reserve • Frequency Response • Headroom and footroom Find out more: • Inertia www.drax.com/systemservices Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 19 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: B2B ENERGY SUPPLY Increased market share but a challenging market for customers Our B2B Energy Supply business – comprised of Opus Energy and Haven Power – is the fifth largest B2B power supplier in the UK and the largest provider of renewable energy to businesses. We provide a route to market for our flexible, renewable and low-carbon energy proposition. As the energy market transforms, we are working closely with our customers, offering them services to help them adapt to a world of flexible low-carbon and decentralised energy. THE LARGEST SUPPLIER OF RENEWABLE Power suppliers have a responsibility to ELECTRICITY TO BUSINESS IN THE UK encourage and support businesses to be Opus Energy and Haven Power, Drax more sustainable and enable the UK to Group’s B2B Energy Supply businesses, achieve the clean growth needed to meet provided over 350,000 UK business sites our climate targets. with renewable electricity, making them the largest supplier of renewable 59% of businesses think renewable electricity to UK business for the Ofgem energy is key to a cleaner future, but compliance period ending in 2018. 80% expect suppliers to take the lead in educating them about their renewable energy options. Find out more: www.drax.com/renewable100 20 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CASE STUDY Value of Flexibility FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND KPIs Adjusted EBITDA of £28 million was a caused by the failure of several market participants which resulted in a larger and Demand decline of £1 million from 2017 (£29 million), proportion of the industry’s RO costs being shared by the remaining suppliers. Management Revenue increased 12% during the year, In addition, gas costs were higher than Flexibility in the form of demand reflecting the inclusion of Opus Energy expected following the “beast from the management has an important role to (acquired in February 2017) for a full-year, east” weather front during the first quarter. play in an increasingly decentralised and a 0.8% increase in market share. Gross profit of £143 million grew 22% and low-carbon energy market. We compared to 2017. are working with large customers During the final three months of the year, to create value from their portfolios when the Capacity Market was suspended, Within operating costs, bad debt expense through the provision of demand-side we continued to include Capacity Market grew by £13 million in the year, to £31 million, response services and access to charges in customer bills, and to accrue reflective of challenging market conditions. energy trading markets. In time, the associated payments which will be Our investment in next generation systems enabled by the deployment of smart transferred to Elexon during 2019. and strong focus on continual process meter technology, we also see an improvement are key elements in opportunity to offer behind-theCost of Sales, which includes power managing bad debt exposure and enabling meter services and the aggregation purchases and grid charges, also increased operating efficiencies in future years. of information and capacity to 12%. The increased cost of meeting our smaller customers, opening Renewable Obligation (RO) during the year In the context of the wider market this the market for flexibility to more reflects the impact of RO mutualisation, reflects a good performance. customers. With flexible, low carbon and renewable generation and trading expertise, Drax is strongly FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE placed in this market to create shared Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 value for customers and the Group. Exceptional Exceptional Adjusted items and Total Adjusted items and Total £m 2018 Remeasurements results 2017 Remeasurements results Revenue 2,242.4 – 2,242.4 1,999.0 – 1,999.0 Cost of sales (2,099.0) – (2,099.0) (1,881.6) – (1,881.6) Gross profit 143.4 – 143.4 117.4 – 117.4 Operating costs (115.2) – (115.2) (88.0) – (88.0) Adjusted EBITDA 28.2 29.4 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI Unit of measure 2018 2017 Growth in market share % 0.8 n/a Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 21 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS At Drax, being a sustainable business means achieving a positive economic, social and environmental impact as part of the Group’s strategy. GOVERNANCE The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s economic, social and environmental performance. Additional information on our approach to sustainability is available at www.drax.com/sustainability. WHAT MATTERS MOST IMPACT ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We have identified non-financial priorities The 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are material to our business and are a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future important to our stakeholders. Our 2018 for all. We have identified six SDGs and associated targets progress and performance is reported where we can have the greatest positive impact. under each priority area as follows: Climate Action Life on Land ENVIRONMENT We contribute to SDG 13 to take action We promote the implementation of to combat climate change and its impacts sustainable forest management in all working Carbon emissions page 23 across our business. forests that we source from. Environmental impact page 24 Sourcing sustainable biomass page 25 Affordable and Sustainable Cities Clean Energy and Communities CUSTOMERS We contribute to increasing the share of We contribute to SDG 11 to make cities and renewable energy in the global energy mix. human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient Customer service excellence page 27 and sustainable. Enabling our customers page 27 Industry, Innovation Partnerships and Infrastructure for the Goals PEOPLE We contribute to upgrading infrastructure We proactively collaborate and engage with and retrofitting industries to make them all stakeholders and seek partners to achieve Health, safety and wellbeing page 28 sustainable, with increased resource efficiency our purpose of ‘Enabling a zero carbon, lower People and culture page 29 and adoption of clean and environmentally cost energy future’. This directly enhances sound technologies. the global partnership for sustainable Ethics and integrity page 29 development to support the achievement Positive social impact page 31 We contribute to upgrading the technological of the SDGs. capabilities of our sector, encouraging innovation and contributing to research and development spending. 22 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ENVIRONMENT Carbon Emissions SUMMARY PERFORMANCE Unit of measure 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Drax Group Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions Scope 1 Fossil fuel combustion kt 4,107* 6,169 6,021 13,101 16,476 Operations kt <100* <100 <100 <100 119 Total Scope 1 kt 4,107* 6,169 6,021 13,101 16,595 Scope 2 Purchased electricity kt 248* 127 151 216 249 Total Scope 1 and 2 kt 4,355* 6,296 6,172 13,317 16,844 Proportion of emissions within the UK % 97.3 – – – – Drax Group Biologically Sequestered Carbon (Biomass Combustion) Emissions Biologically sequestered carbon kt 13,019 12,196 11,836 10,372 7,150 (biomass combustion) Drax Group Total Emissions per GWh of Electricity Generated by Fossil Fuel Combustion Gross generation TWh 19.4 21.2 20.8 28.1 28.5 Emissions per GWh of electricity generation t/GWh 225 297 297 474 591 Drax Group Total Energy Consumption Total Group energy consumption TJ 180971 – – – – Total Group energy consumption within the UK TJ 173072 – – – – * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2018 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability 2017, 2016 and 2015 data has been restated to reflect an update to the emissions factor applied to combustion data for Drax Biomass sites Notes We calculate and report our carbon emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). We are required to disclose emissions from biologically sequestered carbon, which includes emissions released through the combustion of biomass to generate electricity. The biogenic CO2 emissions resulting from power generation are counted as zero in official reporting to both UK authorities and under the EU ETS as the use of sustainable biomass is considered to be CO2 neutral at the point of combustion. This methodology originates from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The majority of our emissions result from the process of using solid fuel. This can make it difficult to identify other smaller trends that are still significant. To counteract this dominance and to ensure we retain a balance between highlighting significant developments and providing meaningful data, we have adopted a materiality threshold of 100,000 tonnes of CO2e. Drax Group’s total Scope 1 carbon Our Scope 2 carbon emissions increased, We have reported our global and UK emissions decreased by 33.4% between due to Pellet Production moving into our Total Energy Consumption for 2018, in 2017 and 2018. This reflects a reduced reporting scope. Pellet Production saw a advance of the Streamlined Energy and use of coal and the conversion of a fourth record output as our third pellet plant, Carbon Reporting (SECR) requirements generation unit at Drax Power Station LaSalle in Louisiana, achieved full effective from April 2019. to use sustainable biomass as fuel. production in 2018. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 23 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS continued INNOVATING TO DECARBONISE OUR BUSINESS ZERO CARBON ENERGY SUPPLY Our B2B Energy Supply businesses are At Drax we want to Drax is playing its part to enable a zero committed to sourcing the renewable enable a zero carbon, carbon future. We completed the power that our customers want. We conversion of our fourth biomass generating provided over 350,000 UK business lower cost energy unit, which became operational in August 2018. We continue our work to replace our premises with 100% renewable electricity, making our B2B Energy Supply business future – to do that two remaining coal generating units with the largest renewable electricity supplier we have to test the Combined Cycle Gas Turbines (CCGTs). to UK business for the Ofgem compliance period ending in 2018. technologies that could In May 2018 we started Europe’s first Bioenergy Carbon Capture and Storage Additional information on our B2B Energy allow us, as well as (BECCS) pilot project at Drax Power Supply fuel mix disclosures is available at the UK and the world, Station. The pilot will capture up to a tonne of CO2 a day from the gases produced to deliver negative when renewable power is generated www.drax.com/opus-sources emissions and start using biomass. www.drax.com/haven-sources to reduce the amount ADVOCATING FOR CARBON PRICING In 2018 we continued our engagement of carbon dioxide in with Government and stakeholders to advocate for a robust carbon price. We the atmosphere.” signed a joint European carbon pricing Will Gardiner declaration with global companies calling Group CEO, Drax Group for more action to support a strong and predictable carbon price. Environmental Impact SUMMARY PERFORMANCE Unit of measure 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Drax Power Station Emissions to Air Sulphur dioxide kt 5.5 8.9 8.3 18.5 23.8 Nitrogen oxides kt 11.8 14.9 14.7 31.4 35.5 Particulates kt 0.7 0.8 1 0.9 0.9 Drax Power Station Water Use Total water withdrawal mt 61.7* 59.0 55.3 62.5 64.6 Total water returned mt 42.1* 40.1 38.4 35.2 34.1 * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2018 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability Notes. Total water withdrawal is the sum of all water drawn into the boundaries of the organisation from all sources for any use over the course of the reporting period. This includes the River Ouse, borehole and mains water. We are committed to managing, monitoring dioxide and nitrogen oxides have reduced Independent testing conducted on our and reducing the environmental impact of significantly over the last ten years, with behalf found emissions to air at Morehouse our operations and the Group environment the reductions continuing in 2018. This pellet plant exceeded permitted levels. We policy outlines our approach. can be partly attributed to our reduced referred ourselves to the relevant authorities coal generation, as we completed the and we are working to ensure compliance. Our Environmental Management System conversion of a fourth generating unit to (EMS) covering Drax Power Station is burn biomass. Our particulate emissions Additional information on management of certified to ISO 14001. There were no also fell in 2018, with our emissions our environmental impact is available at major or minor breaches to our continuing to be well within our environmental permits at Drax Power environmental permit limits. Station in 2018. Emissions of sulphur www.drax.com/sustainability 24 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Sourcing Sustainable Biomass SUMMARY PERFORMANCE Unit of measure 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Drax Power Station Average Biomass Supply Chain GHG Emissions Average biomass supply chain GHG emissions kg CO2 -eq/MWh 130.74* 129.74 122.04 113.65 122.40 Drax Power Station Biomass Pellet Feedstock Sources in 2018 Sawmill Branches, Tops Diseased End of Life Thinnings Low Grade Short Rotation Agricultural Country Country Residues (t) and Bark (t) Wood (t) Timber (t) (t) Roundwood (t) Forestry (t) Residues (t) Total (t) USA 1,060,480 723,652 61 – 1,246,417 1,432,982 – – 4,463,593 Canada 1,040,361 180,575 – – – 18,397 – – 1,239,333 Latvia 342,544 49 199 – 894 373,587 – – 717,274 Estonia 119,507 3,547 – – 128,437 42,590 – – 294,081 Portugal 31,388 7,358 379 1,977 42,906 111,357 1,876 – 197,241 Brazil – – – – – 104,850 – – 104,850 Belarus 77,402 14 58 – 260 1,847 – – 79,581 UK – – – – – – – 47,740 47,740 Other European 13,943 – 2 – 7 <1 <1 5,421 19,373 Lithuania 7,993 <1 <1 – 2 13 – – 8,009 Total 2,693,618 915,196 699 1,977 1,418,922 2,085,624 1,876 53,161 7,171,074 * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2018 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability ENSURING SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS We are reviewing our woody biomass In 2018 our biomass was sourced from We ensure our biomass is sustainable and sourcing policy in line with the established, responsibly managed working compliant with appropriate legislation recommendations made by Forest Research forests in the USA, Canada, Europe and through a combination of proactive in its 2018 report(1) . This is to provide Brazil. To enhance our biomass supply supplier engagement, third party further assurance that the biomass we chain transparency, we provide detailed certification schemes and our own audits source makes a net positive contribution supply chain information at Drax and checks. The Group sustainability to climate change, protects and enhances ForestScope http://forestscope.info. policy outlines our requirements and biodiversity and has a positive social details of our due diligence process are impact on local communities. (1) Robert Matthews, Geoff Hogan and Ewan Mackie available at www.drax.com/sustainability. (2018), Carbon impacts of biomass consumed in the EU: Supplementary analysis and interpretation for the European Climate Foundation. 100% of our biomass is 100 90 legally and sustainably sourced 80 70 60 50 At Drax, all our biomass suppliers must demonstrate that all necessary 40 sustainability and legal requirements are being met. Supplier compliance 30 is evidenced either by our own checks and an independent audit or by 20 Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) certification. SBP is a certification 10 system for woody biomass, of which Drax is a founding member. We 0 encourage our suppliers to move from our own audits and checks towards Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 SBP certification. In Q4 2018 92% of our woody biomass sourced was 2017 2018 SBP certified. This resulted in us achieving our target of sourcing 90% Drax audit process material SBP-certified biomass fuel by the end of 2018. SBP-certified material 90% Target by 2018 Q4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 25 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS continued No concerns regarding biomass supplier DRAX AVERAGE BIOMASS SUPPLY CHAIN EMISSIONS IN 2018 (%) sustainability compliance were raised or escalated to the Ethics and Business Cultivation Conduct Committee or the Executive 0.1% Committee in 2018. Harvesting 2.3% We monitor each step in the supply chain to ensure that our requirements are being Chipping in forest met and that greenhouse gas (GHG) 0.6% emissions associated with producing our biomass are calculated according to the Truck to pellet plant regulatory requirements. 4.5% Drying The UK Government has set a limit on the 8.4% maximum supply chain GHG emissions permitted for sustainable biomass to be Pelletising eligible for support under the Renewables 50.9% Obligation. The current limit is 285 kgCO2-eq/MWh of electricity, reducing to Transport to port 200 kgCO2-eq/MWh of electricity in 2020. 8.9% In 2018, our average biomass supply chain Shipping GHG emissions amounted to 131 kgCO2-eq/ 21.1% MWh* of electricity. This is consistent with our 2017 average biomass supply chain Rail to Drax GHG emissions. 3.2% * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2018 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability Additional information on our biomass sourcing, as well as coal sourcing, is available at www.drax.com/sustainability CASE STUDY Maintaining forest carbon stocks We source only sustainable biomass from working forests that are fully established and properly managed. Biomass can play an important role in providing markets for thinnings and low grade roundwood where few alternative uses exist. It also offers a market for material that has been damaged by natural disturbances, such as wind, fire, pests and diseases, and by-products of forest stands managed for the production of solid wood products, such as construction saw-timber and furniture. We are committed to sourcing biomass that contributes to the long-term maintenance of growing stock and productivity and that helps to improve the health and quality of forests at a local and regional level. We monitor forest inventory data and local industry trends, in addition to certification and our auditing process, to determine whether biomass demand is having a positive impact on regional forest industries. This allows us to make informed sourcing decisions. 26 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CUSTOMERS Customer Service Excellence We are leading the way in rolling out smart FACILITATING PROSUMERS’ ROUTE Our aim is to provide customers with the meters to UK businesses and are investing in TO MARKET best possible service. Both Haven Power our digital platform to provide commercial Opus Energy buys energy from generators and Opus Energy have strict standards opportunities, reduced cost to service and developers of solar, anaerobic digestion, for treating customers fairly, protecting and an enhanced customer experience. hydro and wind power across the UK. customer data and privacy and have In 2018 this amounted to 1,103 GWh a clear complaints procedure if things In 2018 we upgraded the Haven Power of renewable energy generated go wrong. and Opus Energy websites onto a single from 2,176 generators. content management system, making it Haven Power was shortlisted for “Supplier faster and easier for our teams to react During the year, Opus Energy worked of the Year” at the Energy Awards 2018. to the market and deliver a smoother in partnership with Home Farm near customer experience. We also created Daventry in Northamptonshire to trial an new functionality, making it simpler for innovative solar power and battery storage Enabling our Customers UK businesses to get an accurate quote system. The farm’s 50 kW solar panels SMART AND DIGITAL ENABLEMENT and switch to us online. generate more power than the farm Smart meters are key to supporting consumes. The surplus electricity is customers with greater insight and exported to the National Grid and Home opportunities to optimise their energy use. Farm is paid for it by Opus Energy through a power purchase agreement. CASE STUDY Kinetic Café by Opus Energy Our B2B Energy Supply businesses provide value-adding sessions to our customers. Opus Energy opened a pop-up juice bar, the Kinetic Café in London, for two days in August. Small business owners were served free energetic juice and welcomed to network and share their business challenges, advice and personal experiences in Q&A sessions. We served over 1,000 juices to customers and visitors who stopped by the café over the course of two days. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 27 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS continued PEOPLE Health, Safety and Wellbeing SUMMARY PERFORMANCE 2018 Actual 2018 Target 2017 2016 Drax Group Health and Safety LTIR1 0.09 0.13 0.13 0.02 TRIR2 0.22* 0.22 0.27 0.22 RIDDOR 9 7 7 4 1 LTIR is the total fatalities and lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked 2 TRIR is the total fatalities, lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 hours worked * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2018 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability We have Safety Management Systems The Board receives monthly reports which Process, and Safety Assurance to ensure (SMS) in place to ensure safe workplaces include Total Recordable Injury Rates we all go home safe and well every day. for all our people. At Drax Power Station, (TRIR), Lost Time Injury Rates (LTIR) and the SMS is certified to OHSAS 18001 and numbers of Reporting of Injuries, Diseases Unfortunately, in December 2018 we had a subject to regular compliance reviews, and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations major safety incident at our Drax Biomass the last of which took place in 2016. (RIDDORs) (or US equivalent) for the Group. LaSalle site which resulted in a colleague In Pellet Production, the SMS meets the being injured. Operations at LaSalle were requirements of OHSAS 18001 and the US Our Group TRIR for 2018 was 0.22 per suspended until all employees were retrained certification ANSI Z10. The Group health 100,000 hours worked. Following the fire on safety protocols and procedures. and safety policy outlines our approach. at our Drax Power Station biomass pellet unloading facility in 2017, we carried out a A full safety audit was carried out by Safety performance is reported and full Safety and Engineering review. In 2018, an independent third party at all three reviewed regularly by local management initiatives were implemented to reduce pellet plants. The audits identified a teams, the Executive Committee and the the risk of future incidents and improve major difference in safety culture Board. Each incident is comprehensively operator and plant safety. These initiatives between LaSalle and our other facilities. analysed and reviewed, lessons learned continue into 2019. We currently have 42 action items we are shared with employees and actions are working on that consist of the are taken to mitigate the risk of future 2018 also saw the launch of the One Safe recruitment of new management staff, occurrences. At Drax Power Station, Drax toolkit for safety leaders, managers development of new safety programmes a weekly safety update is uploaded to and supervisors at Drax Power Station. and procedures, safety audits, safety our intranet and at Pellet Production, These tools provide a standard approach committees and structured training. information is made available to employees for safety management and support us in through a health and safety online portal. creating Safe People, Safe Systems and CASE STUDY Supporting our employees’ mental health All employees across the Group have access to an Employee Assistance Programme. It’s a free and confidential 24-hour service which offers support on anything from financial stress and family and relationship issues to addiction, housing concerns or legal information. There is a phoneline and an app and users can be referred for six sessions of counselling per issue, per year. Opus Energy ran 15 voluntary workshops to help our leaders understand the benefits of this service and they were attended by 113 managers. 28 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key themes included creating greater EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT clarity for our colleagues about our key CONTRACTS* GENDER* priorities and ensuring we continue to Full time 92% Male 66% make improvements to the learning and Part time 8% Female 34% development opportunities we have available. In 2019, we will develop Group and business action plans to address each theme, which the Executive Committee will review regularly. Ethics and Integrity EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES PER At Drax Group we are committed to PER COUNTRY* BUSINESS UNIT* conducting business ethically, with UK 91% B2B Energy Supply 53% honesty and integrity, and in compliance USA 9% Power Generation 30% with all relevant laws and regulations. Pellet Production 9% We do not tolerate any form of bribery, Corporate 8% corruption or other unethical business conduct. Our compliance framework consists of principles, policies and procedures. The * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2018 data as indicated. For assurance principles underpin the wider framework statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability and are set out in our Group ethics handbook, Doing the right thing. The handbook identifies the behaviours People and Culture opportunity to realise their potential. expected from our employees and The Group works to maintain consistently We believe that a commitment to diversity contractors on topics including human high standards in its employment practices is critical to achieving our strategic goals. rights, ethical business conduct and and all our employees benefit from a We are determined to be a place where integrity. Our policies and procedures range of policies to support them in the employees, customers and suppliers alike provide further guidance and instruction, workplace. These include policies designed feel respected, comfortable and supported in line with best industry practice. These to enable different work and lifestyle in their diversity. include our Group Corporate Crime policy preferences, processes for employees to and Gifts and Hospitality, Conflicts of raise grievances or concerns about safety, Further information on gender diversity Interest and Due Diligence procedures. along with supporting a diverse and is available in the Corporate Governance inclusive workplace. Our Group-wide Report on page 50. The ethical principles contained in the people strategy focuses on valuing our handbook form part of our terms of people, driving business performance and EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION employment. In 2018 the handbook was developing talent to deliver our strategic AND ENGAGEMENT converted into a series of short videos. and operational objectives. Across the Group, 19% of the workforce is These are used as part of our new starter covered by collective bargaining. We have induction programme and for annual During the year we introduced our representative employee consultation and ethics refresher training. Teams that are One Drax Awards, which recognise information arrangements in place for exposed to increased risk receive tailored high-potential employees and reward those those employees who have individual e-learning or classroom-based training. employees who act in ways that support employment contracts. and underpin our culture and values. We communicate with employees through DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION channels including our internal intranet, Drax Group is fully committed to the quarterly newsletter and Open Forum elimination of unlawful and unfair meetings. Employees can ask our Group discrimination and we value the CEO questions through a weekly online differences that a diverse workforce brings question and answer portal. to the organisation. Our goal is to create and maintain a working environment that We track employee engagement through is both safe and supportive of all our our annual survey and in 2018 this people and where every employee has the was completed by 79% of employees. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 29 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS continued RESPONSIBILITY FOR ETHICS remedial action or to end an existing Within the Code of Conduct, we will Governance of our framework is overseen business relationship. emphasise our requirement for our by the Group Ethics and Business Conduct suppliers and contractors working on our Committee (EBCC). The Committee ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION behalf to challenge unethical behaviour meets quarterly and is chaired by the Our internal processes ensure consistency and promote a “speak up” culture. Group CFO. Managers and senior managers with our zero tolerance approach to across the Group are responsible for bribery and corruption. MODERN SLAVERY demonstrating leadership on ethical In 2018, we published our second modern matters and supporting teams to apply Geographic risk is factored into our slavery statement in accordance with our ethical principles. country due diligence and third party due the UK Modern Slavery Act. This describes diligence systems. Conducting business the steps we are taking to reduce the risk Our Group Corporate Compliance team in higher risk countries must receive prior of modern slavery in our supply chain. carries out an annual review of the Group’s approval from the Group Operational Risk gift and hospitality records and our Management Committee. DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY Internal Audit team provides assurance We take the privacy and security of the on the robustness of our policies and Following country approval, third parties personal data we control seriously. We processes. Results of the annual review, are then put forward for our due diligence are committed to maintaining effective details of investigations conducted and process. Suppliers in higher risk countries privacy and security programmes to audit outcomes are reported annually to receive a higher level of initial due diligence ensure our people, customers and the both the EBCC and the Audit Committee. and ongoing monitoring. We also screen the third parties with which we engage have affiliates (directors, shareholders) of these confidence in our data handling practices. The Group Corporate Compliance team suppliers and refresh their information on a also conducts annual risk assessments of more frequent basis, compared to our lower As part of our continual improvement each of its compliance programmes, which risk suppliers. Third parties with operations programme, our Privacy, IT and Security relate to areas including anti-bribery and in, or linked to, higher risk countries are teams were re-organised and expanded corruption and modern slavery in supply escalated to the EBCC for review prior in 2018. Following an internal audit, which chains. This is to ensure procedures remain to engagement. Ongoing monitoring is identified weaknesses in operational fit for purpose and to recommend any performed with new information provided IT controls that support our cyber security further mitigation measures. The results to the relevant committee, as appropriate. at Drax Power Station, we initiated a are presented to the EBCC. In May 2018, we implemented a new due comprehensive remediation programme diligence system across the Group to to address the findings and introduce WORKING WITH OTHERS facilitate this process. more robust control measures. We also We joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) continue to update our Privacy Compliance in January 2018 and have established Drax Group was not involved in any legal Programme to take account of the representation on both their UK Advisory cases related to corruption and bribery requirements of the General Data Group and Modern Slavery Working Group. in 2018. Protection Regulation (GDPR), the new This will enable us to play an active role in UK Data Protection Act 2018 and other the UK UNGC network, to benchmark our LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS associated legislation. compliance programmes, to share and Our commitment to the protection of exchange experience and promote human rights includes not tolerating the To support our privacy compliance peer collaboration. use of underage workers or forced labour. processes and policies, we maintain This is captured in our Corporate Crime industry-leading control measures to We seek to work with suppliers, partners, policy and our Corporate Responsibility protect our employee and customer data, agents, intermediaries, contractors, (CR) statement. by detecting and preventing threats and consultants and counterparties whose security breaches. In addition to traditional standards are consistent with our own. Our CR statement outlines the standard of security measures, we undertake Third parties are subject to our preethical business conduct we expect from advanced threat monitoring and analytics contract due diligence checks and suppliers. Businesses in our supply chain measurement as a layered toolset continual monitoring through the lifecycle should offer a safe workplace for their designed to detect, identify, respond to of the contract, via our third party due employees that is free from harm, and resolve cyber threats and attacks diligence system. In cases where a red flag intimidation, harassment and fear. We have before they can happen. We are conscious is raised, we follow an EBCC-approved incorporated further provisions into our that such threats continue to change. escalation protocol. Depending on the statement template to manage these risks Accordingly, we run a continual security nature of the flagged issue, we may decide within our procurement contracts and will programme to improve and evolve our not to engage with a third party, to engage further advance this effort in 2019 with controls and response to cyber threats. on a conditional basis, to collaborate on the development of a Code of Conduct. 30 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information WHISTLEBLOWING During 2018, no reports were made VOLUNTEERING AND CHARITABLE GIVING As set out in our Whistleblowing policy, at through our third party whistleblowing In 2018, we provided £129,016 in charitable Drax we encourage employees to speak hotline. donations through employee match out and report concerns either internally funding, payroll giving, our community or through our whistleblowing hotline. Additional information on ethics and fund and national fundraising days. integrity is available at We also established strategic national Employees can raise issues internally partnerships and consistent Group charity through managers, a member of the Group and community principles. We will roll-out Corporate Compliance team, directly with www.drax.com/sustainability our Group-wide social impact strategy the EBCC or though our anonymous in 2019. hotline, which is independently operated by a third party. Our Haven Power employees continued Positive Social Impact to support the Eden Rose Coppice The Corporate Human Resources We provide jobs, support economic Trust’s Brickmakers’ Wood project. They team records all hotline reports received growth, pay tax responsibly and deliver volunteered 882 hours and raised £6,052. and will raise any ethical-related matters charitable and volunteering initiatives Recognising its work with the charity, with the Group Corporate Compliance in the communities where we operate. Haven Power was awarded the Utility team, which maintains an investigations Oxford Economics estimate that the Week 2018 ‘Community Initiative of the log. Where required, the EBCC and Group Group contributed £1.6 billion towards Year’ title. General Counsel are consulted, and a UK GDP and supported 17,500 jobs across course of action agreed. Should genuine the country in 2017. Additional information on our social impact concerns be raised, we have a strict is available at non-retaliation policy. www.drax.com/sustainability NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT We have summarised in this Annual Report and Accounts our policies, standards and disclosures in relation to non-financial matters in line with the Non-Financial Reporting (NFR) requirements of the Companies Act 2006. This report forms our UN Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress and we have mapped the NFR requirements to the four UNGC principle issue areas. UN Global Compact Non-Financial Reporting (NFR) Requirement Policies, due diligence processes and outcomes Environment Environmental matters Environmental policy † Environmental impact, page 24 Sustainability policy † Sourcing sustainable biomass, Carbon emissions, page 23 page 25 Labour Employees Health and safety policy † People and culture, page 29 Doing the Right Thing † Ethics and integrity, page 29 Gender pay reporting † Gender diversity, page 29 Health, safety and wellbeing, Board diversity, page 52 page 28 Social matters Charitable donations policy ‡ Positive social impact, page 31 Give as you earn policy ‡ Human Rights Respect for human rights Corporate responsibility statement † Modern Slavery Act statement † Corporate crime policy ‡ Ethics and integrity, page 29 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption and Doing the Right Thing † Ethics and integrity, page 29 anti-bribery matters Corporate crime policy ‡ A description of the company’s See Business Model, page 10 business model A description of the principal risks People and environment, health & safety risks. See Principal Risks, page 44 A description of the non-financial Total Recordable Injury Rate Group KPI. See Remuneration Report, page 92 key performance indicators † Available on www.drax.com/policies ‡ Internal policy, not in public domain Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 31 STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS We recognise that to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future we need to work with a diverse range of partners. That is why we spend time talking with and listening to our stakeholders. Here we highlight how our external engagement in 2018 has informed the way we operate our business. COMMUNITIES AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES Over the course of the year we engaged regularly with the communities around our COMMUNITIES businesses through quarterly community AND LOCAL TRADE AND AUTHORITIES meetings, supporting local initiatives and INDUSTRY CUSTOMERS formal drop-in sessions focused on our ASSOCIATIONS planning projects. > OUTCOMES IN 2018 We amended the design of our Repower THINK TANKS planning application in response to EMPLOYEES AND ACADEMICS feedback from local residents. CUSTOMERS In B2B Energy Supply, we engaged with SUPPLIERS AND GOVERNMENT our customers through channels including CONTRACTORS AND REGULATORS social media, our website, telephone lines and our complaints procedure. Our energy services teams offered accelerator workshops that develop tailored energy solutions delivering value to our customers NONSHAREHOLDERS through self-generation, onsite storage GOVERNMENTAL AND INVESTORS and advanced sustainability initiatives. ORGANISATIONS REGULATOR > OUTCOMES IN 2018 SCHOOLS AND NETWORK We introduced online quote and join, so BUSINESSES small businesses can come on supply via our website. We have turned our Ipswich office into a showcase for our energy services solutions with solar panels, electric vehicle charging points, an electric pool car, and installing energy efficient LED lighting. Additional information on stakeholder relations is available at www.drax.com/sustainability 32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information EMPLOYEES REGULATOR AND NETWORK SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS We maintain a regular dialogue with BUSINESSES We implemented a supplier our employees about our strategy, plans We have engaged with Ofgem and engagement programme with our and performance and the role they play National Grid on the need to deliver a sustainable biomass supply chain. in delivery. Through our Voice forums, secure and reliable network at least cost Our engagement included following up briefings, townhalls, Q&A opportunities to the consumer. This is in addition to on claims raised by media monitoring and our annual employee survey, promoting efficient investment decisions and sharing latest academic reports colleagues can raise issues that are and market behaviours via the system and best practice. important to them and provide feedback operator incentive scheme, industry on our progress towards creating a great licence code and charging arrangements. > OUTCOMES IN 2018 place to work. We created a guide for landowners in > OUTCOMES IN 2018 the Southern United States to achieve > OUTCOMES IN 2018 We agreed to engage with National Grid’s their sustainable management goals. We committed to implement Group and Price Control RIIO-2 work. business action plans, to address key themes raised by our employee survey. THINK TANKS AND ACADEMICS SCHOOLS Over the course of 2018 Drax sponsored We engage with schools local to our several PhDs at British universities GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS businesses on Science, Technology, focusing on topics relating to a low We frequently engage with regulators and Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), carbon energy future including electric policymakers in the UK, Europe and US skills and employability. At Drax Power vehicles, battery storage and biomass to ensure our business understands and Station, our tours are focused on learning sustainability. In collaboration with contributes to the evolving regulatory outcomes and tailored for visitors of Imperial College London and E4tech, we agenda. Over the course of 2018, we all ages. published a series of research reports engaged with these audiences on a looking at the future of the energy broad range of topics, including biomass > OUTCOMES IN 2018 sector in the UK and globally, including sustainability; carbon pricing; carbon Our outreach to local schools included: Electric Insights, Energising Britain and capture and storage policy; industrial Opus Energy delivering interactive Energy Revolution: A Global Outlook. strategy; and innovation, training and skills. renewable energy lessons and Haven Power employees running a ‘Learning > OUTCOMES IN 2018 > OUTCOMES IN 2018 About Work Day’, where students We started working with Forest We signed joint letters with other utilities practiced interview skills and received Research to revise our woody biomass and NGOs to promote strong carbon feedback on applications and CVs. sourcing policy, building on analysis pricing in the UK and across Europe. they produced for the European We joined the Powering Past Coal Commission. Alliance, to support the UK Government SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS in promoting reduced coal use globally. Sharing timely and accurate communication with our shareholders TRADE AND INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS and capital markets is central to our We are actively engaged with trade NON-GOVERNMENTAL relationship with shareholders, investors bodies focusing on energy and ORGANISATIONS (NGOS) and other financial stakeholders. We sustainable forestry. These include We are in regular dialogue with a variety shared this information through a wide the Sustainable Biomass Program, of domestic and international NGOs range of channels, including our Annual Bioenergy Europe, the UK Carbon on energy, climate and forestry issues. General Meeting and our full-year and Capture and Storage Association, They challenge our thinking and help half-year results, as part of an ongoing Energy UK, Eurelectric and the US us continue to refine and enhance our investor relations programme. Industrial Pellet Association. We are practices. In 2018, our outreach included also members of organisations participating in a series of roundtables We also aim to build strong relationships promoting sustainable business focusing on our biomass sourcing. with all our financial stakeholders. practices, including the Confederation of British Industry, POWERful Women > OUTCOMES IN 2018 > OUTCOMES IN 2018 and Women in Science and Industry. We published an online tool, ForestScope, In 2018, we communicated with that enables members of the public to our major shareholders on changes > OUTCOMES IN 2018 track wood fibre consignments across to our Remuneration Policy. We participated in several Sustainable our supply chain in the Southern Biomass Program working groups, United States. including work on greenhouse gas calculation requirements and streamlining the data transfer system. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 33 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW We remain committed to a strong balance sheet, alongside options for growth and delivery of a sustainable and increasing dividend.” Andy Skelton Chief Finance Officer, Drax Group INTRODUCTION Adjusted Results exclude the impact of funding opportunities. The Group closely The Group has delivered year-on-year these items, and are consistent with the monitors and manages its cash position growth, with Adjusted EBITDA increasing way the Board and executive management and closing net debt which was £319 million, to £250 million from £229 million in 2017. review performance of the business resulting in a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA This is a significant achievement given throughout the year. They are discussed ratio of 1.3x at the end of the year. The initial the operational challenges faced during below separately from the Group’s net £687 million consideration for the the first quarter in our Power Generation Total Results. acquisition of ScottishPower Generation business. Strong operating performance Limited is included in payables at the in the remaining nine months from Power Certain remeasurements on derivative year end. Generation, along with the conversion of a contracts have been allocated to the fourth generating unit from coal to biomass relevant line item to which the contracts Following shareholder approval at the in the summer has helped to mitigate relate; revenue or cost of sales. General Meeting held on 21 December 2018, these events. Pellet Production reached we completed the acquisition and gained record levels in 2018 with a reduction to Upon adoption of IFRS 9, we have control of ScottishPower Generation Ltd the cost of each tonne produced. Our B2B recognised fair value gains and losses (subsequently renamed Drax Generation Energy Supply business delivered a growth on certain foreign exchange forward Enterprise Ltd) from Iberdrola on 31 December in gross profit through customer meter contracts through other comprehensive 2018. The company owns and operates a acquisition and retention, despite income. These gains and losses were portfolio of UK pumped storage, hydro and challenging market conditions, albeit previously recognised in the income gas generation assets. The acquisition has Adjusted EBITDA was adversely affected statement. As a result, prior year results been partly funded by a debt facility of by an increased level of bad debt charges. have been restated. Further information £725 million which matures in H2 2020. is given in note 8.3 to the Consolidated £550 million was drawn against this facility Following the adoption of IFRS 9 ‘Financial financial statements. on 2 January 2019, with the remainder of the Instruments’ in the year, the Group has consideration settled in cash. We expect elected to present the income statement The Group improved its access to capital in to refinance this debt during 2019. in a columnar format. Total Results the year, with the issue of US$300 million represent the results of the Group in loan notes at a fixed interest rate, which On 15 November 2018 the Court of Justice of accordance with International Financial mature in November 2025. These were the European Union ruled that the process Reporting Standards (IFRS). They include swapped back to sterling upon issuance. used by the European Commission to approve re-measurements in relation to the fair The proceeds were used to redeem the UK Capacity Market was not valid, with value derivative contracts taken out to £200 million loan notes with a floating the result that payments to UK generators de-risk future cash flows, but which cannot interest rate and maturity date of May 2022, were suspended. The net impact on the be designated as hedging instruments thereby extending the tenor of Drax’s Group of the suspension in the 2018 results under IFRS, and also exceptional items senior debt, giving increased certainty was a reduction in Adjusted EBITDA and which are not part of the underlying regarding future interest costs as well Total operating profit of £7 million. performance of the business. as diversifying available markets for future 34 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 1 Adjusted revenue increased to 5 Net debt of £319 million delivering £4,237 million / Total revenue 1.3x net debt / Adjusted EBITDA ratio(2) increased to £4,229 million 6 12% increase in dividend to £56 million 2 Adjusted gross profit increased or 14.1 pence per share to £601 million / Total gross profit increased to £639 million 7 Improved access to capital with fixed interest $300m US bond issue 3 Significant improvement in total profit before tax to £14 million, impacted by 8 Continued execution of strategy: non-cash gains on derivative contracts acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited 4 Increase to Adjusted EBITDA(1), at £250 million (1) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. (2) Net debt is defined as borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Net debt does not include the £687 million which was paid on 2nd January 2019 for the acquisition of the generation business from ScottishPower. Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated Exceptional Exceptional Adjusted Items and Total Adjusted Items and Total Results(1) Remeasurements Results Results Remeasurements (1) Results £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 3,685.2 (0.9) 3,684.3 Cost of sales (3,636.3) 46.7 (3,589.6) (3,140.2) (176.0) (3,316.2) Gross profit 601.0 38.4 639.4 545.0 (176.9) 368.1 Operating and administrative expenses (320.0) – (320.0) (297.4) – (297.4) Impairment losses on financial assets (31.4) – (31.4) (18.7) – (18.7) Adjusted EBITDA (2) 249.6 228.9 Depreciation (129.2) – (129.2) (122.7) – (122.7) Amortisation (44.6) – (44.6) (43.6) – (43.6) Asset obsolescence charge – (26.8) (26.8) – – – Loss on disposal (3.9) – (3.9) (15.4) – (15.4) Other gains/ (losses) 4.1 – 4.1 (0.4) – (0.4) Acquisition and restructuring costs(3) – (27.7) (27.7) – (7.8) (7.8) Operating profit/(loss) 76.0 (16.1) 59.9 46.8 (184.7) (137.9) Foreign exchange gains and losses 0.3 – 0.3 (10.6) – (10.6) Interest payable and similar charges (40.4) (7.2) (47.6) (31.5) (24.2) (55.7) Interest receivable 1.2 – 1.2 0.2 – 0.2 Profit/(loss) before tax 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 4.9 (208.9) (204.0) Notes: (1) Adjusted Results are stated after adjusting for exceptional items (including acquisition and restructuring costs, asset obsolescence charges and debt restructuring costs) and certain remeasurements. (2) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as: earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. As EBITDA is a non-statutory measure, it has only been presented within the Adjusted Results column. (3) Acquisition and restructuring costs reflect costs associated with the acquisition and integration of ScottishPower Generation Limited (2018) and Opus Energy Group Limited (2017) into the Group, along with costs associated with the restructuring of our Pellet Production and B2B Energy Supply businesses. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 35 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Group Adjusted EBITDA INCOME STATEMENT B2B Energy Supply revenues increased £250m from £1,999 million in 2017 to £2,242 million ADJUSTED RESULTS in 2018 based on strong customer meter Adjusted Results exclude the impact of retention performance, and also certain remeasurements on derivative benefiting from an additional month (2017: £229m) contracts which cannot be designated of Opus Energy revenue which was as hedging instruments under IFRS, along acquired in February 2017. with exceptional items. More details on Group Adjusted gross profit exceptional items are shown in note 2.7 Revenues of our US-based Pellet £601m to the Consolidated financial statements. Production business continued to rise, as we increased production from 822k REVENUE tonnes in 2017 to 1,351kt in the year. This Adjusted revenue for 2018 of £4,237 million includes output from LaSalle Bioenergy (2017: £545m) was £552 million greater than 2017, driven which we acquired in 2017, and which by Renewable Obligation Certificate (ROC) commissioned in 2018. All three of our sales, the full year impact of Opus Energy wood pellet plants are demonstrating an (which was acquired in February 2017) improvement in operating performance, and growth in sales in our B2B Energy having produced at record levels in 2018. Supply business. Pellet Production revenues are from the sale of pellets from the US to our Power Adjusted revenue in our Power Generation Generation business, based on an business rose to £3,332 million (2017: arm’s-length contract. £2,720 million) despite a fall in electrical output, as a result of an increase in GROSS PROFIT Contract for Difference (CfD) income from Adjusted gross profit for 2018 of increased unit availability in 2018, together £601 million (2017: £545 million) was with an increase in ROC sales. Electrical primarily derived from our generation output fell to 18.3TWh (2017: 20.0TWh) and supply activities. following unplanned outages during the first quarter. Subsequent to the fire in Power Generation delivered £396 million December 2017 in our biomass rail of Adjusted gross profit, largely in line unloading facilities, safety measures were with the prior year (£398 million) despite implemented which restricted operational the impact of a reduction in generation availability. In addition, there was an noted above and a £7 million impact of unplanned outage on one of our biomass lost revenue resulting from the Capacity units. The combination of these events led Market suspension during the fourth to lower biomass generation in the first quarter. This was partially offset by an three months of 2018 than the equivalent increase in income from the CfD unit period in 2017. Electrical output also which generated more in 2018 than in reflects the impact of a maintenance the prior year when the unit underwent outage for one coal unit, the conversion of an unplanned outage, and by the receipt a fourth unit from coal to biomass and the of insurance proceeds in respect of a claim impact of low load factors on coal units for loss of generation from our biomass during the summer. 75% of our generation units during 2016-2018 (£17 million) which was from biomass and 25% from coal in was largely recognised within cost of sales. the year. ROCs continue to form a key component ROC sales of £665 million (2017: of financial performance and the expected £368 million) increased significantly in benefit of ROCs earned is recognised as the year as a result of a combination of a reduction in our biomass fuel costs at the increase in market prices and actions the point of generation. Each ROC is taken to accelerate the timing of cash subsequently recognised as revenue when flows from ROCs. Where we choose to that ROC is sold to a third party. We earned sell ROCs to accelerate cash flows, we ROCs, reducing costs, with a total value of may choose to purchase ROCs at a later £468 million in 2018 (2017: £481 million) date to meet our obligation, leading reflecting additional biomass generation to an offsetting charge in cost of sales. from the conversion of a fourth unit, net At 31 December 2018, following these of the impact of the quarter one outages actions there was a similar value on biomass generation. in revenue and cost of sales for ROC sales and purchases. 36 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information B2B Energy Supply Adjusted gross DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION Group total operating profit £60m profit improved from £117 million in 2017 Depreciation of £129 million increased by to £143 million in 2018, which includes £6 million in the year, reflecting charges an additional month of Opus trading. for the LaSalle pellet production facility Margins benefited from a focus on higher which was commissioned during the first value contracts with larger customers. quarter of 2018. (2017: loss of £138m) All Capacity Market costs have been accrued for the fourth quarter, despite Amortisation charges totalled £45 million, its suspension. Our approach is based on in line with prior year, and largely relate the assumption that the Capacity Market to customer relationships and brand will reopen during 2019. In the Generation acquired with Opus Energy and also business, no Capacity Market income has computer software. More details are been accrued. Until legislation is in place shown in note 5.3 of the Consolidated which enables Capacity Market payments financial statements. to be made to generators for the fourth quarter, expected future revenue OPERATING PROFIT represents a contingent asset and will not Adjusted operating profit increased from be recognised in the income statement. £47 million in 2017 to £76 million in 2018, influenced by the items described above. Pellet Production Adjusted gross profit relies on volume of pellet sales to our NET INTEREST CHARGES Power Generation business and close Adjusted net interest charges of £39 million control over production costs. There is have increased from £31 million in 2017 significant focus on reducing the cost largely reflecting a full year’s interest base within this segment, and that, along charge on the debt incurred in relation to with increasing output volumes which the acquisition of Opus Energy in February reduced the cost per tonne of pellets, 2017 and other costs associated with has helped to improve gross profit working capital management. More details to £65 million in 2018 (2017: £39 million). are shown in Note 2.5 of the Consolidated financial statements. Further segmental financial performance information is provided in the notes to PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE AND AFTER TAX our Consolidated financial statements The Group’s Adjusted profit before tax on page 123. was £37 million for 2018, compared to a restated profit of £5 million for the OPERATING COSTS AND IMPAIRMENT previous year. The increase predominantly LOSSES ON FINANCIAL ASSETS reflects an improvement in underlying Operating costs of £320 million increased business performance, reflected in higher from £297 million in 2017, reflecting gross profits. unplanned outage costs on a biomass unit and a major planned outage on one The tax credit of £5 million compares of the coal units in Generation, along with to a £2 million charge in 2017. In 2017, a full year of costs in Opus Energy. HMRC agreed a claim arising from a patent relating to biomass which enables the The B2B Energy Supply business Group to pay corporate taxes at a lower experienced a £13 million increase in rate (10%) on profits which arise from the bad debt charges in the year taking the use of innovation. A benefit of £8 million total charge to £31 million. The charge was recognised during 2018 which drives reflects a deterioration in market a lower effective tax rate than the conditions in 2018, the impact of the standard corporation tax rate in the UK. increase in revenue, and the write-off of legacy debt. The prior year charge includes the effects of a £16 million deferred tax charge arising Central costs of £28 million in 2018 from the reduction in US Federal tax rates reduced from £34 million in 2017, as a to 21% from 1 January 2018, net of a credit result of various savings initiatives. of £10 million in relation to the patent box claim for years 2013 to 2016. ADJUSTED EBITDA As a result of the financial performance Adjusted profit after tax increased to described above, Adjusted EBITDA for £42 million in 2018 from £3 million in 2018 was £250 million, compared to 2017 as a result of the factors above. £229 million in 2017. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 37 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW continued TOTAL RESULTS A proportion of foreign currency As we continue to integrate our B2B Energy Total Results represent the results of the derivatives do not qualify for hedge Supply businesses we have incurred Group in accordance with IFRS. They accounting. In addition to hedging foreign certain one-off restructuring costs, as part include re-measurements in relation to currency commitments, we forward of a programme of changes alongside the fair value derivative contracts taken purchase coal, gas and freight, aspects our digital transformation. These totalled out to de-risk future cash flows, but of which also do not qualify for hedge £3m (2017: £nil) and are also included in which cannot be designated as hedging accounting. The gains on these contracts acquisition and restructuring costs. instruments under IFRS, and exceptional in the year have predominantly been items which are not part of the underlying driven by the weakening of sterling Prior year transaction and restructuring performance of the business. See note 2.7 following uncertainty around Brexit. costs relate to the acquisition of Opus to the Consolidated financial statements Energy along with the disposal of for more details. Prior year Total gross profit has been Billington Bioenergy. restated to reflect our new derivative gains IFRS 9 requires all gains and losses on and losses accounting policy, following Total operating profit increased to derivative instruments to be reflected in IFRS 9 adoption, reducing it by £177 million. £60 million from a loss of £138 million in profit or loss as they arise, independently 2017, primarily as a result of the movement of the maturity of the related commodity In addition, under IFRS 9 we have elected in gains and losses on derivative contracts. contract. Due to the volatility in fair value to recognise fair value gains and losses movements, which is entirely market on certain foreign exchange forward NET INTEREST CHARGES dependent, we have chosen to exclude contracts directly in reserves in order Total net interest charges, excluding fair value gains and losses from to reduce income statement volatility. FX gains and losses of £46 million Adjusted Results and present them in This change results in a reduction in (2017: £56 million) includes £7 million a separate column in arriving at Total derivative gains and losses recognised of refinancing costs and acceleration of Results, in order to retain transparency in the income statement of £17 million deferred financing costs related to the of underlying business performance. as at 31 December 2017. £200 million senior secured floating rate Fair value gains and losses are non-cash loan notes, which have now been repaid. accounting adjustments. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION The prior year included £24 million of early In August, we completed the conversion repayment charges and accelerated REVENUE of a fourth generating unit from coal to deferred finance costs for loans redeemed Revenue re-measurements relate to fair biomass. £27 million of coal-specific assets as part of the 2017 refinancing. These value gains and losses on gas contracts in in relation to this unit have been fully charges have been presented separately our Power Generation business, which are written down, as they are no longer required within exceptional items. used as a proxy hedge to movements in to support generation activity. This charge power prices. After taking these losses is shown within exceptional items. A full breakdown of interest payable is into consideration, Total revenue in 2018 shown in note 2.5 to the Consolidated rose to £4,229 million from £3,684 million OPERATING PROFIT financial statements. in 2017. Operating profit is stated after acquisition and restructuring costs of £28 million PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE AND AFTER TAX GROSS PROFIT (2017: £8 million). The Group’s Total profit before tax was Total gross profit increased significantly £14 million for 2018, compared to a in 2018 to £639 million (2017: £368 million) This included costs of £21 million which restated loss of £204 million for the which reflects the underlying business were incurred in connection with the previous year. The improved result performance along with fair value gains, acquisition of the generation business predominantly reflects an improvement principally on foreign exchange contracts, from ScottishPower. in underlying business performance in 2018 as compared with significant fair (reflected in Adjusted EBITDA) along value losses in 2017. During the first quarter, we announced the with the swing from losses on foreign closure of our Atlanta office to relocate currency contracts in 2017 to gains Foreign currency contracts are a the US head office to Monroe, Louisiana, in 2018. key component of the Group’s risk in close proximity to the pellet production management strategy and help to and port facilities. As at 31 December 2018, Applying the tax credit results in a secure and de-risk the future cash flows we had incurred costs of £4 million Total profit after tax of £20 million (2017: of the business, particularly fuel purchases (2017: £nil) in relation to this transition, restated loss after tax of £168 million) and which are typically denominated in which have been included within a basic earnings per share of 5.0 pence US dollars, Canadian dollars or euros. acquisition and restructuring costs. (2017: loss per share of 41.3 pence). 38 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BALANCE SHEET In B2B Energy Supply the development of Dividend £56m The Group’s Consolidated balance sheet a new information technology platform at 31 December 2018 includes the assets and preparations for smart meters and liabilities acquired as part of the adoption added £28 million of capital acquisition of a portfolio of ScottishPower expenditure to intangible assets. assets. No trading results are included in (2017: £50m) 2018, given the acquisition closed at 23:59 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS on the final day of the year. See note 5.1 to Cash generated from operations was the Consolidated financial statements for £336 million in 2018, a decrease of Share buyback £47m more details. £39 million from the previous year. PLANT, PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The Group has a strong focus on cash flow The Group has a disciplined approach discipline and uses various methods to to capital expenditure, with all projects manage liquidity through the business’ (2017: £nil) subject to review by investment cash generation cycle. In addition to the committees and large projects requiring £315 million Revolving Credit Facility (RCF), Board approval. Investment is prioritised the Group optimises its trade receivables, to address safety and regulatory trade payables and ROC assets to manage requirements, ensure the plant is the day to day working capital position. maintained and fit for purpose, and is only released to enhancement projects The B2B Energy Supply business has where incremental returns have been access to a facility which enables it to identified. Capital expenditure in the year accelerate cash flows associated with was £114 million, a £51 million reduction trade receivables on a non-recourse in expenditure from 2017. The prior year basis which generated a cash inflow includes £48 million for the purchase and of £24 million at 31 December 2018 development of pellet production assets (£34 million at 31 December 2017). at LaSalle Bioenergy. The facility terms were amended during the year, bringing more of the At Drax Power Station, investment receivables balance into the scope reflected the outage following the 2017 of the facility, further improving our fire, conversion of a fourth unit to biomass overall liquidity and risk profile. More generation, along with routine asset details can be found in note 4.4 to the replacement and upgrades, the purchase Consolidated financial statements. of strategic spares and continuing investment to develop the OCGTs and During the year the Group has actively gas generation. Total expenditure for sought to bring its trade payable the year was £87 million. days closer to industry standards and has accessed several purchasing Pellet Supply continued to invest in facilities which were used to manage opportunities to improve efficiency and cash payments while limiting the reduce costs, including the development impact on suppliers. These facilities have of a new rail spur at LaSalle Bioenergy. generated a cash inflow of £87 million in the year (2017: £nil). The amounts under Excluding the purchase of the generation these facilities fall due 4-60 days from business from ScottishPower, the total the year end. carrying value of plant, property and equipment fell by £60 million in the 12 During the year there was an increase months to 31 December 2018, reflecting in ROC assets of £71 million adversely increased depreciation and the write-off impacting working capital (2017: inflow of of obsolete coal assets. Our four OCGT £112 million). This reflects the increase in assets remain under development. ROCs generated following the conversion See note 5.3 to the Consolidated financial of a fourth unit and the improvement in statements for more information. biomass generation output in the final quarter of 2018 compared to 2017. The total carrying value of plant, property Cash from ROCs is typically realised and equipment, including the effect several months after the ROC is earned. of the acquisition from ScottishPower, However, through selling and subsequently was £2,292 million, at 31 December 2018 buyings ROCs through normal ROC sale (2017: £1,662 million). and purchase arrangements we can optimise the timing of cash flows over a proportion of these assets. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 39 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Together these facilities and arrangements On 2 January 2019, the Group drew The terms of the Trust Deed for the defined created a net cash inflow of £100 million down £550 million from a £725 million benefit scheme allow the Group to recover (2017: inflow of £195 million) which has acquisition bridge facility to partially any surplus once the liabilities of the helped to drive a net inflow from working fund the acquisition of a portfolio of scheme have been settled. We have capital of £112 million in the year to ScottishPower assets, with the remainder therefore recognised the funding surplus 31 December 2018, compared to an of the consideration funded from the at 31 December 2018 in non-current assets inflow of £166 million in the year to Group’s cash resources. The bridge facility within the Consolidated balance sheet. 31 December 2017. matures in H2 2020. The amount payable in relation to the acquisition was included The defined benefit scheme triennial The overall net cash inflow for the year in other payables as at 31 December 2018. valuation, which was last completed was £66 million (2017: £4 million outflow), as at 31 March 2016, is based on more after cash payments for capital The use of the receivables facility, trade conservative discount rate and cost expenditure of £104 million (2017: payables facilities and ROC sales assumptions and resulted in a technical £159 million), dividend payments of mentioned above accelerated cash provisions deficit. This provision has £53 million (2017: £22 million) and share flows to a value of £100 million (2017: improved since the triennial valuation, buy-backs of £47 million (2017: £nil). £195 million) with a corresponding consistent with the movement in the Cash taxes paid during the year were reduction in net debt. We expect to accounting provision. The Group remains £1 million (2017: £14 million). continue to use these facilities to committed to make contributions towards manage our working capital in 2019. the repair of this deficit until 2025. NET DEBT AND FUNDING The Group held total borrowings of The Group also has access to secured Upon completion of the acquisition of the £608 million at 31 December 2018 (2017: trading lines, available with certain portfolio of assets from ScottishPower, £590 million) and net debt of £319 million counter parties, providing support to certain employees with defined benefit (2017: £367 million). the trading programme. pension rights were transferred to Drax. The employees continue to participate in In April 2018, the Group successfully We remain committed to a strong balance the ScottishPower pension scheme whilst completed a refinancing to convert sheet and to maintaining an appropriate Drax is in the process of setting up a new floating to fixed debt and to extend the credit rating. The optimisation of working scheme for the members to transfer to, debt maturity out to November 2025. capital helped to drive a reduction to the which will include assets and liabilities for The Group issued a US$300 million net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio to 1.3x past service benefits. Drax’s share of the bond with a fixed interest rate of 6.625%, at 31 December 2018 (2017: 1.6x), excluding ScottishPower pension scheme assets which was swapped back to sterling upon the £687 million paid on 2 January 2019 and liabilities for these employees has been issuance at an effective interest rate of 5%. in respect of the acquisition of a calculated for inclusion in the Consolidated The proceeds of the new issue were used generation business from ScottishPower. balance sheet, and results in a pension to repay in full the £200 million floating scheme surplus of £4 million. The Group is rate bond issued in 2017 which had a Further information on funding entitled to receive any surplus on the new maturity of 2022. arrangements is included in note 4.3 scheme once the liabilities have been met to the Consolidated financial statements, under the terms of the draft Trust Deed. Incremental costs of the new borrowing on page 142. (£4 million) have been deferred and will DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS be amortised to net interest costs in the PENSIONS We enter into forward contracts for the income statement. The Group operates a defined contribution purchase and sale of physical commodities, pension scheme in each of its operating principally power, gas, coal, biomass and The Group’s financing structure also companies and, in addition, the Power carbon emissions, to secure the margin includes a £350 million 4.25% fixed rate Generation business operates a defined associated with forward electricity sales, bond and a £350 million facility benefit scheme within the Electricity and also foreign currency derivatives to fix comprised of an RCF with a value of Supply Pension Scheme framework, sterling cash flows. All derivative contracts £315 million and an index-linked term loan which closed to new members in 2002. are measured at fair value as at the balance of £35 million. The RCF matures in April The actuarial review of our defined benefit sheet date, with changes to this value being 2021, with an option to extend by one pension scheme at 31 December 2018, recognised in either the income statement year. At 31 December 2018 the RCF had applying assumptions consistent with (Total Results) or the hedge reserve been used to draw down letters of credit the methodology adopted in previous dependent upon whether the contract with a total value of £32 million (2017: accounting periods, has resulted in a qualifies as an effective hedge under £36 million). funding surplus of £19 million (31 December IFRS (see note 7.2 to the Consolidated 2017: deficit of £1 million). This is largely financial statements). driven by an increase in the discount rate assumption to 3.0% (31 December 2017: 2.6%) following lower inflation expectations, which has decreased the value of the scheme liabilities by £23 million. 40 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A gain of £92 million (2017: loss of Financial information on the assets and At the forthcoming Annual General £219 million) was recognised in the hedge liabilities acquired, plus an assessment Meeting, on 17 April 2019, the Board reserve driven primarily by movements of the impact of the acquisition on our will recommend to shareholders that a on foreign currency contracts as sterling financial statements, is provided in note 5.1 resolution is passed to approve payment weakened following Brexit uncertainty, to the Consolidated financial statements. of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.5 pence per The term of our foreign currency derivative IMPACT OF BREXIT share (£33.6 million), payable on or before hedges is limited by available credit lines The ongoing negotiations for the 10 May 2019. Shares will be marked and market liquidity. We have hedges in withdrawal of the UK from the European ex-dividend on 18 April 2019. This brings place to cover anticipated exposures for Union and the evolving trade policy of the the total dividend payable for 2018 to five years, beyond which there is a risk US administration continue to increase £56 million and delivers 12% growth on 2017. that the cost of our fuel purchases will political and regulatory uncertainty. materially increase. We are actively The Group continues to monitor these The Board is confident that this level of working on reducing the long-term cost situations closely. We are engaged with dividend is sustainable and expects it of biomass fuel. government and regulators in the UK and to grow as the implementation of the internationally to ensure the Group’s views business strategy generates an increasing The accounting treatment of derivative and positions on current and forthcoming proportion of stable earnings and cash contracts is set out in note 7.2 to the legislation and regulations, and on energy flows. In determining the rate of growth Consolidated financial statements. and environmental policy issues that may in dividends the Board will take account have implications for our business, are of future investment opportunities and OTHER INFORMATION represented and to promote the benefits the less predictable cash flows from the ACQUISITION OF SCOTTISHPOWER of biomass. Any associated sterling Group’s commodity based businesses. GENERATION LIMITED weakness may influence the future cost If there is a build-up of capital in excess On 21 December 2018 shareholders of fuel used by the Power Generation of the Group’s investment needs the approved the acquisition of ScottishPower business. To manage this risk a number Board will consider the most appropriate Generation Limited and SMW Limited of financial instruments, including FX mechanism to return this to shareholders. and the deal subsequently completed options, are used within the foreign on 31 December 2018 for an initial net exchange hedging programme, PROFIT FORECASTS consideration of £687 million after effectively capping future FX liabilities In the Class 1 circular, published on 5 working capital adjustments. on an additional proportion of the future December 2018 in connection with the foreign currency fuel exposures. acquisition of a generation business from The acquisition terms include a ScottishPower, we made the following compensation mechanism whereby if DISTRIBUTIONS statement in relation to the outlook for 100% of contracted Capacity Market On 20 April 2018, the Group commenced 2018: “Outlook for 2018 – continued growth payments are not received for the period a £50 million share buy-back programme, in EBITDA”, which constituted a profit from 1 January to 30 September 2019 designed to reduce share capital forecast under the Listing Rules. Our a further payment could be made by and return funds to shareholders. financial results for 2018, as set out in this either the Group or the vendor, up to At 31 December 2018, this was Annual report, demonstrate that we have a maximum of £26 million. substantially complete and the Group achieved a growth of 9% in Adjusted had bought back £47 million of shares, EBITDA between 2017 and 2018, which The acquisition consideration was paid at an average price of 361 pence per share, is therefore consistent with the profit on 2 January 2019 and is included in which are held in a separate treasury share forecast that was made in the circular. amounts payable in respect of acquisitions reserve. The programme was completed in the 31 December 2018 Consolidated in January 2019. In the Class 1 circular, published on 5 balance sheet. December 2018 in connection with the At the Annual General Meeting on 25 April acquisition of a generation business from Given the short interval between signing 2018, shareholders approved payment ScottishPower, we made a profit forecast in the purchase agreement and completing of a final dividend for the year ended relation to the portfolio of assets acquired the sale, a transitional service agreement 31 December 2017 of 7.4 pence per share for the 12-month period ending 31 December has been executed with ScottishPower (£30 million). The final dividend was paid 2019. Full details of the profit forecast and includes a range of paid for services on 11 May 2018. (including the assumptions on which it was covering aspects of financial control, made and the sensitivity to the Capacity IT, accounting and payments for up to On 23 July 2018, the Board resolved to pay Market payments due in 2019) are set out 12 months. an interim dividend for the six months on pages 59 and 60 of the Class 1 circular. ended 30 June 2018 of 5.6 pence per share (£22.4 million), representing 40% of the The Class 1 circular can be accessed expected full year dividend. The interim on the Group’s website: www.drax.com/ dividend was paid on 12 October 2018. circular2018 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 41 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than the 12 months required by the going concern provision. The assessment of viability was led by the REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS REVIEW OF FINANCIAL FORECASTS Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial The Group’s principal risks and The Plan considers the Group’s financial Officer in conjunction with divisional uncertainties, set out in detail on position, performance, cash flows, credit and functional management teams and pages 44 to 49, have been considered metrics and other key financial ratios and presented to the Board as part of the over the period. was most recently updated to reflect annual planning process. In reviewing current market and external environment this assessment, the Board has considered The principal risks with the potential to conditions in December 2018. It is built the principal risks faced by the Group, exert significant influence on viability are: by business and segment, and includes relevant financial forecasts and commodity price changes, political and growth assumptions appropriate to the sensitivities, the availability of adequate regulatory changes, and plant operating markets each business serves. The Plan funding and the strength of the Group’s failures. A significant adverse change to for 2019 includes the generation and control environment. the status of each risk has the potential other assets acquired from ScottishPower to place material financial stress on on 31 December 2018. ASSESSMENT PERIOD the Group. The Board conducted this assessment The Plan includes certain assumptions, over a period of three years, selected for The risks were evaluated, where possible, the most material of which relate to the following reasons: to assess the potential impact of each on commodity market price curves and levels the viability of the Group, should that risk of subsidy support available to the Group • The Group’s Business Plan (Plan), which arise in its unmitigated form. The potential through the generation of biomass-fueled is prepared annually, updated twice inputs were included, where appropriate, renewable power. It is underpinned by the during the year and also used for as sensitivities to the Plan and considered stable revenues available through the strategic decision making, includes by the Board as part of the approval generation of CfD-backed electricity a range of financial forecasts and process, in January 2019, before the and contracted sales to B2B Energy associated sensitivity analysis. This Plan Plan was adopted by the Group. Supply customers. covers a three-year period in detail, before extending into the medium term. The Group has a proven track record of The Plan is subject to stress testing, which • Within the three-year period liquid adapting to changes to its environment involves the construction of reasonably commodity market curves and and deploying innovative solutions to foreseeable scenarios, including those established contract positions are used protect financial performance. Adverse aligned to the principal risks, which test in the forecasts. Liquid curves typically events over the past 18 months have the robustness of the Plan when key cover a one to two-year window and tested the ability of the Group to deliver its variables are flexed both individually contracts cover periods between one targets, but on each occasion it has been and in unison. and ten years. In particular, the Group able to respond positively and manage benefits from the stable and material the impact. This provides the Board with Scenarios were constructed to earnings stream available from the CfD confidence that risks can be mitigated, consider the financial impact of Principal until 2027. Selecting a three-year period and viability can be maintained, during Risks occuring during the period, balances short-term market liquidity the assessment period. either as one-off events (e.g significant against longer term contractual positions. outage) or a sustained downturn • There is limited certainty around the The Board also considered the impact of (e.g commodity prices). Group’s markets and regulatory regimes. Brexit, concluding that the Group’s FX However, in selecting a three-year period hedging programme provides mitigation Where such scenarios suggest a risk to the Board has assumed no material against FX volatility, whilst recognising viability, the availability and quantum of changes to the medium term regulatory that a material carbon asset may exist mitigating actions is considered and the environment and associated support in the event of a no deal Brexit. scenario is reassessed including plausible regimes beyond those already mitigations, which include acceleration announced at the date of this report. of cash receipts, reductions to capital expenditure and operating costs and changes to trading strategies. 42 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Board considers the most material the Group with the ability to access debt scenario in the assessment period to be markets, should that need arise during a significant deterioration of commodity the viability assessment period. Details market prices, leading to a fall in the of current facilities are described on available price for power and thus a fall in page 40 of the Group Financial Review, the margins available to the Group from and in Note 4.3 to the Consolidated power generation and supply activities. financial statements. This is based on a ‘low case’ where power prices fall by greater than £10/MWh from On 2 January 2019, the Group drew base case assumptions. This impact would down £550 million of its £725 million however be partially mitigated through acquisition facility (maturing by July 2020) the earnings stability provided by the CfD, to support the acquisition of assets the Group’s ability to trade effectively from ScottishPower. The Group is well in volatile power markets and reductions positioned to refinance the acquisition to discretionary expenditure. facility promptly and the Board is confident that the Group has access to The Plan also included assessment of a range of options to maintain a robust a scenario considering the risk of the capital structure. recently-suspended capacity market remaining closed during the period. The EXPECTATIONS Board believes that the Capacity Market The directors have considered a range of will be reinstated in some form during factors in their assessment of viability over 2019, but mitigating actions are available the next three years, including the latest if this does not occur. Plan, scenario analysis, levels of funding, the control environment and the principal Based on its review, the Board is satisfied risks and uncertainties facing the Group. the viability of the Group would be The directors have also considered preserved in a range of scenarios, the availability of actions within their including significant deterioration control in the event of plausible negative of commodity market prices. scenarios occurring. They therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE FUNDING will be able to continue in operation and The sources of funding available to the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Group are set out in note 4.3 to the three-year period of their assessment. Consolidated financial statements (see page 142). The Board expects these sources, along with stable cash flows generated by the Group from its normal operations, to provide adequate levels of funding to support the execution of the Group’s Plan. During the year the Group restructured its debt facilities, including the placement of a new $300 million bond, maturing in November 2025, to fix future debt service costs. The existence of established bond facilities, across the UK and US, provides Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 43 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We manage the commercial and operational risks faced by the Group in accordance with policies approved by the Board. We have reviewed the principal risks and • continuously monitor the changing risk Each business unit has RMCs that: consider they are broadly unchanged from environment, the Group’s principal risks, the previous year, with the addition of the effectiveness of mitigation strategies • report to the executive management of Transaction risks to reflect the risks and the application of the risk that area, assisting in the management of associated with the acquisition of framework. their risks. Each executive is responsible generation assets from ScottishPower. for ensuring that all risks associated The approach manages rather than with their specific area of the business The Board is responsible for defining risk eliminates the risk of failure to achieve are identified, analysed and managed appetite and ensuring the effectiveness business objectives, and provides systematically and appropriately; of risk management and internal controls reasonable, not absolute, assurance • has terms of reference that require local across the Group. The Group has a against material misstatement or loss. level risk policies and control systems comprehensive system of governance to be approved, implemented and controls to manage key risks. RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE monitored to ensure that activities are The risk management governance commensurate with the risk appetite GROUP APPROACH TO RISK structure includes executive level established by the Board, are adequately MANAGEMENT principal risk owners and two Group resourced and comply with applicable The effective identification and risk management committees (RMCs) legal and regulatory requirements. management of risk across the Group is whose responsibilities include: integral to the delivery of our strategy. The Group Executive Committee and • ensuring that risks are identified, the Board review reporting on risks from The risk appetite determined by the assessed and managed effectively the Group RMCs and from Group Risk. Board varies dependent on the risk and within risk appetites and limits, In addition, the Audit Committee reviews guides the principles of the Group’s culture including new and emerging risks; the suitability and effectiveness of risk and behaviour, and the intensity of risk • demonstrating robust governance management processes and controls management activities in achieving our of risk management by reviewing and on behalf of the Board. business objectives. challenging risk management across the Group and driving the completion The Group has a Risk Management Policy, of actions to manage risks within risk that was reviewed this year and approved appetites and limits; by the Board, which defines the Group’s • driving an appropriate risk management approach to risk management. The key culture, and an environment that elements of the Policy are as follows: promotes and creates positive risk-taking behaviour and clear accountability. • identify principal risks that threaten the achievement of our strategic The Group RMCs receive reports from objectives then assess their significance business unit RMCs and undertake reviews to the business; of the management of each principal risk • put in place appropriate mitigating across the Group. controls to manage identified risks to an acceptable level; • escalate and report principal risk and control information to support management decision making; • assign responsibility and define accountabilities for risk management and put these into practice across the Group; 44 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Audit Committee Assurance Drax Group Plc Group Risk Board & Internal Audit Group Risk Business Risk Management Management Committees Committees Accountability Group Executive Committee INTERNAL CONTROL The results of each internal audit are Based on the reporting from the Group The Group has a comprehensive and documented in a report for internal RMCs and from the Audit Committee in well-defined internal control system with distribution and action. A full copy of 2018, the Board determined that it was clear structures, delegated authority levels the report is distributed to the Group not aware of any significant deficiency and accountability. The Board has adopted Executive Committee and the Chair of or material weakness in the system of a schedule of matters which are required the Audit Committee, with an executive internal control. to be brought to it for decision. The internal summary going to the other members of control system is designed to ensure that the Audit Committee. Each report includes the directors maintain full and effective management responses to Internal control over all significant strategic, Audit’s findings and recommendations financial and organisational issues. and an agreement of the actions that management will take to improve the risk Through the Audit Committee, the Board management and the internal control has implemented a programme of internal framework. In addition to the results of audits of different aspects of the Group’s work undertaken by Internal Audit, the activities. The programme is developed Audit Committee also satisfies itself that based on an assessment of the key risks an action plan is in place and management of the Group, the existing assurance and are addressing issues raised by the controls in place to manage the risks and external auditor in their yearly the core financial control framework. management letter. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 45 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued CHANGE IN RISK PROFILE Risks are reported to the Board and disclosed in the annual report and accounts under nine principal risk headings. These are unchanged from 2017, with the addition of Transaction risks to reflect the risks associated with the acquisition of assets from ScottishPower. Key > Up/increasing < Down/reducing = No change Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 STRATEGIC RISKS Context • Diversifying our generation capacity through < • Acquisition of portfolio of flexible, The Group has a strategy designed to the acquisition of 2.6GW of portfolio of renewable, low carbon assets from strengthen the long-term future of the pumped storage, hydro and gas-fired ScottishPower provides significant Group. The strategy includes: generation assets. diversification of long-term earnings • Working on reducing projects’ costs to and expansion of our renewable –– Building on our leading market increase competitiveness in the Capacity generation model. position to provide system stability Market auction; a disciplined approach to • Conversion of fourth unit from coal through an increasing portfolio of the auction means such projects will only go to biomass gives greater flexibility flexible; generation and demand. forward upon obtaining a suitable contract of generation. This provides higher quality, which meets our hurdle rate. • UK Capacity Market payments and diversified earnings and • Working on cost reductions from biomass auctions suspended following ruling management of commodity market supply and generation efficiency to support by the European Court of Justice exposure by increasing contractual post-2027 operations. • LaSalle pellet facility now fully and non-commodity related • Actively pursuing potential acquisitions operational supporting self-supply earnings; and of pellet plant facilities and evaluate the target. –– Targeted long-term growth case for expansion of existing facilities. opportunities with priority on post • Continually analysing the changing dynamics 2027 earnings and creating new of the markets in which we operate. opportunities in all the markets in • Implementing a programme of targeted which we operate. investment to incubate new energy products Risk and impact and services to bring to market; research, • Development of new, flexible OCGT develop and pilot new technologies; and plants and the re-powering of coal develop joint ventures and partnerships units to gas with a battery storage where we need access to new skills and option is dependent on winning technology. contracts with acceptable returns in Capacity Market auctions which is uncertain. • Post 2027 biomass generation is dependent upon the cost of generation relative to market prices. • Biomass self-supply requires acquisition and/or expansion to achieve the 30% self-supply target. Acquisition opportunities are dependent on willing vendors or distressed plants coming to market. • The energy markets in which we operate are evolving at a rapid pace. New entrants compete with existing players in both power generation and B2B Energy Supply and services. PEOPLE RISKS Context • Maintaining consistent Group-wide • Continued embedding of our ‘Creating performance management, potential = a great place to work’ strategy centred We need to ensure we have the right people in place with the leadership, assessment and career development around valuing people, driving specialist skills and engagement to frameworks. business performance and focusing help the Group to compete, innovate • Regularly surveying employees to on talent. This is placing greater onus and grow. monitor engagement levels and alignment on performance, learning, equitable of people with Group values. treatment and consistency in Risk and impact • Investing in development for all. approach across the Drax Group. • Our performance and the delivery • Ensuring regular employee communications. • As part of the acquisition of assets of our strategy is dependent upon • Maintaining reward packages to aid from ScottishPower the c.250 having strong, high-quality leaders recruitment and retention. employees who have moved to the and engaged and talented people Drax Group will need continued at all levels of the organisation. support as they integrate and contribute to our culture and processes. 46 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 POLITICAL AND REGULATORY RISKS Context • Engaging with politicians across the political > • Brexit continues to create uncertainty. We remain alert to changes in spectrum and Government officials to Weakened sterling and difficulties in government policy at UK and EU level. understand and influence perception. cross border trade could influence fuel The energy sector is subject to detailed • Communicating our socioeconomic costs and/or lead to customers going legislation and regulation that is value to the UK. into financial distress. Delays at ports frequently changing as the economy • Working with stakeholders to establish could affect our supplies of fuel and trends towards decarbonising and Drax as a thought leader on priority policy components, although the nature of decentralising. Regulation and and regulatory issues. our dedicated supply chain mitigates compliance generally applicable to • Engaging with regulators and industry bodies this risk. businesses is also increasing with to influence strategic direction of, and ensure • The Government has confirmed increasing requirements for compliance with, regulatory requirements. that the Carbon Price Support (CPS) transparency and accountability. • Working with Energy UK to identify market is set at approximately the right level improvements, enhance competition and although the longer term level is Risk and impact develop voluntary codes of practice. dependent on how the UK exits the EU. • Changes to UK policy, regulations or • Maintaining regulatory and compliance • The status of the UK Capacity Market tariffs may reduce our ability to deliver control frameworks to mitigate the risk is uncertain. UK Capacity Market forecast earnings from our base of non-compliance covering: risk assessment; payments and auctions are currently business and our growth strategy policy development; adequate process; suspended. putting pressure on our financial training; audit; and continual improvement. • Many ancillary services require policy, results and cash flows. Issues include regulatory and market change to reform to: legal framework following ensure generators are suitably Brexit; data privacy regulation; compensated for these services. network access and charging • Ofgem is reviewing the way in which arrangements; consumer service network businesses are remunerated and affordability requirements. and user access is procured/costs • More complex and challenging allocated, which will impact the cost regulations increase the potential for base of generators and retailers. non-compliant outcomes, regulatory • The Government has introduced a investigation and sanctions. Brexit price cap for domestic power retailers: may require changes in regulatory we remain vigilant to the risk that this reporting and data requirements. could be extended to some SMEs. • The smart meter roll-out continues and the obligation to install a smart meter for every customer (where reasonable steps have been exhausted) remains. • Failures of small energy suppliers (cost mutualisation across industry). • The acquisition of assets from ScottishPower will change our engagement with government, particularly in Scotland. BIOMASS ACCEPTABILITY RISKS Context • Increased transparency in how we • The legislative process for the evidence sustainability. = Renewables Energy Directive has The biomass market is still relatively new. Sustainability legislation at • Working with academics, think tanks been completed and our current both an EU and UK level, and public and specialist consultants to improve policy and approach satisfies it. understanding of the benefits of the understanding and analysis of the technology, needs to be improved. benefits of biomass. • Engaging with key NGOs to discuss issues Risk and impact of contention. • EU or UK sustainability policy changes • Forging closer relationships with suppliers could be unworkable and make it on sustainability through the supplier difficult for us to comply with policy relationship programme. requirements and claim subsidy in • Maintaining strong processes to ensure support of economic biomass compliance with regulation. generation. • Increased engagement across all European • Detractors and some environmental Institutions (Commission, Parliament, Council), NGOs influence policy makers against and relevant UK Government departments. biomass use. • Developing and maintaining strong coalition with other utilities and those engaged in forest industries including using EU and US forestry expertise to brief Brussels. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 47 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 PLANT OPERATING RISKS Context • Implementing a comprehensive risk-based • Commissioning of LaSalle BioEnergy plant investment and maintenance = which is now fully operational. The reliability of our operating plant is central to our ability to create value for programme. • Newly acquired assets from the Group. • Maintaining adequate insurance in place to ScottishPower may increase the cover losses from plant failure where possible. overall operating risks until fully Risk and impact • Undertaking significant research and integrated. • Single point failures of plant could development on the production of wood result in forced outages in our pellets as well as the handling and burning generation or pellet production plants. of biomass. • Successful generation using biomass • Full testing of all biomass supplies prior requires stringent quality throughout to acceptance and the use of contractual the supply chain, which continues to rights to reject out of specification cargoes. evolve and mature. Poor quality could • Maintaining stringent safety procedures result in unplanned loss of generation. in place for handling biomass and dust management. • Sampling and analysis through the supply chain to increase understanding of causes of fuel quality issues. INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND SECURITY RISKS Context • Maintaining business continuity, disaster < • The enforcement of key compliance Our IT systems and data are essential to recovery and crisis management plans regulations – GDPR and NIS Directive supporting the strategy and operations in place across the Group. – have increased the regulatory and of the Group and meeting our legal, • Maintaining cyber security measures, financial impact of this risk. regulatory and compliance requirements. including a protect, detect, respond and • ScottishPower acquisition with They need to be fit for purpose, fit for use recover strategy, in place. resulting IT and Security integration and the confidentiality, availability and • Implementing a Retail transformation and compliance. integrity of the systems and data needs programme with robust governance and • IT Operating model redesign to better to be ensured. delivery. support strategic objectives of the • Implementing a Group IT strategy and key Group and improve efficiency of Risk and impact projects to deliver Group-wide services, technology processes. • Delivery of key IT systems transformation improving security, resilience and • Programme of ongoing improvement is needed to support our strategy. performance. to security, monitoring of key IT • Reduced systems performance or • Running ScottishPower integration under controls and IT and Security Risk reduced or non-availability of IT systems, a controlled programme and across business management. data and facilities adversely affecting workstreams. operations. • Security compromise of our systems and data, including personal data, causing operational, financial impact and regulatory non-compliance. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS Context • Training employees to a high level of • TRIR continuing at better than the competence to appreciate and manage = industry benchmark. The health and safety of all our employees, contractors and visitors is of health, safety and environmental risk. • Commissioning of LaSalle BioEnergy paramount importance to us. We believe • Maintaining robust management systems which is now fully operational. that a safe, compliant and sustainable designed to mitigate risk. • Installation of further fire suppression business model is critical to the delivery • Continuous reporting of events and prompt devices in our biomass conveying of our strategy and crucial for sustained implementation of corrective actions. systems. long-term performance. Safety is at the • Continuously monitoring processes to • Newly acquired generation assets heart of our operational philosophy and identify trends in performance. from ScottishPower may increase we continue to work across the Group • Auditing of compliance against standards, the environment, health, safety to maintain high standards and a culture policy and procedures. and environmental risks until fully of safe working. Compliance with • Engaging with regulators and stakeholders integrated. environmental legislation and our to identify improvements to our systems environmental permits and consents is and operations. essential to ensure the long-term future • Investigating the underlying reasons for of the business. events and implementation of any necessary changes in the management system Risk and impact and culture. • Our operations involve managing a • Timely identification of future legislation range of hazards to personnel and the and appropriate investment to optimise environment that arise from the performance. processes we operate. 48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting risk in 2018 TRADING AND COMMODITY RISKS Context • Ensuring high levels of forward power sales • Sterling exchange rates against the for 2019/20 and a CfD for one generation = Euro and Dollar remain weak. The margins of our Power Generation and B2B Energy Supply businesses are biomass unit. • Power prices higher with low market influenced by commodity and non• Enhancing optimisation capabilities through liquidity and increased volatility in commodity market movements, which the newly acquired ScottishPower assets. short-term prices. are inherently volatile. • Hedging energy supply commodity price • Prices for wood pellets increased. exposures when fixed price sales are • Generation running regimes optimised Risk and impact executed with third parties. with managed positions and scenario • Uncertainty in trading conditions could • Purchasing wood pellets under long-term planning . result in lower margins and a reduction contracts with fixed pricing. • Conversion of additional unit to in cash flow in our Power Generation • Significant hedging of forward foreign biomass provides opportunity for business. exchange. greater flexibility of generation and • Drax Power may fail to secure future • Hedging fluctuations in ROC generation from management of ROCs. grid system services contracts which wind farms through weather derivatives. • Increased power generation, change are a source of revenue diversity for in exposure and additional hedging the Group. requirements with the acquisition of • Commercial value from flexibility and assets from ScottishPower. The OCGT leveraging a complicated supply chain, plants bring a natural hedge to falling with uncertain running regimes gas prices . requires good trading performance • Recent supplier failures have led to presenting opportunities in the market. supplier mutualisation processes • The value of ROCs generated may be being invoked for ROCs. lower than forecast if the recycle value outturns are below BEIS projections due to higher than anticipated renewable generation. TRANSACTION RISKS Context • A detailed integration plan has been NEW • This risk was not included in We need to ensure that the integration developed. Performance against the business the previous annual report as of the assets newly acquired from case and key integration milestones will be the acquisition completed on ScottishPower runs smoothly and tracked by management and reported 31 December 2018. efficiently. In addition, contracted regularly to the Board and Audit Committee. capacity payments make up a • The Group has agreed a risk-sharing significant portion of the earnings of the mechanism with the vendor (Iberdrola S.A.), ScottishPower assets but UK Capacity which will activate in the event the Group Market payments and auctions are does not receive 100% of the contracted suspended following the ruling by Capacity Market payments for the acquired the European Court of Justice. assets. The value of any further payment is capped at £26 million. Full details of the risk Risk and impact sharing mechanism are set out on the • We may face difficulty in consolidating Group’s website at www.drax.com/cmrisk. and integrating the assets into our procedures and systems. The UK Government has confirmed that the • The assets may fail to meet our Capacity Market ruling does not change its expectations. belief that Capacity Market auctions are • The status of the UK Capacity Market the most appropriate way to deliver secure is uncertain. UK Capacity Market electricity supplies at the lowest cost. The UK payments and auctions are currently Government also noted that the Capacity suspended. Market ruling was decided on procedural grounds and did not constitute a direct challenge to the design of the Capacity Market mechanism itself. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: LETTER FROM THE CHAIR Setting the right standards on governance helps protect the business and the interest of stakeholders.” Philip Cox CBE Chair, Drax Group DEAR SHAREHOLDERS challenges ahead through our strategic BOARD CHANGES I am pleased to present our Corporate planning. We invited experts from outside The Board has seen a number of changes Governance Report for 2018. We believe the Company to share their insights and in 2018. In January, Will Gardiner became that good governance is essential to experience with the Board, which provided Group CEO, succeeding Dorothy our continued success. The Board is us with a broader understanding of the Thompson who retired. His appointment committed to upholding the highest factors affecting our markets, assets followed a thorough review of internal standards of governance and works and communities. and external candidates and was a closely with the executive team to do so. natural successor after two years as CFO We are supportive of the new 2018 Our people – employees and contractors working alongside Dorothy developing Corporate Governance Code (2018 Code) – remain a key asset of the business and the Group’s strategy. and are actively engaged in considering their safety is a long-held commitment how we can most effectively apply of our operational philosophy. We pay In October we announced the the principles. particular regard to our safety appointment of Andy Skelton as Group performance and received regular CFO who joined us in January 2019. Andy The Board consists of a strong team updates from management. is highly experienced, having previously with a wide range of experience across served as CFO at Fidessa Group and held various industries. Board membership It is important that our decisions as senior finance positions at CSR, Ericsson has increased this year, as we continue to a Board are informed by long-term and Marconi. refresh our skills, experience and diversity. considerations. Actions taken today will shape the future performance of Drax I would like to extend my thanks to Den KEY AREAS OF FOCUS and determine our impact on the world. Jones for his excellent job as Interim CFO, In 2018 we made strong progress with the By providing both support and challenge supporting the delivery of the strategy strategy we announced in December 2016, to management, in terms of how they and the acquisition of the ScottishPower ending the year with the successful address material issues, we have helped assets. Den will remain with the Group acquisition of a portfolio of flexible, low to develop ongoing opportunities for the until May 2019 to support the process carbon and renewable generation assets. business and to protect the long-term of integrating those assets. interests of stakeholders. During 2018, we also spent a great deal I am delighted to welcome Vanessa Simms of time discussing the wider economic, to the Board who joined as a Non-executive political and regulatory environment director in June 2018. As reported in our and considering the impact on Drax, Annual Report last year, Nicola Hodson addressing the opportunities and joined in January 2018. Details of these new appointments can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 65. 50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR VALUES Honest We say what we mean and do what we say, we’re genuine and true to our word Energised We’re passionate about our daily activities and have the drive to turn ideas into action Achieving We’re focused on our goals and determined to succeed. We work hard to deliver innovative solutions to help us do things better, for the benefit of the Group Together We work collaboratively with our colleagues, customers and stakeholders with a friendly approach and recognise the value each of us brings to achieving our Group vision CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY The Board, through the Nomination Our aim is to maintain an open and We recognise the importance of diversity Committee, also regularly reviews the collaborative culture across all areas of the within the Group and we report on Board length of tenure, skills and experience business. We believe that an effective and and Executive Committee composition of the Board. well embedded corporate culture helps and diversity on pages 52 to 54. We have to create a successful business. This will set a clear target to increase female Maintaining the highest standards of continue to be a key focus of the Board. representation in senior leadership across corporate governance across the Group the Group, to build a more diverse and is a priority for the Board. This is integral Good governance and behaviours are inclusive business. By the end of 2020 to the delivery of our strategy and for essential characteristics of how a our aim is to have 40% of senior leadership creating sustainable long-term value successful business is run and how it roles (Executive Committee and career for the benefit of our shareholders reports, and we place high expectations on levels 1 to 3) held by women. At the end and stakeholders. ourselves and therefore all of our people. of 2018 the figure was 27%. Setting the right standards helps to Philip Cox CBE protect the business and the interests We are committed to regular reviews of our Chair of our stakeholders. succession planning, making sure that it is aligned to the Group’s strategy. In addition BOARD INDUCTION AND EVALUATION to the succession planning for Board roles, A comprehensive induction programme the Nomination Committee received an is important for all of our new Board update from the Group People Director members. Both Nicola and Vanessa on succession planning for senior participated during 2018. We also run management and the talent pipeline. a programme of continuing evaluation for the Board to assess its effectiveness. Throughout the year, directors took More details of our evaluation and opportunities to meet with senior induction processes in the year are set management across the Group including out on pages 65 and 68. at the leadership team meeting in York and other informal discussions throughout the year. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board provides strong stewardship of the Group, shaping our purpose and strategy to generate sustainable long-term value. WILL GARDINER 1 2 1 Group Chief Executive Officer Will joined Drax in 2015 as CFO and was appointed as CEO in January 2018. He has a wealth of experience in finance and technology, having held CFO and divisional Finance Director roles at a number of major companies. Will has been a key architect of our flexible, low-carbon, customer-focused strategy, and is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of Drax Group, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation. He provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for important external relationships and stakeholder management. Will is also a non-executive director of Qardio plc. 3 4 Appointment to the Board: November 2015. ANDY SKELTON 2 Chief Financial Officer Andy joined Drax as CFO in January 2019. He was previously CFO at Fidessa Group plc and has held a number of senior finance positions at CSR plc, Ericsson and Marconi, including two years as CFO of Ericsson Nikola Tesla. His strong finance and commercial skills, alongside substantial experience in the technology sector, will be a valuable addition to the Board. Andy is 5 6 responsible for the Financial Control and Planning, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations, Group Risk and Internal Audit functions. Appointment to the Board: January 2019. ANDY KOSS 3 Chief Executive, Drax Power Andy joined Drax in 2005 and has held a number of senior roles at Drax including Director of Strategy, Head of Investor Relations, Group Treasurer and Head of Risk. He has also held several senior treasury and investment banking 7 8 roles with various major institutions. Andy is responsible for the safety, sustainability, operational excellence and expertise within Drax Power. Andy is also a board member of the Northern Powerhouse Partnership. Appointment to the Board: January 2016. 9 10 52 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information GENDER DIVERSITY COMPOSITION TENURE IN YEARS KEY TO COMMITTEES As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2018 A Audit Committee Female 22% Non-executive 67% 0-3 56% N Nomination Committee Male 78% Executive 22% 4-6 11% R Remuneration Committee Chairman 11% 7-9 22% Chair of Committee 10 11% Note: Andy Skelton is not included in the above analysis as he was not appointed as a director until 2 January 2019. PHILIP COX CBE N R DAVID LINDSELL 4 7 A N R Chair Senior Independent non-executive director Philip has extensive experience in both executive and non-executive roles, David has extensive financial, audit and regulatory experience, which has been and in the energy sector. He is interim Executive Chair of Kier Group plc and a significant asset to the Board in his role as Chair of the Audit Committee. was previously CEO and formerly CFO of International Power plc. Prior to this During his executive career, David was a Partner at Ernst & Young LLP and was he held a senior operational position at Invensys plc and was CFO at Siebe plc. Deputy Chair of the Financial Reporting Review Panel. He was a non-executive As a non-executive he was previously the Senior Independent Director director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee at Premier Oil plc and a at Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc, Chairman of Global Power Generation non-executive director of HellermannTyton Group PLC. David will retire from and a member of the boards of Talen Energy Corporation, PPL, Meggitt plc the Board following the AGM in April 2019. and Wincanton plc. His responsibilities at Drax include Board composition and succession, Board governance and stakeholder engagement. Appointment to the Board: December 2008. Appointment to the Board: January 2015. DAVID NUSSBAUM A N R 8 Appointment as Chair: April 2015. Independent non-executive director David brings a wealth of experience in international development and TIM COBBOLD A N R environmental, community and charitable matters. David is CEO of The Elders, 5 a group of independent global leaders working to promote peace and human Independent non-executive director rights, and Deputy Chair of the International Integrated Reporting Council. He Tim has substantial experience in finance, engineering and executive was previously CEO of World Wide Fund for Nature UK, CEO of Transparency leadership in different sectors, which means that he is well placed to International, Finance Director and Deputy CEO of Oxfam and Finance Director contribute significantly to the Board and its committees. He is currently a of Field Group plc. In a non-executive capacity, David was Vice-Chair of Shared non-executive director of Rotork plc. Tim was previously CEO of UBM plc, CEO Interest Society, Chairman of Traidcraft plc and a non-executive director of of De La Rue plc, CEO of Chloride Group plc and, following Emerson Electric’s Low Carbon Accelerator Limited. takeover of Chloride, held a senior position in Emerson. Prior to that he held a number of senior positions in Smith Group plc. Tim will retire from the Appointment to the Board: August 2017. Board in September 2019. Appointment to the Board: September 2010. VANESSA SIMMS A N R 9 Independent non-executive director NICOLA HODSON A N R Vanessa has extensive experience in senior finance roles across different 6 industries, including real estate, telecommunications and medical devices. Independent non-executive director She is currently CFO of Grainger plc and has worked in finance for 20 years, Nicola brings valuable technology expertise as well as having extensive holding a number of senior positions within Unite Group plc, including deputy sales and IT experience. She is currently Vice-President, Global Sales and chief financial officer. Prior to that Vanessa was UK finance director at Marketing, Field Transformation at Microsoft, and was General Manager FS, PS, SEGRO plc. Vanessa’s current and relevant financial experience will be Manufacturing, Sales and Marketing Director at Siemens. Nicola was formerly invaluable to the Board as she transitions to take over as Chair of the a non-executive director at Ofgem, a Board member at the UK Council for Audit Committee in April 2019. Child Internet Safety and at the Child Exploitation and Online Protection group. Nicola will succeed Tony Thorne as the Remuneration Committee Chair in Appointment to the Board: June 2018. April 2019. Appointment to the Board: January 2018. TONY THORNE A N R 10 Independent non-executive director Tony’s broad experience of operating in leadership roles in different geographies is of great value to the Board as the Group’s operations develop. During his executive career, Tony was CEO of DS Smith plc and President of SCA Packaging Limited. He worked throughout the world in senior management roles for Shell International. He was the non-executive Chairman of South East Coast Ambulance Service. Tony will retire from the Board in June 2019. Appointment to the Board: June 2010. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Executive Committee members CLARE HARBORD 1 2 4 Group Director of Corporate Affairs Clare has extensive experience in public affairs, communications and stakeholder relations. Before joining Drax, Clare worked at Heathrow, the world’s third busiest airport, where she was Director of Corporate Affairs for six years. Clare’s previous experience also includes roles as Director of Communications at both the Ministry of Justice and E.ON. Clare leads the Group’s internal and external communications, brand, public affairs and corporate social responsibility strategies. She also has responsibility for sustainability, regulation, policy and compliance. 3 4 Appointment to the Executive Committee: May 2017, having joined the Group at the same time. JONATHAN KINI 5 Chief Executive, Drax Retail Jonathan spent a decade in director-level roles in telecoms, covering customer operations, finance, marketing and commercial. He was previously Director of SME at Vodafone, leading the strategy for UK products and services to small to medium-sized enterprises. Prior to that he was Customer 5 6 Service Director at Virgin Media. Jonathan oversees business operations and champions Drax’s retail strategy across Haven Power and Opus Energy, leading a customer-focused approach to energy sustainability, energy management and providing 100% UK-based renewable energy. Appointment to the Executive Committee: September 2016, having joined the Group in January 2016. WILL GARDINER PENNY SMALL 1 6 Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Transformation Officer Will was appointed to the Executive Committee on joining the Group Penny has a wealth of experience in the energy industry, and has led major in November 2015. integration and transformation projects, including the integration of International Power and GDF Suez. She was previously Director of Asset Optimisation and Digital at Engie and, prior to that, was Director of Strategy Full biography on page 52. and Communications. Penny ensures best practice is applied across our Retail and IT transformation programmes. She is responsible for overseeing HR, ANDY SKELTON 2 Legal, Company Secretarial, as well as Strategy and M&A functions. Group Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Executive Committee: November 2018, having joined Andy was appointed to the Executive Committee on joining the Group the Group at the same time. in January 2019. Full biography on page 52. ANDY KOSS GENDER DIVERSITY 3 Chief Executive, Drax Power As at 31 December 2018 Andy was appointed to the Executive Committee in March 2015, Male 60% having joined the Group in June 2005. Female  40% Full biography on page 52. Note: Andy Skelton is not included in the above analysis as he was not appointed until 2 January 2019. 54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ROLE OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE 2018 The Executive Committee focuses on The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by members the Group’s strategy, financial structure, of the Executive Committee during 2018. planning and performance, succession planning, organisational development Date appointed as a Maximum Number of % of and Group-wide policies. member of the current possible meetings meetings Executive Committee meetings attended attended HOW THE EXECUTIVE Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 11 11 100% COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS Clare Harbord 9 May 2017 11 11 100% The Executive Committee receives regular Jonathan Kini 1 September 2016 11 11 100% reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business Andy Koss 1 March 2015 11 11 100% reports from each of the business units. Penny Small 5 November 2018 2 2 100% Papers are distributed in advance of meetings, to brief members on matters to be discussed. Members also receive Number of meetings presentations on various business The Executive Committee has 11 scheduled issues by senior managers within the meetings each calendar year and arranges business units. additional meetings if needed. COMPOSITION With the exception of Penny Small, Chief Transformation Officer, (who was appointed a member in November 2018) and Andy Skelton, who joined the Committee in January 2019, all of those listed opposite served on the Executive Committee throughout the year and all continued to be members at the date of this report. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE’S 2018 ACTIVITIES > HEALTH AND SAFETY > STRATEGY > GENERATION > GOVERNANCE Considered regular updates Monitored the progression Review of Beyond Coal Considered GDPR Privacy from business units; deep of the first phase of the initiative and ancillary Policy, gender pay gap dive analysis and lessons repowering project. services programme. reporting and review of learned from the fire on Consideration of acquisition Conversion and certain Group policies the biomass fuel handling of a portfolio of assets from commissioning of fourth including Security, facilities in December 2017; ScottishPower. Considered biomass unit. Environment and Health increased focus on process and reviewed options for and Safety. safety as well as behavioural flexible gas generation and > RETAIL safety; reviewed governance considered tactics for the Considered Retail > CAPITAL RESTRUCTURE process in respect of the Capacity Market auction. transformation plan to Considered refinancing health, safety and wellbeing develop new supply platform. proposal, and optimum reporting across the Group. > BIOMASS Monitored continued financing for acquisition Reviewed successful integration of Opus Energy of ScottishPower > NEW PEOPLE STRATEGY commissioning of third pellet and a detailed review of the generation assets. Monitored continued roll-out plant ahead of schedule. business one year on from including People Plan Monitored biomass acquisition. Roadmap, Big Picture optimisation strategy and Communication approach biomass procurement update. and the introduction of a new deferred cash award plan (One Drax Awards) for eligible employees below Board level to recognise and reward high performers and employees whose behaviours underpin our culture. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A sound governance framework promotes the delivery of our strategy DRAX GROUP PLC BOARD Responsible for overseeing the Group’s strategy and risk appetite, monitoring performance and ensuring that the necessary controls and resources are in place to deliver the Group’s plans AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Oversees financial COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Focuses on the Group’s reporting, internal controls Makes recommendations Oversees the Group’s strategy, financial structure, and risk management on the size, diversity and approach to remuneration planning and performance, systems, whistleblowing composition of the Board and sets key performance succession planning and and fraud, internal and succession planning measures for the organisational development and external audit for the directors and executive directors below Board level effectiveness senior executives and members of the Executive Committee Page 69 Page 64 Page 75 ROLE OF THE BOARD HOW THE BOARD FUNCTIONS The Board determines: the Group’s strategy; the Group’s Prior to each Board meeting the Chair and the Non-executive appetite for risk; the risk management policies; the annual plan directors meet without management being present. At each and key performance indicators; acquisitions and disposals, meeting the Board receives a report from the Group Chief and other transactions outside delegated limits; material Executive Officer in relation to key business and operational changes to accounting policies or practices; significant financial matters and from the Group Chief Financial Officer in relation to decisions; capital structure and dividend policy; shareholder the financial performance of the Group. It also receives regular communications; prosecution, defence or settlement of material reports on performance against the Business Plan, safety, litigation; Group remuneration policy; the terms of reference operational and financial performance, and periodic business of Board committees; and the Board structure, composition reports from senior management across the Group. The Board and succession. receives regular industry, regulatory and topical updates from internal specialists and from external experts and advisers. TERMS OF REFERENCE Papers are distributed in advance of Board and committee The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions meetings, to brief directors. and formal terms of reference for its committees. These are reviewed regularly and are available to view on the Group’s The core activities of the Board and its committees are website at www.drax.com. documented and planned on a forward agenda, with a list of matters arising from each meeting maintained and followed Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its up at subsequent meetings. committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee The Group Company Secretary advises the Board on all or otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of governance matters, ensuring good information flows within delegated authorities approved by the Board. the Board, its committees, the Executive Committee and senior management. The Group Company Secretary ensures that Board processes are complied with and is also responsible for compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Corporate Governance Code and the Companies Act. There is also good governance collaboration with other parties across all Group functions. 56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information All Board committees are authorised to obtain legal or other NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance The Board and its committees have regular scheduled of external advisers at their meetings and to seek information meetings and hold additional meetings as required. Directors are required from any employee of the Group in order to perform expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant their duties. committee meetings, the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and any General Meetings. The Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), give the directors power to authorise conflicts of interest. The Board has • The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year. an effective procedure to identify potential conflicts of interest, • In 2018, additional meetings were held (by telephone) consider them for authorisation and record them. The Articles to address matters requiring formal decisions. also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in Group companies • A shareholder General Meeting was held in December 2018 without restriction (for example to appoint a director to a Group in order to approve the acquisition of ScottishPower company). The Articles are available on the Group’s website at generation assets. www.drax.com. • The Board meets at least annually to consider strategy. The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect BOARD ROLES of legal action against directors of the Company and its The key responsibilities of members of the Board are as follows: subsidiaries. Position Role BOARD DIVERSITY Chair Responsible for leading and managing the The table below shows the gender diversity split in the Board Board, its effectiveness, and governance. and in different sectors of the workforce at 31 December 2018. Ensures Board members are aware of and understand the views and objectives Male Female Total of major shareholders and other key Gender No. % No. % No. % stakeholders. Helps to set the tone from Board Members(1) 7 78 2 22 9 100 the top in terms of the purpose, goal, vision Senior Managers(2) 20 67 10 33 30 100 and values for the whole organisation. All employees(3) 1,776 66 910 34 2,686 100 Group Chief Responsible for the day-to-day Executive Officer management of the business, developing Notes: the Group’s strategic direction for (1) Excluding Andy Skelton who was appointed in January 2019 (2) Direct reports of the Board (Executive Committee) and their direct reports consideration and approval by the Board (3) Excluding Board Members and Senior Managers and implementing the agreed strategy. Group Chief Supports the Chief Executive in Financial Officer developing and implementing strategy, in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group. Chief Executive, Responsible for leading and developing Drax Power the operation of the Power Generation business. Independent NonResponsible for bringing sound judgement executive directors and objectivity to the Board’s deliberations and decision-making process. Constructively challenge and support the executive directors. Monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board. Senior Independent Acts as a sounding board for the Chair Non-executive and a trusted intermediary for other director directors. Available to discuss any concerns with shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chair or the executive directors. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS, INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS It is the Board’s view that throughout the period commencing AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS on 1 January 2018, the Company has complied in full with the Other than a service contract between the executive directors principles of the Code issued in April 2016. The Code can be found and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.frc.org.uk. Committee report, no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any significant contract with the Company With the exception of Nicola Hodson, who was appointed as a or any of its subsidiary undertakings. director on 12 January 2018, Vanessa Simms who was appointed as a director on 19 June 2018, and Andy Skelton who was There are no agreements between the Group and its directors appointed as a director on 2 January 2019, all of the directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment listed on pages 52–53 served throughout the year. Each of because of a takeover bid. those listed remained directors as at the date of the approval of this report. Biographical details of the directors appear on The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive pages 52–53. director. None of the non-executive directors who served during the year had any material business or other relationship with the TIME COMMITMENT Group, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect Directors’ other commitments are kept under review to ensure their independence of character and judgement. The Board that they have sufficient time to dedicate to our business. Under recognises that in view of the characteristics of independence the terms of their letter of appointment, the Chair is expected to set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, length of service commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to this role. Under the is an important factor when considering the independence of non-executive directors’ letters of appointment, each is expected non-executive directors and that directors having served for to commit 12 to 15 full days a year. That includes attendance at longer than nine years may not be considered independent. Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy away day and at least one site visit per year. In November 2017, David Lindsell was re-appointed for a fourth time until the 2019 AGM. David is the Chair of the Audit In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate preparation Committee and the Senior Independent Director. The Board time ahead of each meeting. The time commitment expected considered that David Lindsell’s experienced oversight in ensuring in respect of their membership of the Audit, Nomination and careful financial stewardship as Chair of the Audit Committee was Remuneration Committees is an additional three to four full days crucial during a period of change in the implementation of the a year in each case. However, in practice considerably more time new strategy, the development of the new Group CEO into that is devoted, particularly by the Chairs of the Board committees. role, and the selection and appointment of a new Group CFO. To have David continuing in post during this period of transition, Non-executive directors also spend time with management, and assisting in the recruitment and induction of a new to maintain their knowledge of the developing business and Audit Committee Chair in 2018, was considered to be an integral to understand the operational challenges being faced. part of ongoing good financial governance. When David steps down after the 2019 AGM he will have served on the Board for In January 2019 Phil Cox took on the role of Executive Chair at over ten years. The Board is satisfied that David’s judgement Kier Group plc on an interim basis during the search for a new CEO has remained wholly independent and that he has consistently at Kier. The Board considered and approved his taking on of this displayed all of the behaviours expected of our independent additional interim commitment, and was confident that he would non-executive directors. be able to continue to devote the appropriate time to his role as Chair of the Group. The Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent. 58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CASE STUDY The Board’s role in the acquisition of ScottishPower generation assets During 2018, the Board considered the potential acquisition of a portfolio of flexible low carbon and renewable generation assets. Early discussions included a consideration of, among other matters: • Rationale for the transaction • Alignment with strategy • Integration plan • Key risks • Key financial considerations Further preliminary work took place over the following months so that the Board was able to consider the opportunities and risks in greater detail. The Board received advice from internal teams including legal, treasury and finance functions and external advisers including legal, corporate brokers and the corporate sponsor. Detailed papers to help the Board consider various aspects of the acquisition opportunity were considered including: • Risk analysis • Financial projections • Funding • Integration • Effect on the Group’s legal requirements • Terms of the transaction The effect on the Group’s key stakeholders including shareholders, the workforce, customers, the community, external industry and environmental stakeholders was also considered. A number of Board meetings were held to review the progress of negotiations and approve next steps. Day-to-day consideration of the transaction was delegated to a committee of the Board. In between formal Board meetings, the Chair, CEO and other members of senior management updated the Board on significant developments. Procedures were put in place to deal with any potential leak of market-sensitive information. On 21 December 2018, shareholders in a General Meeting approved the transaction, which was completed on 31 December 2018. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Highlights of the Board’s activities in 2018 POWER GENERATION HEALTH AND SAFETY • Considered the forthcoming Capacity Market and OCGT • Received regular updates from the CEO bids and approved the level of exit price • Considered the review of the fire at the rail unloading • Considered proposals in respect of the repowering facility and monitored the resulting programme of works programme • Considered the health and safety and wellbeing update • Considered the proposed new operating model • Considered the process safety review • Reviewed initial tenders for construction of OCGT plants SHAREHOLDERS, STAKEHOLDERS PELLET PRODUCTION AND GOVERNANCE • Received updates on the biomass optimisation strategy • Confirmed support for the Group Communications Strategy • Considered the engineering update on biomass handling • Considered the Sustainability update facilities • Modern Slavery Act update considered and revised Modern Slavery Act statement approved • Considered a review of cyber security • Considered an update on the progress of the IT strategy FINANCE AND STRATEGY • Considered and approved the Group GDPR Privacy Policy • Discussion on the final dividend • Considered an update to gender pay gap reporting • Approved the 2019 Business Plan and the Strategic Plan • Considered a framework for the employee voice to 2022 • Confirmed support of a return of capital to shareholders in the form of a share buy-back • Approved the 2017 annual report and accounts • Approved, in principle, a proposed refinancing ACQUISITION OF • Reviewed the dividend policy SCOTTISHPOWER GENERATION ASSETS • Considered the Finance and risk update • Initial consideration of proposal including the strategic • Approved the half-year report and accounts and the and financial rationale interim dividend • Considered reports on management, due diligence • Monitored business performance against the business plan and the risks associated with the transaction and potential mitigation • Approved detailed terms • Considered preliminary integration plan ENERGY SUPPLY • Considered update to integration plan • Considered the provision of market access to third parties • Approved the circular issued to shareholders on • Reviewed the projects to develop a new supply platform 5 December 2018 • Reviewed the integration of Opus Energy into the Group • Approved updated terms in light of the Capacity • Considered the brand review Market ruling • Approved the acquisition financing – both bridge financing and refinancing plan 60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BOARD ATTENDANCE 2018 The table below shows the number of meetings held and the directors’ attendance during 2018. No. of % of Date appointed as a director Scheduled meetings meetings Director and member of the Board meetings(1) attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 8 8 100% Philip Cox 1 January 2015 8 8 100% Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 8 8 100% Nicola Hodson(2) 12 January 2018 8 6 75% Andy Koss 1 January 2016 8 8 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 8 8 100% David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 8 8 100% Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 5 5 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 8 8 100% Notes: (1) The scheduled meetings that each individual was entitled to, and had the opportunity to attend. Additional meetings were held (by telephone) to address matters requiring formal decisions. (2) Nicola Hodson was unable to attend two meetings as a result of pre-existing commitments. However, she received the meeting papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting in order for her views to be considered. SUCCESSION PLANNING DIRECTORS’ DEVELOPMENT AND INDUCTION Good succession planning contributes to the delivery of the To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, a Group’s strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and programme of training and development is available to all experience of Board members now and in the future. In 2019, directors. Training needs are assessed as part of the Board three of our longest serving non-executive directors will be evaluation procedure. The Board programme includes regular stepping down following the end of their tenure. In line with presentations from management and informal meetings to existing succession plans, arrangements are already in place to build understanding of the business and sector. ensure, where appropriate, the smooth and effective transition into positions made vacant by these changes. During the year, Board meetings took place in London, Selby and Northampton and included site tours, informal walkabouts David Lindsell will step down after the 2019 AGM and will and presentations from local management to give directors be succeeded as Audit Committee Chair by Vanessa Simms. deeper understanding of, and insight into, particular issues faced David has been mentoring Vanessa as part of a structured by the business. induction programme to help with a smooth transition into the role. Tony Thorne will step down in June 2019 and will During the year directors had access to the advice and services be succeeded as Chair of the Remuneration Committee by of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary. Directors Nicola Hodson from the 2019 AGM. Nicola, who was appointed may take independent advice at the Company’s expense when to the Remuneration Committee on her appointment to the it is judged necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities Board in January 2018, has been mentored by Tony Thorne effectively. No such independent advice was sought in 2018. and will have served on the Committee for 15 months when she becomes the Remuneration Committee Chair. Finally, All new directors receive a comprehensive and tailored induction Tim Cobbold’s tenure will come to an end in September 2019, programme, including meetings with key managers, sites visits, having by then completed nine years. and briefings on key operational matters, Board procedures and governance matters. Both Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms David Nussbaum will be appointed as the Senior Independent participated in such inductions during 2018. This included Director from the 2019 AGM to succeed David Lindsell. specific elements for assuming the roles respectively of Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Chair of the Audit Committee. In addition to the recent appointment of Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms, the search for another new non-executive STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT director is underway. The feedback from our stakeholder engagement activities is available to the Board through the Executive Committee. This The Board is also committed to recognising and nurturing talent ensures that the interests of all stakeholders are considered, within executive and management levels across the Group to when relevant, in our decision making and is supportive of the ensure that opportunities are created to develop current and Board’s duty to promote the success of the Company as set out future leaders. Through 2017 we developed a new people in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. (For further detail and strategy which focuses on driving performance and developing information on stakeholder engagement and communication talent to deliver the Group’s objectives. During 2018 Group-wide please refer to pages 32 and 33.) practices have been established, including a career development and behaviour framework, focusing on performance and personal development. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Understanding the needs of our various stakeholders is essential to our long-term success > OUTCOMES The AGM provides all shareholders with a forum to put questions to the Board of directors, and to vote on important issues. Shareholder meetings Through the year the management team are available to meet shareholders and, in addition, following the full and half year results, a structured programme of meetings is arranged to allow management to meet with institutional shareholders Engaging with our shareholders and prospective investors. Communication with shareholders is given a high priority. The The Board receives reports of meetings which have taken place Chair is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship with institutional shareholders, together with regular market with the Company’s major shareholders, communicates updates, which give the directors a clear understanding of their directly with them and offers them the opportunity to meet views and concerns. The Chair and Senior Independent Director any other directors. This enables the Board to understand are also available to meet with shareholders, independently their views on the Group and its governance. of the executive directors, as required. Through the course of the year, the Group Chief Executive During 2018 the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Tony Thorne, consulted with shareholders on the proposed Relations meet with institutional shareholders and sell-side changes to the Remuneration Policy. analysts (see opposite). These meetings allow us to discuss the Company’s business model, strategy and marketplace, > OUTCOMES as well as provide an update on performance. Meetings are This allows the owners of the business to have access arranged proactively and on request and often include site to management, for a two-way conversation, to better visits, which provide shareholders with valuable insight into understand the business, its operation and strategy. the Group’s operations. The Group engages Makinson Cowell, part of the KPMG Group, Sell-side analyst engagement to advise and assist with communications with shareholders Executive directors engage with sell-side analysts at the full and regularly discusses matters with its brokers, Royal Bank and half year results presentations, and the Head of Investor of Canada and JP Morgan. Relations is in regular dialogue with analysts. HOW DO WE ENGAGE? Financial results are communicated to the market twice a year, at the preliminary and interim results, where a presentation is The Annual General Meeting given to sell-side analysts, which is made available to the public The AGM is attended by the full Board of directors. through a webcast on the Group’s website. Shareholders are encouraged to attend, ask questions > OUTCOMES and join the directors for informal discussions over coffee. Allows analysts and investors to have up-to-date and accurate information on the business and its strategy so that they can Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2019 AGM come to an informed view on the Company’s performance can be found in the Notice of AGM at www.drax.com. and prospects. A printed copy of the notice can also be obtained from our registrars, Equiniti, or the Group Company Secretary. Details for both can be found on page 191. 62 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Beyond Coal Executive director, Andy Koss, led ongoing engagement with employees in the Power Generation business on the largest transformation in the history of the power station. > OUTCOMES Gave employees the opportunity to learn more about future plans and progress being made. The Board attended a Beyond Coal Exhibition to meet employees. Engaging with our employees We recognise how important engaged and motivated Employee engagement employees are to the continued success of the business. The Board receives regular updates on employee matters, That is why we communicate with our employees through including engagement scores, wellbeing initiatives, various channels. gender pay gap reporting and safety. > OUTCOMES HOW DO WE ENGAGE? Provides a foundation to support richer conversations with “Ask Will” employees as the employee voice framework develops. Each week the CEO takes questions from across the Group on a wide range of topics. His responses are shared with the whole workforce. > OUTCOMES Allows the CEO to hear the employee “voice” directly, and allows employees to receive direct feedback on their questions. Employee voice The Executive Committee and the Board have discussed the best and most effective means of engaging with employees. More direct interface by Board members with employee forums will commence in 2019 and be regularly reviewed to ensure it is effective and meaningful. > OUTCOMES Allows the Board to gain greater insight into matters that are most important to employees, engaging directly with employee representatives, and being able to share the Board’s views on employee matters and, more broadly, the future of the business. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 63 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to: • keep under review the Board’s structure, size and composition (including requisite skills, diversity, knowledge and experience); We continue our work • conduct the search and selection process for new directors, to ensure that the taking advice from independent search consultants as appropriate; and right leadership is in • ensure a rigorous succession planning process for the directors place to steer the and other senior managers, including the identification of Group effectively.” candidates from both within and outside the Group. Philip Cox CBE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Chair • Appointed Vanessa Simms as a non-executive director • Appointed Andy Skelton as Group Chief Financial Officer • Considered the effectiveness and performance of the Board COMMITTEE MEMBERS and its committees Tim Cobbold • Reviewed management development and succession planning Nicola Hodson (appointed 12 January 2018) David Lindsell I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for the David Nussbaum year ended 31 December 2018. Vanessa Simms (appointed 19 June 2018) Tony Thorne When considering the appointment of new directors the Committee adopts a formal process which considers the skills, ATTENDING BY INVITATION knowledge, diversity and experience that support the Company Group Chief Executive Officer in delivering its strategic goals. This includes providing the Board Group People Director with an appropriate balance and mix of skills required for both now and in the future. NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN 2018: THREE As Chair of the Committee, I am responsible for overseeing the The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee. progress made towards improving diversity in appointments to the Board and supporting an effective succession plan for senior management in a way that is consistent with the long-term ATTENDANCE IN 2018 strategy of the Group. The Committee will continue to monitor Maximum No. of % of Committee Date appointed a possible meetings meetings the balance of the Board to ensure sufficient breadth and depth member member meetings attended attended of expertise is available from the existing members, and will Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 3 3 100% recommend further appointments to the Board as appropriate. Philip Cox 22 April 2015 3 3 100% The Committee also takes an active interest in the quality Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 3 2 67% and development of talent and capabilities below Board level, ensuring that appropriate opportunities are in place to develop David Lindsell 1 December 2008 3 3 100% high-performing individuals and to build diversity in senior roles David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 3 100% across the business. Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 1 1 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 3 3 100% Nicola Hodson was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment. However, she received the meeting papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting in order for her views to be considered. NOMINATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME Corporate Governance 30% Board and committee composition  20% Succession planning and talent  30% Board effectiveness  10% Other  10% TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board. The terms of reference are available on the Group’s website at www.drax.com/governance. 64 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORATE CHANGES In considering the selection of candidates for these two new As detailed in last year’s annual report, Will Gardiner was appointed non-executive appointments, the Committee reflected on the as Group CEO in January 2018 and Den Jones was appointed on attributes, skills and experience necessary for suitable successors an interim basis as CFO. to the roles of Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairs. Finally, Tim Cobbold will step down in September 2019, as by that date he In conducting our search for a CFO, a thorough and rigorous will have completed nine years on the Board. recruitment process was initiated and overseen by the Committee. Heidrick & Struggles/JCA Group was appointed to NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS assist with the search and ensure a comprehensive search of the It is the Board’s policy that each non-executive director will be external market. Heidrick & Struggles/JCA Group has signed up appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board to the Hampton Alexander voluntary code of conduct on gender being satisfied with the director’s performance and commitment, diversity and, aside from assisting with recruitment, has no and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be connection with the Group. Due to the complex and technical renewed by mutual agreement. The Board will not normally nature of the Drax business the search was specifically looking for extend the aggregate period of service of any independent a CFO who would be able to quickly get up to speed and credibly non-executive director beyond nine years, and any proposal made engage with the wide variety of operational activities across to extend a non-executive director’s aggregate period of office the Group as well as play a key role in shaping its future. When beyond six years is subject to rigorous review. assessing the relative importance of different skills, it was felt that core skills of control, reporting, cost management and On page 58 we explain the rationale for David Lindsell remaining process understanding were particularly important. on the Board until the 2019 AGM, notwithstanding that his term as Non-executive director exceeds nine years. The candidate selection process focused on both technical expertise and experience as well as the behavioural traits I would like to thank David Lindsell, Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold important for success at Drax. In particular, the ability to look for for their very considerable contributions to the Board during the right solution, innovate for a better future, embrace change a period of significant changes for the business. and lead teams. Psychometric tests were used to further enhance and refine the selection decision. BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and As we announced in October 2018, Andy Skelton joined the Board improve its performance. This is achieved through the annual as Group CFO in January 2019. performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board development activities. Andy Skelton was chosen for this role due to his experience in building and leading finance teams, and also understanding and For 2018 it was determined that an internal Board performance optimising processes, both within finance and across businesses. evaluation would be most beneficial to the Company. The Chair He has strong core financial control and accounting expertise and the Group Company Secretary coordinated the evaluation and very good experience of driving business transformation. ensuring that areas of focus arising from last year in particular were subject to review. Two new non-executive directors also joined the Board in 2018. Firstly, Nicola Hodson, whose appointment was reported in The form of questionnaire was approved by the Chair, our Annual report and accounts last year, joined in January and was subsequently completed by all directors. Following bringing her experience in technology, business transformation completion of the questionnaires, the Chair holds a series and energy. Nicola will succeed Tony Thorne as Chair of the of one-to-one meetings with each of the directors to allow Remuneration Committee from the 2019 AGM. Secondly, him to fully evaluate the performance of the Board, each of Vanessa Simms who joined in June, has more than 20 years’ its Committees and individual Board members. experience in senior finance roles, bringing a particular focus on implementing strategic change. Vanessa will succeed David Lindsell as Chair of the Audit Committee, when he steps down on the conclusion of this year’s AGM. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 65 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION POINTS FROM 2017 WHAT WE DID • Improving diversity, as it was recognised that • Board diversity has been improved with the appointment additional focus is needed to further widen the of two female NEDs composition of the Board • Updated Board diversity policy to reflect the increased focus • Several initiatives have been put in place to improve diversity across the Group and remain focused on the Hampton Alexander targets • Further examination of new technologies in the • Full strategy review with the executive team energy sector and their impact on the business • Discussed the development of battery storage and the implications of widespread use of electric vehicles • Cyber security risk • IT strategy paper considered by the Board in May and technology strategy discussion at October Board strategy away days • Risk appetite – increased discussion on risk and the • Cyber security reviewed annually and considered at Board Board’s appetite for risk meetings following the development of new cyber security plans • Approved the Group security policy • Focus on GDPR and associated improvements on privacy processes across business • Increased focus on assessing non-financial • The Board’s overall risk appetite was considered at the January qualitative and quantitative measures when Board meeting and is considered on individual projects as they assessing company performance are brought to the Board • Approved new risk management policy • How can executives use non-executive • Non-financial measures considered further in terms of the directors more corporate scorecard • Implementation of the new employee performance • This is moving forward with good examples of wider and appraisal process to drive forward talent Non‑executive director engagement such as the senior development management/leadership event • The Board reviewed capability development during its two-day strategy meeting and the Remuneration Committee reviewed the new career development framework and approach to performance management in November POINTS FROM 2018 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2019 • Diversity – recent appointments have helped to • There will be continued focus on diversity in its widest sense improve gender diversity but more needs to be done in considering new appointments to the Board and at senior in terms of social and ethnic diversity management level. Build on recent initiatives to improve diversity in the senior leadership pipeline. • People leadership and succession planning – this • The Board will closely monitor the implementation of initiatives was improving as a result of recent initiatives but to improve people leadership, talent development and there is still work to be done succession planning • Strategy – a well planned and developed • Enhance strategy review by wider thinking on skills required strategy review for the future • Cyber security risk remains a key focus • The Board to continue with its high level of focus on cyber security risk with periodic independent reviews of cyber security • Safety – improved reporting on process safety • The Board to continue its increased focus on safety and to which needs to continue and develop monitor the development of a new approach to safety reporting for process safety • Stakeholders – wider stakeholder engagement • The Board will focus on the issue of stakeholders especially an area to work on in light of the acquisition of the ScottishPower assets • All major projects to be reviewed for impact on all stakeholders 66 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY The Board recognises that effective succession planning is key to the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. It is also integral to maintaining an effective Board. Selecting and supporting the right individuals is an essential role of the Committee. In November, the Group People Director provided an update to the Committee on the talent succession and development programme with a strong focus on the leadership pipeline. By the end of 2020, the aim is to have 40% of senior leadership roles held by women. The Board embraces diversity in its broadest sense, believing that Skills and knowledge a wide range of experience, background, perspective, skills and knowledge is the foundation of a high performing and effective of the board team. As part of our commitment to this, the Board’s Diversity Policy was reviewed and updated by the Committee. The review Each bar shows the number of members on the Board with included aspects of new and emerging best practice and strong or very strong skills or experience in this area regulatory developments in the area of senior management and Board diversity. The policy now covers race, gender, educational and professional background. Finance/Capital Markets/Banking 89% As well as bringing important skills and experience from their respective backgrounds, the addition of Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms to the Board has improved the Board’s gender Operational experience 78% diversity. This will continue to be a key consideration during 2019 when we seek to recruit a new non-executive director to the board. Governance/Regulatory/ 44% SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE OF THE BOARD Sustainability A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the Board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience appropriate to the long-term operation of the business and Sitting Executive 44% delivery of the strategy. As in past years, the Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and as part of this review the Committee considered whether the: Energy sector experience 78% • Board contains the right mix of skills, experience and diversity; • Board has an appropriate balance of executive directors and non-executive directors; and Digital/ • non-executive directors are able to commit sufficient 33% time to the Company in order to discharge their Technology responsibilities effectively. Following the review, the Committee was satisfied that the Board Board of Directors page 52 continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and experience, both for now and for the future, to operate effectively. All the directors have many years of experience, gained from a broad range of businesses and they collectively bring a range of expertise and knowledge of different business sectors to Board deliberations, which encourages constructive, challenging and innovative discussions. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 67 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued BOARD INDUCTION All directors Executive Non-executive Operational review Visits to key sites Meetings with shareholders (as appropriate) Financial review Build relationship with Chair and Executive Committee Board members Meetings with external advisers Strategic overview and the Senior Leadership Team (as appropriate) Directors’ duties and responsibilities Meetings with shareholders Additional specific training with internal Governance structure specialists as appropriate to the individual non-executive director’s Review of previous minutes and meeting papers experience and training requirements Other key documents including strategy and business plan Meetings with other Board members INDUCTION OF NEW DIRECTORS The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive All new directors receive a comprehensive, tailored, induction. directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection During the year, Nicola Hodson and Vanessa Simms were by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the appointed as non-executive directors. It was anticipated that Company’s registered office. They will also be available for Nicola would be appointed as Remuneration Committee Chair inspection at the venue of the AGM, prior to that meeting, and that Vanessa would be appointed as Audit Committee details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting. Chair and as such their induction programmes were tailored accordingly. More details can be found in the table above. During the year, I held 8 meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, and, RENEWAL AND RE-ELECTION separately, the Senior Independent Director held a meeting If the Board appoints a director, that director must retire at the with the non-executive directors without me being present, first AGM following their appointment. That director may, if they as required by provision A.4.2 of the Code. so wish, put themselves forward for election. Vanessa Simms and Andy Skelton were appointed by the Board subsequent to This report was reviewed and approved by the the 2018 AGM and therefore they will retire and offer themselves Nomination Committee. for election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM. Philip Cox CBE The Articles provide that one-third of directors shall retire by Chair of the Nomination Committee rotation each year and are eligible for re-election by shareholders 25 February 2019 at the AGM. In accordance with the Code, the Company will continue its practice to propose all directors for annual reelection. Accordingly, each of Tim Cobbold, Philip Cox, Will Gardiner, Nicola Hodson Andy Koss, David Nussbaum and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves up for re-election. David Lindsell will be standing down on the conclusion of the AGM. Following the evaluation and review of the Board described above, I concluded that the directors offering themselves for election and re-election continue to demonstrate commitment, management and business expertise in their particular role and continue to perform effectively. The election and re-election respectively of each director is recommended by the Board. Further information of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table on page 97. 68 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee’s role is unchanged. It assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities by undertaking the following: The Committee • monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and other focused on internal information provided to shareholders; controls, risk • reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements; management and the • advising the Board on whether the Committee believes the acquisition of the new annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and generation assets.” understandable; • maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Group’s David Lindsell external auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity Chair of the external audit process; • reviewing the systems of internal control and risk management; COMMITTEE MEMBERS • monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit Tim Cobbold David Nussbaum function; and Tony Thorne Nicola Hodson • making recommendations to the Board (to put to shareholders Vanessa Simms for approval) regarding that appointment of the external auditor. (appointed 20 June 2018) AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 The Board is satisfied that the Committee’s membership The Audit Committee follows a programme of work designed to has the recent and relevant financial experience required ensure that the Group has sound risk management processes, by the Code. a robust system of internal control and delivers fair and balanced performance reporting. ATTENDING BY INVITATION Chair of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager, accordance with an annual work plan, which is agreed in Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, External auditor, November for the following calendar year. A rolling 12-month plan Deloitte LLP. is also reviewed at each meeting, to enable the consideration of any emerging issues to be scheduled. NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN 2017 The main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each Five (four scheduled meetings and one additional meeting to review the acquisition of assets from ScottishPower) of its routinely scheduled meetings during 2018 are set out on page 70. In addition, the Committee met in November 2018 to review the contents of the shareholder circular in relation to The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the the acquisition of power generation assets from ScottishPower Committee. and recommend that the Board approve the circular. ATTENDANCE IN 2018 Maximum No. of % of Committee Date appointed possible meetings meetings member a member meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 5 5 100 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 5 5 100 David Lindsell 1 December 2008 5 5 100 Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 5 4 80 Vanessa Simms 20 June 2018 3 3 100 Nicola Hodson was unable to attend one meeting as a result of pre-existing commitments, however received papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting. The Chair of the Committee reports the Committee’s deliberations to the following Board meeting. The minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to all members of the Board. TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to by the Committee and then by the Board. The terms of the services of the Chief Financial Officer and the Group reference are available on the Group’s website at Company Secretary and their resources, as well as access www.drax.com/governance. to external professional advice. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Meeting February April July November Item under • Year-end review of • Management update on • Accounting issues and • Accounting issues and review accounting issues and accounting issues and judgements affecting the judgements, new accounting judgements (2017) judgements 2018 interim financial standards and key regulatory • Final report from Deloitte • Operation of the statements focus areas affecting the LLP (Deloitte) on their whistleblowing policy and • Consideration of the 2018 financial statements, audit findings update to policy half-yearly financial including changes in the • Consideration of the 2017 • The operation and report and results presentation of gains and annual report, financial effectiveness of the Ethics announcement losses on derivative statements and and Business Conduct • Report from Deloitte contracts in the income preliminary results Committee on their interim statement consequent upon announcement • Update on the internal review findings the implementation of IFRS 9 • Update on effectiveness control environment • Update on the internal • Approval of the external of risk management and • Key risks and controls in the control environment auditor’s terms internal control systems B2B Energy Supply business • Progress of internal audit of engagement and of fraud prevention • The external auditor’s plan, recent reports and • Deloitte planning report on and detection procedures management letter for the outstanding actions the 2018 audit and proposed • Progress of internal audit 2017 audit • Independent assurance audit fees plan, outstanding actions • Engagement letter for the report on the • The composition and and recent reports auditor’s review of the sustainability of all qualifications of the Group’s • 2018 internal audit interim financial statements biomass burned in finance teams strategy and risk mapping • Principal IT risks and 2017/2018 • The key risks and controls in • The effectiveness of the controls, focusing on • The Audit Committee’s Power Generation and Pellet external audit process required improvements in terms of reference Production and of internal audit the operation of day-to-day • Review of the effectiveness • The Audit Committee’s cyber security technology of the Group’s internal effectiveness processes and controls controls and risk • Progress of the internal management systems and of audit plan, outstanding its procedures for detecting actions and recent reports fraud and preventing bribery • Senior Accounting Officer • Drax Group tax strategy reporting to HMRC document for publication • Progress of internal audit plan, outstanding actions and recent reports • The internal audit plan for 2018/19 The Committee receives annual updates on financial risks and REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SYSTEM controls from each of the Group’s primary business units. The OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Pellet Production, Power Generation and B2B Energy Supply The Committee received updates on the Group’s internal control businesses each attended a Committee meeting to discuss the environment and feedback on internal audit reports at each risk management and internal control systems in their businesses. meeting. Risk mitigations and progress with previously agreed actions were monitored and progress discussed. During the year the Committee met the external auditor twice, and the Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit once in the During 2018 two areas of control weakness were identified: absence of management. No matters of concern were drawn cyber security operational controls and payroll at Opus Energy. to the Committee’s attention at any of these meetings. The Committee’s understanding with both the external and Whilst no serious cyber security breaches have occurred and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become Drax has continued to invest in a range of cyber security aware of any matters giving them significant concern, they solutions, an internal audit review of cyber security controls will immediately draw it to the Committee’s attention via the in Power Generation and Drax Corporate identified some Chair of the Committee. weaknesses in the definition and consistency of operation of operational controls. A comprehensive programme designed to address these weaknesses, including the establishment of a technology governance function, was immediately initiated. The majority of the required improvements had been made by 31 December 2018 and the remaining actions will be completed in 2019. 70 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information No serious issues have arisen with the operation of the Opus REVIEWING THE 2018 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Energy payroll, but weaknesses in processes and controls were Between the year-end date and the date of the approval of the identified. These had resulted in a small number of errors in annual report and accounts, the Committee met in February 2019 payments to staff. Management responded by preparing a plan principally to review the draft 2018 Annual report and accounts to improve the internal processes which support the payroll, and the external auditor’s findings. The Committee reviewed including deploying new staff, and also proposed bringing the papers prepared by management on accounting issues and entire payroll in-house. This will be implemented during 2019. judgements affecting the accounts and a report from Deloitte setting out their audit findings. The Committee also reviews the outcome of whistleblowing reports and conducts an annual review on behalf of the Board. The Committee also reviewed the underlying process, internal The Board has access to these reviews and also receives updates controls, forecasts and relevant assumptions made in preparing when issues arise. No issues arose during the year which required the Viability Statement, disclosed on page 42. Having challenged further investigation by the Committee or the Board. the assumptions made in this process and considered the appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment, the At the November meeting the Committee considered in detail Committee concluded that the process supporting the Viability the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and risk Statement was robust and that the Statement was fair. management systems and also its procedures for detection of fraud, based principally on its reviews during the year of key risks Explanations of the critical accounting judgements, estimates and internal controls in the Group’s three businesses and its and assumptions are set out in detail throughout the notes to the corporate functions, the quarterly updates by management on consolidated financial statements, with a summary on pages 114 the control environment, internal audit findings and discussions to 116. The Committee reviewed these aspects of the financial with the external auditor. statements, paying particular attention to those issues that involve the most subjective and complex judgements, namely the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts, the new presentation of certain re-measurements and exceptional items in the consolidated income statement, the measurement of unbilled and deferred revenue in the B2B Energy Supply business. and the accounting for the acquisition of the portfolio of assets from ScottishPower. Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Valuation of The Group makes extensive use of derivative financial The Committee reviewed the Group’s derivative position derivative instruments in order to manage key risks facing the in February, July and November 2018, having regard in financial business and its balance sheet includes significant particular to the critical judgemental areas described instruments assets and liabilities arising from derivatives which in note 7.2 to the consolidated financial statements. The are stated at their fair value. Committee considered the position as at 31 December 2018 at its meeting in February 2019, when it also The fair values for derivative financial instruments are reviewed the change in presentation of the consolidated determined using forward price curves and, where income statement triggered by the implementation an instrument incorporates an element of optionality, of the new accounting standard IFRS 9, as discussed an option pricing model. in ‘Presentation of certain re-measurements and The inputs to these calculations include assumptions exceptional items’ below. regarding future transactions and market movements, At each meeting, management explained the trends as well as credit risk, and are therefore subjective. in market prices that underpinned changes in the The fair value of open derivative contracts, which is fair value of the derivative portfolio and highlighted in essence the difference between the contract price any new types of derivative instrument for the and the price that could be achieved in the market at Committee’s consideration. 31 December 2018, was £511 million in the case of The Committee concluded that the fair value contracts for which the market value was greater calculations had been performed in a reasonable and than the contract price, and £151 million in the case consistent manner based on quoted market prices as of contracts for which the market value was less than explained in note 7.2 to the consolidated financial the contract price. statements and that the system of controls in place was fit for purpose. Accordingly, it was concluded that the amounts included in the financial statements were appropriate. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Presentation of In order to present more clearly what the Group For each of the material exceptional items, the certain considers to be its underlying business performance, Committee considered management’s justification remeasurements the Group has this year introduced a columnar for classifying the item as exceptional and concluded and exceptional presentation of its income statement. As well as that separate disclosure of these items in the income items a column that presents all items of income and statement was appropriate. expense in accordance with International Financial The Committee discussed with management the Reporting Standards (IFRS), Adjusted results that controls applied to ensure that all maturing derivative exclude exceptional items and reflect certain contracts that qualify for re-measurement are identified re-measurements of derivative financial instruments and that the cumulative gains and losses on such are reported separately in a different column, with contracts are correctly calculated, and discussed with a middle column bridging the other two columns. the external auditors the work they had carried out to This is consistent with the practice followed by satisfy themselves that the total net IFRS accounting other major UK power generation companies. loss reported on such contracts was fairly stated. The decisions on classification of exceptional items involve judgement as to whether an item is truly exceptional by virtue of its nature, size and/or incidence. The Group’s policy is to fix exposures to commodity price movements and changes in foreign exchange rates using derivative contracts (see notes 7.1 and 7.2 to the consolidated financial statements). Where such contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, unrealised gains and losses on the contracts are credited or charged to income under IFRS. It is the Group’s view that such unrealised gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of the business because they are economically related to contracted future purchases and sales of commodities. Accordingly, such gains and losses are excluded from Adjusted results until the related contract is recognised as a physical sale or purchase, at which point Adjusted results reflect the commodity sale or purchase (and any associated foreign exchange contract) at the contracted price(s). Unbilled B2B The Group’s revenue for energy supply includes an The Committee reviewed with management the process Energy Supply estimate of energy supplied between the date of for and the key assumptions applied in determining revenue the last meter reading and 31 December 2018. The the calculation of unbilled receivables, noting that method of estimating such revenues is complex and historically, final settlements had been closely in line judgemental. They are estimated through the billing with the amounts accrued in the consolidated financial systems on a customer-by-customer basis, using statements. historical consumption patterns and taking account The Committee also noted the work done in this of current factors such as weather patterns. Further area by the external auditors and in particular their information regarding unbilled revenue is given observation that more than 90% of the unbilled debt in note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements. as at 31 December 2018 had been billed by the end The method of estimating unbilled revenue is of January 2019. The Committee concluded that inherently complex and involves judgement. The value the process and assumptions applied were appropriate of unbilled revenue in the B2B Energy Supply business and reasonable. was £147 million at 31 December 2018. 72 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Accounting for On 31 December 2018 the Group acquired The Committee reviewed management’s report on the the acquisition ScottishPower Generation Limited (since re-named fair value exercise, noting that the exercise had been of the portfolio Drax Generation Enterprise Limited) for an initial net carried out for the Group by a major accounting firm, of assets from consideration of £687 million. Business combination focusing on the key judgements and estimates including ScottishPower accounting requires a fair value exercise to be the basis for the purchased goodwill arising, and undertaken to allocate the purchase price to the obtaining explanations from management for any identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, significant variances from the asset valuations prepared with any excess of the consideration over the net of for and used by the Board in arriving at the amount of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities the purchase consideration to be offered to the vendor. assumed being recognised as purchased goodwill. The Committee concluded that the assets acquired and Particularly in the case of a capital intensive business liabilities assumed were fairy stated in the consolidated such as power generation, fair value assessments balance sheet on the basis of the fair value exercise and require subjective judgements based on a wide range approved the disclosures in note 5.1 to the consolidated of complex variables. financial statements, while noting that the initial accounting for the acquisition was incomplete and the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the business combination thus had been determined only provisionally. FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS As a result of its review of the Annual report and accounts, The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external underpinned by its discussions with operating and finance auditor, Deloitte, who have performed the role continuously management regarding the Strategic report, and with the Group since the Company’s listing in 2005 and were reappointed in 2017 finance team regarding the financial statements, the Audit following a tender process. The Committee’s assessment was Committee advised the Board that, in the Committee’s view, the based on inputs obtained in the course of monitoring the integrity Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced of the financial statements and the significant financial reporting and understandable and provides the information necessary for issues and judgements underlying the financial statements, and shareholders to assess the company’s position and performance, on its direct interactions with the external auditors. business model and strategy. The Committee’s principal interactions with the auditors were REVIEW OF AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS BY MEMBERS its discussions of the audit work performed on areas of higher In line with the FRC’s Guidance on Audit Committees, the audit risk and the basis for the auditors’ conclusions on those Committee reviewed its own effectiveness. This review was areas. These interactions were supplemented by others that completed using the Board performance evaluation enabled them, for example, to gauge the depth of the auditors’ questionnaire referred to on page 65. understanding of the company’s business. The Committee’s review focused on the level of experience and expertise of the The questionnaire included questions on the effectiveness of audit team, their objectivity and professional scepticism, and the Audit Committee in monitoring the integrity of the Group’s their preparedness to challenge management in a knowledgeable, financial statements, the Group’s internal controls and risk informed and constructive manner. The Committee’s review management systems, its arrangements and processes to ensure also took account of feedback from management on the compliance with its ethical standards, and the effectiveness of effectiveness of the audit process. the internal audit activities and the external audit process. The questionnaire also asked whether the Committee has sufficient INDEPENDENCE OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT expertise, time and access to key staff and information to enable The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy, the provisions it to discharge its monitoring and oversight role effectively. of which include: • seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional The questionnaire results were discussed by the Committee at the judgement, independent of the Group, and obtaining from it February 2018 meeting, which concluded that the composition of an account of all relationships which may affect the firm’s its membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and staff; that it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the • a requirement to rotate the lead audit partner every five years; continued effective functioning of the Committee. Members • a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct were satisfied that the Committee remained effective. non-audit work, under which: –– the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of work, including those where they may be required to audit their own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy role for the Group; Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued –– there is a clear approval process for engaging the auditor INTERNAL AUDIT to conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to The Group operates a co-sourced model for its internal audit financial limits. Permitted non-audit services for which the function. Under this model, the internal team conducts core fee exceeds £50,000 are required to be approved in advance financial controls reviews. Reviews of specialist technical areas by the Audit Committee; are outsourced to firms with appropriate experience and –– all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work qualifications. are reported to the next meeting of the Committee; and –– the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit plan for for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee. the year. Its review is designed to ensure that priority is given to the areas of highest risk for the Group and that the audit work The Policy can be found on the Company’s website at focuses on key controls, so as to optimise the level of assurance www.drax.com. provided to the Committee and to management The Committee also receives reports from the external The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding auditor on its own processes and procedures, to ensure its the internal audit programme and reviews undertaken. independence and objectivity and to ensure compliance with Recommendations are made to management for control the relevant standards. improvements as appropriate. Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee during 2018 included: The current lead audit partner, James Leigh, has completed the maximum permitted term of five years. The Committee has • Property, plant and equipment recognition, existence and controls agreed that he will be replaced by Anthony Matthews, who has • Revenue recognition previously acted as the audit partner for the Group’s B2B Energy • Business plan modelling, governance and monitoring Supply Business. • ROC and CfD claims • Corporate crime risk management and compliance framework Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the • Cyber security year for audit and other services are set out in note 2.3 to the • GDPR readiness consolidated financial statements on page 128. Deloitte were • Derivatives valuation and accounting treatment appointed as reporting accountant for the circular to • Off-site biomass stocks controls shareholders in relation to the acquisition of generation assets • Commodity hedging in B2B Energy Supply from ScottishPower, which required them to report on historical • Market regulation compliance financial information relating to Drax and the generation assets • Opus payroll concerned. They also performed financial due diligence for the • IT project management directors and for JP Morgan Cazenove as sponsor in relation to • Health and Safety the transaction. The services concerned are in the nature of • Pellet Production financial controls and procurement assurance services and not advisory services but are required by the EU Audit Regulation to be classified as “non-audit services”. In addition, at each of its scheduled meetings the Committee However, audit firms are permitted to carry out such investment received reports detailing progress with implementing circular reporting engagements for audit clients and this is recommendations previously raised by internal audit and is common practice in the UK as the auditor is able to bring to satisfied that management has taken appropriate steps to bear their knowledge of the business and its financial reporting implement the recommendations raised. processes, which enables them to perform the work required in a more efficient, and possibly more effective, manner than a firm The Chair of the Committee, independent of management, that does not have such knowledge. Nevertheless, in order to maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and minimise any threat to the integrity, objectivity and independence external auditor, allowing open dialogue and feedback. of the audit team, the financial due diligence work was carried out by a separate team from Deloitte. The Committee has considered the effectiveness of internal audit, based on the quality of its plan and the information No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group’s choice provided in it its reporting, and is satisfied that the co-sourcing of external auditor. model described above remains appropriate for the Group and that on this basis the quality, experience and expertise of the AUDITOR REAPPOINTMENT function is appropriate for the business. Having considered the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor as described above, the Audit Committee This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. agreed to recommend to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the company’s external auditor should be put David Lindsell to shareholders at the AGM in April 2019. Chair of the Audit Committee 25 February 2019 The Group has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014. 74 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to: • keep under review the Remuneration Policy as last approved by shareholders in April 2018; Management had a • recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and successful year, both framework for the executive directors and members of the Executive Committee; in terms of business • determine, within that framework, the individual remuneration results and advancing packages for the executive directors and members of the the Group’s strategy.” Executive Committee; • approve the design of annual and long-term incentive Tony Thorne arrangements for executive directors and members of the Chair Executive Committee, including agreeing the annual targets and payments under such arrangements; • determine and agree the general terms and conditions of COMMITTEE MEMBERS service and the specific terms for any individual within the Tim Cobbold Committee’s remit, either on recruitment or on termination; Philip Cox • determine the policy for, and scope of, executive pension David Lindsell arrangements; and David Nussbaum • oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures Nicola Hodson (appointed 12 January 2018) throughout the Group and review remuneration trends across Vanessa Simms (appointed 19 June 2018) the Group. ATTENDING BY INVITATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Group Chief Executive Officer Considered and approved the: Group People Director • annual report of the Committee on remuneration for 2017; External remuneration advisers • remuneration of executive directors and members of the Executive Committee; NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN 2018: 5 • amendments to the termination provisions applying to Dorothy Thompson, reducing payments made during 2018; The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee. • remuneration terms for the incoming CFO. This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in Reviewed: accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized • the salary increases and aggregate bonuses paid in the three Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations businesses and corporate functions; 2008, as amended (the Regulations) and the provisions of • the design and progress in implementation of the new the Code. Group‑wide employee remuneration policies being implemented by management with due regard for coherence with the ATTENDANCE IN 2018 remuneration of the executive directors; Maximum No. of % of • the salaries and bonuses for senior staff (below the Executive Committee Date appointed possible meetings meetings Committee); member a member meetings attended attended • the commencement of the comparison of the Group’s Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 5 5 100 Remuneration policy with the new Corporate Governance Code. Philip Cox 22 April 2015 5 5 100 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 5 3 60 David Lindsell 1 December 2008 5 5 100 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 5 5 100 Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 3 3 100 Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100 Nicola Hodson was unable to attend two meetings as a result of pre-existing commitments. However she received the meeting papers and fed back comments in advance of the meeting. TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed regularly by the Committee and then by the Board. The terms of reference are available on the Group’s website at www.drax.com/governance. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 75 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued ANNUAL STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Safety was generally good throughout the Group, with an improvement in the Total Recordable Injury Rate to 0.22 Dear shareholders (2017: 0.27). This report reviews the key matters considered by the It was note-worthy the degree to which the executive directors Remuneration Committee in the past year and the matters involved themselves in the process improvements and we expect to consider in the future. With two clarifications determination of additional investment to reduce the chances to address shareholders’ concerns, highlighted below, the of a repeat of the explosion experienced on the biomass rail Committee has operated in line with the revised 2017-2019 unloading facilities at the end of 2017. Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders, at the April 2018 AGM. The Group continues to be committed to paying a competitive and fair salary and benefits package that is consistent with our I leave the Board in June 2019, having served nine years as employees’ roles and the external market. To provide the basis for a non-executive director, six as Chair of the Remuneration a common approach to valuing roles and thus setting salary and Committee. I am delighted to say that Nicola Hodson will replace benefits across the Group, management carried out a Group-wide me as Chair. During 2019 Nicola will lead a full review of the job evaluation and external benchmarking exercise in 2017. Remuneration Policy, with the results of this review incorporated In addition, employee feedback has been sought on employee into a new policy which will be compliant with the new Corporate benefits provisions and, relevant changes to this provision will Governance Code, for consideration by shareholders at the be implemented during 2019. The Gender Pay Gap report 2020 AGM. demonstrated, consistent with the industry, that there are significantly fewer women at senior level. It is recognised that this REVIEW OF 2018 needs to change and our aim is to have 40% of the senior roles Management had a successful year, both in terms of business filled by women by the end of 2020 (27% as at 31 December 2018). results and advancing the Group’s strategy. This success has been reflected in the Group’s share price which was up by over 30% ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE IN 2018 over the year. Our strategic objectives are reflected in our Group The Committee determines the remuneration of the executive Scorecard which drives performance across all our employees directors and members of the Executive Committee against and are taken into account in determining both the short-term the strategic objectives and priorities of the Group. Principally and long-term remuneration outcomes for the executive this is done through an assessment of performance against the directors. In terms of performance against our key objectives targets set in the Group Scorecard, with the Remuneration I am pleased to note the following highlights: Committee using its discretion to adjust the result where the numeric outcome does not reflect properly Group or individual Adjusted EBITDA at £250 million increased by 9% compared performance. Executive pay is therefore closely aligned to the prior year, with the Group benefiting from good availability to business performance with a high proportion of total in the Power Generation business, better electricity prices and remuneration delivered through variable pay, rewarding a substantial uplift in output in Pellet Production. In B2B Energy achievement of short-term and long-term targets. In 2018 Supply margin grew, and market share increased by 1%, but the changes to the Remuneration Policy were approved by business faced a challenging market for customers and higher shareholders at the 2018 AGM, which included removing the than expected bad debt provisioning. A significant step in the personal element in the determination of executive director acceleration of our strategy was the December 2018 acquisition bonuses. This fully aligns the approach to bonus across all levels of ScottishPower’s generation assets, but there were also of the Group with the executive directors and members of the important strategic moves in the conversion of Unit 4 to biomass Executive Committee earning bonus only where this is merited and bringing the LaSalle pellet plant on stream, ahead of schedule. by the Group’s performance against pre-determined metrics set by the Committee. Management continued to extend our capabilities in the utilisation of biomass fuel and the sustainability of alternative There is a detailed review of performance against the low carbon energy sources. Drax’s own programme has been Scorecard on pages 92 and 93. Components within the Scorecard reinforced by the sustainability criteria set out in the 2018 can be scored between 0 and 2, a score of 1 representing European Union Directive on biomass. A third-party audit on-target performance. Mindful of the overall objectives of the designed to test the efficacy of Drax’s reporting of biomass Group and taking account where considered appropriate of sustainability data enabled us to demonstrate the veracity of our the representations of the executive directors, the Committee own analysis of biomass sustainability as a genuine alternative to sets stretching targets at the beginning of the year. During traditional energy sources. This is important, as the data is crucial the year there are two formal reviews giving the Committee for the payments to be made under the ROC and CfD regimes. the opportunity to discuss with and, challenge management on the progress made and likely Scorecard outcomes. 76 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Committee determines the final Scorecard result in February BASE PAY INCREASES of the following year and reports to Shareholders on the outcome Will Gardiner was promoted from CFO to CEO effective in the annual report for the year in which the bonus is paid. In 1 January 2018, with an appropriate uplift in pay from £400,000 2018 there were no changes to the targets within the year. For to £530,000. No separate uplift was applied to reflect the salary the financial year 2018, the Committee determined the overall increases applied to other executive directors or the wider performance at 1.05 which was marginally above target workforce. Prior to her departure, Will’s predecessor was paid a performance. The Committee assessed that this fairly reflected salary of £588,318. There was an interim CFO in place for 2018 the Group’s performance and that there was no need to apply (not appointed as a statutory director). discretion to the outcome of the Scorecard. Drax Power CEO Andy Koss’s salary was reviewed and he received The above score results in annual bonuses of 53% of the an increase of 3.8%, effective from 1 April 2018, this increase maximum being paid to executive directors. The Committee being aligned with the wider workforce. believes that this bonus outcome fairly reflects the performance of each of the executive directors. Further detail on this outcome For the 2019 pay review, where an increase has been applied for is set out on page 94. executive directors, increases will be in line with those applied to the wider Group workforce and will take effect in April 2019. The above score is applied to both the annual bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). Details of the outcomes are SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT set out on page 94. During 2018 we engaged with each of the largest 12 shareholders plus four proxy agencies, with an explanation of the proposed LONG-TERM ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE revisions to the 2017-19 policy. There were follow ups with a Under the current remuneration policy the Long-Term Incentive number of these and good discussions around not only the Plan (LTIP) is delivered through a Performance Share Plan (PSP) proposed changes but also their feedback on specific aspects in respect of which the first grants were made in 2017. However, of the policy. These discussions will be used in shaping the for vestings which will take effect in 2018, the relevant award 2020-2022 policy, which will go out for consultation with the to test is the share award granted in 2016, made under the major shareholders, prior to it being finalised. Additionally, there 2014-2016 Remuneration Policy which operated a Bonus were a number of discussions with the proxy agencies on the 2017 Matching Plan (BMP). remuneration report, specifically in regard to the termination arrangements for the previous CEO. Again, these discussions Share awards made in 2016 under the BMP were tested at the provided valuable feedback. end of 2018 through two measures: Total Shareholder Return (TSR) accounted for up to 50%, and the three-year average of Including abstentions, the level of shareholder support at the the Group Scorecard, which also accounted for up to 50%. 2018 AGM was 93% for the revised policy and 92% for the remuneration report. This was a significant and pleasing The Company’s TSR over the period was between the median and improvement on the previous policy at the 2017 AGM where upper quartile of the comparator group, leading to 89.5% vesting the level of support was 77.03%. of the 50% related to relative TSR. The average Corporate Scorecard outcome over the same period was 1.06 leading to APPLICATION OF POLICY 25.76% of vesting. By combining the above vesting percentages, During the year we applied the revised 2017-19 executive it creates an overall vesting of 57.63% of the 2016 share awards. remuneration policy that was approved by shareholders in 2018 at the AGM, subject to two amendments: The Committee determined that the vesting outcome was consistent with the Group’s and executive directors’ performance Firstly, we amended the pensions provision for executive directors and did not exercise discretion in determining the final outcome to allow the employer’s contribution to be ‘up to 20%’ as opposed for the 2016 share awards. to the existing straight 20%. Consistent with this revision, the Committee determined that the contribution to the pension for CEO TOTAL REMUNERATION Andy Skelton at the time of his appointment as CFO would be 16%, At £1.9 million Will Gardiner’s 2018 total remuneration is above which is the same level paid to members of the Executive that of his predecessor’s 2017 total remuneration of £1.2 million. Committee and other senior staff. Will’s base pay and bonus earned are both lower than his predecessor’s while the earnings under the BMP matching award, Secondly, in respect of the termination of an executive director, made in 2016 following Will’s recruitment, are higher, primarily for whatever reason, we have removed any obligation on the reflecting better relative (and absolute) share price performance. Committee to consider the departing executive for an annual Based on the financial performance of the Group in the year, Will’s bonus for any unworked period of notice. The removal of this contribution to the performance of the Group over the period obligation was achieved through each executive director since he joined and the TSR and Scorecard performance, the agreeing to vary long standing contractual terms. As previously Committee has determined that the vesting of the award is agreed with shareholders there is now no such obligation in the appropriate. Further details on the vested shares is shown on executive directors’ contracts of employment so the Committee page 94. saw it appropriate to clarify the policy and wishes to thank the executive directors for their agreement. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 77 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Feedback from shareholders, emerging best practice and APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Committee judgement is reflected in the outcomes to the Andy Skelton was appointed Group CFO effective 2 January 2019, following areas addressed in the year: with a salary of £355,000, an annual on-target bonus potential of 70% of salary (maximum 140%) and a potential award of shares (i) treatment of the outgoing Group CEO, Dorothy Thompson, under the Performance Share Plan of 175% of salary. Consistent taking into account the agreed termination arrangements, with the Group-wide pay review process and, as a result of his the remuneration policy, and her service agreement; start date, Andy’s salary will not be reviewed again until April (ii) remuneration package for the incoming Group CFO, balancing 2020. Andy will receive cash in lieu of pension, at 16% of salary. the need to remunerate a high-quality individual competitively This is below the level of 20% for the other executive directors with the objective to stop the ratcheting up of remuneration; but in line with members of the Executive Committee and other and senior staff. The lower pension contribution as compared to the (iii) pay outcomes for the year in the context of performance other executive directors, reflects general shareholder concerns achieved. over executive pension contributions and the Committee’s aim to lower fixed remuneration, where appropriate. No additional In addition to the above, the Committee reviewed the progress provisions or buy outs, beyond the package detailed above, have made across the Group in implementing the changes made to been put in place as part of Andy’s remuneration. The grant of performance management and the ongoing work with regards shares to Andy under the PSP is expected to be made in the to benefits alignment across the UK businesses. It also approved period following announcement of the results of the 2018 the new approach to remuneration governance to be put in place financial year. for 2019. COMPARISON WITH DRAX REMUNERATION POLICY AND UPDATE ON TERMINATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE NEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE (CODE) PREVIOUS CEO The existing Drax Remuneration Policy is considered to be broadly As noted in the 2017 Remuneration Report (page 84), we compliant with the new Code on Corporate Governance although announced in September 2017 that Dorothy Thompson had we expect, during 2019, to implement further changes to given notice of her intention to stand down as Group CEO and practices to enable us to comply with the Code. We will of course to leave the Drax Group. It was agreed that she would leave report on this within the annual report for 2019. The 2019 review on 31 December 2017 prior to the completion of her 12-month will also consider the Terms of Reference of the Committee. notice period. Highlighted below are certain matters which are under review. Details of related remuneration were included in the 2017 report Remuneration Committee Remit and Employee Voice: The and, as part of this, it was noted that Dorothy was entitled to Committee sets the remuneration of the executive directors and salary, pension and other benefits for the unworked period of the next level, being the members of the Executive Committee. notice from January 2018 to September 2018. Phased payments Periodically or when there is a change of personnel at senior level, in respect of this unworked notice were made in March 2018, the Committee will externally benchmark the salaries against June 2018 and, the final payment was made in September 2018. an agreed comparator group of companies. Salary increases Considering Dorothy’s commencement of alternative for executive directors and Executive Committee members are employment during 2018, the final payment for unworked notice made only after the Committee has reviewed increases for the was reduced by the amount she earned in her new appointment wider workforce. which took effect during her notice period. Annually the Committee reviews the individual salaries, bonuses In addition, the termination arrangements for Dorothy meant and LTIP awards to other senior managers across the Group below she was eligible to be considered for a bonus for the unworked the Executive Committee, comprising approximately 20 persons. period of her notice, this being January to September 2018. It also reviews the trends in salaries and bonuses each year, This reflected the terms set in connection with Dorothy standing including the average salary increase and the range of increase down and mindful of the terms of her prevailing service for the workforce, within the three businesses units and the agreement. Following Dorothy being appointed to a significant corporate office. external role, the Committee determined that she had forfeited the right to be considered for a bonus. Therefore, no bonus for 2018 will be paid to Dorothy. These adjustments were made in line with the terms of her service agreement and verified by external advisers. 78 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In 2018 the Group People Director reported twice to the Pensions: There are a wide range of pension arrangements Committee to update on progress with regard to the impact on across the Group including both Defined Benefit and Defined the workforce of a number of ongoing Group-wide remuneration Contribution plans. initiatives. Detailed information was shared with the Committee which had the opportunity to raise questions and challenge the Executive directors’ remuneration has historically included a 20% approach. Topics covered included, but were not limited to, company contribution, either as a contribution to pension or cash employee benefits provision, remuneration governance, updates in lieu of same, with members of the Executive Committee and to the implementation of changes made to employee bonus senior managers (not in the Defined Benefit scheme) eligible for arrangements, gender pay gap reporting and, annual outcomes up to 16%. As mentioned on page 77, we have made changes for employee pay and bonus reviews. The Committee was also to this element of the Policy and the incoming Group CFO’s updated on the implementation of the previously agreed remuneration package includes a company contribution of 16% approach to performance management, which supported which reflects the broader intent to align with the updated Code. cultural change across the Group. Information provided to the Committee included the results of employee surveys. The pension arrangements for executive directors will form a part of the 2019 remuneration policy review. There are a number of existing channels designed to capture the views of the workforce on a wide range of issues including NEW REPORTING REQUIREMENTS remuneration. Feedback from these is included in the CEO pay ratios: We recognise the requirement for UK quoted presentations by the Group People Director. Nevertheless, as part companies, with more than 250 employees, to publish the pay of the 2019 review, the Committee will consider whether these ratio between their CEO and the average UK employee for 2019, existing channels are enough to make sure that employees’ views i.e. in 2020. Given that the review of UK employee benefits, which are sufficiently understood by the Committee to inform its will impact significantly on the reporting values, will only be decisions or whether there is a need to reinforce the existing finalised in 2019, the Committee decided to continue with the structures. The Committee believes that its approach to existing format (see page 81) for the 2018 reporting year. executive remuneration does align with the wider company pay Therefore, the first report from the Drax Group, under this policies but, in the 2019 review, it will need to consider how best requirement, will be made as part of the 2019 Annual Report. to explain this to the wider workforce. SUMMARY LTIP vesting period and post-termination shareholding Along with the other members of the Committee, I am satisfied requirement: The structure of the Group’s LTIP (the Performance that the 2018 remuneration outcomes for the executive directors Share Plan) with a three-year performance period and a further fairly reflect the corporate performance, provide a fair and two years post-vesting holding period meets the criteria specified consistent approach to remuneration across the Group, and by the Code. It also applies to leavers as seen in the termination remain in shareholders’ interests. The planned review, in 2019, arrangements for the previous CEO. of the current remuneration policy will allow the provisions of the revised Code to be incorporated whilst also taking into account The current share ownership guideline is 200% of salary in the feedback received from shareholders and other stakeholders. Drax shares to be accumulated over five years although we recognise that some of our shareholders would like to see a higher requirement. It is worth noting that Will Gardiner made a substantial purchase of shares in 2018 to further align his interests with those of shareholders. The 2019 review will also develop a policy around how the share ownership guideline will apply post termination and the processes required to implement this. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 79 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Remuneration at a glance Below is a top line summary of the remuneration earned by each of our executive directors during 2018. This shows the alignment between our remuneration framework, the Company’s performance and how the payments to directors in 2018 link to this. WILL GARDINER (GROUP CEO) £000s Total 2018 530 106 417 838 21 1,912 Total 2017 397 79 294 20 790 Will was Group CFO during 2017 and this is reflected in the remuneration summary noted above. Will commenced as Group CEO on 1 January 2018. ANDY KOSS (CHIEF EXECUTIVE, DRAX POWER) £000s Total 2018 327 65 242 147 25 806 Total 2017 316 63 234 19 632 Base salary LTIP Pension Other benefits and Sharesave Annual bonus • Bonus is the total value of the annual bonus payable in respect • The performance conditions for the BMP Matching Awards of performance in the relevant year, including the cash bonus awarded in March 2016 and due to vest in March 2019 were and the value of bonus deferred which is paid in shares after 50% Relative TSR and 50% Group Scorecard. three years subject only to continued service. BONUS EARNED FOR 2018 The resulting bonus outcomes as a percentage of base salary were: Bonus earned for Group CEO • Group CEO 79% of salary out X Target bonus Group score of a maximum of 150% salary 75% 1.05 Bonus earned for other executive directors • Executive directors 74% of salary X Target bonus Group score out of a maximum of 140% salary 70% 1.05 80 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BONUS EARNED FOR 2018 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements Of which paid Of which deferred Bonus in cash into shares 2018 bonus earned (65% of bonus) (35% of bonus) Executive director (as % base salary) £000 £000 £000 Will Gardiner, Group CEO 79% 417 271 146 Andy Koss, CEO, Generation 74% 242 158 84 ANNUAL BONUS INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2018 Score/ Area Weighting Outcome Financial 62.5% 0.68 • Overall “Group score” (maximum 2) 1.05 (Group/Business Units) • Bonus outcome as % of maximum 53% Operations 32.5% 0.33 • Range of bonus outcomes as % of salary 74%-79% Strategy 5% 0.04 (Development/Implementation) LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (LTIP) For BMP awards granted in March 2016, vesting was conditional upon two performance measures with up to 50% of shares vesting subject to TSR performance and up to 50% of shares vesting subject to Group Scorecard performance as below: Total shareholder return TSR (50%) Company Scorecard (50%) TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 51–150 Group Scorecard performance averaged over the three-year as follows: performance period as follows (capped at 1.5): • Below median = 0% vesting • Score <1 = 0% vesting • At median = 15% vesting (threshold) • Score 1 = 15% vesting (threshold score) • Upper quartile = 100% vesting • Score 1.5 = 100% vesting The outturn for the vesting of awards in 2019 is: BMP Weighting Score/Outcome Vesting outcome Overall vesting 2016 scorecard 16.6% 1.30 2017 scorecard 16.6% 0.84 2018 scorecard 16.6% 1.05 Average scorecard (maximum 1.5) 50% 1.06 25.76% 12.88% Relative TSR performance 50% Rank of 26 out of 90 89.50% 44.75% BMP outcome as a % of maximum 57.63% The Committee considered the circumstances surrounding the outturn for 2019 and following discussion chose not to exercise discretion. PAY RATIOS 2018 10.9 : 1 As noted on page 79, the first reporting of values under the new CEO pay ratio reporting requirements will be made in the remuneration report for 2019. The ratio included here shows the ratio of pensionable pay between the executive directors and 2017 the wider UK workforce. The equivalent ratio between the CEO and the wider UK workforce is 13.4:1. 12.8 : 1 In addition, following the initial submission of gender pay gap reports, in respect of 2017, the 2018 gender pay gap data will be submitted and published in line with the mandated deadline. As with the 2017 reports, the submissions will re-emphasise the Group’s commitment to significantly reducing the currently identified gender pay gaps. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 81 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy was effective from 25 April 2018. Normally it would be binding on the Group for three years but, as detailed in our 2017 Remuneration Report, the Committee intends to review the policy in 2019 and incorporate the results of this review in a new policy to be presented to shareholders at the 2020 AGM. It is intended to undertake consultation with shareholders in the summer of 2019. The 2017-19 Remuneration Policy was revised in 2017 and, voted BASE SALARY on last year when we received high levels of shareholder support. Base salary is set in order to attract, reward and retain the right The principal change from that of the previous policy was to calibre of executive to deliver the leadership and management remove the personal element in calculating the executive directors needed to execute the Group’s vision and Business Plan. annual bonus, thereby ensuring alignment with the changes being made across the wider workforce. The policy will be reviewed to PRACTICAL OPERATION ensure that it remains fit for purpose at Drax and is consistent Base salary reflects the role, the executive’s skills and experience, with the new Corporate Governance Code and investor sentiment and market level. It is paid in 12 monthly instalments. in 2019 with the results of this review incorporated into a new three-year remuneration policy to be presented to shareholders To determine the market level, the Committee reviews at the 2020 AGM. remuneration data on executive positions at companies which the Committee considers to be appropriate comparators. In the meantime and, as outlined in the Chair’s letter, the current executive directors no longer have a clause in their contracts The comparator companies are selected, with advice from the requiring the Committee to consider whether to pay a bonus Committee’s remuneration advisers, taking into account factors pertaining to any unworked notice for the financial year in which such as, but not limited to, sector, size, and international presence. their employment is terminated. Although this change has already taken effect, the revised policy to be put to shareholders at the On appointment, an executive director’s base salary is set at 2020 AGM will also incorporate this change. the market level, or below if the executive is not fully experienced at this level. The core principles of the current remuneration policy are set out below: Where base salary on appointment is below market level to reflect experience, it will be increased over time to align with • making sure that executive remuneration is linked strongly to the market level, subject to performance. performance and the achievement of strategic objectives; • ensuring transparency in executive pay reporting through Base salaries of all executive directors are generally reviewed simplification in design and appropriate reporting; once each year, with increases applying from April. Reviews • securing and retaining top talent and incentivising strong cover individual performance, experience, development in the performance; role and market comparisons. • maintaining flexibility, to recognise the uncertain business environment, whilst ensuring that remuneration outcomes are MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE aligned to shareholder interests; and The base salaries of executive directors in post at the start of • bonuses earned solely for the delivery of stretching corporate the policy period, and who remain in the same role throughout and divisional related financial, strategic and operational targets, the policy period, will not usually be increased by a higher as measured through the Group Scorecard. percentage than the average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other Group employees. The Committee retains the overall discretion to adjust the bonus if the Group Scorecard outcome is not reflective of corporate or Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development, individual performance in the year. are where: The following is an overview of our remuneration framework (i) An executive director has been appointed at below market under the policy. level to reflect experience. Under this scenario, increases will be capped at 5% above the average annual percentage KEY COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION increase in salaries of all other Group employees. The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to support the delivery of strong business performance and the (ii) An executive director has been promoted internally and creation of shareholder value. We set out below the key their salary is below market level. Under this scenario, components of the remuneration policy for executive directors, and increases will not be capped and the Committee can in the notes following the table we comment on differences increase base salary to the market level within an between the policy and the remuneration of employees generally. appropriate timeframe. PERFORMANCE MEASURES No performance measures apply. 82 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ANNUAL BONUS The award of annual bonus is linked directly to achieving the annual Business Plan targets. The aim of the deferred portion of annual bonus is to further align executives to shareholders’ interests, by linking share-based reward to long-term sustainable performance. Practical operation Maximum potential value 65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash, normally three Maximum months after the end of the financial year to which it relates. bonus potential Role (% of base salary) 35% of annual bonus earned is deferred in nil cost awards over Chief Executive 150% shares under the Deferred Share Plan (DSP), which vest after three years subject to continued employment or “good leaver” Other executive directors 140% termination provisions. The DSP was introduced in 2017, as a vehicle for deferring the There is no payment for below threshold performance. relevant proportion of annual bonus in shares. Performance measures Annual bonus earned (subject to the maximum opportunity) is: Group score is based on performance, against the Group Scorecard, of strategic and Business Plan targets set, each year, Target bonus x Group score. by the Committee, in conjunction with the Board. Performance Target bonus is 50% of maximum. measures include financial, operational and strategic objectives. Typically, across the Group and Business Units, around 40% of the Score ranges from zero to 2.0. Scorecard is based on financial objectives, 30–40% on strategic Each measure in the Group scorecard is assigned a weighting and goals with the balance on operational issues. The Committee three performance levels (low, target and stretch). The score is has the discretion to vary the weightings from year to year. zero if performance is below the low target, one if performance The Scorecard is amended each year, in line with business is at target and two for stretch performance. strategy and objectives. Dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee believes additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest. the original measures and/or targets are no longer appropriate, In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply clawback the Committee has discretion to amend performance measures to any annual bonus awards, as set out in the notes to the and targets during the year. policy table. Summary scorecard and performance results are published in the annual report on remuneration. The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and has the discretion to amend the final outcome to make sure that bonus payments reflect overall performance. The use of such discretion will be explained fully in the relevant annual report on remuneration. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 83 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued DRAX 2017 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (PSP) The PSP is the Company’s long-term incentive plan implemented following shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM. It replaces the legacy BMP and links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets. Practical operation Maximum potential value The PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM. The maximum annual grant is 175% of base salary. Under the PSP, executive directors receive an annual grant Performance measures of nil cost conditional awards over shares. There are two performance measures which apply to PSP awards, as follows: Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to continued service or “good leaver” termination provisions, and the (i) TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 350 achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period comparator group (50% of award), vesting as follows: determined by the Committee. Vested awards are subject to Below Median = 0% a further holding period of two years. At Median = 25% Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume notional Upper Quartile = 100% reinvestment) are paid on PSP awards. (ii) Average corporate scorecard (as described in the annual The Committee will include an override provision in each grant bonus) over three financial years (50% of award), vesting under the PSP. This will give the Committee discretion to as follows: determine that no vesting shall occur, or that vesting shall be Average Score 0.75 = 0% reduced, if there are circumstances (relating to the Company’s Average Score 1 = 50% overall performance or otherwise) which make vesting when Average Score 1.5 = 100% calculated by reference to the performance conditions alone inappropriate. While each annual corporate score can range from zero to 2.0, the three-year average corporate score is capped at 1.5. In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus or For illustration: clawback to unvested/vested awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table. Year 1 Score 1.8 Year 2 Score 0.9 The Committee reserves discretion to: Year 3 Score 1.2 (i) amend the performance conditions/targets attached to Average corporate score = 1.3 outstanding awards granted under this policy, in the event Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for of a major corporate event or significant change in economic both conditions. circumstances, or a change in accounting standards having a material impact on outcomes; and (ii) adjust the vesting of PSP awards and/or the number of shares underlying unvested PSP awards, on the occurrence of a corporate event or other reorganisation. In the event of a change of control, the treatment of long-term incentives will be determined in accordance with the relevant plan rules. 84 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information PENSION Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery of the leadership and management needed to execute the Group’s vision and Business Plan. Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Maximum is 20% of base salary. Group’s defined contribution pension plan. The employer’s contribution Performance measures for executive directors is a maximum of 20% of base salary. (Note – As No performance measures apply. explained on page 77, following consultation with shareholders in 2018, the percentage employer contribution was revised to allow for a maximum of 20% of salary to executive directors (previously the policy stated a set 20% of salary).) Alternatively, at their option, executive directors may either have contributions of the same amounts made to their personal pension schemes, cash in lieu of pension (subject to normal statutory deductions), or a combination of pension contributions and cash in lieu of pension. BENEFITS Benefits are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of directors’ total remuneration. Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive directors receive a car allowance, life assurance (four times Benefits are set at a level appropriate to the individual’s salary), the opportunity to participate in all-employee share plans on the role and circumstances. same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment and The maximum opportunity will depend on the type annual private medical cover. of benefit and cost of its provision, which will vary Additional benefits may be provided if the Committee considers them according to the market and individual circumstances. appropriate. Performance measures Relocation expenses and/or second base expenses are paid, where No performance measures apply. appropriate, in individual cases. Directors’ relocation expenses are determined on a case-by-case basis. The policy is designed to assist the executive director to relocate to a home of similar standing. SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINE The Group’s share ownership guidelines align the interests of executives with shareholders. Practical operation Maximum potential value The share ownership guideline is that all executive directors should retain N/A shares to the value of 200% of base salary, to be accumulated over five Performance measures years. Until this level is reached, directors who receive shares by virtue of N/A any share plan award or who receive deferred bonus shares must retain 50% of the shares received net (i.e. after income tax and national insurance contributions). Only shares that have actually vested count towards the threshold. ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE – BMP AWARDS MADE IN 2015, 2016 AND 2017 Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Performance measures Bonus Matching Plan – deferred awards made in Vesting is subject to the achievement of Vesting of conditional awards is subject to relative 2015, 2016 and 2017 and conditional awards made performance conditions (conditional awards) and TSR and average Group Scorecard outcome over in 2015 and 2016. continued service or “good leaver” termination three years. provisions (deferred and conditional awards). Links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan Further details of the terms of the awards were strategic targets. included in the Annual remuneration reports for the respective years. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 85 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND APPROACH TO SETTING TARGETS The measures for elements of variable pay are: • Group Scorecard, consisting of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the Committee each year in conjunction with the Board. The Group Scorecard aligns incentives of executive directors with achievement of key business goals. • Relative TSR, which aligns executive director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value. • The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the Business Plan and other circumstances as appropriate. A summary of the Group Scorecard targets that apply for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration. CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH MALUS OR CLAWBACK MAY APPLY Malus and/or clawback may be applied to incentive awards under the following circumstances: • Clawback for the annual bonus – the Committee may require a director to repay any amount of annual bonus payment it considers appropriate, in circumstances of financial misstatement, or misconduct, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision. • Malus and clawback for the BMP – if a repayment of bonus is required (see “annual bonus” above) the Committee shall reduce the number of shares that may vest under the BMP by an appropriate amount (in respect of an award made pursuant to the annual bonus payment subject to the clawback). The Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a BMP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision. • Malus and clawback for the PSP and DSP – the Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a PSP and/or DSP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision. COMMITTEE’S JUDGEMENT AND DISCRETION In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives payable, the Committee has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to executive directors’ remuneration. These include, but are not limited to: • reviewing the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and applying discretion to amend the final outcome, to ensure that bonus payments reflect overall performance or an individual executive’s performance; • deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award; and • determining whether a leaver is a “good leaver”. Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant directors’ remuneration report. REMUNERATION SCENARIOS The composition and value of the executive directors’ remuneration packages at low, target and stretch performance scenarios under the Drax Group remuneration policy are set out in the charts on page 87. The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following table: BASE SALARY, PENSION AND BENEFITS Description Scenario Annual bonus (Determined on base salary) PSP Salary is the rate payable to each Low None None director from 1 January 2018 The value of benefits is taken from Target 50% of the maximum bonus TSR: 62.5% vesting (midpoint between threshold the single figure for the year ended and maximum) Scorecard: 50% vesting 31 December 2018 Pension is the value of the pension Stretch Maximum bonus (150% of salary for Group Maximum PSP opportunity (175% of salary) with payable on the salary rate used Chief Executive, 140% of salary for other no allowance for share price appreciation or executive directors) dividend equivalents 86 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information WILL GARDINER ANDY SKELTON ANDY KOSS (GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE) (GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER) (CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF DRAX POWER) £,000 £,000 £,000 2500 £2,380 1800 1,600 £1,454 £1,549 1500 2000 39% 1,200 40% 40% £1,577 1200 £971 1500 £1,029 33% 900 800 33% 34% 1000 33% 32% 32% 25% 600 £657 24% £415 24% £431 400 500 300 100% 42% 28% 100% 42% 28% 100% 43% 28% 0 0 0 Low Target Stretch Low Target Stretch Low Target Stretch Fixed elements Annual variable Multi-period variable APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committee will apply the core principles on page 82 and the components set out in the table on pages 82 to 86 to determine the remuneration of newly appointed directors. Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the director being appointed. Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to performance. The incentive provision for a new executive director will include annual bonus up to 150% of salary and a PSP award of up to 175% of salary. In relation to directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment of the director, the Committee may: • pay compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives (subject to the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Company’s right to claw back any amount which is subsequently paid to the executive by the former employer, and to claw back an appropriate proportion of the payment if the executive leaves soon after appointment); and • make appropriate payments in circumstances where a director is relocated from outside the UK. SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND COMPENSATION ON LOSS OF OFFICE Executive directors’ service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months’ notice. Element Details Notice periods Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period. Under each of the executive directors’ service agreements, the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benefits that would have accrued to the executive director during the contractual notice period. Compensation for loss If an executive director’s employment is brought to an end by either party and if it is necessary to determine a termination payment, of office the Committee’s policy, in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to determine a director’s termination payment in accordance with his/her service agreement. The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the director during the contractual notice period. The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement. It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation if the director has secured another job at a similar level. Mitigation would not apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice. In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his/her statutory rights. The Group may pay reasonable fees for a departing director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their termination arrangements and nominal consideration for agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Company’s rights following termination. No service agreement includes any provision for the payment of compensation upon termination. Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time and in the light of the circumstances. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 87 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Element Details Treatment of annual All bonus payments are discretionary benefits. The Committee will consider whether a departing director should receive an annual bonus on termination bonus in respect of the financial year in which, and/or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the date of termination. The Committee will take into account performance; cooperation with succession; any breach of goodwill, and adherence to contractual obligations/restrictions. If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the director will be treated as a “good leaver” and the director will be eligible for a bonus payment: • redundancy; • retirement; • ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company; and • death. If the termination is for any other reason, a bonus payment will be at the Committee’s discretion and it is the Committee’s policy to ensure that any such bonus payment properly reflects the departing director’s performance and behaviour towards the Company. Therefore the amount of any such payment will be determined, taking into account (i) the director’s personal performance and behaviour towards the Company and (ii) the Group performance. If a bonus payment is made, it will normally be paid as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been determined for the relevant period. There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the bonus payment to be made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target Group performance score shall be assumed. No payment will be made unless the director is employed on the date of bonus payment, except for “good leavers” as defined above. Treatment of unvested The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the director under the BMP, DSP long-term incentive and and PSP should lapse or vest. Any determination by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the BMP, DSP and PSP deferred share awards (as approved by shareholders). on termination In summary, the rules of the BMP and PSP provide that awards will vest (pro-rated to the date of employment termination) if employment ends for any of the following reasons (“long-term good leaver reasons”): • redundancy; • retirement; • ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company; • change of ownership; and • death. If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the BMP and PSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion. In doing so, it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Company’s performance; the director’s performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards; and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date. The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, deferred and conditional shares vest as soon as reasonably practicable following termination. Awards, which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated and will be phased over the performance cycle of the relevant awards. The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest (in full) if employment ends for any of the “long-term good leaver reasons” detailed above. If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the DSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion. In doing so it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Company’s performance; the director’s performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards; and a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date. The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises discretion to vest awards earlier. Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions will be (time) pro-rated. Outside appointments Executive directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chair’s approval. Normally only one appointment to a listed company would be approved. Fees may be retained by the director. 88 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CONSIDERATION OF CIRCUMSTANCES FOR LEAVERS The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving director is fair and appropriate, taking account of all relevant circumstances. Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award an annual bonus payment and/or permit the vesting of PSP awards include: • the director’s continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice; and • the director accommodating the Company in the timing of his/her departure and handover arrangements. Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is: • poor performance; or • the director does not continue to perform effectively following notice. REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIR Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Maximum potential value Fees The Chair’s remuneration is determined by the Committee whilst that of the Overall aggregate fees paid to To attract a Chair and independent other non-executive directors is determined by the Chair and the executive all non-executive directors will non-executive directors who, together with directors. These are determined in the light of: remain within the limit as stated the executive directors, form a Board with in the Company’s Articles • fees of chairmen and non-executive directors of other listed companies a broad range of skills and experience. (currently £1,000,000). selected for comparator purposes, on the same basis as for executive directors; • the responsibilities and time commitment; and • the need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience. Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators. They were last reviewed in 2017. Current fee levels are shown in the annual report on remuneration. The Chair receives an annual fee. Non-executive directors receive an annual base fee. Additional annual fees are paid: • to the Senior Independent Director (which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee); • to the Chair of the Audit Committee; • to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee; and • to the Chair of any other committee (this is not paid to the Chair of the Nomination Committee if he or she is also the Chair of the Board). Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration arrangements. Expenses Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are reimbursed as applicable. Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the Group’s share-based reward plans. The Chair’s notice period is six months whilst the other non-executive directors have a notice period of one month. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 89 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE POLICY AND THE REMUNERATION OF EMPLOYEES GENERALLY The following differences apply between the remuneration of directors and the arrangements for the remuneration of employees generally: • executive directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for PSP awards, although there are differences in terms of levels of grant; • annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, but the requirement to defer a portion of annual bonus applies only to executive directors; • employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus subject to Company performance and continued employment, whereas directors and all other UK-based employees participate in a discretionary bonus scheme; and • in some cases hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments. CONTEXT Wider employee population In determining executive remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group. The Committee’s policy is that annual salary increases for executive directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase for the wider employee population unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an executive director has been appointed at a salary below market level reflecting experience in the role. The Committee has considered a number of comparison metrics when determining its approach to executive remuneration, including the ratio of Group Chief Executive to median employee pay. Environmental, social and governance issues The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors. Specific measures can be included in the balanced Group Scorecard. The Committee is also able to consider these issues in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score, and in considering the performance conditions override under the PSP, as described on page 86. 90 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report on Remuneration The relevant sections of this report have been audited as required by the Regulations and, in accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 17 April 2019. SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EACH DIRECTOR (AUDITED INFORMATION) The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and the breakdown for each executive director for 2018, together with comparative earnings for 2017: Long Term Salary/Fees Other benefits(1) Bonus(2) Incentives(3) Pension Other (4) Total (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) Name 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Will Gardiner 530 397 21 20 417 294 838 – 106 79 – – 1,912 790 Andy Koss 327 316 19 19 242 234 147 – 65 63 6 – 806 632 Notes: (1) Other benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, permanent health insurance and dependent’s pension. (2) Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year which is paid in March of the following year (e.g. 2018 bonus is paid in March 2019), including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service. (3) Represents the value of BMP matching awards vesting in March 2019, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares. The value is calculated based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2018, which was £3.857. (4) Represents the value of the Sharesave Awards granted in 2018 based on the share price on grant (£2.750) less the exercise price (£2.105). BASE SALARIES The base salaries of the executive directors as at 31 December 2018, together with comparative figures as at 31 December 2017, are shown in the following table: Base salary as at Base salary as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Percentage £000 £000 increase Will Gardiner 530 400 32.5% Andy Koss 330 318 3.8% The base salary for Andy Koss was reviewed with effect from 1 April 2018. In line with policy, the salary was reviewed and increased by 3.8%. This was aligned with the wider workforce increase of 3.8%. Will Gardiner’s salary was increased to £530,000 as at 1 January 2018 on his appointment as Group CEO. The figure shown for 2017 refers to his previous role of CFO. ANNUAL FEES Fees at Fees at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Percentage £000 £000 increase Chair 250 250 0% Non-Executive Director base fee 55 55 0% Senior Independent Director 10 10 0% Audit Committee Chair 10 10 0% Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 0% Nomination Committee Chair (1) 7.5 7.5 0% Note: (1) This is not paid if the Chair of the Nomination Committee is also the Chair of the Board. From 1 January 2019 David Nussbaum is donating his gross fees to charity. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 91 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued The table below (Audited Information) sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director for 2018 together with comparative figures for 2017: Additional fee for Additional fee Senior Independent for chairing a Base fee Director committee Total £000 £000 £000 £000 Philip Cox (Chair of the Board and Chair of Nomination Committee) 2018 250 – – 250 2017 250 – – 250 Tim Cobbold 2018 55 – – 55 2017 55 – – 55 David Lindsell (Senior Independent Director and Chair of Audit Committee) 2018 55 10 10 75 2017 55 10 10 75 David Nussbaum 2018 55 – – 55 2017 23 – – 23 Nicola Hodson(1) 2018 53 – – 53 Vanessa Simms(2) 2018 29 – – 29 Tony Thorne (Chair of Remuneration Committee) 2018 55 – 10 65 2017 55 – 10 65 Note: (1) Appointed 12 January 2018. (2) Appointed 19 June 2018. DETAILS OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST METRICS FOR VARIABLE PAY AWARDS Annual bonus plan outcome A summary of the Committee’s assessment in respect of the 2018 Group Scorecard is set out in the following table: Weighting Low target Target Stretch target Outturn Score Safety Total recordable injury rate 10% 0.27 0.22 0.15 0.22 1.0 Finance Group Adjusted EBITDA (£m) 30% 229 251 289 250 1.0 Group net debt (£m) 5% (422) (400) (362) (319) 2.0 Progress on delivering strategy (Performance vs plan) 10% Approaching Plan On Plan Ahead of Plan Ahead of Plan 1.3 Sustainability People, reputation & responsibility (Performance vs plan) 5% Approaching Plan On Plan Ahead of Plan Approaching Plan 0.9 Pellet Production Fines at Disport (%)(1) 7.5% 7.5% 6.5% 5.5% 8.0% 0.0 Cost of production ($/GJ)(2) 7.5% 10.90 9.82 8.35 9.37 1.2 Power Generation Biomass unit technical availability (%)(3) 5% ND ND ND 90.7% 2.0 Value from Flexibility (£m) 5% 63 78 93 79 1.0 B2B Energy Supply Cost to serve customers (£/MPAN) 5% ND ND ND ND 2.0 Quality of business (£/MWh) 5% ND ND ND ND 0.0 Growth in market share % 5% 0.6% 0.9% 1.2% 0.8% 0.8 Total weighting/Score 100% 1.05 Notes: The targets were aligned with the Group’s strategy and 2018 Business Plan and reviewed regularly by the Board as part of their ongoing scrutiny of business and executive performance. ND – Not disclosed. It is considered that the disclosure of detailed performance against these metrics would be commercially sensitive. It would therefore not be appropriate to disclose these figures. (1) Q4 average fines at disport. (2) Excludes one off write offs and exceptional costs. (3) Unit 4 is not included, only Units 1-3 of our Biomass Generation facilities. 92 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Outlined below is a brief synopsis of the KPIs used and their strategic rationale: Group • Safety is the first priority for the business. The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) is defined as the number of incidents per 100,000 hours worked. We continue to target upper quartile safety performance. • Financial performance metrics for 2018 were based on underlying adjusted EBITDA, net debt and progress on delivering strategy. The weighting given to adjusted EBITDA, at 30%, reflects the priority given to a strong Group financial performance. • Being a sustainable business means driving long-term, profitable growth while achieving a positive economic, social and environmental impact. Ensuring that our staff are fully engaged and regard Drax as an employer they would recommend is an important part of this impact. • Pellet quality impacts both Drax Biomass and Drax Power. The “fines” metric is used to drive pellet quality, from own supply, which in turn minimises downstream supply chain costs. • Developing strong in-house pellet supply capability, and lowering pellet production costs have a direct impact on gross margins available from Generation. • The value available to the Group from biomass generation is a key driver of gross margins. Biomass unit technical availability reflects the value that can be derived from maximising biomass unit output. • The value from flexibility captures the value available from fully supporting the grid. Further details of how these individual metrics support the business strategy and drive both shareholder value and performance can be found on pages 1 to 49. The Committee made an in-depth review of the score for each of the performance measures, ensuring these were individually supportable, and then reviewed the overall outcome, to determine whether to exercise its discretion and adjust the final score. Additional consideration of the appropriateness of the overall Group Scorecard result was also reviewed by the Committee. Safety. The independently verified Total Recordable Injury Rate for the 2018 financial year was 0.22 which was on target and represented an improvement on the score for the 2017 financial year (0.27). Finance. Adjusted EBITDA achieved for the 2018 financial year of £250 million, included the impact of the Government’s suspension of Capacity Payments. The Committee determined this qualified as in line with the target of £251 million. Net debt at the year-end had reduced to £319 million against a stretch target of £362 million, reflecting management’s strong focus in this area (for further information, see page 40 of the Group Financial Review). In respect of delivery of strategy, separate objectives were set addressing a combination of operational efficiency, cost reduction and transitioning to new technology platforms, each of which are important drivers for future development and which contain commercially sensitive information. The Committee set thresholds at the beginning of the financial year and after considering the performance against each objective, the Committee determined an outcome of 1.3. Sustainability. In the three areas shown in the table, the Committee set specific objectives which constituted part of the Group’s 2018 sustainability plan. In determining performance, the Committee reviewed quantitative outcomes, (for example analysis included assessment prepared by an external agency tracking reputation). The quantitative outcome for the year was below target at 0.9. In reviewing this outcome the Committee decided, that despite progress in this important area over the year, it would not adjust the score. Pellet Production. Fines (a measure of wood pellet quality) and cost of production are key measures for assessing operational efficiency. Fines failed to achieve the minimum threshold whilst cost of production was scored at 1.2. Further information can be found on page 7 of the CEO report. Power Generation. Biomass technical availability (defined on page 192) is a key metric relating to our ability to operate when needed and is considered by the Board regularly as part of overall operational performance. The Committee considered performance to have exceeded target. Value from flexibility is used by management to assess Drax’s support to balancing the electricity grid. The Committee determined that performance was on target. Further information can be found on page 7 of the CEO report. B2B Energy Supply. Each of the three targets adopted by the Committee are used by management and reported to the Board as part of tracking business performance. Each is commercially sensitive. Quality of business was below the minimum threshold. Growth in market share satisfied the low threshold whilst cost to serve customers was judged to have satisfied the stretch target. Further information on each target can be found on page 8 of the CEO report. The Committee approved the Group Scorecard result for 2018 at its meeting on 20 February 2019, subject to the final approval of the financial results and annual report and accounts by the Directors on 25 February 2019. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 93 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued BONUS EARNED FOR 2018 The resulting bonus outcomes as a percentage of base salary were: Bonus earned for CEO Bonus earned for other executive directors X X Target bonus Corporate score Target bonus Corporate score 75% 1.05 70% 1.05 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements. Of which Of which deferred paid in cash into shares 2018 bonus Bonus earned (65% of bonus) (35% of bonus) Executive director (as % base salary) £000 £000 £000 Will Gardiner, Chief Executive Officer 79% 417 271 146 Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power 74% 242 158 84 No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the bonus outcome. DETAIL OF BMP INCENTIVE OUTCOMES (AUDITED INFORMATION) The vesting outcome for matching awards granted in 2016 under the BMP, which were subject to performance conditions and will vest in 2019, are provided in the tables below. Performance for Performance Proportion threshold vesting for maximum Performance measure of award (15%) vesting Actual performance Vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 51–150 50% Median Upper Rank of 26 out of 90 44.75% constituents quartile = 89.50% Average Corporate Score 50% Average Average Scores of 1.30, 0.84 and 1.05 12.88% for 2016, 2017 and 2018 score of 1 score of 1.5 Average of 1.06 = 25.76% 57.63% No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the BMP outcome. The table provides the resulting awards due to vest based on this vesting result. Value based on average share price in last Dividend Total shares quarter of 2018 (£3.857) Executive director Awards granted Awards vesting shares earned due to vest £000 Will Gardiner, Chief Executive Officer 353,504 203,724 13,487 217,211 838 Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power 61,999 35,729 2,361 38,090 147 PSP AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2018 (AUDITED INFORMATION) The table below shows the conditional awards granted under the PSP to executive directors on 5 March 2018. Face value of Award as % Number of Awards Executive director of salary shares granted(1) £ Will Gardiner 175% 363,725 927,500 Andy Koss 175% 218,063 556,063 Note: (1) The number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three day period prior to grant, which was 255.2 pence. In accordance with the PSP rules, dividend shares are awarded at the time and in the event that awards actually vest. No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse. 94 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The performance conditions that apply to the PSP awards granted in 2018 are set out below. Performance Vesting at for 50% vesting Proportion Performance for threshold (Corporate Performance for Performance measure of award threshold vesting performance Scorecard only) maximum vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 350 constituents 50% Median 25% – Upper quartile Average Corporate Score 50% Average 0% Average Average score of 0.75 score of 1 score of 1.5 Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for both conditions. Performance for both conditions is measured over three financial years to 31 December 2020. DSP DEFERRED AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2018 (AUDITED INFORMATION) The table below shows the deferred share awards granted under the DSP to executive directors on 5 March 2018 in respect of bonus earned for performance in 2017. Awards will vest after three years subject to continued service only. Value of deferred bonus Number of Executive director £ shares granted(1) Will Gardiner 102,836 40,327 Andy Koss 81,741 32,055 Note: (1) The number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three day period prior to grant, which was 255 pence. In accordance with the DSP rules, dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest. SHARESAVE AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2018 A total of 8,551 Sharesave awards were granted to Andy Koss on 28 March 2018. The exercise price was 210.5 pence which represents a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of offer. The face value of the awards was £23,515 which is based on the share price of 275 pence on 28 March 2018. The awards will vest after three years subject to continued service only. TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS FOR DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES (AUDITED INFORMATION) Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Group’s defined contribution pension plan, with either an employer contribution of up to 20% of base salary, or contributions to a personal pension, or cash in lieu of pension, or a combination of any of these up to a maximum contribution of up to 20% of base salary. No director was a member of the defined benefit pension scheme. In line with the broader Group-wide review of colleague benefits, the current arrangements afforded to Executive Directors will be reviewed during 2019. PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS (AUDITED INFORMATION) Dorothy Thompson stood down as an executive director of the Group with effect from 31 December 2017. Pursuant to the terms of her service agreement, and reflecting an adjustment in respect of the final instalment following the exercise of discretion by the Committee, payments were made to Dorothy in January 2018 (£278,963); June 2018 (£139,482); and September 2018 (£78,861). These were in respect of pay and contractual benefits for the period of unworked notice. The payments are in addition to any payments relating to the vesting of Drax long-term incentive awards granted prior to her final date of employment. In addition (with the exception of the final instalment), the payments are in accordance with the arrangements noted in the 2017 Annual Report. As noted on page 78, adjustments were made to the final values which were in line with the terms of Dorothy’s service agreement and verified by external advisers. No separate payments were made in respect of Dorothy’s termination arrangements. As reported in the 2017 Remuneration Report, Dorothy is entitled to pro-rata vesting of BMP and PSP Awards made in 2016 and 2017. A total of 95,417 shares, including dividend shares, are due to vest in March 2019 in respect of the BMP Awards made in 2016, based on the resulting vesting of 57.63%. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 95 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED INFORMATION) The shareholding guidelines require executive directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards, or who receive deferred bonus shares under the cash bonus plan, to retain 50% of the shares received net (i.e. after income tax and national insurance contributions) until the value held is equal to at least 200% of salary. Only shares that have actually vested count towards the threshold. As at 31 December 2018, the shareholding guidelines had not been met, as detailed in the table below: DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES Number Value at Shareholding as a Shareholding Name of shares year end(1) percentage of salary guideline Will Gardiner 144,488 £518,712 98% 200% Andy Koss 57,746 £207,308 63% 200% (1) Based on the mid market quotation on 31 December 2018 of £3.59. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS UNDER LTIPs (BMP, PSP AND DSP) Awards Awards Awards As at made vesting lapsing As at 1 January during during during 31 December Face value Date of grant 2018 the year the year the year 2018 Date of vesting(1) of awards(2) Will Gardiner 2016 BMP Matching Award 2 March 2016 353,504 0 0 0 353,504 2 March 2019 £1,269,079 2016 BMP Deferred Award 2 March 2016 5,063 0 0 0 5,063 2 March 2019 £18,176 2016 Sharesave Award 5 April 2016 14,778 0 0 0 14,778 1 May 2021 £23,054 2017 PSP 15 May 2017 213,326 0 0 0 213,326 15 May 2020 £765,840 2017 BMP Deferred Award 28 March 2017 50,486 0 0 0 50,486 28 March 2020 £181,245 2018 PSP 5 March 2018 0 363,725 0 0 363,725 5 March 2021 £1,305,773 2018 DSP 5 March 2018 0 40,327 0 0 40,327 5 March 2021 £144,774 Total 637,157 404,052 0 0 1,041,209 £3,707,941 Andy Koss 2015 BMP Matching Award 4 March 2015 49,160 0 0 49,160 0 – £0 2016 BMP Matching Award 2 March 2016 61,999 0 0 0 61,999 2 March 2019 £222,576 2017 PSP 15 May 2017 169,567 0 0 0 169,567 15 May 2020 £608,746 2017 BMP Deferred Award 28 March 2017 40,130 0 0 0 40,130 28 March 2020 £144,067 2018 PSP 5 March 2018 0 218,063 0 0 218,063 5 March 2021 £782,846 2018 DSP 5 March 2018 0 32,055 0 0 32,055 5 March 2021 £115,077 2018 Sharesave Award 28 March 2018 0 8,551 0 0 8,551 1 May 2021 £12,968 Total 320,856 258,669 0 49,160 530,365 £1,886,010 Notes: The deferred share awards are not subject to performance conditions. There are no awards remain vested but unexercised. (1) The vesting date shown reflects the three year anniversary but the Committee reserves the right to change the vesting date by a period not exceeding 30 days. (2) Based on the mid market quotation on 31 December 2018 of £3.59. There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors. The table below shows the shareholdings of the non-executive directors and their connected persons and the value as at 31 December 2018, when the share price was 359 pence per share. Number Value at of shares year end Tim Cobbold 1,000 £3,590 Philip Cox 60,000 £215,400 Nicola Hodson nil – David Lindsell 7,500 £26,925 David Nussbaum nil – Vanessa Simms nil – Tony Thorne 7,500 £26,925 As at the date hereof there have been no changes to the shareholdings or share interests since 31 December 2018. 96 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SERVICE AGREEMENTS The following table shows, for each director of the Company at 25 February 2019, or those who served as a director of the Company at any time during the year ended 31 December 2018, the start date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods. Unexpired term Notice period by Notice period at the date of the Company by the director Director Contract start date Contract term (years) publication (months) (months) Tim Cobbold 27 September 2016 3 years 7 months 1 1 Philip Cox 1 January 2018 3 years 1 year and 10 months 6 6 Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 3 years 1 year and 10 months 1 1 Andy Koss 1 January 2016 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 David Lindsell 1 December 2017 17 months 1 month 1 1 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 years 1 year and 6 months 1 1 Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 3 years 2 years and 4 months 1 1 Andy Skelton 2 January 2019 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Tony Thorne 29 June 2016 3 years 4 months 1 1 DRAX TEN-YEAR TSR DATA TO 31 DECEMBER 2018 The graph below shows how the value of £100 invested in both the Company and the FTSE 350 Index on 31 December 2008 has changed. This index has been chosen as a suitable broad comparator against which the Company’s shareholders may judge their relative returns given that, in recent years, the Company has been a member of the FTSE 350 Index. The graph reflects the TSR (determined according to usual market practice) for the Company and the index referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2018. 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Drax FTSE 350 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S PAY IN LAST TEN FINANCIAL YEARS Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Chief Executive’s total single figure (£000) 903 1,155 1,196 1,406 3,360 1,854 1,248 1,581 1,236 1,912 Bonus % of maximum awarded 77% 100% 100% 100% 100% 73% 46% 88% 53% 53% BMP Matching Award % of maximum vesting – – – – 40.52% 21.66% 15.43% 0% 57.63% Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 97 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REMUNERATION COMPARED WITH THE WIDER EMPLOYEE POPULATION The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group CEO’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2017 and 2018 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees. The Committee has selected all Group employees below executive director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide the most appropriate comparator. Bonus Salary Taxable benefits £000 Percentage Percentage increase increase 2017 2018 % increase Chief Executive (Will Gardiner 2018/Dorothy Thompson 2017)(1) -9.4% -70.0% 463.3 417.4 -9.9% Average for UK employees 3.8% 2.75% 4.3 4.0 -7.0% Note: (1) Because of the change in CEO with effect from 1 January 2018, the figures above note the change in remuneration between the outgoing and incoming CEO although, as a consequence, do not reflect a like for like comparison.  RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, namely distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure. These were the most significant outgoings from the Company in the last financial year, other than normal operating costs. Remuneration – 2018 £145.7m Remuneration – 2017 £137.1m Capital Expenditure – 2018 £142.5m Capital Expenditure – 2017 £180.6m Dividends – 2018 £56m Dividends – 2017 £50m 0 £50,000,000 £100,000,000 £150,000,000 £200,000,000 Notes: (1) Remuneration 2018 see note 6.1. (2) Capital expenditure 2018 see note 3.1. (3) Dividends 2018 see note 2.9. STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2019 The remuneration policy was implemented following its approval by shareholders at the AGM in April 2018. The Committee will review salaries in accordance with the Policy and will take account of the increase in base pay of the collective bargaining group and other salary reviews in the Group. 98 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information GROUP SCORECARD The Group Scorecard measures and targets for 2019 have been established for the Group and for each Group business. Details of performance against the measures will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report on Remuneration so far as possible, whilst maintaining commercial confidentiality. The following table sets out the categories and a description of the measures. Target Reason for use GROUP Safety TRIR The same basis for assessing performance as in previous years, focused on reducing the number of safety-related incidents. Finance & strategy Group Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is our principle financial metric, combining the underlying performance of each business (including the acquired ScottishPower assets) to give a Group outcome. The targets assume that the Government resumes capacity payments in full, within the year. In the event it did not, the Remuneration Committee will determine the appropriate adjustment to the targets. Average Net Debt A structural reduction in debt is a key objective for the Group with progress assessed against average net debt targets. Progress on This element will assess progress in the integration of the acquired ScottishPower assets, comparing delivering strategy actual performance against the acquisition case approved by the Board. Sustainability People, reputation Sustainability is assessed under the three elements of people, reputation and the sustainability & responsibility of our biomass fuel combining performance against three KPIs into a single score. Pellet Production KPI Fines at disport Our focus remains on improving the quality of biomass pellets, measured as the percentage of fines (dust) in each shipment unloaded at UK ports. Cost of production Reducing the cost of biomass production will make a positive contribution to the Group’s financial performance in the medium term and beyond 2027. Power Generation KPI Commercial availability Availability of our generating assets is a key determinant of our ability to deliver earnings. Value from flexibility Financial value is created by providing flexible support services to the UK electricity grid. B2B Energy Supply KPI Cost to serve customers By reducing cost to serve we increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our energy supply operations. Value created as gross margin Gross margin is the key driver of value for our energy supply business. SMART meter installation By increasing the volume of smart meters installed, we expect to increase profit and to meet regulatory requirements. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES Non-executive directors’ fees will be reviewed by the Chair and executive directors in November 2019. SHAREHOLDER VOTING The table below shows the voting outcome for the remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on 25 April 2018. For Against Total Votes withheld Name Shares % Shares % Shares % Shares Approval of the directors’ 343,764,260 93.62 23,420,963 6.38 367,185,223 100 5,601 remuneration policy Approval of the annual report on remuneration 336,956,748 92.40 27,713,350 7.60 364,670,098 100 2,520,725 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 99 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued COMMITTEE ACTIVITY AND KEY DECISIONS IN 2018 Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2018 are shown in the table below: Considered the 2017 balanced Group Scorecard and decided not to exercise its discretion to adjust the score. Adopted the 2018 Group Scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of 2018 remuneration. Approved executive director and senior staff personal scores and annual bonus awards for 2017. Approved the vesting of the 2015 BMP awards. Considered and approved the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration. Approved the operation of the all-employee Sharesave Share Plan in 2018. Approved the Deferred Share Plan and Performance Share Plan awards for 2018. Approved the Performance Share Plan awards for 2018 for senior management below Board. Reviewed 2017 Gender Pay Gap reporting. Approved the proposed remuneration package for the Chief Financial Officer. Noted the bonus awards to senior management below Executive Committee member level. Approved a proposal for members of the Executive Committee and senior staff salary review. Received an update on shareholder engagement. Agreed the revised termination payment for the former CEO, Dorothy Thompson. Approved the remuneration package for the new Chief Transformation Officer. Received an update from the Group People Director on pay and benefits in the wider workforce. Reviewed the fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as, the Committee’s remuneration adviser, together with fees paid by the Group to PwC for other matters, and reviewed PwC’s independence. Reviewed fees for the Chair and Non Executive Directors. Approved in principle the operation of share plans in 2019. Reviewed year to date progress on the 2018 scorecard and likely impact on remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors and wider workforce (bonus and LTIP). In 2018, the members of the Remuneration Committee were Tony Thorne, Chair of the Committee; Tim Cobbold; Philip Cox; David Lindsell; and David Nussbaum, Nicola Hudson (from January 2019) and Vanessa Simms (from June 2018), all of whom are independent non-executive directors. The Group Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee. The Group CEO was invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when his own remuneration was discussed. ADVISER TO THE COMMITTEE The adviser to the Committee for the year was PwC. PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee in October 2010, following a competitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of executive and non-executive directors. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Conduct. In addition, the Committee has satisfied itself that the advice it receives is objective and independent as PwC has confirmed there are no conflicts of interest. From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specific matters. The Committee will continue to monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwC’s independence as an adviser to the Committee. PwC was paid £100,300 during 2018 in respect of advice given to the Committee. The Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive regarding the performance and remuneration of the other executive directors and senior staff. During 2018, the Committee has also been advised by the Group Company Secretary and, Group People Director. OTHER MATTERS Remuneration received from external appointments No remuneration was received by the executive directors for service as a non-executive director elsewhere. This report was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee. Tony Thorne Chair of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2019 100 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT This report contains information which the Company is obliged to disclose and which cannot be found in the strategic, financial, sustainability or corporate governance reports of this document. The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditor’s report for the year ended 31 December 2018. The directors’ report required under the Companies Act 2006 is comprised of this Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Reports. Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 7.2 to the consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) The AGM will be held at 11.30am on Wednesday 17 April 2019 at Grocers Hall, Princes St, London EC2R 8AD. A separate document contains the notice convening the AGM and includes an explanation of the business to be conducted at the meeting. DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 5.6 pence per share was paid on 12 October 2018, to shareholders on the register on 21 September 2018. The directors propose a final dividend of 8.5 pence per share, which will, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, be paid on 10 May 2019, to shareholders on the register on 23 April 2019. Details of past dividends can be found on the Company’s website at www.drax.com/dividend-history. No shareholder has waived or agreed to waive dividends payable in the year or in future years. SHARE CAPITAL The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each. There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the ordinary shares. Drax Group plc has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange and currently trades as part of the FTSE 250 Index, under the symbol DRX and with the ISIN number GB00B1VNSX38. SHARES IN ISSUE At 1 January 2018 407,034,429 Issued in period through the Sharesave Plan (1) 158,739 At 31 December 2018 407,193,168 Treasury shares at 31 December 2018 13,023,639 Total voting rights at 31 December 2018 394,169,529 Issued between 1 January and 25 February 2019 through the Sharesave Plan 2,375 At 25 February 2019 407,195,543 Treasury shares at 25 February 2019 13,841,295 Total voting rights at 25 February 2019 393,354,248 Notes: (1) 44 members of the Sharesave Plan exercised their options No other ordinary shares were issued during the year. AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES At the AGM held on 25 April 2018, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital. Between 20 April 2018 and 31 December 2018 the Company purchased 13,023,639 shares at a cost (including dealing and associated costs) of £47,142,942. Between 1 January 2019 and 21 January 2019 the Company purchased a further 817,656 shares at a cost (including dealing and associated costs) of £3,107,239. In total the Company purchased 13,841,295 shares at a cost of £50,250,181. All shares were purchased in the open market. The shares are held as treasury shares. At the 2019 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority. More details on the resolution number 18 can be found in the separate notice of meeting. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 101 DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS Information provided to the Company in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) is published in a timely manner on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulatory News Service – a Regulatory Information Service and also on the Company’s website. As at 25 February 2019, the following information had been received in accordance with DTR5 from holders of notifiable interests in the voting rights of the Company. The information provided below was correct at the date of notification. However, investors are only obliged to notify the Company when a notifiable threshold is crossed and therefore it should be noted that the holdings below may have changed but without crossing a threshold. Number of voting rights in Date last Number of Number of qualifying Total number % of the issued notification voting rights voting rights financial of voting share capital made directly held indirectly held instruments rights held held(1) Invesco plc 19.10.2018 – 79,520,354 – 79,520,354 20% Schroders plc 28.01.2019 – 39,349,790 58,561 39,408,351 10% Artemis Investment Management LLP 20.08.2018 – 20,156,858 – 20,156,858 5% Orbis Holdings Limited 19.10.2018 – 19,890,687 – 19,890,687 5% Notes: (1) As at the date of the last notification made to the Company by the investor, in compliance with DTR RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES There are various rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares which are set out in the Articles. A copy of the Articles can be accessed on the Company’s website at www.drax.com/policies. Attention should be given to the following sections within the Articles, covering the rights and obligations attaching to shares: Variation of rights – which covers the rights attached to any class of shares that may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting of the holders of those shares. Transfer of shares – provides detail of how transfers of shares in certified and uncertified form may be undertaken. It also sets out the directors’ rights of refusal to effect a transfer and the action that directors must take following such refusal. It should be noted that a shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other holders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place. Voting and deadlines for exercising voting rights – these sections of the Articles deal with voting on a show of hands and on a poll. They also cover the appointment of a proxy or corporate representative. In respect of voting deadlines, the Articles provide for the submission of proxy forms not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting. It has been the Company’s practice since incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual General Meetings and General Meetings. A trustee holds shares on behalf of employees in respect of the Group’s Share Incentive Plan. The voting rights attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees. The employee may direct the trustee on how to vote at a General Meeting and the trustee may only cast its vote in respect of shares over which it has received a valid direction from employees. Changes to the Articles – the Articles may only be changed by shareholders by special resolution. DISABLED EMPLOYEES Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, so far as possible, be identical to that of other employees. 102 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OTHER SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS The Group has the following main financing agreements: • A £350 million facilities agreement dated 20 December 2012 (as amended and restated on 10 December 2015 and 21 April 2017 and further amended by way of a supplemental amendment agreement dated 4 May 2017) between, amongst others, Drax Corporate Limited and Barclays Bank PLC (as facility agent) (the Facilities Agreement). • A £725 million acquisition bridge facility agreement dated 31 December 2018 between, amongst others, Drax Corporate Limited and Barclays Bank PLC (as facility agent), Bank of America Merrill Lynch Limited and J.P. Morgan Securities Plc (the Acquisition Bridge Facilities Agreement). • An indenture dated 5 May 2017 between, amongst others, Drax Finco plc and BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited (as Trustee) (the Indenture) governing) £350,000,000 4.25% senior secured notes due 2022 (the Fixed Rate Notes). • An indenture dated 26 April 2018 between, amongst others, Drax Finco plc and BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited (as Trustee) (the Indenture) governing $300,000,000 6.625% senior secured notes due November 2025. Under both the Acquisition Bridge Facilities Agreement and the Facilities Agreement, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc or if Drax Group plc no longer holds directly or indirectly 100% of the issued share capital of Drax Group Holdings Limited or else if a party other than Drax Group plc becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the voting rights of Drax Group plc’s direct subsidiary, Drax Group Holdings Limited. Following a change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to the relevant Group entity within 30 days of receiving notice from such Group entity that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given. Under the Indenture, a change of control occurs if a party other than Drax Group plc becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the voting rights of Drax Group plc’s direct subsidiary, Drax Group Holdings Limited, or else if all or substantially all of the assets of Drax Group Holdings Limited are disposed outside of the Drax corporate group. No later than 60 days after any change of control, Drax Group Holdings must offer to purchase any outstanding Fixed Rate Notes and Floating Rate Notes at 101% of the principal amount of such notes plus accrued interest and other unpaid amounts. There are no other significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover bid. STRATEGIC REPORT The Strategic report on pages 1 to 49 contains disclosures in relation to employee participation, Greenhouse Gas emissions, future development and research activities. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 2 January 2019 an initial net consideration of £687 million was paid for the acquisition of the ScottishPower generation assets. AUDITORS AND THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR So far as each person serving as a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing the report, of which the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act. Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM for (i) the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Group; and (ii) authorising the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. As explained, the Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditor’s effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor. Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74. The directors’ report was approved by the Board on 25 February 2019 and is signed on its behalf by: Brett Gladden Group Company Secretary Registered office: Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 103 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), set out in FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. • In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: • properly select and apply accounting policies; • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and • make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: • the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; • the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and • the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of directors on 25 February 2019 and is signed on its behalf by: Will Gardiner Chief Executive, Drax Group 104 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information VERIFICATION STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LIMITED Bureau Veritas UK Limited (hereafter “Bureau Veritas”) has been commissioned by Drax Group Plc. (hereafter “Drax”) to provide limited assurance over sustainability activities reported in its Annual report and accounts 2018 (hereafter ‘the Report’) and website (www.drax.com/sustainability), including the following selected performance indicators: • GHG emissions (scope 1, 2); • Health and safety performance (Total Recordable Injury Rate); • Employee headcount (gender, country, business unit); • Water data; and • Biomass supply chain emissions. Based on our verification activities and scope of work, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the selected performance indicators are not fairly stated in the Report in all material respects. ADDITIONAL COMMENTARY Based on the work conducted, we identified the following areas of progress and good practice: • Drax keeps track of the workers’ incidents and produces monthly Health & Safety executive reports containing incident details, hours worked and injury frequency rates. Based on the work conducted we recommend Drax to consider the following: • Reduce the materiality threshold for GHG emissions reporting. For the Report, Drax has adopted a materiality threshold of 100,000 tonnes of CO2; and • Be consistent on the inclusion of Drax businesses in the reported sustainability key performance indicators. For parameters, such as water, Drax does not include data from all businesses. A full verification statement including methodology, limitations and exclusions can be found on the Drax website (www.drax.com/sustainability). Bureau Veritas UK Limited 20th February 2019 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: • the financial statements of Drax Group plc (the ‘parent company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; • the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We have audited the financial statements which comprise: • the Consolidated income statement; • the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income; • the Consolidated and parent company balance sheets; • the Consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity; • the Consolidated cash flow statement; • the basis of preparation and statement of accounting policies on pages 114 to 116; • the related Group notes 2.1 to 8.4; and • the related parent company notes 1 to 9 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: matters • Presentation of the Consolidated income statement • Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts • Estimation of retail unbilled revenue • Accounting for the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (Scottish Power assets) Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with . Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was £7.6m (2017: £6.8m). This was determined taking into consideration a number of metrics, but with particular focus on Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (Adjusted EBITDA) which excludes the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements, as this measure is of direct relevance to readers of the financial statements. Our selected materiality represents approximately 3.0% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year (2017: 2.9% of Adjusted EBITDA). Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy, Drax Biomass and Drax Generation Enterprise Limited. These were subject to a full scope audit, other than Drax Biomass and Drax Generation Enterprise Limited which were subject to specific audit procedures to support our Group audit opinion. These five locations represent the principal business units and account for virtually all of the Group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax. 106 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH CONTINUED Significant The following changes were made to the key audit matters reported in the prior year: changes • We have included as a key audit matter the presentation of the Consolidated income statement covering both in our exceptional items and certain remeasurements; approach • We have also included the accounting for the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited as a new acquisition in the year; and • The risk of impairment at Drax Power is no longer a key audit matter given the levels of headroom in both the previous and current year. In the current year, our Group audit scope was extended to include Drax Generation Enterprise Limited following its acquisition by the Group on 31 December 2018. Other aspects of our audit approach remain broadly consistent with the prior year. CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that We have reviewed the directors’ statement on page 42-43 to the financial statements concerning whether they we have nothing considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements material to and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s and company’s ability to continue to do so report, add or over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. draw attention We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks to in respect of including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework these matters. and the system of internal control. We evaluated the directors’ assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors’ plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment. We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit. Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that Based solely on reading the directors’ statements and considering whether they were consistent with the we have nothing knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the material to directors’ assessment of the Group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern, we are required report, add or to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: draw attention • the disclosures on pages 44-49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or to in respect of mitigated; these matters. • the directors’ confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; or • the directors’ explanation on page 42 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. We are also required to report whether the directors’ statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit. KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We previously identified the risk of asset impairment at Drax Power as a key audit matter reflecting the significant management judgements involved in assessing impairment and the sensitivity of the level of headroom to reasonable changes in assumptions made. Given the improvements in revenue arising from both commodity prices and other sources of income, the level of headroom within the impairment assessment in the prior year, and the established impairment assessment process in place, we no longer consider this to be a key audit matter. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC continued PRESENTATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Key audit matter In the current year, the Group has changed the presentation of its Consolidated income statement set out on page 118 description of the Annual Report. The Consolidated income statement now segregates Adjusted results from Exceptional items and certain remeasurements (the ‘Middle column’) in arriving at the results for the year. The prior year Consolidated income statement has been restated on a consistent basis. Further detail is disclosed in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116, note 2.7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items and the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74. The Adjusted results are a critical measure for stakeholders and underpin the Group’s segmental analysis and description of business results and therefore the classification of items between Adjusted results and the Middle column is important for users of the accounts. The key items included within the Middle column are as follows: • Remeasurement of certain energy contracts; • Asset obsolescence charges; • Acquisition and restructuring costs; • Debt restructuring costs; and • Related tax charges and credits. The Group has established a policy which governs which items are exceptional and should be recognised in the Middle column. However, judgement is applied in the application of this policy, and whether the above items meet the definition under the policy to be presented within the Middle column. This is a key area of audit focus for us. Certain remeasurements comprise unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts to the extent that those contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective. Such gains and losses are reclassified into Adjusted results when the related contract leads to a physical sale or purchase. The effect of excluding certain remeasurements from the Adjusted result is to reflect commodity sales and purchases at contracted prices in those Adjusted results. There is a risk that adjusted profit measures are misleading and that the principles used to determine the classification as exceptional are not in line with relevant guidance, substantiated or applied on a consistent basis. This also represents a possible fraud risk in relation to the allocation of items to the Middle column. How the We assessed the design and implementation of key controls around the presentation of items within either scope of our Adjusted results or the Middle column. audit responded We evaluated the Group’s accounting policy for exceptional items and certain remeasurements against guidance to the key issued by the FRC and European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) regarding the publication of audit matter transparent, unbiased and comparable financial information. We considered management’s rationale for the treatment of exceptional items presented, and performed an independent assessment of the selection and presentation of each item against the Group’s accounting policies and relevant regulatory guidance. We challenged management over the principles used to determine items as exceptional, assessing whether the application of the Group’s policy was appropriate and consistent. For the remeasurement of certain derivative contracts and the recycling of fair value movements to either revenue or cost of sales on realisation, we reviewed relevant accounting literature in order to determine whether the approach adopted was appropriate. The accounting standards for this are subject to interpretation and are currently being reviewed by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee (‘IFRIC’). However, their draft determination supports the Group’s new presentation of the Consolidated income statement. We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of management’s conclusions in the Annual Report & Accounts to assess whether the disclosures are consistent with the Group’s policy and relevant accounting standards. Key observations We are satisfied that the items presented as exceptional and within certain remeasurements in the Financial Statements are materially in compliance with the Group’s accounting policies, applicable accounting standards and guidance, and are clearly described to readers of the Annual Report and Accounts. We are satisfied that the prior year Consolidated income statement has been represented on a basis consistent with the new format adopted for 2018. The majority of acquisition and restructuring costs relate to the Scottish Power acquisition (£21m). However, there are certain smaller costs incurred in the year which relate to restructuring activities in other areas of the business, and which have been treated as exceptional items, and presented within the Middle column in the Consolidated income statement. Whilst the treatment of these costs as exceptional is subjective, the costs incurred are not material to the Financial Statements. 108 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information VALUATION OF COMMODITY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS Key audit matter Net Gains on derivative contracts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in the year are £38.4m description (2017: losses of £176.9m), with related derivative assets of £510.6m and liabilities of £151.4m recognised on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018. Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116 and the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74. Section 7 sets out the financial risk management notes. The Group has exposure to a number of different financial risks including foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and use a variety of derivative contracts to mitigate these risks, including commodity contracts, floating swap forwards and cross currency swaps. The valuation of derivative contracts is complex and requires judgement in areas including the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies, and assumptions in respect of future market prices and credit risk factors. Due to the large amount of data involved in the contract valuations, and the requirement for certain manual adjustments, we have identified a fraud risk relating to the potential for management or employees of the company to value trades inappropriately. How the We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls related to the scope of our valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts. audit responded We used our internal financial instrument specialists to test management’s key judgements and calculations, to the key including testing a sample of trades undertaken to trade tickets, confirming key contractual terms such as audit matter volumes and contracted prices. We have assessed the valuation models used by management, including any manual adjustments to determine the fair value of the derivative instruments and performed independent valuations across a sample of both commodity and foreign exchange contracts. We have analysed the appropriateness of management’s forward price curve assumptions by benchmarking these to third party sources and reviewed the consistency of the assumptions used across other areas of the financial statements, such as asset impairment. We have challenged management’s approach and assumptions involved in assessing fair value adjustments such as credit risk, time value of money and spread adjustments. Key observations From our testing, we are satisfied that the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts is reasonable. We consider the valuation models used by management to be appropriate and the forward curve assumptions adopted are within an acceptable range. ESTIMATION OF RETAIL UNBILLED REVENUE Key audit matter The recognition of retail revenue requires an estimation of customer usage between the date of the last meter reading description and year end, which is known as unbilled revenue. Across the retail division, unbilled revenue at the balance sheet date amounted to £146.5m (2017: £195m) Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116 and the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74. Accrued income is disclosed in note 3.5. The method of estimating unbilled revenue is complex and judgemental and requires assumptions for both the volumes of energy consumed by customers and the related value. We identified a fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition in the retail businesses, in particular to the estimates underpinning unbilled revenue, as these judgemental areas could be manipulated by management to mis-report revenue. How the We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls related to the scope of our estimation of unbilled revenue. This included controls over the reconciliation of meter readings provided by the audit responded energy markets, and which are used by management to estimate the power supplied. We also tested the controls to the key over the price per unit applied in the valuation of unbilled revenue. audit matter When external market information was not available at the balance sheet date, we obtained and considered management’s reconciliation of the volume of power purchased to their calculations of revenue supplied and completed sample tests to check that the December 2018 unbilled revenue amount was subsequently billed. We also reviewed the aggregate unbilled revenue balance from previous periods to test that the amounts recognised were subsequently billed in line with the values accrued. Key observations Our retrospective reviews of estimated revenues found that management have historically achieved a high level of accuracy. We considered the estimates for revenue earned in the year to be appropriate. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC continued ACCOUNTING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF DRAX GENERATION ENTERPRISE LIMITED Key audit matter On 31 December 2018, the Group acquired Drax Generation Enterprise Limited for £686.9m. In accordance with IFRS 3 description “Business Combinations”, management has recognised the identifiable assets and the liabilities at their acquisition date fair values. Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116, the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74, and the acquisition note at 5.1. We have identified a key audit matter in relation to the assumptions applied in respect of the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) exercise, identifying in particular judgement related to the fair value of property, plant and equipment (PP&E), goodwill and any intangible assets arising. Goodwill of £74.8m has been recognised. How the We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls related to the acquisition process. scope of our We tested the acquisition balance sheet and initial fair value adjustments of the acquired businesses including audit responded challenging management with regards to the identification and valuation of PP&E, the recognition of intangible to the key assets and identification of liabilities. This was performed by assessing the adjustments applied to the acquired audit matter assets and liabilities and determining whether these have been appropriately recorded at fair value. We considered the expertise and approach taken by third party experts engaged by management to perform the PPA exercise. We evaluated the valuation work undertaken to support the acquisition, and whether contradictory evidence to the valuations adopted existed. We also used our internal valuation specialists to review the third party report and identify areas for particular focus in our work. Key observations Based on the work performed, we are satisfied that the acquired businesses have been appropriately accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”. Initial judgements in valuing PP&E in particular have been applied, including in the determination of depreciated replacement cost values. The disclosures in note 5.1 make clear that the valuation is preliminary and there could be further amendments as the valuations are finalised, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality £7.6m (2017: £6.8m) £4.6m (2017: £4.1m) Basis for We have determined materiality by considering a range We have capped materiality at 60% of the determining of possible benchmarks but with a particular focus on materiality identified for the Group. This is a materiality Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes the impact of exceptional judgement and reflects the significant value of items and certain measurements, together with profit investments held on the balance sheet at the year before and after interest and tax as well as the scale of the end (£717.0m). balance sheet and the overall size of the business. Our selected materiality represents a approximately 3.0% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year (2017: 2.9% of Adjusted EBITDA) Rationale for When determining materiality, we have considered the size When determining materiality, we considered the the benchmark and scale of the business and the nature of its operations. net assets of the company as its principal activity applied We have also considered which benchmarks would be of is as an investment holding company for the Group. relevance to the users of the financial statements and those applied to the audit of similar businesses. We consider that Adjusted EBITDA is of particular relevance to users of the financial statements and is a key measure of performance used by the Group, and excludes volatility caused in particular by the remeasurements of derivative contracts. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.4m (2017: £0.3m) for the parent company and Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 110 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy, Drax Biomass and Drax Generation Enterprise Limited. These represent the principal business units of the Group and account for virtually all of the Group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax. This is in line with 2017, other than Drax Generation Enterprise Limited which is new in the year. A full scope audit was performed for Drax Power, Haven Power and Opus Energy. For Drax Generation Enterprise Limited and Drax Biomass, specific audit procedures were performed in order to support the Group audit opinion. This scope was selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at all locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from £3.0m to £5.3m (2017: £3.5m to £5.2m). At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances. During 2018 the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Drax Power, and other senior team members also visited Drax Generation Enterprise Limited, Opus Energy and Haven Power. The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Drax Biomass in the US in 2017. In previous years, a US component team performed the audit of Drax Biomass. In the current year, the Group audit team has performed this audit, following a restructuring of Drax Biomass resulting in more of the finance function being controlled from the UK. OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included We have nothing in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. to report in respect of Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise these matters explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: • Fair, balanced and understandable – the statement given by the directors on page 104 that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • Audit committee reporting – the section describing the work of the audit committee on pages 69 to 74 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee; or • Directors’ statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code – the parts of the directors’ statement on page 58 required under the Listing Rules relating to the company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code. RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC continued AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: • enquiring of management, internal audit and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Group’s policies and procedures relating to: –identifying, – evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance; –detecting – and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud; –the – internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations; • discussing among the engagement team including all component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions, IT and financial instrument specialists, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud. As part of this discussion, we identified the potential for possible fraud risk in the following areas: the impairment of fixed assets, the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts, the cut off risk for unbilled and billed revenue, the presentation of the Consolidated income statement and the use of working capital transactions to potentially enhance cashflows; and • obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group. The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, Tax legislation, and Regulations established by regulators in the key markets in which the Group operates, including the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem). Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the presentation of the Consolidated income statement, valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts and estimation of retail unbilled revenue as key audit matters. The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters. In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: • reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above; • enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims; • performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud; • reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC; • in addressing the risk of fraud in the impairment of fixed assets, we have challenged management’s underlying assumptions and future cash flow forecasts, benchmarked key market related assumptions including future commodity prices, support mechanisms and discount rates against external data where available, and run sensitivity analysis to assess whether an impairment would be required if a range of more conservative assumptions were adopted; • in addressing the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, we have performed focussed testing on trades close to the year end combined with analytical review procedures to assess accuracy and completeness of revenue recognised; • in addressing the risk of fraud in the use of working capital transactions, we have challenged management on the rationale for all transactions entered into and reviewed the accounting treatments adopted by management against the specific contractual terms and arrangements associated with each individual transaction and reviewed the related disclosures in the financial statements; and 112 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information • in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business. We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: • the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and • the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: to report in respect of these matters • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. Directors’ remuneration We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ to report in respect remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is not in of these matters agreement with the accounting records and returns. Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 14 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2005 to 2018, inclusive. Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK). USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. James Leigh FCA (Senior statutory auditor) For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 February 2019 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION Consequently, the directors also have a reasonable expectation The consolidated financial statements provide detailed that the Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months information about the financial performance (Consolidated and, therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing income statement), financial position (Consolidated balance these financial statements. sheet), and cash flows (Consolidated cash flow statement) of Drax Group plc (the Company) together with all of the entities Basis of consolidation controlled by the Company (collectively, the Group). These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial results of the Company and of all entities controlled by the The notes to the financial statements provide additional information Company, (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. on the items in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated The Company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries. balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow statement. The notes include explanations of the information presented. In general, the The Group acquired and gained control of ScottishPower additional information in the notes to the financial statements is Generation Limited (subsequently renamed Drax Generation required by law, International Financial Reporting Standards Enterprise Limited), a company that owns and operates a portfolio (IFRS) or other regulations to facilitate increased understanding of UK hydro, pumped storage and gas-fired generation assets, at of the primary statements set out on pages 118-122. 23:59 on 31 December 2018 (the Acquired Generation Business). The assets and liabilities acquired have been included in the BASIS OF PREPARATION Group’s Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Due to the timing of the acquisition, no income, expenditure or with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the cash flows are included in the Group’s consolidated financial consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the statements in respect of the Acquired Generation Business. EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared on the historical The significant accounting policies for the measurement of an cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities that are individual item in the financial statements are described in the measured at fair value (principally derivative financial instruments note to the financial statements relating to the item concerned and those acquired as part of business combinations) and the (see contents on page 117). assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes (measured at fair value and using the projected unit credit The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the method respectively). consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Group’s annual consolidated Foreign currency transactions financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, except Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at for the adoption of new standards effective as of 1 January 2018. the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. At each The Group has not early-adopted any standard, interpretation or balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective. denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items are not retranslated. A full listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements under IFRS applicable to these financial Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on such revaluations statements is presented in note 8.2. The application of new are recognised in the income statement within finance costs. requirements has not had a material effect on the financial statements, other than in respect of IFRS 9. The transition to Foreign operations IFRS 9 is described in note 8.3. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with a functional currency other than sterling are translated into Note 8.2 also includes the anticipated impact of IFRS 16 which sterling using published exchange rates at the reporting date. will affect the financial statements in future periods. The income and expenditure of such operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting The preparation of financial statements requires judgement to be from the retranslation of the operation’s net assets and its results applied in forming the Group’s accounting policies. It also requires for the year are recognised in the Consolidated statement the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported of comprehensive income. amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Going concern The Group’s business activities, along with future developments Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an that may affect its financial performance, position and cash flows, ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which are discussed within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 49 of this the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. Annual Report. The judgements involving a higher degree of estimation or In the viability statement on page 42 the directors state that complexity are set out below and in more detail, including they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able sensitivity analysis where appropriate, in the related notes. to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years. 114 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Critical accounting judgements Sources of estimation uncertainty The critical judgements made in the process of applying the The following are the sources of estimation uncertainty that Group’s accounting policies during the year that have the most carry the most significant risk of a material effect on next year’s significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial accounts – that is, the items where actual outcomes in the next statements are set out below. 12 months could vary significantly from the estimates made in determining the reported amount of an asset or liability. Capacity market – on 15 November 2018 the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union found in favour of a claim Property, plant and equipment – property, plant and equipment against the European Commission, annulling the Commission’s is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful economic State aid approval of the UK Capacity Market. This ruling imposed life. Useful economic lives are estimated and based on past a standstill period on the Capacity Market, with payments under experience, future replacement cycles and other available existing contracts and future capacity auctions suspended evidence. Useful economic lives are reviewed annually. indefinitely until reapproval. The Government have since announced that they expect the Capacity Market to be reinstated See note 3.1 on page 135 during 2019, and that back-dated payments will be made to generators who have complied with their capacity obligations Fair value of acquired assets and liabilities – the assets and during the standstill period. liabilities of the Acquired Generation Business have been recognised at fair value in the Group’s Consolidated balance sheet. Following the ruling, the Group ceased to accrue capacity The fair values of the property, plant and equipment have been market income in Generation. Revenue accrued but unpaid calculated based on their depreciated replacement cost, before during the period from 1 October was derecognised due to adjusting to reflect either a premium for immediate availability or the current uncertainty over the recovery of these amounts a provision for economic obsolescence, as appropriate. (totalling £7 million). In addition, the terms of the acquisition include a risk-sharing Reflecting previous Government consultations and the mechanism with the vendor that may result in a change to the announcement on 7 February 2019 that the Collection Agent overall level of consideration payable in the event UK Capacity expects to recommence collection of the supplier charge from Market payments are not received during 2019. A further payment March 2019, including amounts relating to the standstill period, may be made by the vendor, or by the Group, as applicable. The Capacity Market costs have been accrued in the B2B Energy value and beneficiary of the further payment is dependent upon Supply business in full. the gross profit achieved by the acquired business in 2019 and is capped at £26 million, as described in the Circular of 5 December The impact of this approach on the Group’s financial statements 2018, published on the Group’s website. is a reduction in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of approximately £7 million. On the basis the Group believes that the Capacity Market will be reinstated during 2019, with back-payments made to generators, See note 7.6 on page 171 the fair value of the contingent payment at 31 December 2018 is considered to be £nil. The contingent arrangement could increase On the basis the Group expects the Capacity Market to be or decrease the fair value of the acquisition consideration in these reinstated during 2019, with back-payments made to generators, financial statements by up to £26 million. the suspension has not had a material impact on estimates of future cash flows for the purpose of impairment analyses in the See note 5.1 on page 148 Generation business, including the OCGT development projects. Impairment – an impairment review is conducted annually of See note 2.4 on page 128 and note 5.3 on page 150 goodwill and of other assets and cash-generating units where an indicator of possible impairment exists. In 2018, an impairment Certain remeasurements and exceptional items – management assessment has been completed for three of the Group’s CGUs makes judgements regarding transactions to exclude from the which have allocated goodwill or intangible assets with an Adjusted Results of the Group, as described under Alternative indefinite life. The assessment of future cash flows that underpins Performance Measures, below. such a review is based on management’s best estimate of retail margins, future commodity prices, supply volumes, the capacity market and economic conditions. See note 2.7 on page 132 Acquisition accounting – having assessed the circumstances of See note 2.4 on page 128 and notes 5.2 and 5.3 on page 150 the transaction to purchase the Acquired Generation Business on 31 December 2018, it was concluded that the transaction represented the acquisition of a business and not an asset purchase. The Group acquired assets, people and processes. Accordingly, the transaction has been treated as a business combination in the financial statements. See note 5.1 on page 148 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Derivatives – derivative financial instruments are recorded in the ADOPTION OF IFRS 9 AND IFRS 15 Group’s balance sheet at fair value. The assessment of fair value In the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group has applied IFRS 15 is derived from assuming a market price for the instrument in ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ and IFRS 9 ‘Financial question. The Group bases its assessment of market prices upon Instruments’ for the first time. forward curves that are largely derived from readily obtainable quotations and third party sources. However, any forward During the year, the Group reviewed the presentation of gains and curve is based at least in part upon assumptions about future losses on derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for transactions and market movements. Where such instruments hedge accounting in the consolidated income statement. Following extend beyond the liquid portion of the forward curve, the this review, the Group has elected to present these amounts in the level of estimation increases as the number of observable line item most closely related to the underlying commodity contract. transactions decreases. Previously unrealised gains and losses were presented separately. In addition, the Group has elected to apply the ‘cost of hedging’ provisions of IFRS 9, resulting in certain unrealised gains and losses previously See note 7.2 on page 167 recognised in the income statement being recognised in reserves. Revenue recognition – the nature of some of the Group’s Both of these changes have been applied retrospectively and activities, particularly within the B2B Energy Supply segment, the prior year financial statements have been restated. See note 8.3 results in revenue being based on the estimated volumes of for further details. power supplied to customers at an estimated average price per unit. Assumptions that underpin these estimates are applied Adoption of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any changes to the timing consistently and comparison of past estimates to final settlements or amount of revenue recognised. See note 8.3 for further details. suggests a high degree of accuracy. However, actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES (APMS) The Group’s financial performance for the period, measured in Revenue from contracts satisfied over time is recognised in line accordance with IFRS, is shown in the “Total Results” column on with the progress of those contracts. Assumptions are applied the face of the income statement. Exceptional items and certain consistently but actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. remeasurements are deducted from the Total Results in arriving at the “Adjusted Results” for the year. The Group’s Adjusted Results See note 2.2 on page 125 are consistent with the way executive management and the Board assess the performance of the Group, and are intended to reflect the Pensions – the Group records a net surplus or liability in its underlying trading performance of the Group’s businesses and are balance sheet for its obligation to provide benefits under presented to assist users of the accounts in evaluating the Group’s approved defined benefit pension schemes, less the fair value trading performance and performance against strategic objectives. of assets held by the pension schemes. The actuarial valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities is performed annually and Exceptional items are those transactions that, by their nature, do not depends on assumptions regarding interest rates, inflation, reflect the trading performance of the Group in the period. For future salary and pension increases, mortality and other factors, a transaction to be considered exceptional, management considers any of which are subject to future change. the nature of the transaction, the frequency of similar events, previous precedent and commercial context. Exceptional items An actuarial gain on the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme are approved by the Audit Committee. has resulted in an accounting surplus arising on the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme at 31 December 2018. The terms Certain remeasurements comprise fair value gains and losses on of the Trust Deed allow the Group to recover any surplus once derivative forward contracts to the extent those contracts do not the liabilities of the scheme have been settled; accordingly, the qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective, surplus has been recognised in full as a non-current asset on the which under IFRS are recorded in revenue or cost of sales as balance sheet. The net surplus in 2018 includes an initial estimate described above. The Group regards all of its forward contracting of amounts due in respect of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension activity to represent an economic hedge. The impact of excluding to equalise pension benefits for men and women, following a these fair value remeasurements is to reflect commodity sales and High Court ruling in October 2018. purchases at contracted prices (the price paid or received in respect of delivery of the commodity in question), taking into account the impact of financial trading (such as forward foreign currency See note 6.3 on page 157 purchases), in the Adjusted Results. Taxation – in accounting for both current and deferred tax the Further information on exceptional items and certain Group makes assumptions regarding the likely treatment of items remeasurements in the current and previous period is included of income and expenditure for tax purposes. These assumptions in note 2.7 to the financial statements. are based on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, consultation with external advisers. The Group presents an additional subtotal in the Adjusted Results column. Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation See note 2.6 on page 130 and amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. Adjusted EBITDA is the primary measure used by the Board and executive management to assess the financial performance of the Group. 116 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS > SECTION 1 > SECTION 5 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 118 Consolidated income statement 148 5.1 Acquisitions 119 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 149 5.2 Goodwill 120 Consolidated balance sheet 150 5.3 Intangible assets 121 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 152 5.4 Provisions 122 Consolidated cash flow statement > SECTION 6 > SECTION 2 OUR PEOPLE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 153 6.1 Employees and directors 123 2.1 Segmental reporting 153 6.2 Share-based payments 125 2.2 Revenue 157 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations 127 2.3 Operating expenses 128 2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment > SECTION 7 129 2.5 Net finance costs RISK MANAGEMENT 130 2.6 Current and deferred taxation 163 7.1 Financial risk management 132 2.7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items 167 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 133 2.8 Earnings per share 169 7.3 Other financial instruments 134 2.9 Dividends 170 7.4 Hedge reserve 134 2.10 Retained profits 171 7.5 Cost of hedging reserve 171 7.6 Contingent assets and liabilities > SECTION 3 172 7.7 Commitments OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL 135 3.1 Property, plant and equipment > SECTION 8 137 3.2 Other fixed asset investments REFERENCE INFORMATION 138 3.3 ROC assets 173 8.1 General information 138 3.4 Inventories 173 8.2 Basis of preparation 139 3.5 Trade and other receivables 175 8.3 Adoption of new accounting standards and change 141 3.6 Contract costs in presentation of income statement 141 3.7 Trade and other payables 177 8.4 Related party transactions 178 8.5 Unaudited Pro forma financial information of the > SECTION 4 enlarged group FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE 142 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt DRAX GROUP PLC 142 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 182 Company financial statements 142 4.3 Borrowings 184 Notes to the Company financial statements 145 4.4 Cash generated from operations 146 4.5 Equity and reserves Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 117 SECTION 1: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated(5) Exceptional Exceptional items and items and certain certain Adjusted remeasureTotal Adjusted remeasureTotal Results(1) ments Results Results(1) ments Results Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2.2 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 3,685.2 (0.9) 3,684.3 Cost of sales (3,636.3) 46.7 (3,589.6) (3,140.2) (176.0) (3,316.2) Gross profit 601.0 38.4 639.4 545.0 (176.9) 368.1 Operating and administrative expenses 2.3 (320.0) – (320.0) (297.4) – (297.4) Impairment losses on trade receivables 3.5 (31.4) – (31.4) (18.7) – (18.7) Adjusted EBITDA(2) 249.6 228.9 Depreciation 3.1 (129.2) – (129.2) (122.7) – (122.7) Amortisation 5.3 (44.6) – (44.6) (43.6) – (43.6) Asset obsolescence charge 3.1 – (26.8) (26.8) – – – Losses on disposals 3.1 (3.9) – (3.9) (15.4) – (15.4) Other gains/(losses) 4.1 – 4.1 (0.4) – (0.4) Acquisition and restructuring costs(3) 2.7 – (27.7) (27.7) – (7.8) (7.8) Operating profit/(loss) 76.0 (16.1) 59.9 46.8 (184.7) (137.9) Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 2.5 0.3 – 0.3 (10.6) – (10.6) Interest payable and similar charges (4) 2.5 (40.4) (7.2) (47.6) (31.5) (24.2) (55.7) Interest receivable 2.5 1.2 – 1.2 0.2 – 0.2 Profit/(loss) before tax 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 4.9 (208.9) (204.0) Tax: – Before effect of changes in rate of tax 2.6 0.2 1.6 1.8 3.2 38.3 41.5 – Prior year patent box credit 2.6 4.8 – 4.8 10.3 – 10.3 – Effect of changes in rate of tax 2.6 (0.2) – (0.2) (15.7) – (15.7) Total tax credit/(charge) 4.8 1.6 6.4 (2.2) 38.3 36.1 Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders 41.9 (21.7) 20.2 2.7 (170.6) (167.9) Earnings/(loss) per share Pence Pence Pence Pence – Basic 2.8 10.4 5.0 0.7 (41.3) – Diluted 2.8 10.3 4.9 0.7 (40.9) All results relate to continuing operations. Notes: (1) Adjusted Results are stated after adjusting for exceptional items (including acquisition and restructuring costs, asset obsolescence charges and debt restructuring costs), and certain remeasurements. See note 2.7 for further details. (2) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as: earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements (3) Acquisition and restructuring costs includes costs associated with the acquisition and on-boarding of ScottishPower Generation Limited (2018) and Opus Energy Group Limited (2017) into the Group along with costs associated with the restructuring of our Pellet Production and B2B Energy Supply businesses. (4) Interest payable and other similar charges includes the cost of debt restructure which comprises one-off costs associated with the refinancing of the Group’s debt (5) Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9, see note 8.3 118 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated(1) Notes £m £m Profit/(loss) for the year 20.2 (167.9) Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 6.3 15.9 21.4 Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 2.6 (3.0) (4.1) Gain on equity investments 0.2 – Net fair value gains on cost of hedging 7.5 24.8 19.5 Deferred tax on cost of hedging 2.6 (4.7) (3.7) Net fair value gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 7.4 164.3 (137.3) Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 2.6 (31.2) 25.0 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4.5 7.2 3.4 Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 7.4 21.4 3.8 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 2.6 (4.2) (0.7) Other comprehensive income/(expense) 190.7 (72.7) Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable to equity holders 210.9 (240.6) (1) Results from the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9, see note 8.3 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 119 SECTION 1: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2017 2018 Restated(1) Notes £m £m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 5.2 244.7 169.9 Intangible assets 5.3 228.8 232.0 Property, plant and equipment 3.1 2,292.3 1,661.9 Other fixed asset investments 3.2 2.4 1.3 Retirement benefit surplus 6.3 22.7 – Deferred tax assets 2.6 31.8 22.7 Derivative financial instruments 7.2 295.2 190.7 3,117.9 2,278.5 Current assets Inventories 3.4 222.5 272.1 ROC assets 3.3 216.7 145.5 Trade and other receivables and contract-related assets 3.5 468.8 417.5 Derivative financial instruments 7.2 215.4 175.5 Current tax assets 2.6 – 6.2 Cash and cash equivalents 4.2 289.0 222.3 1,412.4 1,239.1 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables and contract-related liabilities 3.7 (938.5) (732.4) Amounts payable in respect of acquisitions 5.1 (686.9) (4.1) Current tax liabilities 2.6 (7.6) – Borrowings 4.3 (0.1) (18.6) Derivative financial instruments 7.2 (89.4) (109.6) (1,722.5) (864.7) Net current (liabilities)/assets (310.1) 374.4 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 4.3 (608.0) (571.1) Derivative financial instruments 7.2 (62.0) (94.2) Provisions 5.4 (50.8) (36.3) Deferred tax liabilities 2.6 (316.0) (230.0) Retirement benefit obligations 6.3 – (1.2) (1,036.8) (932.8) Net assets 1,771.0 1,720.1 Shareholders’ equity Issued equity 4.5 47.0 47.0 Share premium 4.5 424.7 424.3 Treasury shares 4.5 (47.1) – Hedge reserve 7.4 199.9 126.1 Cost of hedging reserve 7.5 (8.9) (40.7) Other reserves 4.5 712.7 705.5 Retained profits 2.10 442.7 457.9 Total shareholders’ equity 1,771.0 1,720.1 (1) The balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9, see note 8.3 The consolidated financial statements of Drax Group plc, registered number 5562053, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 25 February 2019. Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Will Gardiner Chief Executive 120 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Hedge Cost of Retained Issued Share Treasury reserve hedging Other profits equity premium Shares (restated) (restated) reserves (restated) Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2017 – as presented 47.0 424.2 – 305.4 – 702.1 566.5 2,045.2 Adoption of IFRS 9 (note 8.3) – – – – (57.5) – 57.5 – At 1 January 2017 – restated 47.0 424.2 _ 305.4 (57.5) 702.1 624.0 2,045.2 Loss for the year – – – – – – (167.9) (167.9) Other comprehensive (expense)/income – – – (109.2) 15.8 3.4 17.3 (72.7) Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – – (109.2) 15.8 3.4 (150.6) (240.6) Equity dividends paid (note 2.9) – – – – – – (21.6) (21.6) Issue of share capital (note 4.5) – 0.1 – – – – – 0.1 Movements on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – (85.7) – – – (85.7) Deferred tax on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – 15.6 – – – 15.6 Movements on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – 1.3 – – 1.3 Deferred tax on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – (0.3) – – (0.3) Movement in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2) – – – – – – 6.1 6.1 At 31 December 2017 47.0 424.3 – 126.1 (40.7) 705.5 457.9 1,720.1 Profit for the year – – – – – – 20.2 20.2 Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – 150.3 20.1 7.2 13.1 190.7 Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – – 150.3 20.1 7.2 33.3 210.9 Equity dividends paid (note 2.9) – – – – – – (52.5) (52.5) Issue of share capital (note 4.5) – 0.4 – – – – – 0.4 Movements on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – (94.2) – – – (94.2) Deferred tax on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – 17.7 – – – 17.7 Movements on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – 14.5 – – 14.5 Deferred tax on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – (2.8) – – (2.8) Repurchase of shares (note 4.5)(i) – – (47.1) – – – – (47.1) Movement in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2) – – – – – – 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2018 47.0 424.7 (47.1) 199.9 (8.9) 712.7 442.7 1,771.0 (i) Repurchase of shares reflects the cost of acquiring ordinary shares as part of the share buy-back programme announced on 20 April 2018. At 31 December 2018 these shares have not been cancelled and are recognised as treasury shares (ii) The year ended 31 December 2017 has been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9, see note 8.3 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 121 SECTION 1: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 Notes £m £m Cash generated from operations 4.4 336.4 375.7 Income taxes paid (1.0) (14.0) Other gains/(losses) 0.4 (0.1) Interest paid (25.9) (46.6) Interest received 1.2 0.2 Net cash from operating activities 311.1 315.2 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (103.8) (159.0) Purchases of software assets (28.8) (15.7) Other investments (0.9) – Acquisition of subsidiaries – (379.8) Net cash used in investing activities (133.5) (554.5) Cash flows from financing activities Equity dividends paid 2.9 (52.5) (21.6) Proceeds from issue of share capital 0.4 0.1 Purchase of own shares (47.1) – Repayment of borrowings (218.5) (493.8) New borrowings drawn down 213.3 768.5 Other financing costs paid (7.6) (17.9) Net cash generated (absorbed by)/generated from financing activities (112.0) 235.3 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 65.6 (4.0) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 222.3 228.4 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 1.1 (2.1) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 4.2 289.0 222.3 The consideration of £687 million due in respect of the Acquired Generation Business was settled subsequent to the year end on 2 January 2019. There were no material non-cash transactions in either the current or previous year. The Group recorded a net loss of £21.7 million arising on exceptional items and certain remeasurements in the Consolidated income statement in 2018. Acquisition and restructuring costs of £27.7 million are included in cash generated from operations (see note 4.4) and cash paid in respect of debt restructuring of £2.0 million in cash used in financing activities. All other exceptional items and remeasurements are non-cash and adjusted in the reconciliation shown in note 4.4. 122 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The financial performance section gives further information about the items in the Consolidated income statement. It includes a summary of financial performance by each of the Group’s businesses (note 2.1), analysis of certain income statement items (notes 2.2–2.6) and information regarding the Adjusted and Total Results, distributable profits and dividends (notes 2.7–2.10). Further commentary on the Group’s trading and operational performance during the year, which is predominantly reflected in Adjusted EBITDA, can be found in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 49, with particular reference to key transactions and market conditions that have affected the results. 2.1 SEGMENTAL REPORTING The Group is organised into three businesses, with a dedicated management team for each and a central corporate office providing certain specialist and shared functions. Our businesses are: • Power Generation: power generation activities in the UK; • Pellet Production: production of sustainable compressed wood pellets at our processing facilities in the US; and • B2B Energy Supply: supply of electricity and gas to business customers in the UK. The generation assets acquired from ScottishPower will form part of the Power Generation segment. No profit or loss has been recognised in respect of these assets in 2018 as the assets were acquired at 23:59 on 31 December 2018. The operating segments are consistent with the prior year. Each business is an operating segment for the purpose of segmental reporting. Information reported to the Board for the purposes of assessing performance and making investment decisions is based on these three operating segments. The measure of profit or loss for each reportable segment presented to the Board on a regular basis is Adjusted EBITDA (as defined on page 116). Operating costs are allocated to segments to the extent they are directly attributable to the activities of that segment. Corporate office costs are included within central costs. Segment revenues and results The following is an analysis of the Group’s performance by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2018. The Board monitors the Adjusted Results for the Group by operating segment as presented in the tables below: Year ended 31 December 2018 Exceptional items and certain Power B2B Energy Pellet Intra-group Adjusted remeasureTotal Generation Supply Production eliminations Results ments Results £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue External sales 1,994.9 2,242.4 – – 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 Inter-segment sales 1,336.7 – 213.7 (1,550.4) – – – Total revenue 3,331.6 2,242.4 213.7 (1,550.4) 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 Segment gross profit 396.0 143.4 65.1 (3.5) 601.0 38.4 639.4 Segment Adjusted EBITDA 232.4 28.2 20.8 (3.5) 277.9 Central costs (28.3) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 249.6 Acquisition and restructuring costs – (27.7) (27.7) Depreciation and amortisation (173.8) (26.8) (200.6) Losses on disposals (3.9) – (3.9) Other gains 4.1 – 4.1 Operating profit 76.0 (16.1) 59.9 Net finance costs (39.2) (7.2) (46.4) Foreign exchange gains 0.3 – 0.3 Profit before tax 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 123 SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued 2.1 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued The following is an analysis of the Group’s performance by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2017 (restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9, see note 8.3): Year ended 31 December 2017 (Restated) Exceptional items and certain Power B2B Energy Pellet Intra-group Adjusted remeasureTotal Generation Supply Production eliminations Results ments Results £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue External sales 1,686.2 1,999.0 – – 3,685.2 (0.9) 3,684.3 Inter-segment sales 1,033.4 – 135.7 (1,169.1) – – – Total revenue 2,719.6 1,999.0 135.7 (1,169.1) 3,685.2 (0.9) 3,684.3 Segment gross profit 398.4 117.4 39.0 (9.8) 545.0 (176.9) 368.1 Segment Adjusted EBITDA 237.5 29.4 5.5 (9.8) 262.6 Central costs (33.7) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 228.9 Acquisition and restructuring costs – (7.8) (7.8) Depreciation and amortisation (166.3) – (166.3) Other losses (0.4) – (0.4) Loss on disposal (15.4) – (15.4) Operating profit/(loss) 46.8 (184.7) (137.9) Net finance costs (31.3) (24.2) (55.5) Foreign exchange losses (10.6) – (10.6) Profit/(loss) before tax 4.9 (208.9) (204.0) The accounting policies applied for the purpose of measuring the segments’ profits or losses, assets and liabilities are the same as those used in measuring the corresponding amounts in the Group’s financial statements. The external revenues and results of all the reporting segments are subject to seasonality, with higher dispatch and prices in the winter months compared to summer months. Capital expenditure by segment Assets and working capital are monitored on a consolidated basis; however, spend on capital projects is monitored by operating segment. Additions Additions Additions to to property, Additions to to property, intangible plant and intangible plant and assets equipment assets equipment 2018 2018 2017 2017 £m £m £m £m Power Generation – 86.5 2.4 77.0 B2B Energy Supply 28.3 2.2 12.6 17.6 Pellet Production 0.3 20.2 0.4 66.2 Corporate unallocated 0.3 4.7 0.6 3.8 Total 28.9 113.6 16.0 164.6 Additional assets with a fair value of £690.6 million were acquired as part of the business combination described in note 5.1. Total cash outflows in relation to capital expenditure during the year were £132.6 million (2017: £174.7 million). Key capital investments in the year include the conversion of the fourth unit at Drax Power Station to run on biomass fuel and preparatory work for the repowering of the fifth and sixth units to gas (Power Generation); investment in digital transformation in the B2B Energy Supply segment; and expansion projects in the Pellet Production segment. The prior year includes £48 million for the purchase of the LaSalle Bioenergy pellet plant. 124 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.1 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued Intra-group trading Intra-group transactions are carried out at management’s best estimate of arm’s-length, commercial terms that, where possible, equate to market prices at the time of the transaction. During 2018, the Pellet Production segment sold wood pellets with a total value of £213.7 million (2017: £135.7 million) to the Power Generation segment and the Power Generation segment sold electricity, gas and ROCs with a total value of £1,336.7 million (2017: £1,033.4 million) to the B2B Energy Supply segment. The impact of all intra-group transactions, including any unrealised profit arising, is eliminated on consolidation. Major customers Total consolidated revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018 includes £555.8 million from one individual customer (2017: no amounts from any individual customer) that represented 10% or more of total revenue for the year. These revenues arose in the Power Generation segment. 2.2 REVENUE Accounting policy The Group has adopted IFRS 15 for the first time in 2018. The accounting policies have been updated, however the amount and timing of revenue recognition in the Group’s financial statements is unchanged (see note 8.3). Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided to customers in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes and excluding transactions between Group companies. Revenues from the sale of electricity by our Power Generation business are measured based upon metered output delivered at rates specified under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable. Following conversion of the fourth unit in July 2018, three biomass-fuelled generating units at Drax Power Station earn Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) under the UK Government’s Renewables Obligation (RO) regime. The financial benefit of a ROC is recognised in the income statement at the point the relevant renewable biomass fuel is burnt and power dispatched as a reduction in the cost of the biomass fuel. A corresponding asset is recognised on the balance sheet (see note 3.3). Revenue from sale of ROCs is recognised when the ROC is transferred to a third party. The Group recognises the income or costs arising from the CfD (see below) in the income statement as a component of revenue at the point the Group meets its performance obligation under the CfD contract. This is considered to be the point at which the relevant generation is delivered and the payment becomes contractually due. Revenue from the sale of electricity and gas directly to business customers through the B2B Energy Supply business is recognised on the supply of electricity or gas when a contract exists, supply has taken place, a quantifiable price has been established or can be determined and the receivables are expected to be recovered at the point of sale. Energy supplied is measured based upon metered consumption and contractual rates; however, where a supply has taken place but is not yet measured or billed, the revenue is estimated based on consumption statistics and selling price estimates and is recognised as accrued income. Revenue for contracts satisfied over time is recognised in line with the progress of those contracts. The measurement of progress is based on cost inputs for fixed price B2B Energy Supply contracts, and volume supplied for other contracts. Assumptions are applied consistently but third party costs can be variable, therefore actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. The Group is eligible for, and therefore applies, the practical expedient available in IFRS 15 and has not disclosed information related to the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations. The right to receive consideration from a customer is at an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Group’s performance completed to date. Other revenues derived from the provision of services to National Grid (for example, the supply of system support services) are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contractual performance obligations. Most such contracts are for the delivery of a service either continually or on an ad-hoc basis over a period of time and thus stage of completion is calculated by reference to the amount of the contract term that has elapsed. Depending on the contract terms this approach may require judgement in estimating probable future outcomes. Other revenues derived from the sale of goods (for example, by-products from electricity generation such as ash and gypsum) are recognised at the point the control of the goods is transferred to the customer, typically at the point of delivery to the customer’s premises. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 125 SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued 2.2 REVENUE continued CfD payments The Group is party to a Contract for Difference (CfD) with the Low Carbon Contracts Company (LCCC), a Government-owned entity responsible for delivering elements of the Government’s Electricity Market Reform Programme. Under the contract, the Group makes or receives payments in respect of electricity dispatched from a specific biomass-fuelled generating unit. The payment is calculated by reference to a strike price of £100 per MWh. The base year for the strike price was 2012 and it increases each year in line with the UK Consumer Price Index and changes in system balancing costs. The strike price at 31 December 2018 was £111 per MWh. When market prices at the point of generation are above/below the strike price, the Group makes/receives an additional payment to/ from LCCC equivalent to the difference between the market power price at the point of dispatch and the strike price. Such payments are in addition to amounts received from the sale of the power in the wholesale market and either increase or limit the total income from the power dispatched from the relevant generating unit to the strike price in the CfD contract. ROC sales The generation and sale of ROCs is a key driver of the Group’s financial performance. The RO scheme places an obligation on electricity suppliers to source an increasing proportion of their electricity from renewable sources. Under the RO, ROCs are certificates issued to generators of renewable electricity which are then sold to bilateral counterparties, including suppliers to demonstrate that they have fulfilled their obligations under the RO. ROCs are managed in compliance periods (CPs), running from April to March annually, CP1 commenced in April 2002. At 31 December 2018 we are in CP17. To meet its obligations a supplier can either submit ROCs or pay the “buy-out” price at the end of the CP. The buy-out price was set at £30 per ROC in CP1 and rises with inflation. The buy-out price in CP17 is £47.22. ROCs are typically procured in arm’s-length transactions with renewable generators at a market price typically slightly lower than the buy-out price for that CP. At the end of the CP, the amounts collected from suppliers paying the buy-out price form the “recycle fund”, which is distributed on a pro-rata basis to ROC generators. The financial benefit of a ROC recognised in the income statement at the point of generation is thus comprised of two parts: the expected value to be obtained in a sale transaction with a third party supplier and the expected recycle fund benefit to be received at the end of the CP. During the year, the Group made sales (and related purchases) of ROCs to help optimise our working capital position. External sales of ROCs in the table below include £555.8 million of such sales (2017: £201.2 million), with a similar value reflected in cost of sales. See note 3.3 for further details of ROCs generated and sold by the Power Generation business and those utilised by the B2B Energy Supply business in the year. Further analysis of revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018 is provided in the table below: Year ended 31 December 2018 External Intra-group Total £m £m £m Power Generation Electricity sales 983.4 1,020.4 2,003.8 ROC sales 664.5 316.3 980.8 CfD income 321.5 – 321.5 Ancillary services 18.8 – 18.8 Other income 6.7 – 6.7 B2B Energy Supply Electricity and gas sales 2,195.9 – 2,195.9 Other income 46.5 – 46.5 Pellet Production Pellet sales – 213.7 213.7 Elimination of intra-group sales – (1,550.4) (1,550.4) Total adjusted consolidated revenue 4,237.3 – 4,237.3 Certain remeasurements (8.3) – (8.3) Total consolidated revenue 4,229.0 – 4,229.0 Certain remeasurements of £(8.3) million (2017: £(0.9) million) are comprised of gains and losses on gas derivative contracts not designated into hedge accounting relationships under IFRS 9. Power Generation electricity sales includes £4.3 million proceeds from an insurance claim received in the year (2017: £4.0 million). 126 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.2 REVENUE continued The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017: Year ended 31 December 2017 (Restated) External Intra-group Total £m £m £m Power Generation Electricity sales 1,030.9 774.5 1,805.4 ROC and LEC sales 367.8 258.9 626.7 CfD income 248.2 – 248.2 Ancillary services 30.7 – 30.7 Other income 8.6 – 8.6 B2B Energy Supply Electricity and gas sales 1,933.9 – 1,933.9 Pellet sales 6.3 – 6.3 Other income 58.8 – 58.8 Pellet Production Pellet sales – 135.7 135.7 Elimination of intra-group sales – (1,169.1) (1,169.1) Total adjusted consolidated revenue 3,685.2 – 3,685.2 Certain remeasurements (0.9) – (0.9) Total consolidated revenue 3,684.3 – 3,684.3 2.3 OPERATING EXPENSES This note sets out the material components of Operating and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement, page 118, and a detailed breakdown of the fees paid to our auditor, Deloitte LLP, in respect of services they provided to the Group during the year. Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m The following expenditure has been charged in arriving at operating profit: Staff costs (note 6.1) 145.7 137.1 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 45.7 50.7 Other operating and administrative expenses 128.6 109.6 Total operating and administrative expenses 320.0 297.4 The prior year has been restated for the initial application of IFRS 9 (see note 8.3). Operating lease costs of £3.3 million in respect of land and buildings and £1.6 million in respect of other operating leases (2017: £2.3 million and £5.7 million) are included in other operating and administrative expenses. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 127 SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued 2.3 OPERATING EXPENSES continued Auditor’s remuneration Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £000 £000 Audit fees: Fees payable for the audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 905.1 652.8 Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 32.4 31.4 937.5 684.2 Other fees: Review of the Group’s half-year condensed consolidated financial statements 91.0 88.5 Other services 2.0 2.0 Total audit-related fees 1,030.5 774.7 Other assurance services 1,335.0 125.0 Other non-audit fees 139.0 – Total non-audit fees 1,474.0 125.0 Total auditor’s remuneration 2,504.5 899.7 The Group fee relates to the audit of all the subsidiaries to a statutory materiality. In addition certain head office companies are not required for the Group audit opinion, the allocation of which is included in the fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries disclosed above. Other assurance services provided by Deloitte LLP in 2018 consist of agreed upon procedures and other assurance services provided in connection with the bond finance raised in April 2018, and reporting accountant and related services for the Class I circular issued for the ScottishPower transaction in December 2018 (2017: assurance and agreed-upon procedures performed in relation to the bond finance raised in May 2017). Other non-audit fees comprised a review of IT resilience and Disaster Recovery processes. Non-audit services are approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the policy set out on the Group‘s website (www.drax.com/policies) and discussed further in the Audit Committee report on page 69. 2.4 REVIEW OF FIXED ASSETS FOR IMPAIRMENT Accounting policy The Group reviews its fixed assets (or, where appropriate, groups of assets known as cash-generating units (CGUs)) whenever there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been suffered. The Group assesses the existence of indicators of impairment annually. The Group considers the smallest collections of assets that generate independent cash flows to be its operating entities (Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy, Drax Biomass and the OCGTs) and accordingly considers the Group to be comprised of five CGUs. The assets of the Acquired Generation Business have been recognised on the Group’s Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 at fair value (see note 5.1). These assets are therefore not included in the impairment review at 31 December 2018. If an indication of potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU in question is assessed with reference to the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of the asset or CGU (value in use) or the expected price that would be received to sell the asset to another market participant (fair value less costs to sell). The initial assessment of recoverable amount is normally based on value in use. Where value in use is calculated, the assessment of future cash flows is based on the most recent approved business plan and includes all of the necessary costs expected to be incurred to generate the cash inflows from the CGU’s assets in their current state and condition, including an allocation of centrally managed costs. Central costs are only allocated where they are necessary for and directly attributable to the CGU’s activities. Future cash flows include, where relevant, contracted cash flows arising from our cash flow hedging activities and as a result the carrying amount of each CGU includes the mark-to-market value of those cash flow hedges. The additional value that could be obtained from enhancing or converting the Group’s assets is not reflected, nor the potential benefit of any future restructuring or reorganisation. In determining value in use, the estimate of future cash flows is discounted to present value using a pre-tax rate reflecting the specific risks attributable to the CGU in question. If the recoverable amount is less than the current carrying amount in the financial statements, a provision is made to reduce the carrying amount of the asset or CGU to the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill balances and intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life are assessed for impairment annually (see note 5.2 and 5.3). 128 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.4 REVIEW OF FIXED ASSETS FOR IMPAIRMENT continued Assessment of indicators of impairment A review of the Group’s CGUs did not give rise to any indicators of impairment. Accordingly no detailed impairment calculation has been completed for CGUs where no goodwill is allocated (Drax Power and Drax Biomass). The review considered the effect on previously calculated headroom of movements in market prices for commodities and changes in foreign exchange rates. The review also considered the impact of the recent suspension in Capacity Market payments. The Group’s core planning assumption reflects the belief that the UK electricity market needs a capacity mechanism to ensure continuity of supply and that the Capacity Market will be reinstated during 2019. As a result, estimates of future cash flows are not materially affected by the current suspension. Separate consideration has been given to the impact on the OCGT development assets, see note 5.3. 2.5 NET FINANCE COSTS Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing our debt structure (such as interest payable on our bonds) as well as foreign exchange gains and losses, the unwinding of discount on provisions for reinstatement of our sites at the end of their useful lives (see note 5.4) and net interest charged on the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme obligation (see note 6.3). These are offset by interest income that the Group generates through efficient use of short-term cash surpluses – for example through investment in money market funds. On 26 April 2018, the Group issued loan notes of USD $300 million, listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The proceeds of the issue were used to repay in full the £200 million floating rate loan notes issued in 2017. Incremental costs of the new borrowing (£3.8 million) have been deferred and are being amortised over the period to maturity of the debt instrument. Deferred costs of £5.2 million in relation to the floating rate notes have been written off in the period, in addition to an early repayment charge of £2.0 million (2017: deferred costs of £10.4 million and early repayment charges of £13.8 million in relation to the refinancing of the Group’s previous debt structure). As described in note 2.7, these costs have been excluded from the Adjusted Results and are presented as exceptional items in arriving at Total Results. Further information about the Group’s financing structure can be found in note 4.3. Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Interest payable and similar charges: Interest payable on borrowings (36.3) (25.6) Unwinding of discount on provisions (note 5.4) (0.9) (0.7) Amortisation of deferred finance costs (3.1) (3.5) Net finance cost in respect of defined benefit scheme (note 6.3) 0.1 (0.5) Other financing charges (0.2) (1.2) Total interest payable and similar charges included in adjusted results (40.4) (31.5) Interest receivable: Interest income on bank deposits 1.2 0.2 Total interest receivable included in adjusted results 1.2 0.2 Foreign exchange gains/(losses) included in adjusted results 0.3 (10.6) Total recurring net interest charge included in adjusted results (38.9) (41.9) Exceptional costs of debt restructure: Fees to exit existing facilities (2.0) (13.8) Acceleration of deferred costs in relation to previous facilities (5.2) (10.4) Total exceptional costs of debt restructure (7.2) (24.2) Total net interest charge (46.1) (66.1) Foreign exchange gains and losses in interest arise on the retranslation of non-derivative balances and investments denominated in foreign currencies to prevailing rates at the balance sheet date. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 129 SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued 2.6 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax. Current tax is the estimated amount of tax payable on this year’s taxable profits (which are adjusted for items upon which the Group is not required to pay tax or, in some cases, for items which are not allowable for tax purposes and therefore on which additional tax is required) and adjusted for estimates for previous years. Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules. This is reflected in differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits. The tax credit reflects the estimated effective tax rate on the loss before tax for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the movement in the deferred tax balance in the year, so far as it relates to items recognised in the income statement. Accounting policy Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is based on the taxable profit or loss for the year in the relevant jurisdiction. Taxable profit or loss differs from profit/loss before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expenditure that are either taxable or deductible in other years or never taxable/deductible. The Group’s liability (or asset) for current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the current and deferred tax are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. Significant estimation uncertainty In accounting for taxation the Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes. The Group believes that these assumptions are reasonable based on prior experience and consultation with advisers. Full provision is made for deferred taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered. Where such assets relate to losses incurred by a business unit, particularly one with a history of losses, the Group seeks evidence other than its own internal forecasts to support recognition of the related deferred tax asset. Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Total tax charge/(credit) comprises: Current tax – Current year 17.0 20.3 – Adjustments in respect of prior periods (5.2) (10.6) Deferred tax – Before impact of tax rate changes (18.4) (61.5) – Impact of tax rate changes 0.2 15.7 Total tax credit (6.4) (36.1) Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Tax charged/(credited) on items recognised in other comprehensive income: Deferred tax on actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension scheme 3.0 4.1 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 35.4 (24.3) Deferred tax on cost of hedging 4.7 3.7 43.1 (16.5) 130 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.6 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION continued Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Tax charged/(credited) on items released directly from equity: Deferred tax on cost of hedging 2.8 0.2 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges (17.7) (15.6) (14.9) (15.4) UK corporation tax is the main rate of tax for the Group and is calculated at 19.00% (2017: 19.25%) of the assessable profit or loss for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on jurisdictional tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Exceptional items Exceptional items Adjusted and certain Adjusted and certain Total Results Results remeasurments Total Results Results remeasurements (Restated) £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit/(loss) before tax 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 4.9 (208.9) (204.0) Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.00% (2017: 19.25%) 7.0 (4.4) 2.6 0.9 (40.2) (39.3) Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior periods (5.7) – (5.7) (11.8) – (11.8) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.1 3.5 4.6 – 1.3 1.3 Impact of change to tax rate 0.2 – 0.2 15.7 – 15.7 Difference in overseas tax rates (0.3) – (0.3) (3.0) – (3.0) Patent box benefit (8.1) – (8.1) (2.6) – (2.6) Other 1.0 (0.7) 0.3 3.0 0.6 3.6 Total tax (credit)/charge (4.8) (1.6) (6.4) 2.2 (38.3) (36.1) As a result of the reduction in the US federal tax rates from 2018 to 21%, and tax relief now arising to the Group from the UK Patent Box regime (see below), in the medium term we anticipate our Group underlying effective tax rate to be marginally lower than the main rate of corporation tax in the UK. Drax Power was granted a patent to protect certain intellectual property it owns and which attaches to the technology developed to manage the combustion process in generating electricity from biomass. Under UK tax legislation the Company is now entitled to apply a lower rate of tax to some of its profits each year which are derived from utilisation of that technology. Adjustments in respect of prior periods includes a claim agreed in respect of the Patent Box regime for previous years of £4.8 million (2017: £10.3 million). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 131 SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued 2.6 CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during each year are shown below. Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets Financial Accelerated instruments capital Non-trade Intangible Trade Other Other (restated) allowances losses assets losses liabilities assets Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2017 (100.8) (170.9) – – 38.8 (25.6) 16.8 (241.7) Acquisition of Opus Energy – – – (40.7) – – – (40.7) Credited/(charged) to the income statement 33.7 8.7 – 7.5 (8.5) 7.1 (2.7) 45.8 Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of actuarial gains – – – – – – (4.1) (4.1) Credited to other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges 24.3 – – – – – – 24.3 Charged to other comprehensive income in respect to cost of hedging (3.7) – – – – – – (3.7) Credited to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 15.6 – – – – – – 15.6 Charged to equity in respect of cost of hedging (0.3) – – – – – – (0.3) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates – 1.2 – – (3.4) – (0.3) (2.5) At 1 January 2018 (31.2) (161.0) – (33.2) 26.9 (18.5) 9.7 (207.3) Effect of acquisition – (48.5) – – – (20.0) – (68.5) (Charged)/credited to the income statement (7.4) 6.5 2.0 7.1 (6.1) 5.3 11.0 18.4 Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of actuarial gains – – – – – – (3.0) (3.0) Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges (35.4) – – – – – – (35.4) Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of cost of hedging (4.7) – – – – – – (4.7) Credited to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 17.7 – – – – – – 17.7 Charged to equity in respect of cost of hedging (2.8) – – – – – – (2.8) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates – – – – 1.4 – – 1.4 At 31 December 2018 (63.8) (203.0) 2.0 (26.1) 22.2 (33.2) 17.7 (284.2) Deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes: Net deferred tax asset – (11.1) 2.0 – 22.2 – 18.7 31.8 Net deferred tax liability (63.8) (191.9) – (26.1) – (33.2) (1.0) (316.0) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so, otherwise they are shown separately in the balance sheet. Within the above deferred tax balances is a net deferred tax asset of £31.8 million (2017: £22.7 million) in relation to start-up losses and other temporary differences in the US-based Pellet Production business. Based on its business plan and reflecting continuing improvement in operational performance, the Group anticipates generating sufficient profits in future periods against which to utilise this asset. 2.7 CERTAIN REMEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the Adjusted Results column of the Consolidated income statement. In order to provide a clear and consistent view of trading performance, certain remeasurements and exceptional items are presented in a separate column. The Group believes that this presentation provides useful information about the financial performance of the business and is consistent with the way executive management, the Board and the analysts assess the performance of the business. The Group has a framework for the determination of transactions as exceptional. Transactions presented as exceptional are approved by the Audit Committee. In these financial statements, the following transactions have been designated as exceptional items and presented separately: • Acquisition and restructuring costs associated with the acquisition and on-boarding of ScottishPower Generation Limited (2018) and Opus Energy Group Limited (2017) into the Group, along with costs associated with the restructuring of the Pellet Production and B2B Energy Supply businesses. 132 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.7 CERTAIN REMEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS continued • Costs incurred as a result of restructuring the Group’s debt in 2018 and 2017, including facility break costs and the acceleration of the amortisation of deferred finance costs associated with the redeemed facilities. • Asset obsolescence charges relating to coal-specific assets written-off following the conversion of the fourth unit at Drax Power Station to run on biomass. Certain remeasurements comprise gains or losses on derivative contracts to the extent that those contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective, and those gains or losses are either i) unrealised and relate to the delivery of commodity contracts in future periods, or ii) are realised in relation to the delivery of commodity contracts in the current period. The effect of excluding certain remeasurements from the Adjusted Results is to reflect commodity sales and purchases at contracted prices – i.e. at the all-in-hedged amount paid or received in respect of the delivery of the commodity in question, to better present the trading performance of the Group in Adjusted Results. Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Exceptional items: Acquisition and restructuring costs (27.7) (7.8) Asset obsolescence charges (26.8) – Exceptional items included within Operating Profit (54.5) (7.8) Cost of debt restructure (7.2) (24.2) Exceptional items included in Profit Before Tax (61.7) (32.0) Taxation on Exceptional items 9.0 4.7 Exceptional items after taxation (52.7) (27.3) Remeasurements: Net remeasurements included in Gross Profit 38.4 (176.9) Taxation on certain remeasurements (7.4) 33.6 Remeasurements after taxation 31.0 (143.3) Reconciliation: Adjusted results 41.9 2.7 Exceptional items after tax (52.7) (27.3) Remeasurements after tax 31.0 (143.3) Profit/(loss) after tax 20.2 (167.9) The prior year has been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9 see note 8.3. 2.8 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share (EPS) represents the amount of earnings (post-tax profits) attributable to each ordinary share in issue. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the Group’s earnings (profit after tax in accordance with IFRS) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that were in issue during the year. Diluted EPS demonstrates the impact if all outstanding share options that are expected to vest on their future maturity dates (such as those to be issued under employee share schemes – see note 6.2) were exercised and treated as ordinary shares as at the balance sheet date. Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 Restated Earnings/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company (£m) 20.2 (167.9) Number of shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (millions) 402.4 406.8 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares under share plans 4.5 3.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (millions) 406.9 410.3 Earnings/(loss) per share – basic (pence) 5.0 (41.3) Earnings/(loss) per share – diluted (pence) 4.9 (40.9) Repurchased shares (see note 4.5) are not included in the weighted average calculation of shares. Application of the same calculation to Adjusted profit after tax of £41.9 million results in Adjusted basic EPS of 10.4 pence and Adjusted diluted EPS of 10.3 pence (2017: Adjusted profit after tax of £2.7 million, Adjusted basic EPS of 0.7 pence and Adjusted diluted EPS of 0.7 pence). Prior year EPS has been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9, see note 8.3. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 133 SECTION 2: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued 2.9 DIVIDENDS Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares in issue at the record date): Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 5.6 pence per share paid on 12 October 2018 (2017: 4.9 pence per share paid on 4 October 2017) 22.4 20.0 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 7.4 pence per share paid on 11 May 2018 (2016: 0.4 pence per share paid on 12 May 2017) 30.1 1.6 52.5 21.6 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.5 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £33.6 million) payable on or before 10 May 2019. The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2018. This would bring total dividends payable in respect of the 2018 financial year to £56.0 million. In future years, if there is a build-up of capital in excess of the Group’s investment needs, the Board will consider the most appropriate mechanism to return this to shareholders. 2.10 RETAINED PROFITS Retained profits are a component of equity reserves. The overall balance reflects the total profits the Group has generated over its lifetime, reduced by the amount of that profit distributed to shareholders. The table below sets out the movements in retained profits during the year. Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m At 1 January 457.9 624.0 Profit/(loss) for the year 20.2 (167.9) Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 6.3) 15.9 21.4 Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 2.6) (3.0) (4.1) Equity dividends paid (note 2.9) (52.5) (21.6) Gain on equity investment 0.2 – Net movements in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2) 4.0 6.1 At 31 December 442.7 457.9 Distributable profits The capacity of the Group to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the availability of retained distributable profits and cash resources. The Parent Company financial statements, set out on pages 182 to 187 of this Annual report, disclose the Parent Company’s distributable reserves of £233.6 million. Sufficient reserves are available across the Group as a whole to make future distributions in accordance with the Group’s dividend policy for the foreseeable future. The majority of the Group’s distributable reserves are held in holding and operating subsidiaries. Management actively monitors the level of distributable reserves in each company in the Group, ensuring adequate reserves are available for upcoming dividend payments and that the Parent Company has access to these reserves. The immediate cash resources of the Group of £289.0 million are set out in note 4.2 and the recent history of cash generation within note 4.4. The majority of these cash resources are held centrally within the Group by Drax Corporate Limited for treasury management purposes and are available for funding the working capital and other requirements of the Group. The Group’s financing facilities (see note 4.3) place certain conditions on the amount of dividend payments to be made in any given year. The Group expects to be able to make dividend payments, in line with its policy, within these conditions for the foreseeable future. 134 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL This section gives further information on the operating assets we use to generate revenue and the short-term liquid assets and liabilities, managed during day-to-day operations, that comprise our working capital balances. 3.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by us that we use in our businesses to generate revenue. The cost of an asset is what we paid to purchase or construct the asset. Depreciation reflects the usage of the asset over time and is calculated by taking the cost of the asset, net of any residual value, to the income statement evenly over the useful economic life of the asset. An asset’s net book value is its cost less any depreciation (including impairment, if required) charged to date. Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price (after deducting trade discounts and rebates), any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the estimate of the present value of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value. We construct many of our assets as part of long-term development projects. Assets that are in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are ready for us to use in the way intended. This category has been shown separately for the first time in 2018. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write down assets to their residual value evenly over their estimated useful economic lives (UEL) of the assets from the date of acquisition (where relevant, limited to the expected decommissioning date of the power station – currently expected to be 2039). The table below shows the range of useful lives at the date of acquisition and the average remaining useful life at the balance sheet date of the main categories of asset we own in years: Range of Average UEL UELs at remaining acquisition Freehold buildings 23 8–33 Plant and equipment Electricity generation assets: Drax Power Station common plant 13 2–33 Drax Power Station biomass-specific assets 17 2–26 Drax Power Station coal-specific assets 5 3–19 Pellet production plant 14 5–20 Other plant, machinery and equipment 5 1–33 Decommissioning asset 21 34 Plant spare parts 21 Up to 34 Freehold land held at cost is considered to have an unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Electricity generation assets are grouped according to the fuel type of the plant. Certain assets at Drax Power Station are common to the whole plant and are shown separately. Pellet production plant includes the US-based assets of the Group’s Pellet Production segment. Within the plant and equipment categories shorter lives are attributed to components that are overhauled and upgraded as part of rolling outage cycles. The majority of assets within these categories have a remaining useful life in excess of 15 years. Plant spare parts are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the power station. Costs relating to major inspections, overhauls and upgrades to the power station are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, if the recognition criteria are met; namely, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually, taking into account regulatory change and commercial and technological obsolescence, as well as normal wear and tear. Residual values are based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date. Any changes are applied prospectively. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 135 SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL continued 3.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Significant estimation uncertainty Asset lives are reviewed annually at each balance sheet date. Following the Government’s announcement relating to the cessation of coal generation, the Group concluded that coal generation will cease during 2025, but that the two existing coal units will be retained for conversion to alternative fuels in the period to 2039. The useful lives of electricity generation plant currently fuelled by biomass are unaffected by this change. No changes to the useful economic lives of assets have been made as a result of the most recent review. At each balance sheet date the Group reviews its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that these assets may be impaired. The Group’s accounting policy in respect of impairment, along with details of the impairment review conducted during 2018, are set out in note 2.4. Assets under Freehold land Plant and Plant course of and buildings equipment spare parts construction Total £m £m £m £m £m Cost: At 1 January 2017 288.3 2,080.8 64.6 120.5 2,554.2 Acquired in business combination 4.9 4.1 – – 9.0 Additions at cost 17.1 8.5 9.0 129.8 164.4 Disposals (6.4) (29.9) – – (36.3) Issues/transfers 0.2 110.5 (6.6) (101.1) 3.0 IT software transferred to intangible assets – (39.4) – – (39.4) At 1 January 2018 304.1 2,134.6 67.0 149.2 2,654.9 Acquired in business combination (note 5.1) 159.3 521.8 – 8.9 690.0 Additions at cost 3.6 8.8 8.7 92.5 113.6 Disposals (2.8) (80.2) – (1.2) (84.2) Issues/transfers during the year 14.0 108.6 (9.7) (128.1) (15.2) At 31 December 2018 478.2 2,693.6 66.0 121.3 3,359.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2017 59.3 834.9 18.5 – 912.7 Depreciation charge for the year 11.4 109.9 1.4 – 122.7 Acquired in business combination – 2.4 – – 2.4 Disposals (3.4) (16.6) 0.2 – (19.8) IT software transferred to intangible assets – (25.0) – – (25.0) At 1 January 2018 67.3 905.6 20.1 – 993.0 Depreciation charge for the year 12.0 114.4 2.8 – 129.2 Disposals (2.3) (50.8) (2.3) – (55.4) At 31 December 2018 77.0 969.2 20.6 – 1,066.8 Net book amount at 31 December 2017 236.8 1,229.0 46.9 149.2 1,661.9 Net book amount at 31 December 2018 401.2 1,724.4 45.4 121.3 2,292.3 Disposals include obsolete assets with a net book value of £26.8 million which have been written off in 2018 following the conversion of the fourth unit at Drax Power station to biomass. 136 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Plant and equipment shown above includes the following categories of assets: Pellet Total Biomass and Hydro-electric Gas thermal production plant and coal plant plant plants plant Other equipment £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost: At 1 January 2017 1,891.6 – – 180.3 8.9 2,080.8 Acquisition of Opus Energy – – – – 4.1 4.1 Additions at cost 8.5 – – – – 8.5 Disposals (29.9) – – – – (29.9) Issues/transfers 104.8 – – 5.4 0.3 110.5 IT software transferred to intangible assets (36.9) – – – (2.5) (39.4) At 1 January 2018 1,938.1 – – 185.7 10.8 2,134.6 Acquired in business combinations (note 5.1) – 379.5 120.8 21.5 – 521.8 Additions at cost – – – 5.3 3.5 8.8 Disposals (80.1) – – – (0.1) (80.2) Issues/transfers 66.6 – – 43.8 (1.8) 108.6 At 31 December 2018 1,924.6 379.5 120.8 256.3 12.4 2,693.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2017 812.7 – – 18.2 4.0 834.9 Depreciation charge for the year 98.9 – – 10.6 0.4 109.9 Acquisition of Opus Energy – – – – 2.4 2.4 Disposals (16.6) – – – – (16.6) IT software transferred to intangible assets (25.0) – – – – (25.0) At 1 January 2018 870.0 – – 28.8 6.8 905.6 Depreciation charge for the year 94.9 – – 17.8 1.7 114.4 Disposals (50.7) – – (0.1) – (50.8) At 31 December 2018 914.2 – – 46.5 8.5 969.2 Net book amount at 31 December 2017 1,068.1 – – 156.9 4.0 1,229.0 Net book amount at 31 December 2018 1,010.4 379.5 120.8 209.8 3.9 1,724.4 Plant and equipment includes assets held under finance lease agreements with a carrying value at 31 December 2018 of £0.9 million (2017: £1.1 million). Issues and transfers reflect changes in the categorisation of assets during the period e.g. when an asset under construction is complete, it is transferred to the relevant depreciable asset category, or the issue of spare parts for use in repair and maintenance projects. When spares are utilised in such projects, the cost of the part is transferred from the property, plant and equipment balance and recognised as an expense in the income statement within operating costs. 3.2 OTHER FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Other fixed asset investments include equity investments held by the Group. Accounting policy Other fixed asset investments are recognised at fair value, based on quoted market prices where available, at the date of transfer. The Group designates its investments as at fair value through other comprehensive income, as they are intended to be held and not traded, in accordance with IFRS 9. Where quoted market prices are not available and investments cannot be fair valued, they are held at cost and are reviewed for impairment annually. Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m At 1 January 1.3 – Additions 0.9 1.6 Fair value gains/(losses) 0.2 (0.3) At 31 December 2.4 1.3 During the year, the Group invested in C-Capture Limited. As these shares are not listed, a value cannot be reliably estimated and the investment is held at cost. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 137 SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL continued 3.3 ROC ASSETS We earn Renewable Obligation Certificate (ROC) assets, which are accredited by the Office for Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), as a result of burning sustainable compressed wood pellets to generate electricity. This note sets out the value of these assets that we hold at the year end. Accounting policy ROCs are recognised as current assets in the period they are generated and are initially measured at fair value based on anticipated sales prices. The value of ROCs earned is recognised in the income statement as a reduction in fuel costs in that period. Where our B2B Energy Supply business incurs an obligation to deliver ROCs to Ofgem, that obligation is provided for in the period incurred. At each reporting date the Group reviews the carrying value of ROC assets held against updated anticipated sales prices. Where relevant, this takes account of agreed forward sale contracts and the likely utilisation of ROCs generated to settle our own ROC obligations. Any impairment is recognised in the period incurred. Significant estimation uncertainty The fair values and net realisable values of ROCs referred to above are calculated based on assumptions regarding future sales prices in the market, taking into account agreed forward sale contracts where appropriate. Historic experience indicates that the assumptions used in the valuation are reasonable; however, actual sales prices may differ from those assumed. ROC valuations also include an estimate of the future benefit that may be obtained from the ROC recycle fund at the end of the compliance period. The recycle fund provides a benefit where supplier buy-out charges (incurred by suppliers who do not procure sufficient ROCs to satisfy their obligations) are paid over to renewable generators on a pro-rata basis. The estimate is based on assumptions about likely levels of renewable generation and supply over the compliance period and is thus subject to some uncertainty. The Group utilises external sources of information in addition to its own forecasts in making these estimates. Past experience indicates that the values arrived at are reasonable but they remain subject to possible variation. Total £m Carrying amount: At 1 January 2017 257.6 Earned from generation 480.9 Purchased from third parties 33.7 Utilised by our B2B Energy Supply business (258.8) Sold to third parties (367.9) At 1 January 2018 145.5 Earned from generation 467.7 Purchased from third parties 582.6 Utilised by our B2B Energy Supply business (319.8) Sold to third parties (659.3) At 31 December 2018 216.7 Recognition of revenue from sales of ROCs is described in further detail on page 126. The Group has increased sales and purchases of ROCs in the year as a result of working capital arrangements as described in note 4.4. 3.4 INVENTORIES We hold stocks of fuels and other consumable items that we use in the process of generating electricity and raw materials used in the production of compressed wood pellets. This note shows the cost of coal, biomass, other fuels and plant consumables held at the end of the year, including items at Drax Power Station, our facilities in the US and those off-site locations. Accounting policy Our raw materials and fuel stocks are valued at the lower of the weighted average cost to purchase and net realisable value. The cost of fuel stocks includes all direct costs and overheads incurred in bringing the fuel to its present location and condition, including the purchase price, import duties and other taxes (including amounts levied on coal under the UK carbon price support mechanism) and transport/handling costs. The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the costs denominated in foreign currencies. Where these contracts are designated into hedge relationships in accordance with IFRS 9, the stock cost is recognised at the hedged value. In previous periods, the cost of fuel stock also included gains and losses arising from fair value changes on maturing derivative contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting. This practice has been discontinued and all such gains and losses are now included in cost of sales when they arise. The prior year has not been restated for this change in policy as the impact was not material. 138 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.4 INVENTORIES continued Both coal and biomass stocks are weighed when entering, moving within or exiting our sites using technology regularly calibrated to industry standards. Fuel burn in the electricity generation process is calculated using a combination of weights and thermal efficiency calculations to provide closing stock volumes. Both calibrated weighers and efficiency calculations are subject to a range of tolerable error. All fuel inventories are subject to regular surveys to ensure these measurements are sufficiently accurate. Coal stocks are verified by an independent stock survey carried out by a suitably trained specialist and a provision is made where the survey indicates a lower level of stock than indicated by the methods described above. Despite being an independent process, the survey depends on estimates and assumptions and as a result actual values may differ. The characteristics of biomass require specialist handling and storage. On-site biomass at Drax Power Station is stored in sealed domes with a carefully controlled atmosphere for fire prevention purposes and thus cannot be surveyed using traditional methods. Biomass stock is surveyed using regularly calibrated state-of-the-art RADAR scanning technology. As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Coal 81.0 44.5 Biomass 114.7 205.2 Other fuels and consumables 26.8 22.4 222.5 272.1 Inventories of biomass include £0.6 million of fibre and other raw materials utilised in the production of compressed wood pellets (2017: £1.5 million) and £0.9 million of work in progress (2017: £0.1 million) in our Pellet Production business. Other fuels and consumables include £4.4 million of consumables acquired as part of the ScottishPower acquisition. The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the year ended 31 December 2018 was £1,601.1 million (2017: £1,285.8 million). 3.5 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade receivables represent amounts owed to us by our customers for goods or services we have provided but not yet been paid for. Accrued income represents income earned in the period but not yet invoiced, largely in respect of power delivered that will be invoiced the following month. Accounting policy Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss. The transition to IFRS 9 has not had a significant impact on the calculation of the provision. Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 162.6 125.7 Accrued income 197.0 203.7 Contract assets 4.3 5.3 Prepayments and other receivables 104.9 82.8 468.8 417.5 Trade receivables and accrued income principally represent sales of energy to counterparties within both our Power Generation and B2B Energy Supply businesses. At 31 December 2018, the Group had amounts receivable from two (2017: five) significant counterparties representing 12% (2017: 20%) of total trade receivables and accrued income. Of total trade receivables and acrrued income at 31 December 2018 £266.6 million (2017: £255.7 million) relates to B2B Energy Supply sales. Contract assets have been separated from accrued income for the first time on application of IFRS 15. The 2017 figures have been updated on the same basis. Contract assets relate to amounts for goods or services provided under customer contracts, where the entitlement to consideration is contingent on something other than the passage of time. The Group has recognised a contract asset for any work performed where payment is not yet due. Any amount previously recognised as a contract asset is reclassified to trade receivables at the point at which it is invoiced to the customer, usually in the following financial period. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 139 SECTION 3: OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL continued 3.5 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is laid out in the following table: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m At 1 January 28.2 4.0 Receivables written off (15.6) (14.2) Additional amounts provided against 33.6 18.7 Acquisition – 19.7 Amounts reversed as recovered (0.8) – Changes in models/risks parameters (1.4) – At 31 December 44.0 28.2 The Group does not consider there to be any requirement for further provisions in excess of the provision for doubtful debts of £44.0 million (2017: £28.2 million). This provision, which principally relates to B2B Energy Supply receivables, has been determined using a lifetime expected credit loss calculation. Assumptions made regarding the recoverability of balances have been determined with reference to past default experiences in line with our policies and future prospects reflecting our understanding of our customer base. Specific balances are provided against where default events have occurred. Balances are only written off if deemed irrecoverable after all credit control procedures have been exhausted or the customer is in administration. The expected credit loss rates have been reviewed and updated during 2018 in order to reflect current cash collection rates in the B2B Energy Supply business and expectations of future cash collection rates. The change in rates applied has not had a material impact on the total provision in the current period and is not expected to significantly impact future periods. However, it has resulted in more balances having a provision applied. As a result, the value of trade receivables that are past due but are completely unprovided against, in accordance with the assessment described above, has reduced to £1.2 million (2017: £32.2 million). Credit and counterparty risk are both discussed in further detail in note 7.1. In the B2B Energy Supply business amounts provided against trade and other receivables increased by £33.6 million in the year, with a net charge in the income statement of £31.4 million, following a deterioration in cash collection rates in the first half of the year. During the second half of the year, collection processes were reviewed and improved. We expect this improvement to be indicative of future collection rates. At the end of the year, provisions of £44.0 million were £15.8 million higher than the end of the prior year. The following table shows the risk profile of amounts due from customers based on the Group’s provision matrix at 31 December 2018. Trade receivables days past due Balances Up to More than More than More than not yet due 30 days 30 days 60 days 90 days Total Group Expected credit loss rate – % <1% 7% 19% 32% 59% 26% Estimated total gross carrying amount at default – £m 18.4 75.2 11.5 6.8 58.6 170.5 Lifetime expected credit losses – £m 0.1 5.2 2.2 2.2 34.3 44.0 The expected credit loss rate is a weighted average for the portfolio of trade receivables associated with the B2B Energy Supply business. The majority of balances not yet due are held in the Power Generation business where the risk of default is considered to be very low. The analysis above excludes receivables acquired in business combinations – see note 5.1. 140 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.6 CONTRACT COSTS The Group incurs costs of obtaining contracts in the B2B Energy Supply businesses. Accounting policy Management expects that incremental broker fees paid to intermediaries as a result of obtaining electricity and gas contracts are recoverable. The Group has therefore capitalised them as contract costs and amortises them on a straight line basis over the contract period in line with the recognition of revenue. The balance is included within prepayments in note 3.5. This amount includes both current and non-current balances. Amounts capitalised on the Consolidated balance sheet were £39.0 million at 31 December 2018 (2017: £39.3 million). In 2018 the amount of amortisation was £37.2 (2017: £24.4) and there was no impairment loss recognised. 3.7 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables represent amounts we owe to our suppliers (for trade purchases and ongoing costs), tax authorities and other creditors that are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business. We make accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a result of our activities in the current year (e.g. fuel we have received but for which we have not yet been invoiced). Accounting policy Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost. As at 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade payables 110.5 79.5 Fuel accruals 128.1 95.3 Energy supply accruals 309.8 291.9 Other accruals 183.0 136.6 Other payables 187.1 101.5 Contract liabilities 20.0 27.6 938.5 732.4 Energy supply accruals includes £235.5 million (2017: £225.0 million) in relation to the Group’s obligation to deliver ROCs arising from B2B Energy Supply activities. The remaining balance principally comprises third party grid charge accruals of £51.7 million (2017: £36.8 million) and Feed-in-Tariff accruals of £14.1 million (2017: 25.9 million). The Group recognises a liability in respect of its unsettled obligations to deliver emissions allowances under the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS). Accruals at 31 December 2018 include £nil (2017: £30.6 million) with respect to the Group’s estimated net liability to deliver CO2 emissions allowances. Allowances are purchased in the market and are recorded at cost. Other payables includes £87.0 million (2017: £Nil) due under payment facilities described in note 4.4. Contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from customers for fixed price electricity and gas contracts, for which revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of the multi-year contract. This has been shown separately for the first time in 2018 due to the implementation of IFRS 15. The prior year has been restated to the same format. The balance reduces as revenue is subsequently recognised in the following period, offset by further advance consideration received. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 141 SECTION 4: FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE This section provides further information about the Group’s capital structure (equity and debt financing) and cash generated from operations during the year. 4.1 RECONCILIATION OF NET DEBT Net debt is calculated by taking our borrowings (note 4.3) and subtracting cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2). The table below reconciles net debt in terms of changes in these balances across the year. Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Net debt at 1 January (367.4) (93.5) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 65.6 (4.0) Decrease/(increase) in borrowings 4.2 (267.8) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (21.5) (2.1) Net debt at 31 December (319.1) (367.4) Borrowings includes listed bonds, bank debt, revolving credit facilities and finance leases, net of any deferred finance costs. A reconciliation of the increase in borrowings during the year is set out in the table on page 143. Borrowings at 31 December 2018 does not include the acquisition bridge facility that was drawn down after the balance sheet date on 2 January 2019, see note 4.3. During 2018, the Group entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap, fixing the sterling value of the principal repayments in respect of the Group’s US dollar denominated debt (see note 4.3). If US dollar balances are translated at the hedged rate, rather than the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date, net debt would be reduced by £22.0 million (2017: £nil). The corresponding value of the hedging instrument is recognised at its fair value as a derivative financial instrument, see note 7.2. 4.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in current and other deposit accounts that is accessible on demand. It is our policy to invest available cash on hand in short-term, low-risk bank accounts or deposit accounts. As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents 289.0 222.3 4.3 BORROWINGS Accounting policy The Group measures all debt instruments (whether financial assets or financial liabilities) initially at fair value, which equates to the principal value of the consideration paid or received. Subsequent to initial measurement, debt instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Transaction costs (any such costs incremental and directly attributable to the issue of the financial instrument) are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate and are amortised over the life of the instrument. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. Where this is the case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. Debt instruments denominated in foreign currencies are revalued using period end exchange rates, with exchange gains and losses arising recognised as a component of net interest charges in the period they arise. The Group hedges foreign currency risk in accordance with the policy set out in note 7.1. Where hedging instruments are used to fix cash flows associated with debt instruments, the debt instrument and the hedging instrument are measured and presented separately on the balance sheet. Post-balance sheet events On 16 October 2018, the Group entered into a £725 million acquisition bridge facility (the Facility) to finance the acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited (see note 5.1). The Group incurred £3.8 million of costs establishing the Facility during the year, which were deferred on the balance sheet at 31 December 2018. On 2 January 2019, the Group settled the initial consideration due in respect of the acquisition of £687 million, which was part-funded by £550 million drawn from the Facility. The balance of the consideration was funded from existing cash reserves. 142 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.3 BORROWINGS continued Reconciliation of borrowings The tables below show the movement in borrowings during the current and previous year: As at 31 December 2018 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m Borrowings at 1 January 605.2 (15.5) 589.7 Cash movements: 2025 $300 million USD loan notes drawn down 213.3 (3.8) 209.5 Repayment of floating rate loan notes on 1 May 2018 (200.0) – (200.0) Repayment of $25 million USD revolving facility (19.1) – (19.1) Deferred costs in relation to acquisition bridge facility – (3.8) (3.8) Non-cash movements: Indexation of linked loan 1.2 – 1.2 Amortisation of deferred finance costs (note 2.5) – 3.1 3.1 Repayment of floating rate loan notes on 1 May 2018 – 5.2 5.2 Impact of foreign exchange rates 22.6 – 22.6 Changes in finance lease liabilities (0.3) – (0.3) Borrowings at 31 December 622.9 (14.8) 608.1 On 26 April 2018, the Group issued USD $300 million loan notes listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The notes have a fixed interest rate of 6.625% and mature in 2025. The proceeds of the issue were used to repay £200 million floating rate loan notes issued in 2017. Costs associated with the repayment of these loan notes have been classified as exceptional. The purpose of the new loan notes is to extend the maturity date of the Group’s senior debt and reduce exposure to interest rate volatility. The Group has taken out a cross-currency interest rate swap (see note 7.1) to hedge the sterling cash flows associated with the USD loan notes. In addition to fixing the sterling value of interest payments over a five year period, this instrument fixes the sterling repayment of principal at £213.3 million in 2023, the impact of which would reduce borrowings by £22.0 million. The $25 million revolving 30 day facility remains available to the Group, but was undrawn at 31 December 2018. As at 31 December 2017 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m Borrowings at 1 January 329.0 (7.1) 321.9 Cash movements: Draw-down of Opus Energy acquisition facility 200.0 (3.8) 196.2 Draw-down of $25 million USD revolving facility 18.5 – 18.5 Borrowings repaid on 5 May 2017 (493.8) – (493.8) Fixed rate loan notes drawn down 350.0 (11.4) 338.6 Floating rate loan notes drawn down 200.0 (6.5) 193.5 Non-cash movements: Indexation of linked loan 1.8 – 1.8 Amortisation of deferred finance costs (note 2.5) – 2.4 2.4 Borrowings repaid on 5 May 2017 – 10.9 10.9 Changes in finance lease liabilities (0.3) – (0.3) Borrowings at 31 December 605.2 (15.5) 589.7 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 143 SECTION 4: FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE continued 4.3 BORROWINGS continued Amounts drawn against each facility in the Group’s financing structure in the current and previous year is shown in the tables below: As at 31 December 2018 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m 2022 fixed loan notes 350.0 (7.6) 342.4 2025 $300 million USD loan notes 235.3 (3.4) 231.9 Index-linked loan 37.1 – 37.1 Acquisition bridge facility – (3.8) (3.8) Finance lease liabilities 0.5 – 0.5 Total borrowings 622.9 (14.8) 608.1 Split between: Current borrowings 0.1 – 0.1 Non-current borrowings 622.8 (14.8) 608.0 In addition to the $300 million USD loan notes issued in 2018, the Group’s financing structure also includes £350 million of 4.25% fixed rate notes and a £350 million Senior Facility comprised of a £315 million revolving credit facility (RCF) and an index-linked term loan of £35 million. The RCF matures in April 2021, with an option to extend by one year, and has a margin of 150 basis points over LIBOR. At 31 December 2018, the RCF had been utilised to draw down letters of credit with a total value of £31.8 million (2017: £35.7 million). The Group had two facilities available but undrawn at 31 December 2018: • £725 million acquisition bridge facility, subsequently part-drawn on 2 January 2019 (as described above); and • USD $25 million 30-day revolving facility. The Group has no other undrawn debt facilities, although it has access to certain non-recourse trade receivable finance facilities and payment facilities, as described in note 4.4, which are utilised to accelerate working capital cash inflows and defer cash outflows. As at 31 December 2017 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m 2022 floating loan notes 200.0 (5.6) 194.4 2022 fixed loan notes 350.0 (9.9) 340.1 Index-linked loan 35.9 – 35.9 $25 million USD revolving facility 18.5 – 18.5 Finance lease liabilities 0.8 – 0.8 Total borrowings 605.2 (15.5) 589.7 Split between: Current borrowings 18.6 – 18.6 Non-current borrowings 586.6 (15.5) 571.1 The Group’s financing structure, including the index linked loan, the loan notes and the RCF are secured against the assets of a number of the Group’s subsidiaries, with the exception of the US subsidiary’s land and buildings. In addition, the Group has a secured commodity trading line, which allows it to transact prescribed volumes of commodity trades without the requirement to post collateral and FX trading lines with certain banks. Counterparties to these arrangements are entitled to share in the security as described above. As at 31 December 2018, this value was £11.9 million (2017: £3.6 million). 144 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.4 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Cash generated from operations is the starting point of our cash flow statement on page 122. The table below makes adjustments for any non-cash accounting items to reconcile our net profit for the year to the amount of cash we have generated from our operations. Years ended 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Profit/(loss) for the year 20.2 (167.9) Adjustments for: Interest payable and similar charges 47.3 66.3 Interest receivable (1.2) (0.2) Tax credit (6.4) (36.1) Depreciation, amortisation and other write downs 173.8 166.3 Asset obsolescence charge 26.8 – Losses on disposal 3.9 15.4 Certain remeasurements of derivative contracts (38.4) 176.9 Defined benefit pension scheme current service cost 6.8 7.3 Non-cash charge for share-based payments 4.0 6.1 Other non-cash losses 4.3 0.4 Close out of currency contracts(1) (4.9) (9.8) Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 236.2 224.7 Changes in working capital: Decrease in inventories 52.5 15.4 (increase)/decrease in receivables (15.4) 60.6 Increase/(decrease) in payables 149.4 (22.4) (Increase)/decrease in carbon assets (3.7) 0.6 (Increase)/decrease in ROC assets (71.2) 112.1 Total cash released from working capital 111.6 166.3 Defined benefit pension scheme contributions (11.4) (15.3) Cash generated from operations 336.4 375.7 Note: (1) During 2016 we closed out a number of in-the-money forward foreign currency purchase contracts with a total value of £14 million. As these contracts were designated into hedge accounting relationships under IFRS 9, the benefit is being recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction occurs. (2) The prior year has been restated due to the initial application of IFRS 9 (see note 8.3). The B2B Energy Supply business has access to a facility which enables it to accelerate cash flows associated with trade receivables on a non-recourse basis, which generated a net cash inflow of £24 million in the year ended 31 December 2018, reflected as a reduction in receivables in the table above (2017: inflow of £34 million). The facility terms were amended during the year, increasing the facility size to £150 million and bringing more of the receivables balance into its scope, further improving the Group’s overall liquidity and risk profile. Cash from ROCs is typically realised several months after the ROC is earned; however, through standard ROC sales and purchase arrangements we are able to accelerate cash flows over a proportion of these assets. The net impact of ROC purchases and sales on operating cash flows was a £10.5 million outflow (2017: £161.0 million inflow). We also have access to facilities enabling us to sell ROC trade receivables on a non-recourse basis. These facilities were unused at the period end (2017: £Nil). The Group entered into a number of payment facilities in 2018 to leverage scale and efficiencies in transaction processing, whilst providing a working capital benefit for the Group, for which £87.0 million was outstanding at 31 December 2018 (2017: £Nil). The amounts fall due between 4 and 60 days from the end of the year. The Group has sought to normalise payment across its supplier base resulting in certain suppliers extending payment terms and some reducing terms. Suppliers are able to access a supply chain finance facility provided by a bank, for which funds can be accelerated in advance of the normal payment terms. The facility does not affect our working capital, as payment terms remain unaltered with the Group. At 31 December 2018, amounts utilised were not material. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 145 SECTION 4: FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE continued 4.5 EQUITY AND RESERVES Our ordinary share capital reflects the total number of shares in issue, which are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. Accounting policy Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting its liabilities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Authorised: 865,238,823 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each 100.0 100.0 Issued and fully paid: 2018: 407,193,168 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each 47.0 47.0 47.0 47.0 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 (number) (number) At 1 January 407,034,429 406,700,321 Issued under employee share schemes 158,739 334,108 At 31 December 407,193,168 407,034,429 The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders have waived their rights to dividends. Shares issued under employee share schemes Throughout January to December 2018, a total of 158,739 shares were issued in satisfaction of options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan. Of the shares issued, 42,874 were issued to individuals who have left the Group where discretion was used to vest the shares. Share buy-back programme On 20 April 2018, the Group announced the commencement of a £50.0 million share buy-back programme. As at 31 December 2018, the Group had repurchased 13.0 million ordinary shares as part of the programme at a total cost, including transaction costs, of £47.1 million. These shares are held in a separate Treasury Share reserve awaiting reissue or cancellation and have no voting rights attached to them. Subsequent to the year end, on 21 January 2019, the buy-back programme concluded. In total, the Group purchased 13.8 million shares for total consideration of £50.4 million, including transaction costs. 146 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.5 EQUITY AND RESERVES continued Share premium The share premium account reflects amounts received in respect of issued share capital that exceed the nominal value of the shares issued. Share premium 2018 2017 £m £m At 1 January 2018 424.3 424.2 Issue of share capital 0.4 0.1 At 31 December 2018 424.7 424.3 Other reserves Other equity reserves reflect the impact of certain historical transactions, which are described under the table below. Capital redemption Translation Merger Total other reserve reserve reserve reserves £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2017 1.5 (10.2) 710.8 702.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – 3.4 – 3.4 At 31 December 2017 1.5 (6.8) 710.8 705.5 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – 7.2 – 7.2 At 31 December 2018 1.5 0.4 710.8 712.7 The capital redemption reserve arose when the Group completed a share buy-back programme in 2007. Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s US-based subsidiaries from their functional currency (US dollar) into sterling for presentation in these consolidated financial statements are recognised in the translation reserve. The share premium and the merger reserve arose on the financial restructuring of the Group which took place in 2005. Movements in the share premium reserve reflect amounts received on the issue of shares under employee share schemes. Movements in the hedge reserve and the cost of hedging reserve, which reflect the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments designated into hedge accounting relationships in accordance with IFRS 9, are set out in notes 7.4 and 7.5. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 147 SECTION 5: OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES This section provides information on the assets and liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheet that are not covered in other sections, including goodwill, other intangible assets and provisions. 5.1 ACQUISITIONS Accounting policy Acquisitions of businesses are recognised at the point the Group obtains control of the target (the acquisition date). The consideration transferred and the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their fair value on the acquisition date. The assets and liabilities are recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet and the revenues and profit or loss of the acquired business are recognised in the Consolidated income statement from the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement in the period the acquisition occurs as an exceptional item. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited The Group announced the proposed acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited from Iberdrola on 16 October 2018. The acquisition was approved by shareholders on 21 December 2018 and subsequently completed at 23:59 on 31 December 2018. ScottishPower Generation Limited was renamed Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (DGE) on 9 January 2019. DGE owns and operates a portfolio of hydro, pumped storage and gas-fired power generation assets, including Cruachan Power Station, one of only four pumped storage assets in the UK, run-of-river hydro schemes in Lanark and Galloway, and gas-fired Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) power stations at Damhead Creek, Rye House and Shoreham in the south of England, and Blackburn Mill in the north. DGE also owns SMW Ltd, a company operating a biomass-from-waste facility on the outskirts of Glasgow. The new sites are complementary to the Group’s existing generation activities, diversifying the Drax portfolio and widening the Group’s UK footprint. The expanded portfolio of assets ensures the Group can support a power system with increasing intermittent renewable capacity by providing flexible generation and system support. The acquired assets are expected to make a positive contributions to both Adjusted EBITDA and cash flows from 2019, as set out in the shareholder Circular recommending the acquisition, on 5 December 2018, and in the profit forecast referenced on page 41 of this Annual report. The purchase consideration was £702 million, payable entirely in cash, subject to working capital adjustments customary for a transaction of this type. In addition, following the suspension of the UK Capacity Market on 15 November 2018, the Group announced it had agreed a risk-sharing mechanism with the vendor which will activate in the event the Group does not receive 100% of the contracted Capacity Market payments for the acquired assets in the period 1 January to 30 September 2019. If 100% of Capacity Market payments are not received in this period, a further payment will be made either by the Group or by the vendor, the value and beneficiary of which is contingent upon the 2019 gross profit achieved by the acquired assets. The value of any further payment for both parties is capped at £26 million. Full details are set out on the Group’s website. (www.drax.com/cmrisk). In the event Capacity Market payments remain suspended beyond 2019, the Group will be entitled to no further compensation. Reflecting the Group’s belief that the Capacity Market is likely to be reinstated during 2019, no value has been ascribed to the risk‑sharing mechanism in determining the fair value of the consideration payable on the acquisition date. In the event the Capacity Market restarts and the Group receives payments relating to the period following the Capacity Market suspension but prior to the acquisition date (1 October to 31 December 2018), these payments will be passed directly to the vendor and accordingly no amounts are recorded in the provisional fair values shown below. The total consideration, after adjusting for estimated working capital values, was £687 million. The consideration remains provisional and is subject to a completion accounts process. The consideration was paid on 2 January 2019, funded by a combination of existing cash reserves (£137 million) and the partial drawing of a £725 million acquisition bridge facility (£550 million). The Group expects to conclude a refinancing of the bridge facility during 2019, as described in note 4.3. Acquisition-related costs, including stamp duty and advisers fees, amounted to £18.4 million and have been recognised in 2018. The Group incurred a further £2.6 million of costs in 2018 on activities to ensure operational readiness and initial integration activities at completion. The total costs of £21.0 million are reported as exceptional items and included in the acquisition and restructuring line in the income statement. 148 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.1 ACQUISITIONS continued The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are set out in the table below: £m Property, plant and equipment 690.0 Financial assets 40.7 Financial liabilities (41.0) Pension surplus 3.8 Provisions (13.5) Intangible assets 0.6 Deferred tax liability (68.5) Total identifiable net assets 612.1 Goodwill 74.8 Fair value of consideration payable 686.9 Due to the acquisition completing at 23:59 on 31 December, there were no amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the acquisition, other than the transaction and integration costs described above. Provisional goodwill of £74.8 million is largely reflective of the trading and operational opportunities that arise from acquiring a multi-site multi-fuel generation portfolio together with the assembled skilled workforce. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Intangible assets reflect software previously recognised on the balance sheet of the acquiree. The financial assets acquired include £35.8 million of receivables, the majority of which reflect trade receivables for ancillary services and balancing market activity. By virtue of their short tenor, the fair value of these receivables is considered to be the contractual amounts receivable less any provision for doubtful debts. The provision for doubtful debts as at the acquisition date was less than £0.1 million. Financial assets includes a net balance of £3.5 million in respect of amounts payable to and receivable from the vendor and its fellow group undertakings. The Group received an initial settlement in respect of these balances on 2 January 2019, which will be finalised as part of the completion accounts process. Additional financial information The consolidated results of the Group, assuming DGE had been acquired at the beginning of the year, would show Total revenue of £4,780.0 million (compared to reported Total revenue of £4,229.0 million) and a Total profit after taxation of £43.2 million (compared to the reported Total profit after taxation of £20.2 million). This information includes the revenue and profits made by DGE and its subsidiary undertaking between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018, extracted from the historical financial records of the acquired companies. Profit centre analysis was used to exclude the historic results and restructuring activities relating to assets not acquired by the Group; however no adjustment has been made for the alignment of accounting policies nor the impact of measuring acquired assets and liabilities at fair value. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have been achieved had the acquisition actually occurred on 1 January 2018, nor is it indicative of the future results of the combined Group. 5.2 GOODWILL Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the assets acquired. Accounting policy Goodwill is initially recognised and measured at the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortised but reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the CGU to which it relates and the recoverable amount for that CGU assessed. The table below shows movements and balances: Goodwill £m Cost and carrying amount: At 1 January 2017 14.5 Acquisition of Opus Energy 159.2 Disposal of Billington Bioenergy (3.8) At 31 December 2017 169.9 Acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited (see note 5.1) 74.8 At 31 December 2018 244.7 Total goodwill in the Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018 was £244.7 million, with £10.7 million arising on the acquisition of Haven Power in 2009 attributed to the Haven Power CGU and £159.2 million arising on the acquisition of Opus Energy in 2017 attributed to the Opus Energy CGU. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 149 SECTION 5: OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued 5.2 GOODWILL continued In addition, the Group recognised £74.8 million of provisional goodwill in respect of the ScottishPower transaction in 2018 (see note 5.1). Reflecting the timing of the acquisition, none of the provisional goodwill has been allocated to individual CGUs. This will be completed during 2019. Impairment review The recoverable amount of the Haven Power and Opus Energy CGUs is measured annually, based on a value-in-use calculation using the Group’s established planning model. This model depends on a broad range of assumptions, the most significant of which are customer margins and supply volumes. Inherent in these assumptions are expectations about future energy prices and supply costs. Cash flows beyond the business plan period are inflated into perpetuity using a growth rate of 1%. The carrying amount of the Haven Power CGU at 31 December 2018 was £40 million. The expected future cash flows of the CGU were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.1% (calculated based on independent analysis commissioned by the Group, adjusted to the specific circumstances and risk factors affecting the Group’s B2B Energy Supply business). We believe that this rate reflects the prospects for a well-established B2B Energy Supply business. The value in use of the Haven Power CGU, including the goodwill, was significantly in excess of its carrying amount. The carrying amount of the Opus Energy CGU at 31 December 2018 was £342 million, including intangible assets of £162 million. Following further integration of Opus Energy into the Group’s existing B2B Energy Supply business during 2018, the discount rate was assessed as being in line with that of Haven Power at 8.1%. The value in use of the Opus Energy CGU, including the goodwill and intangible assets, was significantly in excess of its carrying amount. Reflecting the recent acquisition of Opus, the recoverable amount of the Opus CGU was tested using a range of discount rates up to the rate used in the acquisition valuation of intangible assets in 2017 (10.7%) – application of discount rates across the 8.1% to 10.7% range would not result in an impairment charge. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis of the estimates of future cash flows of each CGU. This analysis indicates that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, which are customer margins and supply volumes, would not cause an impairment loss in respect of goodwill. 5.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are not physical in nature but are identifiable and separable from other assets. Intangible assets can be acquired in business combinations (such as the acquisition of Opus Energy during 2017) or purchased separately. The Group routinely purchases computer software and carbon emissions allowances, which are considered intangible assets. Accounting policy Intangibles acquired in business combinations are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Other intangible assets are measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price (net of any discount or rebate) and any directly attributable costs to bring the asset into the condition and location required for use as intended by management. Intangible assets are amortised over their anticipated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date. No changes to useful lives were made as at 31 December 2018. Amortisation calculations are specific to each category of assets and are explained in further detail below. Carrying amounts are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. The customer-related assets and brand are attributed to the Opus Energy CGU and details of the impairment test relating to this CGU are included in note 5.2. 150 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued CustomerComputer Development related assets Brand software assets Carbon Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost and carrying amount: At 1 January 2017 – – – 21.0 0.7 21.7 Transferred from Property, plant & equipment – – 39.4 – – 39.4 Utilised in period – – – – (0.7) (0.7) Additions at cost – – 16.0 – – 16.0 Acquisition 211.0 11.3 2.6 – – 224.9 At 31 December 2017 211.0 11.3 58.0 21.0 – 301.3 Additions at cost – – 28.9 – 3.7 32.6 Transferred from Property, plant & equipment – – 7.6 – – 7.6 Acquisition (note 5.1) – – 0.6 – 0.6 1.2 At 31 December 2018 211.0 11.3 95.1 21.0 4.3 342.7 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 – – – – – – Transferred from Property, plant & equipment – – 25.0 – – 25.0 Acquisition – – 0.7 – – 0.7 Charge for period 35.6 1.1 6.9 – – 43.6 At 1 January 2018 35.6 1.1 32.6 – – 69.3 Charge for period 35.9 1.1 7.6 – – 44.6 At 31 December 2018 71.5 2.2 40.2 – – 113.9 Net book value At 31 December 2017 175.4 10.2 25.4 21.0 – 232.0 At 31 December 2018 139.5 9.1 54.9 21.0 4.3 228.8 Customer-related assets Customer-related assets reflect the value of customer contracts acquired on the acquisition of Opus Energy in February 2017, which provided the Group with access to a broad customer base with contracted cash flows. The asset valuation of £211 million reflected the estimated value of the future cash flows associated with this customer base at the acquisition date and is dependent upon estimates of both current and expected future contract margins and assumed customer retention rates. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.7%. The asset has an estimated useful life of 11 years, calculated based on customer churn-rate analysis, and is being amortised on a reducing balance basis to reflect the diminishing rate of contract renewals over time. Opus Energy brand The Opus Energy brand was acquired as part of the acquisition in February 2017 and valued at £11 million on a relief-from-royalty method. The brand is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its assumed 10 year useful life. Computer software Additions in the period include assets acquired in the Opus Energy acquisition in addition to those in the ordinary course of business, which principally reflect ongoing investment in business systems to support the B2B Energy Supply segment. Software assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives ranging from three to five years. As at 31 December 2018, computer software assets in the course of construction amounted to £24.5 million (2017: £11.1 million). Development assets The development assets arose on the acquisition of four Open Cycle Gas Turbine projects in December 2016 and reflect the value of planning and consents. Until operations commence, the assets are considered to have an indefinite life and thus are not amortised and are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date. At 31 December 2018, the recoverable amount of the development assets was established using a value-in-use calculation derived from the Group’s established planning model. The assessment reflected the Group’s core planning assumption that the Capacity Market will be reinstated during 2019 and incorporated assumptions related to likely Capacity Market clearing prices, construction costs, the ongoing revenues to be derived from the projects once constructed and the direct costs of generating those revenues. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 151 SECTION 5: OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued 5.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued The expected future cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 9.1%, which includes an assessment of the level of construction and execution risk inherent in the existing assets and quality of revenue if constructed. The analysis indicated a recoverable amount in excess of the current carrying amount of the development assets. The analysis is sensitive to the discount rate applied. Increasing the pre-tax discount rate by approximately 1% would result in a recoverable amount below the current carrying value. In the event costs materially increase, or expected future revenue streams reduce from current estimates, the Group may not proceed with the projects and the assets currently recognised on the balance sheet would be impaired. In particular, the analysis depends upon achieving an acceptable clearing price in future Capacity Market auctions (or equivalent income if the Capacity Market is not reinstated in its previous form). Carbon assets Carbon assets arise on the purchase of CO2 emissions allowances in excess of the amount allocated under the Emissions Trading Scheme and required for the current financial year, and are measured at cost, net of any impairment. Given their short tenor, carbon assets are not amortised. In the event of the UK exiting the EU without a deal, these allowances may no longer be required, as noted in the risks and viability statements on pages 42 to 49. The charge to the income statement, within fuel costs, reflects the cost of emissions allowances required to satisfy the obligation for the current year and takes into account generation and market purchases allocated to the current financial year, and to the extent further purchases are required, is based on the market price at the balance sheet date. 5.4 PROVISIONS We make provision for reinstatement to cover the estimated costs of decommissioning and demolishing our generation assets and remediating the sites at the end of the useful economic lives of the assets. Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Specifically, provision is made for the estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the useful economic life of the Group’s generating assets, when a legal or constructive obligation arises, on a discounted basis. The amount provided is calculated on a site-by-site basis and represents the present value of the expected costs. In view of the uncertainty of assessing the amount of any proceeds from the disposal of the assets at the decommissioning date, no reduction in the provision is made for any such proceeds. The discount rate used is a risk-free pre-tax rate that reflects the duration of the liability. The average discount rate used across the Group’s decommissioning provisions is 1.8% (2017: 1.8%). The use of a risk-free rate reflects the fact that the estimated future cash flows have built-in risks specific to the liability. An amount equivalent to the discounted provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. The unwinding of the discount is included in interest payable and similar charges. Other provisions include a small provision in respect of dilapidation provisions for leased offices and other provisions recognised as part of the acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited (see note 5.1). Decommissioning Other provision provisions Total £m £m £m Carrying amount: At 1 January 2018 36.0 0.3 36.3 Additions – 0.1 0.1 Acquisitions 12.3 1.2 13.5 Adjustment for changes in assumptions 0.3 – 0.3 Unwinding of discount 0.6 – 0.6 At 31 December 2018 49.2 1.6 50.8 Decommissioning provisions are made in respect of the Group’s thermal generating plants (Drax Power Station and CCGT power stations). The decommissioning provision is based on the assumption that the decommissioning and reinstatement will take place at the end of the expected useful life of each site (which varies between 2026 and 2039) and has been estimated using existing technology at current prices based on independent third-party advice, updated on a triennial basis. The most recent updates took place in December 2017 for Drax Power Station, and 2018 for other sites. 152 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE The notes in this section relate to the remuneration of our directors and employees, including our obligations under retirement benefit schemes. 6.1 EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS This note provides a more detailed breakdown of the cost of our employees, including executive directors. The average number of employees in Operations (staff based at production sites), B2B Energy Supply services (employees in our B2B Energy Supply segment) and Central and administrative functions are also provided. Further information in relation to pay and remuneration of the executive directors can be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee, starting on page 75. The Group acquired ScottishPower on the last day of the reporting period and as such no ScottishPower employee data has been included. The number of ScottishPower staff joining the Group as a result of the acquisition is 252. Staff costs (including executive directors) Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Included in other operating and administrative expenses (note 2.3) Wages and salaries 113.4 103.7 Social security costs 12.8 11.9 Pension costs 15.5 15.4 Share-based payments (note 6.2) 4.0 6.1 145.7 137.1 Average monthly number of people employed (including executive directors) Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 (number) (number) Power Generation operations 818 667 Pellet Production operations 258 186 B2B Energy Supply services 1,402 1,349 Central and administrative functions 201 305 2,679 2,507 6.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS We operate two share option schemes for our employees; the Performance Share Plan (PSP) for directors and senior executives (which replaced the Bonus Matching Plan (BMP) from 2017) and incorporates the Deferred Share Plan (DSP); and the Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE) for all qualifying employees. We incur a non-cash charge in respect of these schemes in our income statement, which is set out below along with a detailed description of each scheme and the number of options outstanding. Accounting policy The PSP, BMP, DSP and SAYE share-based payments are equity settled. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at the date of grant and are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions, which is revised at each balance sheet date. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 153 SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE continued 6.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Costs recognised in the income statement in relation to share-based payments during the year were as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Equity settled PSP (granted from 2017) 1.3 0.5 DSP (granted from 2017) 0.2 0.1 BMP (granted in periods prior to 2017) 0.7 1.5 SAYE 1.8 4.0 Total share-based payment expense (note 6.1) 4.0 6.1 Share Incentive Plan (SIP) Between 2008 and 2010, qualifying employees could buy up to £1,500 worth of Partnership Shares in any one tax year. Matching shares were awarded to employees to match any shares they bought, in a ratio of one-to-one, with the cost of matching shares borne by the Group. There have been no awards under the SIP Partnership and Matching Share plan since 2010. Shares in the Company held under trust and under the Company’s control as a result of the SIP were as follows: Shares Shares Nominal Market held at Shares Shares held at Cost at value at value at 1 January acquired transferred 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 during year during year 2018 2018 2018 2018 (number) (number) (number) (number) £000 £000 £000 SIP 123,282 – (34,999) 88,283 – 10 317 Performance Share Plan (PSP) The PSP was introduced for directors and senior executives to replace the Bonus Matching Plan. Under the PSP, annual awards of performance and service-related shares are made for no consideration to executive directors and other senior executives up to a maximum of 175% of their annual bonus. Vesting of a proportion of shares is conditional upon whether the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) matches or outperforms an index (determined in accordance with the scheme rules) over three years and vesting of a proportion of shares is conditional upon performance against the internal balanced corporate scorecard. 50% of the PSP options granted in 2018 will vest conditional on Group TSR relative to the TSR of a comparator group of companies, with the remaining 50% vesting conditional upon the internal balanced corporate scorecard. The fair value of the 2018 PSP awards of £2.5 million (2017: £2.8 million) is being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the three-year vesting period. The fair value of PSP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting. The key inputs to the valuation model for the 2018 awards are the share price at the grant date of 272 pence (2017: 325 pence), expected volatility of 41% (2017: 44%), and risk-free interest rate of 0.83% (2017: 0.13%). Movements in the number of shares outstanding for the PSP awards are as follows: 2018 2017 (number) (number) At 1 January 1,289,762 – Granted 1,560,757 1,582,309 Forfeited (175,183) (292,547) Exercised – – Expired – – At 31 December 2,675,336 1,289,762 The weighted average fair value of the options granted during the year was 160 pence (2017: 177 pence). All of the PSP options outstanding at the end of the period had an exercise price of £nil (2017: £nil). The weighted average remaining contractual life was 22 months (2017: 28 months). The number of options exercisable at the year end was nil (2017: nil). 154 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Deferred Share Plan (DSP) In addition, the Group operates the DSP, which was introduced as a vehicle for deferring 35% of the annual bonus of executive directors. DSP awards are granted at nil cost and vest after three years subject to continued employment or “good leaver” termination provisions. The share price on the grant date of DSP awards made in 2018 was 272 pence (2017: 325 pence) and the fair value of these awards of £0.4 million (2017: £0.6 million) is being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the three-year vesting period. The fair value of DSP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting. The key inputs to the valuation model for the 2018 awards are the share price at date of grant, expected volatility of 41% (2017: 44%), and risk-free interest rate of 0.83% (2017: 0.13%). Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the DSP awards are as follows: 2018 2017 (number) (number) At 1 January 110,809 – Granted 135,972 170,227 Forfeited – (59,418) Exercised (20,193) – Expired – – At 31 December 226,588 110,809 50% of the DSP options granted in 2018 will vest in three years conditional on Group TSR relative to the TSR of a comparator group of companies, with the remaining 50% vesting conditional upon the internal balanced corporate scorecard. Bonus Matching Plan (BMP) Under the BMP, annual awards of performance and service-related shares were made for no consideration to executive directors and other senior executives up to a maximum of 150% of their annual bonus up until 2016. The BMP was replaced in 2017 by the PSP. For awards prior to 2017, a proportion of the shares vesting under the BMP are conditional upon whether the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) matches or outperforms an index (determined in accordance with the scheme rules) over three years and a proportion of the shares vesting is conditional upon performance against the internal balanced corporate scorecard. The fair value of the 2017 and 2016 BMP awards, £0.6 million and £2.6 million respectively, are being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the corresponding three-year vesting periods. The fair value of BMP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting. No BMP awards were made in 2018. Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the BMP awards is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 BMP BMP BMP (number) (number) (number) At 1 January 2,314,155 3,193,932 3,411,792 Granted – – 1,686,095 Forfeited (26,436) (196,402) (623,597) Exercised (125,499) (131,952) (337,146) Expired (987,090) (551,423) (943,212) At 31 December 1,175,130 2,314,155 3,193,932 For the BMP options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 270 pence (2017: 308 pence). All of the BMP options outstanding at the end of the period had an exercise price of £nil (2017: £nil). The weighted average remaining contractual life was 2 months (2017: 9 months). The number of options exercisable at the year end was nil (2017: nil). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 155 SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE continued 6.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE) In March 2018, participation in the SAYE plan was offered again to all qualifying employees. Options were granted for employees to acquire shares at a price of 211 pence (2017: 280 pence), representing a discount of 20% to the prevailing market price determined in accordance with the scheme rules. The options are exercisable at the end of three or five-year savings contracts. The fair value of the options granted in connection with the SAYE plan of £1.2 million (2017: £0.9 million) is being charged to the income statement over the term of the relevant contracts. Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the SAYE plans are as follows: 2018 2017 2017 SAYE SAYE SAYE SAYE three-year five-year three-year five-year (number) (number) (number) (number) At 1 January 3,622,469 1,007,289 3,286,906 996,709 Granted 1,078,583 328,325 752,414 140,974 Forfeited (79,515) (6,295) (81,269) (32,324) Exercised (157,804) (935) (34,525) (6,526) Expired (578,783) (220,990) (301,057) (91,544) At 31 December 3,884,950 1,107,394 3,622,469 1,007,289 The fair value of SAYE awards is calculated using a Black-Scholes model, which compares exercise price to share price at the date of grant. The fair value of SAYE options granted and the inputs to the option pricing model used in the current and previous year are set out in the table below: Grant date 28 March 2018 28 March 2018 27 March 2017 27 March 2017 Share price at grant date (pence) 275 275 328 328 Vesting period 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years Exercise price (pence) 211 211 280 280 Dividend yield 5.1% 3.0% 1.8% 2.5% Annual risk-free interest rate 1.22% 1.35% 0.73% 0.90% Expected volatility 40.9% 38.1% 41.2% 37.3% Fair value of options granted (pence) 80 94 106 103 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three and five years respectively. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. For the SAYE options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 365 pence (2017: 305 pence). The weighted average exercise price of SAYE options outstanding at the end of the period was 212 pence (2017: 224 pence). The weighted average remaining contractual life was 16 months (2017: 22 months). The number of options exercisable at the year-end was 2,252 (2017: nil). Additional information in relation to the Group’s share-based incentive plans is included in the Remuneration Committee report on page 75. 156 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.3 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group operates one defined benefit and four defined contribution pension schemes. The Drax Power Group (DPG) section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS) is a defined benefit scheme: a pension arrangement under which participating members receive a pension benefit at retirement determined by the scheme rules. Members are typically entitled to an annual pension on retirement of 1/80th of final pensionable salary for each year of service plus a tax-free lump sum of three times pension. The Drax Group Personal Pension Plan, Haven Power Personal Pension Plan, Opus Energy Group Personal Pension Plan and Drax Biomass Inc. 401(K) Plan are defined contribution schemes, which provide a retirement benefit that is dependent upon actual contributions made by the Group and members of the relevant scheme. As part of the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (see note 5.1), employees with defined benefit pension rights were transferred to the Group. These employees continue to participate in the Scottish Power Pension Scheme whilst the Group is in the process of setting up a new scheme (the Drax 2019 Scheme) for the members to transfer into. Accounting policy Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered services that entitle them to the contributions. The income statement charge for the defined contribution scheme represents the contributions due to be paid by the Group in respect of the current period. For the defined benefit pension scheme, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement of the obligation, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on scheme assets (excluding interest), is recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. Defined benefit costs, including current service costs, past service costs and gains and losses on curtailments and settlements are recognised in the income statement as part of operating and administrative expenses in the period in which they occur. The net interest expense is recognised in finance costs. Significant estimation uncertainty Measurement of the defined benefit obligation using the projected unit credit method involves the use of key assumptions, including discount rates, inflation rates, salary and pension increases and mortality rates. These actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually and modified as appropriate. The Group believes that the assumptions utilised in measuring obligations under the scheme are reasonable based on prior experience, market conditions and the advice of scheme actuaries. However, actual results may differ from such assumptions. The assumptions applied in 2018 have been prepared on a consistent basis with those in the previous period and in accordance with independent actuarial advice received. Defined contribution schemes The Group operates four defined contribution schemes, the Drax Group Personal Pension Plan, Haven Power Personal Pension Plan, Opus Energy Group Personal Pension Plan and Drax Biomass Inc. 401(K) Plan, for all qualifying employees. Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Total included in staff costs 8.1 8.1 As at 31 December 2018, contributions of £1.1 million (2017: £nil) due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 157 SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE continued 6.3 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Defined benefit schemes The breakdown of the defined benefit pension surplus is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Drax Power Group section of ESPS – net surplus/(liability) 18.9 (1.2) Drax 2019 Scheme – net surplus 3.8 – Total net surplus/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 22.7 (1.2) During 2018, application of the accounting assumptions used in relation to the Drax Power Group of the ESPS, which are described in further detail below, resulted in the scheme moving into a position of surplus assets over liabilities. The scheme rules allow the Group to benefit from any residual surplus upon winding up of the scheme. As a result, the surplus has been recognised in the balance sheet in full. Drax Power Group (DPG) section of ESPS The DPG section of the ESPS was closed to new members as of 1 January 2002 unless they qualify through being existing members of another part of the ESPS. Members who joined before this date continue to build up pension benefits as part of the scheme. The DPG ESPS exposes the Group to actuarial and other risks, the most significant of which are considered to be: Investment risk The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The scheme holds a significant proportion of growth assets (diversified growth funds, direct lending and absolute return bonds) which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term. The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the scheme’s long-term objectives. Discount rate risk A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed upon the scheme’s liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the scheme’s bond holdings. Longevity risk The majority of the scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities of the scheme. Inflation risk The majority of the scheme’s obligations to pay benefits are linked to inflation and, as such, higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majority of the assets held by the scheme are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, such that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. In most cases, caps on inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation. The scheme has a significant holding in liability-driven investments and a substantial proportion of this risk is hedged. Other risks include operational risks (such as paying out the wrong benefits), legislative risks (such as the Government increasing the burden on pension schemes through new legislation) and other demographic risks (such as making a higher proportion of members with dependants eligible to receive pensions from the Group). The Trustees ensure certain benefits payable on death before retirement. The most recent funding valuation of the DPG ESPS was carried out by Aon Hewitt, a qualified independent actuary, as at 31 March 2016. The actuarial review at 31 December 2018 is based on the same membership and other data as this funding valuation. The scheme board accepted the advice of the actuary and approved the use of these assumptions for the purpose of assessing the scheme cost. Future valuations are required by law at intervals of no more than three years. The results of the latest funding valuation at 31 March 2016 have been adjusted to the balance sheet date, taking into account experience over the period since 31 March 2016, changes in market conditions and differences in financial and demographic assumptions. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current service costs were measured using the projected unit credit method. The principal assumptions used, which reflect the nature and term of the scheme liabilities, are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 % p.a. % p.a. Discount rate 3.0 2.6 Inflation (RPI) 3.2 3.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.1 3.0 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.8 3.8 158 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.3 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Mortality assumptions are based on recent actual mortality experience of scheme members and allow for expected future improvements in mortality rates. The assumptions are that a member aged 60 in 2018 will live, on average, for a further 26 years if they are male (2017: 26 years) and for a further 29 years if they are female (2017: 29 years). Life expectancy at age 60 for male and female non-pensioners currently aged 45 is assumed to be 27 and 30 years respectively (2017: 27 and 30 years respectively). The net surplus recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the DPG section of the ESPS is the excess of the fair value of the plan assets over the present value of the defined benefit obligation, determined as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Defined benefit obligation (275.6) (306.5) Fair value of plan assets 294.5 305.3 Net surplus/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet 18.9 (1.2) The amounts recognised in the income statement, within other operating and administrative expenses and finance costs, are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Included in staff costs (note 6.1): Current service cost 6.8 7.3 Past service cost 0.6 – Included in finance costs (note 2.5): Interest on net defined benefit (surplus)/liability (0.1) 0.5 Total amounts recognised in the income statement 7.3 7.8 On 26 October 2018, the High Court issued a judgement confirming that defined benefit schemes should be amended to equalise benefits in relation to guaranteed minimum pensions (GMP) for men and women. It is not yet agreed how benefits will be equalised in practice; however, on the grounds that implementation will not lead to any further obligations, the Group’s actuarial advisers have initially estimated that the liabilities of the scheme will increase by £0.6m as at the date of the court ruling. This has been reflected as a past service cost in 2018. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in full, as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Cumulative actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme at 1 January (57.8) (79.2) Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme recognised in the year 15.9 21.4 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 31 December (41.9) (57.8) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 306.5 311.4 Current service cost 6.8 7.3 Past service cost 0.6 – Employee contributions 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 7.8 8.5 Actuarial gains (23.0) (4.8) Benefits paid (23.2) (16.0) Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 275.6 306.5 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 159 SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE continued 6.3 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued The actuarial gains of £23.0 million (2017: £4.8 million) reflect gains of £21.8 million arising from changes in financial assumptions (2017: gains of £5.5 million) and £1.8 million gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions (2017: losses of £4.5 million) offset by losses arising from scheme experience of £0.6 million (2017: gains of £3.8 million). The gains due to changes in financial assumptions principally reflect the decrease in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising as a result of the change in discount rate assumption to 3.0% (2017: 2.6%) following increases in corporate bond yields. Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 305.3 281.3 Interest on plan assets 8.0 8.0 Remeasurement (losses)/gains (7.2) 16.6 Employer contributions 11.5 15.3 Employee contributions 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid (23.2) (16.0) Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 294.5 305.3 Employer contributions included payments totalling £5.0 million (2017: £7.5 million) to reduce the actuarial deficit. There were no contributions outstanding at the end of the year (2017: £0.8 million). The actual return on plan assets in the period was £0.8 million (2017: £24.5 million). The fair values of the major categories of plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Gilts 83.6 104.1 Equities (1) 9.8 76.6 Fixed interest bonds(2) 50.2 71.6 Property 34.8 32.2 Investment funds 40.4 – Cash and other assets(3) 75.7 20.8 Fair value of total plan assets 294.5 305.3 Notes: (1) At 31 December 2018 the scheme’s long-term asset strategy was: diversified growth funds (35%), direct lending (5%), absolute return bonds (7%), corporate bonds (8%), liability driven investing (29%), long lease property (12%), and cash (5%) (2) Fixed interest bonds include a mixture of corporate, Government and absolute return bonds. Approximately 10% of the bonds have a sub-investment grade credit rating (i.e. BB+ or lower) (3) Other assets include £15.5 million of investments in direct lending, a type of private equity vehicle, which is not quoted in an active market (2017: £17.9 million) The pension plan assets do not include any ordinary shares issued by Drax Group plc or any property occupied by the Group. The Group employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles. The overall expected rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class relative to the actual asset allocation for the scheme. 160 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.3 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued The assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate, rate of increase in pensions paid and expected return on plan assets all have a potentially significant effect on the measurement of the scheme surplus. The following table provides an indication of the sensitivity of the pension surplus at 31 December 2018 to changes in these assumptions: Increase/ (decrease) in net surplus % £m Discount rate – Increase 0.25 13.6 – Decrease 0.25 (15.2) Inflation rate(1) – Increase 0.25 (13.1) – Decrease 0.25 12.3 Life expectancy – Increase 1 year (9.2) – Decrease 1 year 9.3 Note: (1) The sensitivity of the scheme liabilities to salary and pension increases is closely correlated with inflation The Group is exposed to investment and other experience risks, as described above, and may need to make additional contributions where it is estimated that the benefits will not be met from regular contributions and expected investment income. The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees of the Group (60%), former employees of the Group who are yet to retire (5%) and retired pensioners (35%). The weighted-average period over which benefit payments are expected to be made, or the duration of the scheme liabilities, was assessed at the 31 March 2016 funding valuation to be 21 years. Future contributions The Group expects to make regular contributions, in respect of service costs, of £10.1 million to the defined benefit pension plan during the 12 months ended 31 December 2019. In addition to regular contributions, deficit contributions have been agreed with the Trustees based upon the Technical Provisions as at the 31 March 2016 valuation. The Technical Provisions indicate a deficit of £45 million including an estimate of the impact of future service costs, which do not meet the definition of a liability at 31 December 2018 for inclusion in the financial statements. This valuation has improved since 31 March 2016, in line with the accounting surplus, although this remains subject to a recovery plan. The Group has agreed to make additional contributions over the period to 31 December 2025 to eliminate the deficit. At this point the scheme is expected to be self-sufficient, unless material adverse changes in economic conditions arise compared to those assumed in the valuation. The Group is confident that the additional contributions are manageable within the Group’s business plan. The terms of the Trust Deed allow the Group to recover any surplus once the liabilities of the scheme have been settled. Accordingly the deficit contributions will not give rise to an unrecognised surplus. Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Scheme On 31 December 2018, the Group purchased a generation business from ScottishPower (see note 5.1). Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement (SPA), a number of employees with defined benefit rights transferred to the Group. The employees in question continue to participate in the Scottish Power Pension Scheme whilst the Group is in the process of setting up a new scheme for the members to transfer into (the Drax 2019 Scheme). The calculations set out below have been performed on the assumption that the transfer of members and assets into the Drax 2019 Scheme occurs during 2019, and will be in accordance with the terms set out in the SPA and the draft Trust Deed regarding the future operation of the new scheme. The liabilities and asset values at 31 December 2018 have been calculated based on advice from PwC, an independent qualified actuary. The liabilities have been calculated using full member by member data as at 16 October 2018, the date of the SPA. The valuation has been prepared at 31 December 2018 allowing for the accrual of benefits up to the year end date and based on the assumptions set out below. The valuation includes an allowance for the equalisation of GMP, calculated using an actuarial GMP benefit modelling tool. The total asset value at 31 December 2018 has been estimated based on a share of funds mechanism agreed with ScottishPower in the SPA. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 161 SECTION 6: OUR PEOPLE continued 6.3 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Assumptions have been set using the best information currently available to the Group and based on the Group’s expectations of events during 2019 in order to set up the new pension scheme. In the event that experience in 2019 differs from these estimates, retrospective adjustments may be required to the extent material. The principal assumptions have been set with reference to the nature and term of the liabilities acquired and are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 % p.a. % p.a. Discount rate 3.1 – Inflation (RPI) 3.1 – Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.0 – Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.7 – The net surplus recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Drax 2019 Scheme is the excess of the estimated fair value of the assets to be transferred over the present value of the defined benefit obligation acquired: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Defined benefit obligation (50.7) – Fair value of plan assets 54.5 – Net surplus recognised in the balance sheet 3.8 – The draft Trust Deed provides for any residual surplus on winding up of the scheme to be returned to the Group. The assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate, rate of increase in pensions paid and expected return on plan assets all have a potentially significant effect on the measurement of the scheme surplus. The following table provides an indication of the sensitivity of the surplus at 31 December 2018 to changes in these assumptions: Increase/ (decrease) in net surplus % £m Discount rate – Increase 0.1 1.2 – Decrease 0.1 (1.2) Inflation rate – Increase 0.1 (1.0) – Decrease 0.1 1.0 Life expectancy – Increase 1 year (1.5) – Decrease 1 year 1.5 162 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT This section provides disclosures around financial risk management, including the financial instruments we use to mitigate such risks. 7.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including commodity price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of commodity and financial markets and seeks to manage potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Risk management is overseen by the risk management committees as explained in principal risks and uncertainties (page 44) which identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks in close coordination with the Group’s trading and treasury functions under policies approved by the Board of directors. Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity, gas, the price of coal, sustainable wood fibre and pellets, other fuels and the price of CO2 emissions allowances. Price variations and market cycles have historically influenced the financial results of the Group and are expected to continue to do so. The Group has a policy of securing forward power sales, purchases of fuel and CO2 emissions allowances when profitable to do so and in line with specified limits under approved policies. All commitments to sell power under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of electricity. The Group purchases sustainable biomass, coal and other fuels under either fixed or variable priced contracts with different maturities principally from a number of international sources. The Group considers all such contracts to be economic hedges. The Group applies the own use exemption or hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 as set out in the accounting policies in notes 7.2 and 7.4. Where forward power curves are less liquid, the Group uses financially-settled gas sales as a proxy for power to mitigate the risk of power price fluctuations. The Group also purchases gas under fixed-price contracts to meet the demand of its B2B Energy Supply customers and, looking forward following the acquisition of Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) assets at the end of 2018, as a fuel for its gas-fired generation portfolio. The Group purchases CO2 emissions allowances under fixed price contracts with different maturity dates from a range of domestic and international sources. All commitments to purchase CO2 emissions allowances under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of CO2 emissions allowances. Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to commodity prices for outstanding monetary items at the balance sheet date. The analysis is based on the Group’s commodity financial instruments held at each balance sheet date. If commodity prices had been 5% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, in the Group’s Total Results: • profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2018 would increase/decrease by £6.6 million (2017: loss after tax would increase/ decrease by £1.5 million). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to oil derivatives; and • the hedge reserve would increase/decrease by £18.9 million (2017: increase/decrease by £5.6 million) mainly as a result of the changes in the fair value of financial coal and power derivatives. Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to the fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulting from committed and forecast transactions in foreign currencies, principally in relation to purchases of fuel for use in the Power Generation business. These purchases are typically denominated in US dollars, Canadian dollars or euros. In addition, in order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has issued foreign currency denominated debt in US dollars (see note 4.3). The Group utilises derivative contracts to manage exchange risk on foreign currency debt. It is the Group’s policy to hedge material transactional exposures using a variety of derivatives to fix the sterling value of foreign currency cash flows, except where there is an economic hedge inherent in the transaction. The Group enters into derivative contracts, including forwards and options, to manage its anticipated foreign currency requirements over a rolling five-year period. The Group also has a limited exposure to translation risk in relation to its net investment in its US subsidiary, Drax Biomass Inc. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 163 SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT continued 7.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Foreign currency sensitivity If sterling exchange rates had been 5% stronger/weaker against other currencies and all other variables were held constant, in the Group’s Total Results: • profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2018 would increase/decrease by £112.3 million/£124.7 million (2017: loss after tax would decrease/increase by £351.1 million/£285.5 million). This is attributable to the Group’s exposure to foreign currency exchange contracts entered in relation to fuel purchase contracts; and • other equity reserves would decrease/increase by £160.6 million/£183.6 million (2017: decrease/increase by £111.1 million/£122.8 million) as a result of the changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts. Interest rate risk The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk, principally in relation to cash and cash equivalents and floating rate debt instruments. At December 2018 the Group had no floating rate debt instruments drawn. The Group has taken out a fixed to fixed cross‑currency interest rate swap to hedge the future cash flows associated with the USD $300 million 2025 fixed rate loan notes, effectively converting them to sterling fixed rate cash flows. The return generated on the Group’s cash balance, or on amounts drawn on the revolving credit facility, are also exposed to movements in short-term interest rates. The Group manages cash balances to protect against adverse changes in rates whilst retaining liquidity. Information about the Group’s instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk and their repayment schedules is provided in note 4.3. Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. If interest rates had been 1% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit after tax and net assets for the year ended 31 December 2018 would decrease/increase by £1.0 million (2017: loss after tax would decrease/increase by £2.2 million) as a result of the changes in interest payable during the period. Liquidity risk The treasury function is responsible for liquidity, funding and settlement management under policies approved by the Board of directors. Liquidity needs are monitored using regular forecasting of operational cash flows and financing commitments. The Group maintains a mixture of cash and cash equivalents, committed facilities and uncommitted facilities in order to ensure sufficient funding for business requirements. In managing liquidity risk, the Group has the ability to accelerate the cash flows associated with certain working capital items (principally those related to ROC sales and B2B Energy Supply power sales). In each case this is undertaken on a non-recourse basis and accordingly the ROCs and other items are derecognised from the balance sheet at the point of sale. As discussed in the financial review on page 34, the Group also utilises standard purchasing facilities to extend the working capital cycle, whilst still paying suppliers on time. The impact on the Group’s cash flows is described in note 4.4. The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables include both interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the balance sheet date. As at 31 December 2018 Within 3 months– 3 months 1 year >1 year Total £m £m £m £m Term loan, gross value – 1.7 41.3 43.0 Loan notes, gross value – 30.5 716.2 746.7 Finance lease liabilities, carrying value – 0.2 0.4 0.6 Borrowings, contractual maturity – 32.4 757.9 790.3 Trade and other payables 384.1 176.4 – 560.5 Acquisition consideration payable 686.9 – – 686.9 1,071.0 208.8 757.9 2,037.7 Trade and other payables of £560.5 million excludes non-financial liabilities such as the Group’s obligation to deliver ROCs. 164 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued As at 31 December 2017 Within 3 months– 3 months 1 year >1 year Total £m £m £m £m Term loans, gross value – 1.6 41.7 43.3 Revolving credit facilities, gross value 18.7 – – 18.7 Loan notes, gross value 2.2 21.9 637.2 661.3 Finance lease liabilities, carrying value – 0.1 0.8 0.9 Borrowings, contractual maturity 20.9 23.6 679.7 724.2 Trade and other payables 445.2 187.3 4.5 637.0 466.1 210.9 684.2 1,361.2 Interest payments are calculated based on forward interest rates estimated at the balance sheet date using publicly available information. The weighted average interest rate payable at the balance sheet date on the Group’s borrowings was 4.56% (2017: 4.38%). The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of derivative financial instruments which are marked to market, based on the undiscounted cash flows. Where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to projected commodity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates, as illustrated by the yield or other forward curves existing at the reporting date. As at 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 14.5 190.8 68.6 273.9 Financial contracts 1,794.7 843.4 1,861.3 4,499.4 Cross currency interest rate swap 10.7 10.7 26.8 48.2 1,819.9 1,044.9 1,956.7 4,821.5 As at 31 December 2017 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 161.9 69.4 16.6 247.9 Financial contracts 1,104.0 1,173.9 2,331.0 4,608.9 1,265.9 1,243.3 2,347.6 4,856.8 Counterparty risk As the Group relies on third party suppliers and counterparties for the delivery of currency, sustainable biomass and other goods and services, it is exposed to the risk of non-performance by these third-party suppliers. If a large supplier were to fall into financial difficulty and/or fail to deliver against its contract with the Group, there would be additional costs associated with securing the lost goods or services from other suppliers. The Group enters into contracts for the sale of electricity to a number of counterparties. The failure of one or more of these counterparties to perform their contractual obligations may cause the Group financial distress or increase the risk profile of the Group. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 165 SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT continued 7.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Credit risk The Group’s gross exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date, as summarised below: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 289.0 222.3 Trade and other receivables 413.3 409.3 Other fixed asset investments 2.4 1.3 Derivative financial instruments 510.6 366.2 1,215.3 999.1 Trade and other receivables are stated gross of the provision for doubtful debts of £44.0 million (2017: £28.2 million) and exclude non-financial receivables such as prepayments. Of the Group‘s three operating segments, two are exposed to different levels and concentrations of credit risk, largely reflecting the number, size and nature of their respective customers. The Pellet Production segment only trades intra-group. The highest risk is in the B2B Energy Supply segment, with a high number of customers of varying sizes operating in a variety of markets. In particular, Opus Energy carries lower concentrations but higher levels of credit risk owing to a customer base comprised largely of smaller retail and commercial entities. In the B2B Energy Supply segment, credit risk is managed by checking a company’s creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing trade and during the business relationship. Credit risk is monitored and managed by business sector. In addition the B2B Energy Supply segment extended its trade credit insurance programme to increase its mitigation to credit risk. For the Power Generation segment, the risk arises from treasury, trading and energy procurement activities, as well as sale of byproducts from generation activities. Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits. The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist. In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of parent company guarantee, deed of charge, cash collateral and letters of credit. The majority of the Generation business’s credit risk is with counterparties in related energy industries or with financial institutions. In addition, where deemed appropriate, the Group has historically purchased credit default swaps. The investment of surplus cash is undertaken with the objective of that there is sufficient liquidity at all times, so that funds are available to meet liabilities as they fall due, whilst securing a return from invested funds and preserving the capital value of those funds within Board-approved policies. These policies manage credit risk exposure by setting out minimum rating requirements, maximum investment with any one counterparty and the maturity profile. Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure it is able to continue as a going concern and maintain its credit rating while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders’ equity (excluding the hedge and cost of hedging reserves), plus net debt. Net debt is comprised of borrowings disclosed in note 4.3 and cash and cash equivalents in note 4.2. As at 31 December 2017 2018 Restated £m £m Borrowings 608.1 589.7 Cash and cash equivalents (289.0) (222.3) Net debt 319.1 367.4 Total shareholders’ equity, excluding hedge and cost of hedging reserves 1,580.0 1,634.7 166 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS We enter into forward contracts for the purchase and sale of physical commodities (principally power, gas, coal, sustainable biomass and CO2 emissions allowances) to secure market level bark and dark green spreads on future electricity sales, and also financial forward and option contracts (principally currency exchange contracts and financial coal and oil derivatives) to fix sterling cash flows. We hold these contracts to manage key risks facing the business, including commodity price risk and foreign currency risk (see note 7.1). A successful commercial hedging strategy is critical to the Group’s business model. Our policy is to fix exposures to commodity price movements and changes in foreign exchange rates using derivative contracts such as those described above. This strategy aims to de-risk the business, providing security and certainty over cash flows into the future. As at 31 December 2018, the fair value of our forward derivative contracts, consisting largely of forward contracts for the purchase of foreign currencies (principally for the purpose of fixing the sterling cost of sustainable biomass purchases), increased to £359.0 million (2017: £160.0 million). Accounting policy At the balance sheet date all contracts (subject to certain exemptions described below) must be measured at fair value, which is in essence the difference between the price we have secured in the contract, and the price we could achieve in the market at that point in time. Changes in fair value are recognised either within the income statement or the hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the contract in question qualifies as an effective hedge under IFRS (see note 7.4). Where possible, the Group has taken advantage of the own-use exemption which allows qualifying contracts to be excluded from fair value mark-to-market accounting. This applies to certain contracts for physical commodities entered into and held for the Group’s own purchase, sale or usage requirements, including forward contracts for the purchase of biomass, and coal from domestic sources. Contracts which do not qualify for the own-use exemption – principally power, gas, financial oil, financial coal, CO2 emissions allowances and forward foreign currency exchange contracts – are accounted for as derivatives in accordance with IFRS 9 and are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected through the hedge reserve (note 7.4) to the extent that the contracts are designated as effective hedges in accordance with IFRS 9, or the income statement where the hedge accounting requirements are not met. The Group enters into forward contracts solely for the purpose of financial risk management and considers all of its contracts to be economic hedges, regardless of whether the specific criteria for hedge accounting are met. To ensure these derivatives are not reflected in the underlying performance of the Group, they are excluded from the Adjusted Results in the income statement. Derivative financial instruments with a maturity date within 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as current assets or liabilities. Instruments with a maturity date beyond 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. The location in the consolidated financial statements of the changes in fair value of derivative contracts in the current and previous year is summarised in the table below: Gains/(losses) Gains/(losses) on contracts on contracts Accounting treatment in 2017 for gains/(losses) in the in 2018 Restated consolidated financial Accounting for derivative contracts £m £m statements Commodity contracts Power 16.3 3.8 Hedge reserve Coal from international sources (0.4) (0.8) Income statement Coal from domestic sources n/a n/a Own-use exemption Biomass n/a n/a Own-use exemption CO2 emissions allowances 6.9 11.0 Hedge reserve Gas (10.0) 0.1 Income statement Financial contracts Foreign currency exchange contracts 35.0 (255.4) Income statement 39.3 20.8 Cost of hedging 79.7 (225.6) Hedge reserve Financial coal 1.5 12.9 Income statement (16.5) 1.5 Hedge reserve Financial oil and other financial products 12.3 66.3 Income statement Cross currency interest rate swap 5.1 – Hedge reserve Total net gains/(losses) in hedge reserve 91.5 (209.3) Total net gain in cost of hedging 39.3 20.8 Total net gains/(losses) in income statement 38.4 (176.9) Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 167 SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT continued 7.2 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Significant estimation uncertainty The fair values of derivative instruments for commodities and foreign currency exchange contracts are determined using forward price curves. Forward price curves represent the Group’s estimates of the prices at which a buyer or seller could contract today for delivery or settlement of a commodity or foreign exchange payment or receipt, at future dates. The Group generally bases forward price curves upon readily obtainable market price quotations, as the Group’s commodity and forward foreign exchange contracts do not generally extend beyond the actively traded portion of these curves. However, the forward price curves used are only an estimate of how future prices will move and are, therefore, subjective. Where derivative financial instruments include options these are valued using an option pricing model. Inputs to the model include market commodity prices, forward price curves, the term of the option, discount rate and assumptions about volatility based on historical movements. The inputs include assumptions around future transactions and market movements, as well as credit risk and are, therefore, subjective. Fair value accounting Forward contracts for the sale of power, purchase of coal from international sources, purchase of CO2 emissions allowances, financial coal, financial oil, gas (collectively “Commodity contracts”) and foreign currency exchange contracts are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value as follows: As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts: Less than one year 66.8 (72.7) 60.5 (79.3) More than one year but not more than two years 24.2 (30.5) 8.4 (14.4) More than two years 2.5 (2.5) 0.5 (1.1) Financial contracts: Less than one year 148.6 (16.7) 115.0 (30.3) More than one year but not more than two years 138.6 (9.2) 85.5 (20.0) More than two years 101.9 (19.8) 96.3 (58.7) Cross currency interest rate swap 27.9 – – – Total 510.6 (151.4) 366.2 (203.8) Less: non-current portion Commodity contracts (26.8) 33.0 (8.9) 15.5 Financial contracts (240.5) 29.0 (181.8) 78.7 Cross currency interest rate swap (27.9) – – – Total non-current portion (295.2) 62.0 (190.7) 94.2 Current portion 215.4 (89.4) 175.5 (109.6) The total increase in the fair value of these contracts of £196.8 million (2017: £365.4 million reduction) is recognised in the income statement, cost of hedging or the hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 are met, as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Total net gains/(losses) income statement (note 7.2) 38.4 (176.9) Total net gain in cost of hedging reserve (note 7.5) 39.3 20.8 Total net gains/(losses) in hedge reserve (note 7.4) 91.5 (209.3) Other movements on derivative contracts recognised in arriving at total operating profit (note 7.4) 27.6 – Total gains/(losses) on derivative contracts 196.8 (365.4) The Group maintains a substantial foreign currency hedging programme to secure the sterling cost of future purchases of fuel in foreign currencies. The vast majority of fuel purchases, and therefore currency exchange contracts, are denominated in US dollars. The unrealised gains reflect the weakening of sterling against the US dollar in the year. A material proportion of these contracts are not designated in hedge accounting relationships under IFRS 9 and thus the gains on these contracts were recognised in the income statement. Unrealised gains or losses recognised in the hedge reserve principally reflect gains or losses on the portion of forward currency exchange contracts that are designated in effective hedge relationships in accordance with IFRS 9. 168 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Fair value measurement • Commodity contracts fair value – The fair value of open commodity contracts that do not qualify for the own-use exemption is calculated by reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date. As contracts are generally short-term, forward market price curves are available for the duration of the contracts. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price; the quoted price for financial liabilities is the current ask price. • Forward foreign currency exchange contracts fair value – The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is determined using forward currency exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. • Other financial contracts fair value – The fair value of other financial contracts that do not qualify for the own-use exemption, is calculated by reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date. As contracts are generally short-term, forward market price curves are available for the duration of the contracts. The fair values of all derivative financial instruments are discounted to reflect the credit risk inherent within the instrument. The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for the presence of embedded derivatives. Where contracts were found to contain embedded derivatives, they were considered to be closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract, and therefore do not require separate valuation from their host contracts. IFRS requires categorisation of our financial instruments in accordance with the following hierarchy in order to explain the basis on which their fair values have been determined: • Level 1 – fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; • Level 2 – fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and • Level 3 – fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Categorisation within this fair value measurement hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset or liability. The fair value of commodity contracts and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are largely determined by comparison between forward market prices and the contract price; therefore, these contracts are categorised as Level 2. There have been no transfers during the year between Level 1, 2 or 3 category inputs. 7.3 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group hold a variety of other non-derivative financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, payables and receivables arising from operations. Fair value Cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2), trade and other receivables (note 3.5) and trade and other payables (note 3.7) generally have a short time to maturity. For this reason their carrying values, on the historical cost basis, approximate to their fair value. The Group’s borrowings relate principally to the publicly traded high-yield loan notes and amounts drawn against term loans, see note 4.3. The financial liabilities have been measured at amortised cost. The terms of the instruments have been reviewed for the existence of embedded derivatives. The 2022 fixed rate loan notes and the 2025 USD loan notes both contain an early repayment option that meets the definition of an embedded derivative. However, in both cases, these have not been separated as they are deemed to be closely related to the host contract. At 31 December 2018, the fair value of the loan notes was £4.6 million and in excess of the carrying value of £574.3 million (based on quoted market prices). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 169 SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT continued 7.4 HEDGE RESERVE The Group designates certain hedging instruments used to address commodity price risk and foreign exchange risk as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item is documented, along with its risk management objectives. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items. Changes in fair value of contracts designated into such hedging relationships are recognised within the hedge reserve to the extent they are effective. The cumulative gains and losses unwind and are released as the related contracts mature and we take delivery of the associated commodity or currency. Hedge reserve 2017 2018 Restated £m £m At 1 January 126.1 305.4 Gains/(losses) recognised: – Commodity contracts 8.4 1.5 – Financial contracts 149.8 (161.9) – Cross currency interest rate swap 27.9 – Released from equity: – Commodity contracts (1.9) 14.8 – Financial contracts (69.9) (73.6) – Cross currency interest rate swap (22.8) – Related deferred tax, net (note 2.6) (17.7) 39.9 At 31 December 199.9 126.1 Commodity contracts and financial contracts are released from equity to revenue or cost of sales in the income statement. Gains and losses on the cross currency interest rate swap are released to interest costs. The Group’s cash flow hedges relate to commodity contracts (principally commitments to sell power) and forward foreign currency exchange contracts. Amounts are recognised in the hedge reserve as the designated contracts are marked-to-market at each period end for the effective portion of the hedge, which is generally 100% of the relevant contract. Amounts held within the hedge reserve are then released as the related contract matures and the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss. For power sales contracts, this is when the underlying power is delivered. For currency contracts, this is when the associated foreign currency transaction is recognised. Further information about the Group’s accounting for financial instruments is included in note 7.2. Included in amounts released from equity are gains and losses on financial instruments that matured in a previous period, released to the income statement in the period the hedged transaction occurs. No ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement in the year (2017: £Nil). Due to the nature of the hedge relationships, the movement in value for the hedged items and hedging instruments are comparable. The expected release profile from equity of post-tax hedging gains and losses is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 2.7 3.6 0.5 6.8 Financial contracts 67.0 91.2 56.7 214.9 Cross currency interest rate swap – – (21.8) (21.8) 69.7 94.8 35.4 199.9 As at 31 December 2017 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 2.3 (1.7) – 0.6 Financial contracts 40.0 39.9 45.6 125.5 42.3 38.2 45.6 126.1 170 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.5 COST OF HEDGING RESERVE On transition to IFRS 9, the Group has elected to allocate unrealised gains and losses on the forward rate of foreign currency derivative contracts to a new cost of hedging reserve. The prior year amounts have been restated and a reconciliation is provided in note 8.3. A large proportion of the derivative contracts relate to foreign exchange contracts, including forward contracts, options and swaps. Consistent with prior periods, the Group has continued to designate the change in fair value of the spot rate in the Group’s cash flow hedge relationships. As part of the transition to IFRS 9, an election was made to designate the cost of hedging – being the change in fair value associated with forward points including currency basis – to equity. This change in policy has been applied retrospectively. As a result, the Group’s loss on initial application has decreased and the corresponding increase was taken through equity to a new cost of hedging reserve. The cumulative gains and losses unwind and are released as the related contracts mature and we take delivery of the associated currency. Cost of hedging 2017 2018 Restated £m £m At 1 January (40.7) (57.5) Gains/(losses) recognised: – Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 24.8 19.8 Released from equity: – Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 14.5 1.0 Related deferred tax, net (note 2.6) (7.5) (4.0) At 31 December (8.9) (40.7) Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are released to cost of sales in the income statement. The expected release profile from equity of post-tax cost of hedging gains and losses is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Financial contracts 3.0 11.9 (6.0) 8.9 7.6 CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities are potential future outflows of cash that are dependent on a future event that is outside of the control of the Group. The amount or timing of any payment is uncertain and cannot be measured reliably. Capacity market suspension On 15 November 2018 the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union found in favour of a claim against the European Commission, annulling the Commission’s State aid approval of the UK Capacity Market. This ruling imposed a standstill period on the Capacity Market, with payments under existing contracts and future capacity auctions suspended indefinitely until re-approval. Following this ruling, the Group ceased to accrue capacity market income in Power Generation. Any revenue up to 30 September was received, but from this date no amounts have been recognised. The Department for Business, Energy, Innovation and Skills (BEIS) has indicated its intent, in a consultation document dated 19 December 2018, to work with the European Commission to achieve a reinstatement of the Capacity Market as soon as possible. Furthermore, BEIS has indicated that, upon reinstatement, it expects to make back payments to Generators who have complied with their capacity agreements during the standstill period. At the date of signing these accounts the Group has complied with its capacity obligations in full. However, reinstatement remains conditional upon EU State aid re-approval and accordingly at the date of these accounts remains uncertain. If the capacity market is reinstated and payments are backdated, the Group will receive income of £7 million in respect of payments due to the Power Generation business which would become payable in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018. As disclosed in note 5.1, should 100% of the contracted Capacity Market payments for the Acquired Generation Business not be received in respect of the period 1 January to 30 September 2019, a risk sharing mechanism may result in further payments being made either to or from the Group in respect of the acquisition. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 171 SECTION 7: RISK MANAGEMENT continued 7.6 CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued Guarantees In addition to the amount drawn down against the bank loans, certain members of the Group guarantee the obligations of a number of banks in respect of letters of credit issued by those banks to counterparties of the Group. As at 31 December 2018, the Group’s contingent liability in respect of letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility amounted to £31.8 million (2017: £35.7 million). The Group also guarantees obligations in the form of surety bonds with a number of insurers amounting to £63.7 million (2017: £41.3 million). Guaranteed Minimum Pension The Group has previously disclosed a contingent liability in respect of the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). On 26 October 2018, the High Court issued a judgement confirming that schemes should be amended to equalise benefits in relation to GMP for men and women. Accordingly, the Group has included the estimated cost of equalisation (£0.6m) in calculating its defined benefit pension obligations at 31 December 2018 (see note 6.3). 7.7 COMMITMENTS The Group has a number of financial commitments (i.e. a contractual requirement to make a cash payment in the future) that are not recorded in the balance sheet as the contract is not yet due for delivery. Such commitments include contracts for the future purchase of coal and biomass, operating leases for land and buildings, contracts for the construction of assets and contracts for the provision of services. As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 74.9 11.6 Future support contracts not provided in the financial statements 6.5 6.5 Future commitments to purchase ROCs 159.7 168.0 Future commitments to purchase fuel under fixed and variable priced contracts 6,716.6 5,803.5 The contractual maturities of the future commitments to purchase fuel are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Within one year 1,084.2 1,054.2 Within two to five years 4,191.0 2,885.5 After five years 1,441.4 1,863.8 6,716.6 5,803.5 Commitments to purchase fuel reflect long-term forward purchase contracts with a variety of international suppliers, primarily for the delivery of sustainable wood pellets for use in electricity production at Drax Power Station over the period from 2019–2027. To the extent these contracts relate to the purchase of wood pellets, they are not reflected elsewhere in the financial statements owing to application of the “own-use” exemption from fair value accounting to such contracts (see note 7.2). The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Within one year 6.1 8.9 Within one to five years 12.7 25.5 After five years 12.0 9.1 30.8 43.5 The operating lease commitments principally comprise a number of leases for the Group’s office space. 172 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION This section details reference information relevant to the accounts. Here we describe the general information about the Group (e.g. operations and registered office). We also set out the basis of preparation of the accounts and general accounting policies that are not specific to any one note. 8.1 GENERAL INFORMATION Drax Group plc (the Company) is incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act. The Company and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) have three principal activities: • electricity generation; • electricity supply to business customers; and • manufacturing of sustainable compressed wood pellets for use in electricity production. The Group’s activities are principally based within the UK, with the wood pellet manufacturing activities situated in the US. The address of the Company’s registered office and principal establishment is Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH, United Kingdom. A full list of operating companies of the Group is disclosed in note 5 to the Company’s separate financial statements, which follow these consolidated financial statements. 8.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION Adoption of new and revised accounting standards A number of new and amended standards became effective for the first time in 2018. The Group adopted the following from 1 January 2018: IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions – effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 (including clarifications issued on 12 April 2016) – Revenue from Contracts with Customers – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration – effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Other than the adoption of IFRS 9, these updates and amendments have not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group. The transition disclosures for IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 have been included in note 8.3. At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new or amended standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU – marked by *): IAS 40 (amended) – Investment Property – effective for annual reportings beginning on or after 1 July 2018.* IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments – effective for annual reports beginning on or after 1 January 2019.* IFRS 16 (amended) – Leases – effective for annual reports beginning on or after 1 January 2019. IFRS 10 (amended) – Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 (amended) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011) – effective date deferred indefinitely.* IAS 28 (amended) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – effective from 1 January 2019. IAS 19 (amended) – Employee Benefits – effective from 1 January 2019. IFRS 3 (amended) – Business Combinations – effective from 1 January 2020. Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (amended) – effective from 1 January 2020. IAS 1 (amended) – Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 (amended) Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors – effective from 1 January 2020. IFRS 17 Insurance contracts – effective from 1 January 2021. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 173 SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION continued 8.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued Adoption of the other standards in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, other than IFRS 16 as noted below. IFRS 16 – Leases The Group will adopt IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 and has chosen to adopt the modified retrospective application. Consequently, comparative information in the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 will not be restated. The new requirements will impact the Group’s accounting for lease contracts. The Group’s current operating lease portfolio predominantly relates to properties and the hire of plant and equipment at operating sites. On transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, these leases will be brought onto the balance sheet as right-of-use assets, and the Group will recognise a corresponding liability for the amounts payable under the lease contracts. On transition, the Group will make use of the practical expedient available not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease. Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 will continue to apply to those leases entered into or modified before 1 January 2019. However, the Group will apply the new definition of a lease to all contracts entered into or modified on or after 1 January 2019. We do not anticipate this change to have a significant impact on the assessment of contracts that are in scope of the definition of a lease. For short-term leases (12 months or less) and leases of low value assets, the Group will elect to recognise a lease expense on a straightline basis as permitted by IFRS 16. Short-term leases include those which end within 12 months of transition. Under IFRS 16, right-of-use assets will be tested for impairment in accordance with our policy outlined in note 2.4. This will replace the previous requirement to recognise a provision for onerous lease contracts. Impact on lease accounting As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of approximately £31 million. A preliminary assessment has been concluded that indicates the Group will recognise a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability of approximately £20 million on transition to the new standard in 2019. This value is lower than the value of non-cancellable minimum lease payments owing to the existence of short-term and low-value leases, and the effect of discounting. The preliminary assessment indicates that £18 million of the existing lease obligations relate to short-term and leases of low value assets. The effect of discounting has been estimated for the purpose of this analysis. The anticipated effect on profit or loss (compared to 2018 results for lease contracts in existence at the balance sheet date) is a reduction in administrative and operating expenses of approximately £5 million, offset by increases in depreciation of approximately £4 million and finance costs of approximately £1 million. Actual values may differ from those in this preliminary assessment. Due to the timing of the transaction the Group has not yet completed any detailed analysis of lease contracts acquired as part of the ScottishPower generation portfolio for this purpose. Initial investigations indicate the largest lease in the portfolio has a present value of approximately £5 million. 174 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.3 ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND CHANGE IN PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations. It applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers, unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards. Adoption of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any changes to the amounts recognised in these financial statements compared to the previous requirements, nor any restatement of the prior period comparative information. The adoption of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any changes to the amount or timing of revenue recognised in either period. In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 15, the Group has adopted the new requirements retrospectively and has reclassified certain balance sheet receivables and payables for the 2017 financial year. The Group has applied certain practical expedients on initial application including the exemption from the requirement to apply the standard to contracts that begin and end within the same annual reporting period and contracts completed before 1 January 2017. These practical expedients did not have a material effect on the financial statements. The accounting policies, as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts for 31 December 2017, have not materially changed. Particular areas for consideration have been in respect of the growing B2B Energy Supply Segment which supplies to businesses ranging from micro-businesses to large Industrial & Commercial participants. Larger customers actively rather than passively renew their supply contracts. These contracts have been separated into two main categories; those with a fixed price for a contracted period of time, and those with a variable or flexible price where the contract price varies according to changes in the cost of supply. For fixed price contracts, progress is measured with reference to the costs of supply incurred at the point the energy is delivered and revenue is accrued or deferred accordingly. For variable rate and flexible contracts, revenue is recognised at a point in time when the energy is supplied and is measured at the contracted price per unit supplied. The B2B Energy Supply business accrues revenue based on estimated usage each period and this is recognised in the balance sheet as accrued income. Where the consideration received from the customer is in advance of supply, revenue is deferred on the balance sheet. Generation revenue continues to be recognised at the point of delivery. Activities within the scope of IFRS 9 (see below) are outside the scope of IFRS 15. IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing together all three aspects of accounting for financial instruments: classification and measurement; impairment; and hedge accounting which has been fully adopted by the Group. On transition to IFRS 9, the key change in the Group’s accounting policy for financial instruments is to recognise the ‘cost of hedging’ (explained below) initially in a reserve, rather than the income statement. Amounts are subsequently reclassified from the cost of hedging reserve and recognised in cost of sales in the same period as the hedged item. This change in policy has been applied retrospectively with comparative information for the period beginning 1 January 2017 being adjusted as though the cost of hedging approach had always been applied for those derivatives that existed at or since 1 January 2017. Unrealised fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses relating to fuel purchases, which will be recycled to inventory in the balance sheet, are released directly from the hedge reserve. Prior year comparatives have not been restated for other aspects of IFRS 9, as the effect is not material. In respect of accounting for trade and other receivables, the Group has applied IFRS 9’s simplified approach to provisioning and has calculated this using lifetime expected losses. This calculation has had no material impact on the financial statements. The transition to the new standard is complete; however, the Group will monitor emerging developments and interpretations of the new standard. Changes in presentation of income statement All gains and losses on derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are included in revenue or cost of sales as and when they arise. However, since the purpose of the derivative contracts concerned is to hedge certain risk exposures, principally commodity price and foreign currency risks, a columnar format has been adopted for the income statement in which adjusted results are presented, excluding certain gains and losses arising from remeasuring derivative contracts to fair value. The purpose of adjusted results is to reflect sales of electricity and purchases of fuel at the contracted price. This includes the effect of relevant financial derivatives (such as forward foreign currency contracts) used to secure the all-in sale or purchase price of the commodity concerned. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 175 SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION continued 8.3 ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND CHANGE IN PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT continued The adjusted results therefore in effect apply the accounting treatment that would have applied under IFRS 9 had the derivative contracts concerned qualified for hedge accounting. This is consistent with the practice followed by other major UK power generation companies. This change has been applied retrospectively but has not changed the prior year results, only their presentation. The impact on the previously reported amounts in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, due to changes in accounting policies, are set out in the tables below. There have been no changes to the balance sheet other than the creation of a cost of hedging reserve. Impact on the income statement (increase/(decrease)) for: Year ended 31 December Year ended 2017 Representation 31 December As previously Adoption of of income 2017 reported IFRS 9 statement Restated £m £m £m £m Total results a) b) Total results Revenue 3,685.2 – (0.9) 3,684.3 Cost of sales (3,140.2) – (176.0) (3,316.2) Gross profit 545.0 – (176.9) 368.1 Operating and administrative expenses (316.1) 18.7 – (297.4) Impairment losses on trade receivables – (18.7) – (18.7) Depreciation (122.7) – – (122.7) Amortisation (43.6) – – (43.6) Loss on disposal (15.4) – – (15.4) Other losses (0.4) – – (0.4) Unrealised losses on derivative contracts (156.1) (20.8) 176.9 – Acquisition and restructuring costs (7.8) – – (7.8) Operating loss (117.1) (20.8) – (137.9) Foreign exchange losses (10.6) – – (10.6) Interest payable and similar charges (55.7) – – (55.7) Interest receivable 0.2 – – 0.2 Loss before tax (183.2) (20.8) – (204.0) Total tax charge 32.1 4.0 – 36.1 Restated loss for the period (151.1) (16.8) – (167.9) Loss per share – Basic (37.2) (41.3) – Diluted (36.8) (40.9) Impact on total comprehensive income (increase/(decrease)) for: Year ended 31 December 2017 Adjustments £m Total comprehensive expense – as disclosed (309.7) Net impact of cost of hedging reclassification (a) 2.7 Fair value gains and losses on cash-flow hedges – released directly from reserves (a) 85.7 Deferred tax on above items (d) (19.3) Total comprehensive expense – restated (240.6) 176 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.3 ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND CHANGE IN PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT continued (a) Adoption of IFRS 9 A large proportion of our derivative contracts relate to foreign exchange contracts, including forward contracts, options and swaps. Consistent with prior periods, the Group has continued to designate the change in fair value of the spot rate in the Group’s cash flow hedge relationships. As part of the transition, an election has been made to apply the cost of hedging approach resulting in the change in fair value associated with forward points, including currency basis, being initially recognised in equity and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. This change in policy has been applied retrospectively. As a result, the Group reclassified £57.5 million of cumulative losses to the new cost of hedging reserve on initial application and restated the 2017 financial results to reflect £20.8 million of gains (plus associated tax of £4.0 million) in the cost of hedging reserve. Fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges of £85.7 million that relate to fuel purchases, which were recycled to inventory in the balance sheet, have been restated as though they were released directly from reserves and therefore are no longer recognised in Other comprehensive income. The related deferred tax of £(15.6) million has also been reallocated. Impairment losses on trade receivables are now disclosed separately on the face of the income statement (previously included within operational and administrative expenses). Application of IFRS 9 has not had a material impact on the value of trade receivable impairment losses. b) Representation of the income statement Unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts have been included in the line item to which they relate. (c) Other losses There were no material adjustments to the Group’s classification and measurement of financial instruments. The Group has changed its policy regarding the classification of listed equity investments from fair value through profit and loss to fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). (d) Tax charge Upon adoption of IFRS 9, deferred tax and income tax values were adjusted accordingly. 8.4 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A related party is either an individual or entity with control or significant influence over the Group, or a company that is linked to us by investment (such as an associated company or joint venture). Our primary related parties are our key management personnel. Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors and Executive Committee members, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, together with the directors’ interests in the share capital of Drax Group plc, is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Committee report. Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £000 £000 Salaries and short-term benefits 4,891 4,900 Aggregate amounts receivable under share-based incentive schemes 1,004 1,221 Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 74 34 5,969 6,155 Amounts included in the table above reflect the remuneration of the 15 (2017: 12) members of the Board and Executive Committee as described on pages 74 to 100, including those who have resigned during the year. Amounts receivable under incentive schemes represents the expenses arising from share-based payments included in the Consolidated income statement, determined based on the fair value of the related awards at the date of grant (note 6.2), as adjusted for non-market-related vesting conditions. There were no other transactions with directors for the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 177 SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION continued 8.5 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE ENLARGED GROUP As required by the Listing Rules, the Group reproduces below the unaudited pro forma financial information included in Part VI on pages 51-55 of the Class 1 circular, published on 5 December 2018 in connection with acquisition of the Acquired Generation Business. Capitalised terms on this note are defined within the Class I circular, available at www.drax.com/circular2018. The unaudited pro forma income statement and unaudited pro forma net assets statement of the Enlarged Group (together the “Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information”) set out below has been prepared on the basis of the notes below, and in accordance with Listing Rule 13.3.3R, to illustrate the impact of the Acquisition on the income statement of Drax Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2017, as if it had taken place on 1 January 2017, and on the net assets of Drax Group plc as at 31 December 2017, as if it had taken place at that date. The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information has been prepared on a basis consistent with the accounting policies and presentation adopted by Drax Group plc in relation to its consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and includes the combined income statement of the ScottishPower Generation Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 and net assets of the ScottishPower Generation Group as at 31 December 2017. The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and, by its nature, addresses a hypothetical situation and does not, therefore, represent the Enlarged Group’s actual financial position or results. The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information does not purport to represent what the Enlarged Group’s financial position and results of operations actually would have been if the Acquisition had been completed on the dates indicated, nor does it purport to represent the results of operations for any future period or the financial condition at any future date. The Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information does not constitute financial statements within the meaning of section 434 of the Companies Act 2006. Shareholders should read the whole of this Circular and not rely solely on the summarised financial information contained in this Part VI (Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information relating to the Enlarged Group). Part 1 Unaudited Pro Forma Statement of Net Assets Adjustments ScottishPower Generation Drax Group plc at Group at Pro forma 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Adjustments net assets at £m £m £m 31 December 2017 (Note 1) (Note 2) (Note 3) £m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 401.9 1.0 – 402.9 Property, plant and equipment 1,661.9 274.2 456.8 2,392.9 Other fixed asset investments 1.3 – – 1.3 Deferred tax assets 22.7 – – 22.7 Derivative financial instruments 190.7 0.3 – 191.0 2,278.5 275.5 456.8 3,010.8 Current assets Inventories 272.1 1.0 – 273.1 ROC and LEC assets 145.5 – – 145.5 Trade and other receivables 417.5 20.7 – 438.2 Amounts receivable from Related Parties – 117.0 (117.0) – Derivative financial instruments 175.5 – – 175.5 Cash and cash equivalents 222.3 – – 222.3 Current tax assets 6.2 1.3 – 7.5 1,239.1 140.0 (117.0) 1,262.1 Total assets 3,517.6 415.5 339.8 4,272.9 178 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.5 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE ENLARGED GROUP continued Adjustments ScottishPower Generation Drax Group plc at Group at Pro forma 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Adjustments net assets at £m £m £m 31 December 2017 (Note 1) (Note 2) (Note 3) £m Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 736.5 29.2 – 765.7 Amounts payable to Related Parties – 113.6 (113.6) – Borrowings 18.6 – – 18.6 Borrowings from Related Parties 402.4 (402.4) – Derivative financial instruments 109.6 – – 109.6 Provisions – 0.4 – 0.4 864.7 545.6 (516.0) 894.3 Net current assets / (liabilities) 374.4 (405.6) 399.0 367.8 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables – 0.3 – 0.3 Borrowings 571.1 – 723.2 1,294.3 Borrowings from Related Parties – 100.0 (100.0) – Derivative financial instruments 94.2 – – 94.2 Provisions 36.3 12.0 – 48.3 Deferred tax liabilities 230.0 4.8 – 234.8 Retirement benefit obligations 1.2 6.6 – 7.8 932.8 123.7 623.2 1,679.7 Total liabilities 1,797.5 669.3 107.2 2,574.0 Net assets / (liabilities) 1,720.1 (253.8) 232.6 1,698.9 Notes No adjustment has been made to reflect any synergies that may arise after the transaction has completed. No adjustment has been made to reflect the financial results of Drax Group plc or the ScottishPower Generation Group since 31 December 2017. (1) The net assets of Drax Group plc as at 31 December 2017 have been extracted without adjustment from the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. (2) The net assets of the ScottishPower Generation Group have been extracted without adjustment from the historical financial information included in Part V (Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group) of this Circular. (3) The Unaudited Pro Forma Statement of Net Assets has been prepared on the basis that the Transaction will be treated as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3. However, it does not reflect any fair value adjustments to the acquired assets and liabilities, as the fair value measurement of these items will only be performed at the date of Completion. The fair value adjustments, when finalised, may be material. For the purpose of the pro forma statement of net assets, the excess purchase consideration over the carrying amount of net assets of £456.8m has been attributed to property, plant & equipment. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 179 SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION continued 8.5 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE ENLARGED GROUP continued The preliminary uplift in the value of property, plant & equipment has been calculated as follows: £m £m Total consideration paid 702.0 Net liabilities of the ScottishPower Generation Group (253.8) Purchase consideration in excess of net liabilities 955.8 Adjustments for Related Party balances to be settled as part of the transaction: – Amounts receivable from Related Parties 117.0 – Amounts payable to Related Parties (113.6) – Related Party borrowings (502.4) Preliminary uplift in value of Property, plant & equipment 456.8 Upon completion of the acquisition, the Drax Group will draw down on an acquisition bridge facility with a maximum value of £725m. For the purpose of the unaudited pro forma statement of net assets, the entire purchase price of £702m plus estimated acquisitionrelated costs of £23m have been funded by the acquisition bridge facility. Drax may use available cash reserves to reduce the amount drawn on completion. The acquisition-related costs are not included in the calculation of the preliminary uplift as they will be expensed as transaction costs or capitalised as borrowing costs, as required by IFRS. £18m of the acquisition-related costs are expected to be directly attributable to the purchase of the ScottishPower Generation Group. These costs will be expensed in the income statement. £5m of the acquisition-related costs are expected to be directly attributable to the acquisition bridge facility. These costs will be capitalised and offset against total borrowings and are expected to be amortised over the 19-month term of the bridge facility as required by IFRS. This increases interest payable by £3.2m (being 12/19 months’ amortisation of these costs) and reducing borrowings by £1.8m in the unaudited pro forma statements. 180 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.5 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE ENLARGED GROUP continued Part 2 Unaudited Pro Forma Income Statement of the Enlarged Group Adjustments ScottishPower Drax Group plc Generation Group Pro forma for the year ended for the year ended Enlarged 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Adjustments Group £m £m £m £m (Note 1) (Note 2) (Note 3) Revenue 3,685.2 641.3 – 4,326.5 Fuel costs in respect of generation (1,356.8) (294.8) – (1,651.6) Cost of power purchases (974.6) – – (974.6) Grid Charges (498.7) (36.7) – (535.4) Other energy supply costs (310.1) (201.8) – (511.9) Total cost of sales (3,140.2) (533.3) – (3,673.5) Gross profit 545.0 108.0 – 653.0 Operating and administrative expenses (316.1) (52.7) – (368.8) Overheads allocated by Related Parties – (19.2) – (19.2) EBITDA 228.9 36.1 – 265.0 Depreciation and amortisation (166.3) (17.4) – (183.7) Asset obsolescence charges – (0.8) – (0.8) Other losses (0.4) – – (0.4) Acquisition–related costs (7.8) – (18.0) (25.8) (Loss)/gain on disposal (15.4) 1.6 – (13.8) Unrealised gains on derivative contracts (156.1) – – (156.1) Operating (loss)/profit (117.1) 19.5 (18.0) (115.6) Interest payable and similar charges (66.3) (6.8) (29.8) (102.9) Interest receivable 0.2 0.1 – 0.3 (Loss)/Profit before tax (183.2) 12.8 (47.8) (218.2) Taxation 32.1 1.0 9.2 42.3 (Loss)/Profit for the year attributable to equity holders (151.1) 13.8 (38.6) (175.9) Notes No adjustment has been made to reflect any synergies that may arise after the transaction has completed. No adjustment has been made to reflect the financial results of Drax Group plc or the ScottishPower Generation Group since 31 December 2017. (1) Drax Group plc’s income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been extracted without adjustment from the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. (2) The ScottishPower Generation Group’s income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been extracted without adjustment from the historical financial information included in Part V (Historical Financial Information relating to the ScottishPower Generation Group) of this Circular. (3) The adjustments reflect: • The estimated transaction costs of £18m in ‘acquisition-related costs’, which will be charged to the income statement as a non-recurring item. • Interest costs of £26.6m on the acquisition debt raised in ‘interest payable and similar charges’ which is expected to be a recurring item, plus a further £3.2m of interest costs relating to the amortisation of transaction costs relating to the bridge facility. • The estimated tax credit of £9.2m arising from these costs using the standard rate of tax that applied in the year ended 31 December 2017 of 19.25%. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 181 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2018 2017 Notes £000 £000 Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries 5 717,044 712,955 Current assets Other debtors 57 18 Amounts due from other Group companies 760 771 Cash at bank and in hand 1,666 1,565 2,483 2,354 Current liabilities Amounts due to other Group companies (12,481) (12,729) Other creditors (134) – Net current liabilities (10,132) (10,375) Net assets 706,912 702,580 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 6 47,038 46,989 Share premium account 424,742 424,325 Treasury shares (47,143) – Capital redemption reserve 1,502 1,502 Profit and loss account 280,773 229,764 Total equity shareholders’ funds 706,912 702,580 The Company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of £99,399k (2017: £16,688k). These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 25 February 2019. Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Will Gardiner Chief Executive 25 February 2019 182 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Capital Profit Share Treasury redemption and loss Share capital premium shares reserve account Total £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 At 1 January 2017 46,951 424,244 – 1,502 228,579 701,276 Share capital issued (note 6) 38 81 – – – 119 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 16,688 16,688 Credited to equity for share-based payments – – – – 6,061 6,061 Equity dividends paid (note 8) – – – – (21,564) (21,564) At 1 January 2018 46,989 424,325 – 1,502 229,764 702,580 Share capital issued (note 6) 49 417 – – – 466 Own shares purchased – – (47,143) – – (47,143) Profit and total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 99,399 99,399 Credited to equity for share-based payments – – – – 4,089 4,089 Equity dividends paid (note 8) – – – – (52,479) (52,479) At 31 December 2018 47,038 424,742 (47,143) 1,502 280,773 706,912 On 20 April 2018, the Company announced the commencement of a share buy-back programme. As at 31 December 2018, the Group had repurchased 13,023,639 shares at a total cost, including transaction fees, of £47,143k. The nominal value of the Company’s own shares, held in the Treasury share reserve, is £1,504k. See page 146 of the consolidated financial statements for full details. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 183 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. BASIS OF PREPARATION The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 (FRS 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (incorporating the amendments to FRS 101 issued by the FRC in July 2015 and July 2016 and the amendments to company law made by the Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2015). The Company applied certain new and amended standards for the first time in 2018, including IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments) and IFRS 15 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers). The full list of standards adopted is set out in the consolidated accounts on page 173. These updates and amendments have not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Company. As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to presentation of a cash flow statement, financial instruments, share-based payments, capital risk management, standards not yet effective and certain related party transactions. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting policies adopted are summarised below, and have been consistently applied to both years presented. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (A) Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where relevant, provision for impairment. (B) Financial instruments Issued equity – Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The share premium account records amounts by which the proceeds from issuing shares exceeds the nominal value of the shares issued unless merger relief criteria within the Companies Act 2006 are met, in which case the difference is recorded in retained earnings. Cash and cash equivalents – Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS (A) Critical judgements in applying the Company’s accounting policies The critical accounting judgements, to the extent they apply to the Company, are consistent with those of the Group described on page 115. (B) Impairment of fixed asset investments Determining whether the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been impaired requires estimates of the investment’s values in use. The methodology for calculation of value in use is consistent with that of the Group, as described in note 2.4. 4. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. The Company’s profit and loss account was approved by the Board on 25 February 2019. The profit attributable to the Company is disclosed in the statement of changes in equity. The Company received dividend income from its subsidiary undertakings totalling £102.6 million in 2018 (2017: £19.9 million). The Company has no employees other than the directors, whose remuneration was paid by a subsidiary undertaking and a proportion was recharged to the Company. The auditor’s remuneration for audit services provided to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 was £21,000 (2017: £20,500). 184 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £000 £000 Carrying amount: At 1 January 712,955 706,894 Capital contribution 4,089 6,061 At 31 December 717,044 712,955 Investments in subsidiary undertakings The capital contribution relates to the share-based payment charge associated with the Savings-Related Share Option Plan and Bonus Matching Plan schemes, which arises because the beneficiaries of the scheme are employed by subsidiary companies. For more information see note 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements. Full list of subsidiary undertakings The table below lists the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2018: Group Country of incorporation effective Name and nature of business and registration Type of share shareholding Drax Group plc Ultimate parent (holding) company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Abergelli Power Limited Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Abbott Debt Recovery Limited Debt recovery services England and Wales Ordinary 100% Amite BioEnergy LLC Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Baton Rouge transit LLC Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% DBI O&M Company LLC Non-trading company Delaware, USA Common 100% Donnington Energy Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Biomass Inc. Wood pellet manufacturing Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Biomass Holdings Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Biomass Holdings LLC Dormant Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Biomass International Holdings LLC Holding company Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Biomass Transit LLC Holding company Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax CCS Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Corporate Limited Group-wide Corporate Services England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Corporate Developments Limited Development company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Finco plc Finance company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Fuel Supply Limited Non-trading company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Limited by Drax GCo Limited In liquidation England and Wales Guarantee 100% Drax Generation Developments Limited Development company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Generation (Selby) Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Group Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Innovation Limited Development company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Ouse In liquidation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Pension Trustees Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Power Limited Trading company, power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Retail Developments Limited Development company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Research and Innovation Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Smart Generation Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Holdings Limited Holding company Cayman Islands Ordinary 100% Drax Smart Sourcing Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Smart Supply Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Farmoor Energy Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Haven Heat Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Haven Power Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 185 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 5. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS continued Group Country of incorporation effective Name and nature of business and registration Type of share shareholding Haven Power Nominees Limited Non-trading company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Hirwaun Power Limited Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Jefferson Transit LLC Dormant Delaware, USA Common 100% LaSalle Bioenergy LLC Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Millbrook Power Limited Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Morehouse BioEnergy LLC Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Progress Power Limited Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Group Limited Holding company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy (Corporate) Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Gas Supply Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Renewables Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Domus Energy Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Marketing Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Water Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Select Energy Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited) Trading company, power generation Scotland Ordinary 100% SMW Limited Trading company, fuel supply Scotland Ordinary 100% Sunflower Energy Supply Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Tyler Bioenergy LLC Dormant Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Group plc directly holds 100% of the equity of Drax Group Holdings Limited. All other investments are held indirectly. All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation. All subsidiary undertakings incorporated in England and Wales have their registered office at Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH. The registered office for Drax Generation Enterprise Limited and SMW Limited is 13 Queen’s Road, Aberdeen, Scotland, AB15 4YL. The registered office for Drax Holdings Limited is c/o Intertrust Corporate Services (Cayman) Limited, 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-9005, Cayman Islands. The principal business address for all subsidiaries incorporated in the USA is 2571 Tower Drive, Suite 7, Monroe, LA 71201. All subsidiary undertakings have 31 December year ends. 6. CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2018 2017 £000 £000 Authorised: 865,238,823 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each 99,950 99,950 Issued and fully paid: 2018: 407,193,168 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each 47,038 46,989 47,038 46,989 186 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6. CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL continued The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 (number) (number) At 1 January 407,034,429 406,700,321 Issued under employee share schemes 158,739 334,108 At 31 December 407,193,168 407,034,429 The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders have waived their rights to dividends. Issued under employee share schemes From January to December 2018 a total of 158,739 shares were issued in satisfaction of options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan. Of the shares issued, 42,874 were issued to individuals who have left the Group where discretion was used to vest the shares. The total cash received, split between nominal value and share premium, is shown in the statement of changes in equity on page 183. Full details of share options outstanding are included in note 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements. 7. DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES Note 8 sets out the proposed final dividend of £33.6 million in respect of 2018. The Company considers its distributable reserves to be comprised of the profit and loss account less treasury shares, with a total value of £233.6 million. Accordingly, the Company considers itself to have sufficient distributable profits from which to pay the current year final dividend. Based on a total dividend for 2018 of £56.0 million, the Company has sufficient distributable reserves to pay four years of dividend at the current level without generating further distributable profits. In addition to its own reserves, the Company has access to the distributable reserves of its subsidiary undertakings with which future dividend payments can be funded (see note 2.10 to the consolidated accounts for additional information). The Company is dependent upon its subsidiaries for the provision of cash with which to make dividend payments. As shown in note 4.2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group has sufficient cash resources with which to meet the proposed dividend. 8. DIVIDENDS Years ended 31 December 2018 2017 £m £m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares in issue at the record date): Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 5.5 pence per share paid on 12 October 2018 (2017: 4.9 pence per share paid on 6 October 2017) 22.4 20.0 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 7.4 pence per share paid on 11 May 2018 (2017: 0.4 pence per share paid on 12 May 2017) 30.1 1.6 52.5 21.6 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.5 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £33.6 million) payable on or before 11 May 2019. The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2018. 9. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company has provided unsecured guarantees to third parties in respect of contracts held by a subsidiary company. The guarantees have been issued for nil consideration and the Company has not charged the subsidiary for the guarantees. The Company has granted a charge over the assets of certain of its subsidiaries, in respect of the Group’s debt (detailed in note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements), which is guaranteed and secured directly by each of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company that is party to the security arrangement. The Company itself is not a guarantor of the Group’s debt. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 187 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY DATES FOR 2019 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2019 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 17 April Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 18 April Record date for entitlement to the final dividend 23 April Payment of final dividend 10 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 24 July Financial year end 31 December Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Company’s website as and when they become available. RESULTS ANNOUNCEMENTS Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are available under “Regulatory news” within the Investor section on the Company’s website. SHARE PRICE Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.drax.com. During London Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price. The table below provides an indication of the fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2018, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year. Closing price on Low during the year High during the year Closing price on 31 December 2017 (13 February 2018) (12 November 2018) 31 December 2018 270.6 pence 221.4 427.2 358.8 pence 500 400 300 200 100 0 1 January 1 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Note: The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List MARKET CAPITALISATION The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and the closing price at 31 December 2018, was approximately £1,461 million (2017: £1,101 million). FINANCIAL REPORTS Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of publication and can be downloaded from our website. Printed copies of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office, by clicking on “Contact Us” on our website, or direct by e-mail to Drax.Enq@drax.com. 188 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DRAX SHAREHOLDER QUERIES The Company’s share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited (“Equiniti”), who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for dividend payments. Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query relating to their Drax shareholding, in particular queries regarding: • transfer of shares; • change of name or address; • lost share certificates; • lost or out-of-date dividend cheques; • payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society account; and • death of a registered shareholder. Equiniti can be contacted as follows: • Call Equiniti on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays); or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. • Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held. ONLINE COMMUNICATIONS Registering for online communications allows you to have more control over the administration of your shareholding. The registration process is easy via Equiniti’s secure website www.shareview.co.uk. Once registered with Shareview you are able to: • elect how Drax communicates with you; • amend some of your personal details; • amend the way you receive dividends; and • buy or sell shares online. Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you can no longer receive paper copies of documents. We are able to offer a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs. A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found on our website at www.drax.com/investors/faq. TAX ON DIVIDENDS In the 2017 Budget, the Chancellor announced changes in the way that dividends would be taxed in the future. Below is a brief summary of the guidance provided by HMRC. If you are in any doubt as to the impact on your personal circumstances, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from a professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The tax-free Dividend Allowance of £5,000 per annum was reduced to £2,000 effective April 2018. This means that there is no tax to pay on the first £2,000 of dividend income, no matter what non-dividend income a shareholder may have. Dividends paid on shares held within pensions and ISAs will be unaffected, remaining tax-free. Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend income between £2,001 and £10,000 will need to make a declaration (to HMRC) for the first time. Individuals with dividend income of more than £10,000 are already required to be in HMRC’s SelfAssessment regime. The impact on Share Incentive Plan participants receiving cash dividends on their plan shares align with those for Shareholders. Further information and updates on tax on dividends can be found on the HMRC website at www.gov.uk/ tax-on-dividends Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 189 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND “INFORMATION RIGHTS” If your shares are registered in the name of a third party (i.e. an ISA provider or other nominee company) you may, if you wish, receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006. In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered holder, who will then nominate you. All communications by beneficial owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax or Equiniti. SHAREGIFT ShareGift (registered charity No. 1052686) is an independent charity which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more to sell than they are worth. There are no capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information can be obtained directly from the charity at www.sharegift.org. SHARE FRAUDS (“BOILER ROOM SCAMS”) In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices. It is often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take over the Company. At the time of this report, the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those outlined are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals. Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company. Below is the advice from the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”). BEWARE OF SHARE FRAUD Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams. They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for upfront payment. While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money. How to avoid share fraud: • Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. • Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call. • Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA. • Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details. • Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back. • Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date. • Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.fca.org.uk/scams. • Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme. • Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money. Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! REPORT A SCAM If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can find out more about investment scams. You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. 190 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information COMPANY INFORMATION DRAX GROUP PLC Registered office and trading address Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone +44 (0)1757 618381 www.drax.com REGISTRATION DETAILS Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 5562053 COMPANY SECRETARY Brett Gladden ENQUIRY E-MAIL ADDRESS Drax.Enq@drax.com PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS AUDITOR Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ BANKERS Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP BANKERS Royal Bank of Canada 2 Swan Lane , London EC4R 3BF BROKERS J.P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP FINANCIAL PR FTI Consulting LLP 200 Aldersgate, Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD REGISTRARS Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA REMUNERATION ADVISERS PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH SOLICITORS Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 191 GLOSSARY ADJUSTED EBITDA DARK GREEN SPREAD Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain carbon, including CO2 allowances under the EU Emissions Trading remeasurements. Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support (CPS) Mechanism. ADJUSTED RESULTS DEPARTMENT FOR BUSINESS, ENERGY AND INDUSTRIAL Business performance after adjusting for material, one-off STRATEGY (BEIS) exceptional items, certain remeasurements, acquisition The Government department bringing together the and restructuring costs, and debt restructuring costs. responsibilities for business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy and climate change (formerly DECC). APM Alternative Performance Measure. EU ETS The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced ANCILLARY SERVICES across the EU to reduce emissions of CO2; the scheme is capable Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply of being extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions. and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits, for example Black Start contracts. They are FEED-IN TARIFF described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code. A long-term contract set at a fixed level where variable payments are made to ensure the generator receives an agreed tariff. AVAILABILITY The feed-in tariff payment would be made in addition to the Average percentage of time the units were available for generation. generator’s revenues from selling in the market. BARK SPREAD FORCED OUTAGE The difference between the power price and the cost of biomass, Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages. net of renewable support. FORCED OUTAGE RATE BLACK START The capacity which is not available due to forced outages Procedure used to restore power in the event of a total or partial or restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum shutdown of the national electricity transmission system. theoretical capacity, less planned outage capacity. BIOMASS FREQUENCY RESPONSE Organic material of non-fossil origin, including organic waste, that Automatic change in generator output aimed at maintaining can be converted into bioenergy through combustion. Drax uses a system frequency of 50Hz. Frequency response is required woody biomass from low grade wood, sawmill residues and forest in every second of the day. residues, in the form of compressed wood pellets, to generate electricity at Drax Power. GRID CHARGES Includes transmission network use of system charges (TNUoS), CAPACITY MARKET balancing services use of system charges (BSUoS) and Part of the Government’s Electricity Market Reform, the Capacity distribution use of system charges (DUoS). Market is intended to ensure security of electricity supply by providing a payment for reliable sources of capacity. HEADROOM AND FOOTROOM Positive ‘reserve’ (see opposite) may be termed headroom CARBON PRICE SUPPORT MECHANISM (OR CARBON PRICE and negative reserve as footroom. FLOOR OR CARBON TAX) A tax upon fossil fuels (including coal) used to generate IFRSs electricity. It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the International Financial Reporting Standards. power station. INERTIA CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE (CFD) The stored energy in the large rotating mass of a generator, A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity which assists in maintaining system stability. Wind and solar generation. The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators power sources have no inertia. at a fixed price level known as the “strike price”. Generators will receive revenue from selling their electricity into the market LEVY CONTROL FRAMEWORK as usual. However, when the market reference price is below A control framework for BEIS levy-funded spending intended to the strike price they will also receive a top-up payment from make sure that BEIS achieves its fuel poverty, energy and climate suppliers for the additional amount. Conversely if the reference change goals in a way that is consistent with economic recovery price is above the strike price, the generator must pay back and minimising the impact on consumer bills. the difference. LOAD FACTOR Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales. 192 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 LOST TIME INJURY RATE (LTIR) SUMMER The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time The calendar months April to September. injuries/hours worked x 100,000. Lost time injuries are defined as occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for SYSTEM OPERATOR more than 24 hours. National Grid Electricity Transmission. Responsible for the coordination of electricity flows onto and over the transmission NET CASH/(DEBT) system, balancing generation supply and user demand. Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs. TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE (TRIR) The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: (lost time PLANNED OUTAGE injuries + worse than first aid injuries)/hours worked x 100,000. A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year. VALUE FROM FLEXIBILITY A measure of the value from flexible power generation, support PROSUMER services provided to the power network and attractively priced An individual, business or institution that consumes and coal fuels produces a product, such as electricity. VOLTAGE CONTROL RESERVE Maintenance of voltage within specified limits in order to “push” Generation or demand available to be dispatched by the System power around the system to maintain safety and stability. Operator to correct a generation/demand imbalance, normally at two or more minutes’ notice. WINTER The calendar months October to March. RIDDORS Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations. ROCS A Renewable Obligation Certificate (“ROC”) is a certificate issued to an accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable sources. The Renewable Obligation (RO) is currently the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK. The report is printed on UPM Fine SC. This paper is made from Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements This annual report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, virgin wood fibre from well-managed forest independently or otherwise acquire or dispose of shares or other securities in Drax Group plc. certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship This Annual Report contains “forward looking statements” in relation to the future financial Council® (FSC®) and other controlled sources. It is manufactured and operating performance and outlook of Drax Group plc, as well as future events and at a mill that is that is certified to ISO14001 and EMAS environmental their potential effects on Drax Group plc. Generally the words “will”, “may”, “should”, “continue”, “believes”, “targets”, “plans”, “expects”, “estimates”, “aims”, “intends”, “anticipates”, or similar standards. The mill uses pulps that are totally chlorine free (TCF), expressions or negatives thereof identify forward looking statements. Forward looking and some pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) statements include statements relating to the following: expected developments in our process. The inks in printing this report are all vegetable-based. businesses, expected revenues, expected margins, expected EBITDA, expected trends, expected growth in our businesses, expected future cash generation, expected future tax rates, expected future interest rates, availability of debt, ability to service prevailing debt, Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group, a CarbonNeutral® expected cost savings, opportunities in our industry, the acquisition of a portfolio of assets from ScottishPower, utilisation of capital, the impact of Brexit, the review of the UK Capacity company, certificated to Environmental Management System Mechanism, payments under the Capacity Market, ability to source fuels (including gas, coal, ISO14001 and holders of FSC® chain of custody certification. biomass fuels and others), the impact of government regulation and other expectations and beliefs of management and the Board of Directors. Actual risks and developments could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements Design and production as a result of numerous risks and uncertainties. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Neither Drax Group plc, nor any other person undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any of the forward looking statements set out herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required. www.drax.com Drax Group plc Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH T +44(0)1757 618381
