UN Global Compact 2018 Communicating on progress Contents Introduction 3 About DWF 4 Our Values 5 Human Rights 6 Labour 8 Environment 11 Anti-Corruption 13 A force for good 14 Find out more about DWF www.dwf.law enquiries@dwf.law www.linkedin.com/company/dwf @DWF_Law 2 Introduction Statement from our CEO & Managing Partner Andrew Leaitherland, CEO & Managing Partner This is our third Communication on Progress report affirming our visible commitment to supporting the ten United Nations Global Compact principles, along with our continued drive to align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The way we do business is based on our core values and reflects the responsible behaviours we want to be known for. We strive to recruit, nurture and retain talent by creating opportunities for our people to make a difference. We recognise that by engaging our people to do the right thing as they deliver on our purpose of transforming legal services, we will drive our business forward responsibly and effectively. In the past three years, our legal business has launched offices across the globe, transforming the legal market and creating something different, supporting cutting edge technological innovation and advance working practices through our people. It is imperative that we continue to evolve in line with changing market conditions and the increasingly competitive landscape. Safeguarding our long term future is about profit with purpose, recognising the substantial opportunities for business and society in continuing to transform the way we do business as an inclusive and socially responsible business. 3 About DWF DWF is a global legal business, supplying services not only to the global legal market but also providing complementary connected services to our clients. Our purpose is to transform legal services through our people for our clients using our three principal strategic objectives: understanding our clients, engaging our people and doing things differently. 4 Our Values We genuinely believe in the power of our people to make a difference. Together, we created our values and together we created a blue print for responsible business. These shared values define and reinforce our culture and the way we do things. They underpin not only our culture, but also set the future course that we want to take as a business. Always aim higher Keep all promises By refusing to do only the minimum and reaching further every A promise is a promise, no matter how large or small. By keeping time, we expand the realm of what's possible. promises, we build trust, loyalty and commitment. – Strive to beat expectations – Listen carefully, promise accordingly – Deliver service excellence – Take ownership – Immerse yourself in your field – Be transparent and genuine – Be a role model for best practice – Do what you say you will – Drive development in yourself and others – Have a ‘can do’ attitude Be better together Attend to details By supporting each other and working as a team we can achieve Paying attention to every last detail is the right way to ensure that more for our clients and ourselves. clients experience the very best of DWF. – Connect across the business – Communicate effectively and professionally – Recognise, respect and value each other – Deliver on your objectives and targets – Be visible and accessible – Give and encourage constructive feedback – Promote knowledge sharing – Understand your impact on our commercial and financial – Encourage, enable and empower others achievement – Say thank you Disrupt to progress Just because there's an established way of doing things, it doesn't mean things always have to be that way. – Champion new ideas – Embrace and promote change – Seek opportunities for improvement and growth – Have an opinion and get involved – Pause. – Think differently 5 Human Rights As a responsible business and employer, upholding human rights is fundamental to who we are and what we stand for. Global Human Rights Policy across our day to day business operations, simply because it is the right thing to do. DWF supports the principles of Human Rights set out in the As a responsible business, we will build on work done so far and Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour continue to affirm our values, raise awareness among our people Organisation (ILO) core labour standards and is a signatory of the and suppliers and take action where necessary. United Nations Global Compact. In conducting our business activities, DWF respects these rights and seeks to uphold and promote them as part of the way we do business, working and collaborating with our people, communities, suppliers, charities and other appropriate stakeholders. The way we do business is based on our values and reflects the behaviours that we want to be known for internally and externally. Andrew Leaitherland, We run our business with integrity and want our culture and Managing Partner & CEO values to be at the heart of everything we do, recognising that our people not only want a great place to work, but take pride in being part of a principled business. Statement of principles DWF respects and values the dignity, wellbeing and rights of our people and the wider community, taking action to: – Support and promote the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights – Ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses through our business relationships and supply chain management – Eliminate all forms of discrimination and promote a diverse and inclusive workplace – Recognise the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining – Provide a safe and healthy workplace – Adopt a zero tolerance to slavery, forced labour and human trafficking – Minimise our environmental footprint resulting from our business operations and promoting greater environmental responsibility – Maintain our position as a Living Wage employer – Embed anti-corruption and ethical standards in our business practices As an international legal business, we have a responsibility to go beyond stating our commitment to respect Human Rights. We must demonstrate what we do to implement them in practice 6 Responsible business at DWF Working with our suppliers – Being a force for good in society, taking action globally and We aim to choose suppliers who share our values and in 2018 engaging locally where we have a presence introduced our Supplier Code of Conduct. This milestone marked – Demonstrating visible commitment at the highest level an important step forward in working with our supply chain to advance decent work and help lift people out of poverty. – Embedding sustainable and socially responsible business principles within our business Our suppliers are expected to undertake the necessary due diligence to ensure there is no modern slavery or human – Making DWF a great place to work and do business trafficking in their operations or supply chain. Expectations are The UK Modern Slavery Act grouped into six key areas: In supporting the goals of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act and the 1. Human Rights UN Women's Empowerment Principles, we have a zero tolerance 2. Health & Safety approach to forced labour of any kind within our operations and 3. Responsible Supply Chain Management supply chain. As a business providing legal and other professional 4. Inclusion & Diversity services, we consider the risk of modern slavery existing within our business to be low and in the last 12 months have had no 5. Business Integrity reported incidents of slavery or trafficking in our operations. 6. Environmental Management In addition to our Human Rights Policy we have a number of In 2018 we had no reported incidents of slavery or trafficking from policies which state how we do business and the steps being our suppliers. taken to ensure we are responsible, fair, transparent and We are continuing to embed a risk based approach and inclusive: assessing our due diligence processes, policies and controls, – Anti-Slavery whilst mapping and evaluating suppliers by country, product and – CSR service type, size and scope of operations. This will help to determine any additional actions we need to take to effectively – Anti-Bribery combat forced labour. – Whistleblowing – Health & Safety LGBT UN Global Standards – Diversity & Inclusion We strive for all our colleagues to have access to equal – Dignity at Work opportunity and respect wherever they are located. Alongside more than 235 of the world's largest businesses, DWF has made a global commitment in support of the UN Standards which aim to tackle discriminatory practices in the workplace, the marketplace and in the community. 7 Labour Employee Forum We are proud to be: We established an Employee Forum in 2018 to actively discuss – A Stonewall Global Inclusion Champion and seek practical solutions to further enhance the working – Disability Confident Leadership Status experience and culture at DWF. The forum provides the – A Top 30 Employer for Working Families since 2014 opportunity for DWF to consult over business related issues and gain commitment to change. It also provides a two-way – Recognised with the Gold Standard TIDEmark in the UK by the communication process, involving and engaging employees, Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion enabling them to contribute to the success of the business. – An early adopter of Clear Assured – an on line HR platform that sets inclusion standards across markets and supply chains Fair working practices – In 2018, we ranked 60th in the UK's Social Mobility Index All our employees go through a vetting process to ensure they have a right to work. We comply with applicable employment legislation relating to employee terms and conditions, including pay. We have reviewed our in house resourcing practices and are taking steps to engage and review our preferred resourcing partners globally. A HR transformation project is underway to work through all the stages of our employment cycle to ensure that fair working principles are applied at every stage. In 2018, we introduced contextualised recruitment to widen our talent pool and strengthen our emerging talent pipeline. It hardwires social mobility metrics into the application process, reassuring applicants that their economic background and personal circumstances are taken into account. Our inclusive culture Creating and maintaining an inclusive culture remains our priority. We are working hard to increase diversity across all career levels within our business and taking targeted action to ensure our people see improvement. Our Global Diversity & Inclusion Leadership Group is accountable for defining and executing our global inclusion strategy. 40 senior leaders across our business, supported by our Affinity Networks and a growing number of Diversity Champions deliver action plans supporting gender, race, LGBT+, age, disability, agile & flexible working and mental health. 8 Engaging our people We recognise that our people not only want a great place to work, but take pride in creating it. Our Engaging People Executive is responsible for driving that ambition, supported by People Partners who make a valuable contribution as role models demonstrating a willingness to enable others to deliver our purpose, values and behaviours. They are a key element of ensuring high levels of engagement so that in our business: – More people recommend DWF as a great place to work – More people are committed to DWF and align their contribution with our strategic goals – More people are motivated and willing to deliver on our purpose How we measure and sustain an engagement culture: – Briefings to Leaders and Line Managers – Town Halls led by our CEO – Pulse surveys to temperature check engagement and job satisfaction – Turnover data and feedback from Exit Surveys – Stonewall Employee Inclusion Questionnaire and Feedback Analysis – CSR engagement and participation in volunteering and fundraising Results from our Pulse Surveys show a positive uplift across every indicator during the period November 2016 – October 2018 measuring the extent to which people feel: – Managed by someone who understands them and that they respect – Listened to and believing that action will be taken as a result of their feedback – Recognised (in the moment) and in a way that is meaningful – Given opportunities to develop themselves and their career 9 We support Women's Empowerment UK Gender Pay Report Principles We welcomed the introduction of gender pay gap reporting in 2018. Achieving gender parity is not only better for our business,  Establish high-level corporate it’s the right thing to do. The main reason for our gender pay gap leadership for gender equality is that we have more men at senior levels in higher paid roles and  Treat all women and men fairly at a higher proportion of women relative to men in roles which fall work respect and support human within our lower pay quartiles. A contributing factor continues to rights and nondiscrimination be our business growth and expansion, influenced by merger and  Ensure the health, safety and wellacquisition. This has unintentionally impacted female being of all women and men workers representation at senior levels:  Promote education, training and professional development for women Employees Hourly Pay Gap 2017 2018  Implement enterprise development, Mean hourly pay gap 24% 23% supply chain and marketing Median hourly pay gap 27% 24% practices that empower women  Promote equality through community Self-Employed Hourly Pay Gap 2017 2018 initiatives and advocacy Mean hourly pay gap 13% 16%  Measure and publicly report on Median hourly pay gap 5% 16% progress to achieve gender equality. Combined Hourly Pay Gap 2017 2018 In 2018 we used International Women's Day (a week long Mean hourly pay gap 50% 48% campaign at DWF), National Apprenticeship Week, Median hourly pay gap 36% 32% Responsible Business Week, monthly wellbeing themes, our own annual Diversity Week & International Men's Day activity as key inclusion campaigns. Other engagement activities Improving our gender balance is fundamental to the continuing included engaging men as champions of change and focus success of our business so we are changing how we do things to groups on women into leadership. accelerate progress and evaluate the effectiveness of our actions. We are making positive progress, but we know that changing decades of imbalance in our business and sector is going to take time. What we've done – A structured salary review process has been implemented that highlights to managers, differences in pay parity and enables them to take positive action to rectify discrepancies at annual salary review, recruitment and promotion – A Behaviours Framework has been introduced to ensure a consistent approach to performance management – Expanded our partnership with Everywoman, to provide a global network of development resources, advice and inspiration for women at DWF – Promotion pipelines have been established across each division to pro-actively discuss female talent coming through and how we support and develop those individuals – Female representation has been ensured on all assessment panels for promotion cases in 2018 – We will continue to explore options and support new ways of working that offer flexibility and enable our people to keep developing within our business and maintain a healthy work-life balance 10 Environment We support the principles of sustainable development and we have in place an environmental management system to identify and control the impacts of our business and enhance current working practices. Guiding principles Our environmental targets – We actively manage our carbon emissions – Maintain a target of under 3 tonnes per person per year CO2. – We take action to ensure efficient use of resources – 2015 – 2.6 tonnes per person per year (TPPPY) – We invest in technology to help drive our sustainability agenda – 2016 – 2.3 TPPPY – We externally audit our sustainability performance – 2017 – 2.25 TPPPY – We collaborate to develop, apply and promote environmental – 2018 – 1.3 TPPPY best practice – Maintain a target of recycling at 85% per site Our environmental management system is accredited in the UK to – Recycle all suitable office furniture and equipment (i.e. chairs, ISO14001: 2015 and to maintain momentum, our environmental desks, photocopiers) Furniture has been re-used across key performance indicators are reviewed, audited and DWF's offices and some given to charity throughout 2018 communicated on a regular basis internally and externally. We – Continually seeking to reduce energy use – e.g. proactive also ensure our people are informed, understand and that they estate management fulfil their environmental responsibilities so that they will not only lead, inspire and role model behaviours consistent with the aims – Encourage staff to place all waste paper in the confidential of our environmental policy but also raise the bar to encourage waste paper bins – Regular communications surrounding this our clients and suppliers to do the same. target issued across the business – Increase the range of disposable catering containers made from In November 2018, we signed up to Business in the Community's recycled materials We swapped the plastic cutlery within the Waste to Wealth Commitment, to unlock opportunities to double bistros to metal and ensure our containers are recyclable the UK's resource productivity and eliminate avoidable waste by 2030. This means we will: – Expand the range of recycled stationery products A product review is currently being undertaken with the supplier – Set targets to improve the productivity of resources that are key for our business – Encourage the reduction of plastic bottles/single use plastics We have sourced DWF re-usable cups and bottles which are – Work collectively towards doubling the UK's resource sold and monies raised going to our Charitable Foundation productivity and eliminate avoidable waste by 2030, contributing in the way that is most relevant to our business – Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) Compliance Stage 1 completed ahead of target and are on track to do the – Redesign how resources are used in our products, services and same with Stage 2 operations – Collaborate across our organisations, value chains and sectors – Report on progress annually to share learning and demonstrate results 11 Flexible and agile working Being agile is an important part of DWFs strategy and is enabling us to be more environmentally friendly with how we use space whilst empowering our people to take the opportunity to influence how, where and when they work. New collaborative technologies are enabling secure remote access to information and providing the ability to work from a variety of locations. Examples of this are Skype for Business, Yammer, Secure VPN, Objective Manager and a range of other cloud based software. Our agile delivery model has been built up over the past five years to the point where we are at the forefront of best practice within the legal market and continuing to disrupt the norm. As of December 2018, 3% of DWF employees were home workers, and 25% of DWF employees were agile workers. 12 Anti-Corruption Guiding principles In 2018, we launched our Induction portal, created to ease new joiners into life at DWF. We expect all of our people to report the following: Setting expectations in terms of ethical behaviour is central to the supportive guidance shared at the start of an employee's journey – Criminal activity including fraud or theft with us. This is not just about compliance and systems but also – A failure to comply with a legal obligation or regulatory about understanding the culture and values, how we are requirement structured and the tools to support new colleagues in their first – A miscarriage of justice weeks and months. – Bribery or corruption (e.g. accepting incentives in return for giving business or receiving benefit) – The endangering of an individual's health and safety; – Damage to the environment The culture of a workplace – an organisation's – Deliberate concealment of information relating to any of the values, norms and practices – has huge impact on our above happiness and success A zero tolerance approach Adam Gran Having policies in place that encourage individuals to raise concerns is a core part of an ethical and supportive business culture. We are committed to maintaining an open culture with the highest standards of honesty and accountability, a culture where colleagues can report any legitimate concerns in confidence. Our policy development reflects the key outcomes of a risk assessment conducted into our business practices, and focuses on specific forms of potentially unlawful bribes and other unethical activity. Our Whistleblowing Policy offers effective protection from retaliation, and policies that support anti-bribery and corruption legislation are essential components of this. 13 A force for good Safeguarding our long term future is about profit with purpose. Our approach is to identify the social issues most relevant to our business and most pressing to the communities we work with and to work in partnership with our communities, leveraging our combined expertise. Volunteering and fundraising have long been part of the culture at Advancing Social Mobility DWF and we focus on education, employability, health & wellbeing and homelessness to foster inclusive growth, reduced In 2018, we reinforced our commitment to advancing social inequality and strong and sustainable neighbourhoods. mobility by signing up to the Social Mobility Pledge to help stop social background predicting a young person's success. Our priorities are to: We are proud to sit on the Prime Board, a legal sector alliance of – Increase the numbers of young people from low income and law firms across the UK, committed to improving access to the diverse backgrounds who have improved their confidence. This legal profession through meaningful work experience. strong foundation of self-confidence allows young people to develop key employability skills and become more work ready We are improving access to the professions through our support to Business in the Community's Future Proof and – Build a strong and positive link between schools and the world #JARGONFREEJOBS campaigns, which challenges business to of work. This demystifies the workplace, enabling them raise remove jargon and unnecessary criteria from entry level jobs. As their aspirations a spokesperson for this campaign we host and speak at events with businesses to encourage them to improve their recruitment processes to be more welcoming to young people. 5 STAR Futures Our 5 STAR Futures Education & employability programme is designed to enable young people to make the most of their potential – to be the best version of themselves. Working with young people, we help to equip them with the business skills, confidence and resilience to aim higher and achieve more. DWF Foundation We have invested over 5000 volunteer hours across the UK and The foundations sole aim is to provide funds, resources and provided direct support to 1260 students. Since inception our support to help local communities achieve their full potential, reach has increased to 4250 students. targeting funds to support our established community themes. – Education – Employability – Health & wellbeing – Homelessness In 2018, our people raised £224,479 which benefitted 99 charities. 14 Beyond borders, sectors and expectations DWF is a global legal business, connecting expert services with innovative thinkers across diverse sectors. Like us, our clients recognise that the world is changing fast and the old rules no longer apply. That’s why we’re always finding agile ways to tackle new challenges together. But we don’t simply claim to be different. We prove it through every detail of our work, across every level. We go beyond conventions and expectations. Join us on the journey. © DWF 2019, all rights reserved. DWF is a collective trading name for the international legal practice and multi-disciplinary commercial business comprising DWF Group plc and all of its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings of which, the entities that practice law are separate and distinct law firms. Please refer to the Legal Notices page on our www.dwf.law website located at www.dwf.law for further details. DWF's lawyers are subject to regulation by the relevant regulatory body in the jurisdiction in which they are qualified and/or in which they practise. This information is intended as a general discussion surrounding the topics covered and is for guidance purposes only. It does not constitute legal advice and should not be regarded as a substitute for taking legal advice. DWF is not responsible for any activity undertaken based on this information and makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability or suitability of the information contained herein.
