Communication on Progress 2018 About the document DATE March, 2019 VERSION 1.0 Introduction TenneT has committed itself to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact since 2015. We implemented the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in our supplier Code of Conduct, our company code and our business processes. With this communication on progress we report about the progress we have made on the Ten Principles in 2018. Since 2017 TenneT complies with the EU directive on non-financial and diversity information. The aspects of this directive have a large overlap with UN Global Compact (e.g. social, personnel, environmental, human rights, anti-corruption, bribery and diversity matters). More information can be found in the reporting principles section of our Annual Report 2018 (download). Statement of the CEO I am pleased to confirm that TenneT reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, TenneT Holding B.V. M.J.J. van Beek Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 2018 – Publication date 5 March 2019 1 Communication on Progress For each principle a reference is made to the relevant section of our Integrated Annual Report that describes our progress. The annual report can be found online; https://annualreport.tennet.eu/2018/annualreport. The way TenneT manages Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in general is described in the reporting principles section of our Annual Report 2018 (download). UN Global Compact Principles Description of practical actions and measurement of outcomes can be found in the sections Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Compliance and integrity the protection of internationally proclaimed human Operational performance – non rights; financial – our impact on our supply chain Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Compliance and integrity human rights abuses. Operational performance – non financial – our impact on our supply chain Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Operational performance – non of association and the effective recognition of the financial – Our people ambition right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Operational performance – non compulsory labour; financial – our impact on our supply chain Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Operational performance – non and financial – our impact on our supply chain Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Operational performance – non respect of employment and occupation. financial – Our people ambition Principle 7: Businesses should support a Operational performance – non precautionary approach to environmental financial – Our planet ambition challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Operational performance – non environmental responsibility; and financial – Our planet ambition Principle 9: encourage the development and Operational performance – non diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. financial – Our planet ambition Principle 10: Businesses should work against Compliance and integrity corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In our annual report, we have also included the way we aim to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Please refer to our Integrated Annual Report 2018. Communication on Progress 2018 – Publication date 5 March 2019 2 Colophon TenneT Holding B.V. Utrechtseweg 310, NL-6812 AR, Arnhem P.O. Box 718, 6800 AS Arnhem The Netherlands T: +31 (0)26 37 32 600 W: www.tennet.eu Communication on Progress 2018 – Publication date 5 March 2019 3
