Communication on Progress Letter of commitment On behalf of the BMMI Group, I am pleased and the wider community about our social to once again reaffirm our support to the impact, what we are doing and why. In-line Ten Principles of the United Nations Global with our first corporate value—Honesty— Compact (UNGC) and our commitment we commit to being transparent in sharing to respecting human and labour rights, this progress with you all, both through our safeguarding the environment, and working annual COP and other primary channels of against corruption in all its forms. communication. In our annual Communication on Progress Our 2020 goal is to have CSR truly (COP), and as part of our commitment embedded across our operations and at the to sustainable and responsible business core of our different departments. We aim practices, we describe the actions we have to drive our triple bottom line, contributing to taken to strategically integrate the Global sustainable development, enriching society Compact across the BMMI Group for the and the planet through our business. period: January 2018 to December 2018. We ask for your continued feedback and While corporate citizenship is not a new partnership in this journey. Together with all concept at BMMI, we recognise that as of you, our focus will be to revisit our policy in with any worthy endeavor, sustainability will 2019 and engage in stakeholder feedback be an on-going and continuously evolving to ensure our pillars remain relevant. If there journey. This is exactly why we aim to foster a is a team that can create opportunities to do progressive environment, to make BMMI a more, it’s ours. We will continue to search great place to work. tirelessly for ways to make a greater impact as a responsible corporate citizen first and From training and development, emergency foremost. financial assistance, equality, to creating a flexible working environment-these are just a Sincerely yours, few of the things we prioritise. Our team has been constantly reviewing initiatives and seeking relevant partnerships. From supporting individuals with disabilities to gain transferable job skills through the Marek Sheridan Employment Faciliation Training Service CEO (EFTS) programme, to our focus on food waste reduction through our continued collaboration with Conserving Bounties Surround we’ve strategised the way we support our communities, our environment and our yourself with people. “out of the box Today, regular communication has been thinkers” developed across the Group, with our Board 01 About us Based in the Kingdom of Bahrain, with 136 years of continuous operations and a growing international footprint, BMMI is a diversified retail and distribution, hospitality, shipping, contract services, logistics and supply chain group. 01 About us 136 02 Social Responsibility 03 Our people 04 Environment 05 Anti-corruption years of continuous operations Powered by a world1500 Uniting our global community is our class integrated logistics Winning Hearts culture. Launched in 2003, it Over 1,500 employees supply chain capability, reflects the Group’s located in eight countries mission: ‘Winning the and a robust and hearts and minds of our customers by delivering professional support exceptional service’. infrastructure, BMMI is The culture embraces Listed on the Bahrain Bourse since 1999 BMMI’s corporate DNA, one of the leading and which consists of three fastest-growing private main componentsprinciples, ethics sector enterprises in and five values: honesty, excellence, the GCC region. Our Success based on integrity, achievement, agility & resilience recognition business philosophy and team spirit. revolves around a solid commitment to ‘making a difference’ in everything Annual turnover approaching US$ 300 million that we do. 20 • BMMI was presented with the prestigious Vanguard Award, the top honour awarded by the International Stability Operations Association (ISOA), at its second annual awards ceremony held at the Mayflower In 2012, BMMI Hotel in Washington, District of Columbia was the first 18 • Alosra launches the Kingdom’s first monthly plastic bag free week across its Bahrainbased stores, kicking off its plastic reduction company in its sector in journey to eliminate use of all plastic carrier bags by 2020 Environmental management systems • BMMI supports the construction of the RIA Adult Centre (RAC) Bahrain to • BMMI Djibouti gains certification in the EU Commission Guidelines on Good Distribution of Medicinal Products for Human implement milestones Use (2013/C 343/01), becoming the first organisation in the Group and across the an Integrated Horn of Africa to do so Occupational • BMMI launches in-house shipping agency, BMMI Shipping Services • GSS sponsors the 2018 ‘Sudan International Management health and safety management systems Systems (IMS). Mining Business Forum & Exhibition’, the (BSS) sole international mining event organised by the Ministry of Minerals of Sudan • Alosra supermarket awarded by the Ministry of Social Development • BSS joins WACO, the global freight network, for the recruitment, retention and as the exclusive network partner in Bahrain development of differently abled individuals Under this umbrella, all ISO 22000 : 2005 • BMMI partners with Bahrain’s first Women management systems for quality, Food Safety Management • The first batch of trainees from the Power Summit (WPS) occupational health and safety, the environment, food safety first Employment Facilitation Training Service Program (EFTS) graduate • BMMI renews its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact by publishing its and business continuity, were OHSAS 18001 : 2007 following their training at Alosra Communication on Progress Occupational Health and Safety supermarket integrated. Our dedicated IMS team continues to introduce • Alosra supermarket enters into a • Nader Trading recognised by Mars Global for achieving the highest global market share for new initiatives to ensure that ISO 22301 : 2012 commercial deal with Ireland’s leading Business Continuity Management Mars brands in Carrefour staff recognise their personal food retail and wholesale company, Musgrave • BMMI Djibouti contributes food items to responsibility to contribute to • BMMI continues its support of more than 400 registered families staying in the sustainable growth of the ISO 14001 : 2015 Bahraini local non-profit organisation the Markazi Camp Group. This aims to improve Environmental Management Conserving Bounties in order to tackle business processes for enhanced • Alosra supermarket recognised as one of food waste, including sponsoring the First Conserving Bounties Partners the best companies in Bahrain and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries for operational efficiency, and sets ISO 9001 : 2015 Forum where Conserving Bounties their efforts to recruit local talent and provide consistent Group-wide standards. Quality Management and the Bahrain Supreme Council for opportunities for the local workforce Environment sign a Memorandum of Understanding Setting the standard 1.2 IMS has expanded its and across the BMMI hidden talents through support by introducing Group to recieve this which they can truly a number of key accreditation. IMS ‘make a difference’. initiatives. One of the is also continuing to Examples include most recent is the work with the Food significantly reducing establishment Production Unit (FPU) and redirecting waste of a Project in the rolling out of at Alosra, increasing Management Office nutritional labelling for its the supermarket’s (PMO) in 2018 to packaged ‘Food-to-Go’ product range available support the Group’s products. online by 30 per cent; businesses in the and improving supplier effective execution of The Productivity payment process to projects. The PMO Improvement reduce delays through will initially act as Programme (PIP), minimising manual an administrative which IMS launched processes. function, and focus in 2015, has achieved on developing project notable success. The Significantly, PIP management tools and aim of the annual initiatives have achieved templates to ensure programme is to help savings in operational consistency across the Group. participants identify areas to improve in costs of more than BD 2 million over the past million hours without an accident terms of productivity, IMS also assisted GSS and methods to assist two years. or lost time incident (LTI) Djibouti in being certified them by measuring as compliant with work productivity *A total of 186 Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) training the ‘EU Commission levels using more than sessions were conducted in 2018 with over 1000 attendees Guidelines on the 19 internationallyfrom across the Group. Good Distribution of recognised tools. Medicinal Products for Human Use’ in 2018. The PIP has enabled The Company is the employees across first in the Horn of Africa the Group to discover We hope that you find our COP informative. The aim is to provide you with a better understanding of the Group’s unique heritage and culture, as well as our most important asset: our people. BMMI seeks to become a sustainable company, not just a responsible one. Zero waste To be wasteful and to squander resources when many are in Following an extensive need is a terrible thing. While the policy tackles traditional waste, BMMI also views waste differently. Wasted talent. Wasted stakeholder engagement opportunities. Wasted time & energy. Wasted potential. exercise in 2014, we launched our CSR policy, Nourishing Life, with three Truth BMMI’s first corporate value is Honesty. This means interconnected pillars: communicating respfectfully, truthfully and transparently with customers, colleagues and with governments. It also means Zero waste, Truth & being true to oneself, values and purpose as a business. Wellbeing. *In 2019, the team aims to revisit the CSR policy and conduct a review of the pillars, together with all our stakeholders, to remain relevant. We hope new Wellbeing partnership opportunities will develop in the coming As a business, BMMI believes it should play a role in years to drive more amplified communication, strategic nourishing and improving the quality of life for all who are projects and employee reach out. associated with BMMI, including employees, customers, communities and the planet. The first batch of EFTS trainees at their graduation ceremony in March 2018. 02 Social responsibility BMMI renews its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by publishing its fourth Communication on Progress (COP). In our annual COP, we describe actions taken in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and daily operations. A highlight on some of our initatives... • Through a collaborative project by a cross-functional team, BMMI launched an Employee Self Service platform for HR. The new system empowers our employees because it is focused on managing your own information and having it easily accessible and visible to you. Besides boosting internal customer satisfaction through faster and more streamlined processes, the system also offers enhanced security of data, with strict security measures and protocols in place that will further support the privacy and The SSHR project management team confidentiality needs of our employees. Additionally, it takes the burden of monotonous and tedious tasks off the shoulders of the HR team, which will help with efficiency and engagement. The system assists in preventing wasting our resources, whether it’s time, talent and very importantly paper! With the new system being entirely paperless, and the fact that we have over 11,262 transactions A holistic processed on average per year, this saves us a ton of paper that HR would’ve used annually for these processes. That’s a great milestone for the Group. approach to • Our zeal to serve the community is also reflected in our efforts to reduce food waste by strengthening our ties with Conserving Bounties, a social enterprise which specialises in providing meals to families and individuals in need in Bahrain. The team has worked tackling waste together with the Bahraini organisation to collect bakery items and ready to eat meals close to expiry. Up to date, BMMI’s contribution accounted for over 70,000 meals. The Supreme Council for the Environment recognises Alosra’s plastic reduction efforts and journey. *An example of one of the Plastic Bag Free Week marketing campaigns Championing A very exciting initiative the team embarked on in collaboration with our Alosra supermarket is a plastic reduction journey. Alosra launched its first Plastic Bag positive change Free Week (PBFW) on November 18 of 2018, saving 95,000 bags from ending up in the landfill during that week alone. We continue to equip the workplace to support diversity based on needs, such as providing parking spots for expectant mothers, creating a more flexible working environment for millennials, and leveraging the competencies of differently abled individuals in the workplace. One major example of this is being the business host for an Employment Facilitation Training Service (EFTS) programme, which provides differently abled individuals with opportunities to gain transferrable job skills through practical training. BMMI is also hosting the second batch of EFTS students who started their training in Q4 of 2018 for a period of three months. At Alosra, our mission is to sustainably remove non-recyclable plastics and excess packaging within our control and where possible by 2025. PBFW will continue on every month in 2019 as part of a plan that is in line with Alosra’s goal to eliminate all its plastic carrier bags by 2020. *Click on any of the images above to take a look at an educational video about the initiative. In line with our commitment to positively influence the communities in which we operate, strategic donations were made in 2018 to support a number of organisations we have long standing relationships with, including BMMI supports the establishment of the Migrant Workers Society the RIA Adult Centre and the Bahrain Breast BMMI supported the construction and inception of the RIA Adult Centre (RAC) in 2018. A transportation vehicle was also purchased using the donated funds and Cancer Society, to support the centre is now helping differently abled individuals develop crucial life skills in parallel with work experience opportunities. their ongoing initiatives. RAC’s vision is to create a community where people with intellectual disabilities and their families can participate equally in the community and be valued in all aspects of society. The mission of the centre is to enable individuals with intellectual disabilities to have the opportunity to develop and utilise their potential and to contribute as an integral part of the community at all levels and across all segments. BMMI has been a supporter of RIA for over a decade, and this latest donation will help ensure the security of the RAC project, as well as the mobility of the students. BMMI is committed to promoting awareness of the capabilities and contributions made by differently abled individuals in Bahrain. Where possible, BMMI will continue to provide effective transitioning of individuals with intellectual disabilities through pre-vocational and vocational training through its subsidiary, Alosra supermarket.. Humanitarian support in Djibouti BMMI Djibouti first to achieve international certification in EU Commission Guidelines on GDP BMMI Djibouti was officially certified in 2018 by the EU Commission Guidelines on Good Distribution of Medicinal Products (GDP) for Human Use (2013/C 343/01), becoming the first organisation in the Group and across the Horn of Africa to attain this certification. As BMMI Djibouti is involved and responsible in the distribution activities of such products, compliance with the requirements defined in the GDP Guidelines is fundamental. Being a certified company, BMMI Djibouti can ensure the appropriate competence and knowledge in handling pharmaceutical goods including BMMI Djibouti participated in a monthly food hazardous products, identifying radioactive materials, products presenting ration to refugees in the Markazi camp special risks of abuse, and temperature-sensitive products. The camp is managed by the office of the United Nations High Since the onset of conflict in March 2015, BMMI has supported the NGO Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in collaboration with the community in responding to the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. Using its ONARS (National Assistance Office for Refugees and Disaster expansive cold chain distribution facility and assets in the Djibouti Free Zone, Stricken People), other governmental authorities and NGOs. BMMI serves as a one-stop-shop for the supply chain and logistical needs of many UN and NGO organisations providing relief efforts across the Gulf of The food assistance was being provided by the World Food Aden. In today’s volatile world, where natural disasters and conflict can take Programme to all registered refugees and asylum seekers. BMMI place unexpectedly, we are proud to have the ability to mount a fast, effective Djibouti was able to contribute by donating food to more than 400 and safe humanitarian response is crucial to the protection of some of the registered families who are staying today in the camp. world’s most vulnerable populations. Social engagement and wellbeing The objective is to create an ideal workplace, one that supports BMMI as ‘an employer of choice’, where employees are truly happy to come to work, and are able to thrive. Supporting this aim, is the Sports and Social Thanks to our management and their eagerness to support the BMMI committee in Bahrain which promotes culture, sports and social activities have been introduced in South Sudan in 2018. inclusivity through social interaction in a variety of inter-departmental sports A gynaecology session for female employees working in the USAID Compound. The discussion was led by a professional doctor, and social activities. In 2019, we will where issues like general hygiene, sanitation, signs and symptoms open the committee to new membersof pregnancy at early stages, family planning, menstruation period cycling, child genetic disorders at birth and negative consequences of to ensure our activities are in line with substance abuse or heavy smoking during pregnancy were brought up. employee expectations and hold The session was very well received, with the ladies gaining useful tips informal focus groups to monitor the on maintaining their hygiene to help them avoid certain sicknesses. The team also started to hold other sports activities including a badminton happiness of our people. tournament to spark some active competition. In 2019, we will ensure more employee focused activities in relation to wellbeing are introduced, across our countries of operations. 03 Our people Employees represent around 40 different nationalities, which makes BMMI a truly global community. African countries account for the highest nationalisation levels due to strict local nationalisation/quota regulations, led by Sudan and Kenya. Our African operations have PRINCIPLE 1: the highest percentage of female employees, with levels over 40 percent in South Sudan and Ghana. In Bahrain, women make up Businesses should support and respect 20 percent of all staff. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Our diversity matrix PRINCIPLE 2: Country Dec 2018 Head count Male Female Gen Y Gen X Gen BB Make sure that they are not complicit in Bahrain 817 47.2% 80% 20% 64% 34% 2% human rights abuses. Saudi Arabia 73 4.2% 84% 16% 84% 14% 3% Iraq 4 0.2% 100% 0 50% 50% 0% BMMI has a total headcount of 1,732 people who are highly diversified by location, nationality, gender and age. They Djibouti 51 2.9% 73% 27% 73% 27% 0% are located across eight countries: Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Kenya 37 2.1% 65% 35% 86% 14% 0% Iraq, Djibouti, Kenya, Sudan, South Sudan and Ghana. The highest concentration of staff is in Bahrain at 47.2 percent Sudan 514 29.7% 96% 4% 61% 28% 11% followed by Sudan with 29.7 percent. However, total South Sudan 132 7.6% 55% 45% 68% 31% 1% employees located outside Bahrain in the Middle East and Africa exceeds 900 people, which represents more than half Ghana 104 6.0% 59% 41% 78% 19% 1% of the Group’s headcount. Total 1732 100% 76% 24% 70% 27% 2% BMMI has never obstructed employees rights to exercise BMMI benefits from a distinctly ‘youthful’ work force. Over 70 freedom of association and collective bargaining. There has percent of our employees are ‘millennials’ (or Generation Y) aged been zero incidents of child labour, or forced labour in 2018. between 18 and 38, in line with our commitment to develop the future generation. Next comes those belonging to Generation X, with 26 percent aged between 39 and 48; while only 2 percent are so-called ‘baby boomers’ (Generation BB) who are between 48 and 78 years’ old. Measuring GSS Engagement Survey employee 2018 2017 sentiment 92% of respondents would recommend GSS as an 78% Each year an engagement survey is distributed to our employer to a friend employees in Africa to measure how they rate their experience with the organisation and management. There is a clear increase in employee sentiment and satisfaction, with an overall rise in average percentages by 8.6 percent 86% feel that their manager motivates them 82% *93% of those who overall in comparison to 2017. answered this have been with us for less The usual Engagement Survey conducted in Bahrain than 1 year was replaced with a more comprehensive Employee Engagement Insight Survey which was conducted in 2018 to cover specific employee insights across the entire group. One of the main aims was to get a better understanding of employees association with our core values. The outcome 94% say GSS inspires them to do their best at work 87% was very interesting, with BMMI highly positively associated with a few of its core values, specifically ‘Excellence’ and ‘Team Spirit’. The strongest associations, across all business units overall 90% feel their managers give them feedback to 84% improve performance are with ‘Honesty’ and ‘Excellence’. These values are surely lived, in a consistent way across the organisation. As such, we will continue to investigate and ensure that our ‘Achievement’ and ‘Recognition’ values are more 92% feel that GSS provides future career prospects 80% materialised across the group with the introduction of our Winning Moments scratch cards and other intangible/ intrinsic ways of reinforcing these values as well. Suppliers Mohamed Al Mahari All our suppliers are evaluated for quality and adherence to certifications including, ISO certifications for Quality Fisherman Management (9001) Occupational Health & Safety (18001), Environmental Management (14001), and Food Safety Management (22000). We continue to select our suppliers based on relevant criteria, such as qualifications, service quality, competitive Sadiq Mirza Zahra Awadh Founder of Sadiq Mirza Farm Founder of Mukhalalati Spices prices, ethics, and reputation. In 2018, through Alosra supermarket, BMMI supported numerous local PRINCIPLE 3: food entrepreneurs under its ‘Think Local’ umbrella, MEET YOUR Businesses should proudly uphold local, celebrating the freedom of quality specifically women and other start-ups. The ultimate association LOCAL PRODUCERS and the effective recognition of aim is to truly embed socially responsible procurement the right to collective bargaining; practices. PRINCIPLE 4: Grievances The elimination of all forms of forced and There have been zero human rights grievances and compulsory labour; direct employees can report such violations confidentially through our employee relations team via phone, email, PRINCIPLE 5: fax, or postal mail. The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Nurturing our talent Training matters BMMI measures talent not just on technical ability but also in Talent Management also incorporates learning and development, terms of behaviour. A dedicated Talent Management division, which is an area in which BMMI has made a substantial investment. formed in 2015, is responsible for developing employees at Together with a comprehensive training and development curricula and all levels, focusing on the best-performing individuals with programme, staff are encouraged and supported to obtain relevant the strongest potential. The division’s activities embrace professional qualifications. the entire employee life cycle, and it is supported in areas such as recruitment by Human Resources, and internal Total training hours 21,252 communications by Corporate Communications. Total training events 129 Total no. of employees undergone training 571 Regular staff appraisal and evaluation is part of BMMI’s culture. The traditional scoreboard with criteria for evaluating Total training hours for management staff 1,083 performance against set goals was enhanced in 2018 with Total no. of staff who attended management courses 169 the introduction of behavioural competencies for managers, Total no. of staff who attended non-management courses 1,232 and will be linked to their bonus from 2019 onwards. Total training hours for non-management staff 20,169 Total management staff trained 71 There are numerous instances of employees being promoted to managerial positions from within the organisation, as well Total non-management staff trained 501 as examples of successful succession planning and career Average hours of training per year per employee for management staff 14 progression which is all supported by our strategic focus Average hours of training per year per employee for non-management staff 25 on training. BMMI enjoys a high level of retention due to its Total training hours for females 6,719 inclusive culture and very attractive remuneration and benefits packages. Total training hours for males 14,5344 Total participants in all training events 1,401 In Bahrain, BMMI has truly In a recent development, the team has been working on providing become an ‘employer of choice’, in-house training for managers and staff with pressing work and benefits from growing word commitments who cannot afford time to go on extended external training courses. A more comprehensive online training system has of mouth referrals. also been introduced to support these efforts. 04 Environment PRINCIPLE 7: Currently, under our Integrated Management Systems (IMS) department, the environmental aspects register assesses up to 80 Businesses should support a precautionary activities impacting the environment, their significance, any legal requirements, and preventative measures to control those aspects approach to environmental challenges; by location. This includes spills, hazardous and non-hazardous PRINCIPLE 8: waste management, emissions management, natural resource depletion, noise pollutions, and even contractor activities. Mitigation Undertake initatives to promote greater measures, including training, awareness, monitoring, maintenance environmental responsibility; and and engineering are also part of this. The aspects register is conducted for: PRINCIPLE 9: • Alosra Juffair Encourage the development and diffusion of • Alosra Durrat Al Bahrain environmentally friendly technologies. • Alosra Amwaj • Alosra Nakheel • Alosra Riffa • Alosra Saar • The Food Processing Unit (FPU) BMMI is an 14001 (Environmental Management • Bayader (restaurants) • Mina Salman Systems) certified company and has not violated • Sitra HQ any environmental laws and regulations in any of the countries in which it operates, nor has IMS related training is conducted on a regular basis in the areas the company been subject to sanctions and/ or of Quality, Food Safety, Health & Safety, and Business Continuity as well as Environmental Safety. A total of 186 Health, Safety and compliance. Environment (HSE) training sessions were conducted in 2018 with a total of 1069 attendees from across the Group. Energy & waste management The consistent implementation of Our IMS department also continues to set reduction international standards have resulted in targets and measures the volume of waste (paper, plastic and organic) diverted from landfill through Bahrain’s Electricity & Water Authority recycling and recovery as outlined below: (EWA) recognising BMMI for its Waste recycled per month 2018 (KG) initiatives and achievements in the 35000 areas of consumption of water and 30000 25492 29598 25000 electricity, and the use of ozone-friendly 20000 15000 gases especially in its Food Production 10000 5000 Unit (FPU). The team continues to 0 1362 Sitra Mina Salman Restaurants focus on elevating projects related & cafes to the Environment with efforts in reducing paper waste through the • Total KG waste collected between Jan-Dec’18 is 65,459 KG compared to 29,633 KG collected last year launch of a Documentation Audit in 120% improvement compared to last year • BD 2,749 received in exchange for the recycled items since Jan’18 2018 in preparation for a Digitisation compared to BD 1,245 last year 120% improvement compared to last year Project in 2019. • Waste collected in Seef is improving as of November focus will be on improving collection in 2019 IMS monitoring & reporting – CO2 emissions 2018 Petrol CO2 Emissions Jan-Oct (KG CO2/LITER) 20.0 BMMI Total Fuel consumption (Petrol/ltr.) 15.0 10.0 CO2 Emissions Total 2018 Total 2017 5.0 0.0 Alosra 189.6 160.5 CO2 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec emissions FMCG 125.2 113.8 Alosra 6.4 5 16.8 16.8 9.4 18.1 18.1 19 19.8 2 19.8 20.5 BLS 11.7 10 Mars & 11.3 9.4 11.6 15.4 13 9.3 10.2 5.9 6.1 11.4 15.6 6.1 Consumer Total 326.5 284.3 BLS 1 0.9 1.2 1.3 1.2 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.8 1 0.7 1.1 BLS ALOSRA FMCG BMMI Total Fuel consumption (Diesel/ltr.) 2018 Diesel CO2 Emissions (KG CO2/LITER) CO2 Emissions Total 2018 Total 2017 Alosra 4.3 6.9 50.0 40.0 FMCG 134.8 141.4 30.0 20.0 10.0 0.0 BLS 497.1 510 CO2 Total 636.2 658.3 emissions Jan Feb Mar Apr May June Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Alosra 0 0 0 0 4.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mars & 10.6 8.2 10.1 11.9 13.9 12.8 5.6 14.3 13.6 13 10.2 10.7 Consumer The target reduction baseline of 10% in 2018 for BLS 36.4 30.2 36.8 38.5 40.3 38.2 48.4 48.8 49.6 48.9 38.4 42.6 both petrol and diesel was not achieved due to BLS ALOSRA FMCG the nature of our work with constant increase in operations and market reach. 05 Anti-corruption Our employees at all levels, are empowered to voice any concerns PRINCIPLE 10: they may have regarding any wrongdoings in the course of the company’s dealings or day-to-day transactions. This covers any Businesses should work against corruption in acts of misconduct of general, operational, legal, or financial nature, all its forms, including extortion and bribery. including but not limited to topics covered in our Code of Business Conduct that is scheduled to be relaunched in 2019. BMMI has a zero-tolerance policy for retaliation and assures that any employee who reports possible violations in good faith will not experience abuse, harassment, threats, discrimination or any adverse employment consequences as a result. Employees who are found to Transparency, ethical conduct, and respect for human have retaliated against an individual who reports a suspected violation rights are utmost priorities across our divisions and the will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination. Not only do we have these values but we also act on them. communities in which we operate. BMMI believes that businesses should work against corruption in all its Corporate governance remains the responsbility of our Board with forms, both externally and internally – including extortion support of managerial staff. A major part of this continues to be and bribery. BMMI’s first corporate value is Honesty. accurate and timely disclosure of financial performance, Board constitution and ownership of the company. Our ethics consist of our integrity, the fact that we operate honestly, legally, transparently, incorruptly and with care towards the communities we operate in, as well as our environment. In 2018, our Legal team revised and updated BMMI’s Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery policy to reiterate our commitment to full compliance by the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and its officers, directors, employees and agents, with the Kingdom of Bahrain Decree Law No. (4) of 2001 with Respect to the Prevention and Prohibition of There has been the Laundering of Money, the Central Bank of Bahrain Rulebook, and any local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws that may be applicable. BMMI will institute detailed procedures and standards related to no bribery or training, due diligence, the recording of transactions, and other areas, to implement the terms of the policy. In particular, the Group will institute standards and procedures for: • Direct and in-kind support for government or government officials; corruption cases reported during • Security support for public law enforcement; • Payments for government officials; • Agreements with government-affiliated third parties, including those who may interact with the government on BMMI’s behalf or benefit; • Contracting with state-owned entities; 2018. • Meals, gifts, and entertainment for government officials; • Charitable and cultural donations to government or government officials, or to those parties affiliated with them; and • Political contributions. BMMI BSC PO Box 828, Manama Kingdom of Bahrain Telephone: +973 1774 6115 Email: getintouch@bmmi.com.bh Published by BMMI Corporate Communications © BMMI 2019
