UN Global Compact COP 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 INTRODUCTION We report the seventh progress report on Corporate Social Responsibility of BELGICAST. BELGICAST is part of the TALIS Group, the world’s leading provider of valves, hydrants and premium solutions for water flow control. At TALIS, we strive to make the world a better place by improving people’s living conditions through the development, installation and maintenance of efficient water flow control solutions. We offer solutions to protect water and to supply it worldwide. This is our company vision and it is a pride that the meaning of our business activity is at the same time the axis that spreads our Social Responsibility by linking it with the Sustainable Development Goal No. 6 on water availability, sustainable management and sanitation. At the time of initiating this last report, COP25 begins in Madrid with the aim of favoring the transition to concrete climate action and the integration of the scientific world and the private sector. BELGICAST has in mind that it is our duty to develop our activity with the utmost respect for the environment and for this we must take concrete steps, integrated into our production system and our development strategy. We formally communicate to our clients, to our suppliers, to our social environment and to all our partners, that Belgicast, a Talis brand, renews its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Aitor Bernardo Director de Operaciones de Belgicast 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 CONTENTS THE TEN PRINCIPLES: ACTIONS, BEST PRACTICES AND INDICATORS • Human rights • Labour • Environment (CEO Water) • Anticorruption There is not enough water to go round, and yet it is one of our most essential resources. At TALIS we strive to develop highly reliable solutions incorporating the smartest technologies available to improve network performance and save water resources. Beyond this commitment to the excellence of our products, we are also responsible for upholding the highest standards with regard to safety and respect for people and the environment. This is how we can make the world a better place. 780 M PEOPLE W ORLDWIDE 80 % OF WASTEWATER CURRENTLY DO NOT ON THE PL ANET HAVE ACCESS TO IS NOT RETREATED DRINKING WATER 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 THE TEN PRINCIPLES: ACTIONS, BEST PRACTICES AND INDICATORS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ODS 6 The 2030 Agenda, adopted in 2015 at the Sustainable Development Summit, marked 17 objectives that cover such crucial issues as poverty, hunger, and education. In this link you can access all the information. https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/development-agenda/ We will focus on the number 6. Goal 6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all Clean, accessible water for all is an essential part of the world we want to live in. There is sufficient fresh water on the planet to achieve this. But due to bad economics or poor infrastructure, every year millions of people, most of them children, die from diseases associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Water scarcity, poor water quality and inadequate sanitation negatively impact food security, livelihood choices and educational opportunities for poor families across the world. Drought afflicts some of the world’s poorest countries, worsening hunger and malnutrition. By 2050, at least one in four people is likely to live in a country affected by chronic or recurring shortages of fresh water. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 Access to water can be really complicated. In UNHCR refugee camps they try to guarantee 20 liters of water per person per day. UNHCR combines shortterm water purification methods and the construction of adequate long-term infrastructure, a formula that has proven to be the best guarantee of access to drinking water. BELGICAST will collaborate with UNHCR contributing to start 100 euros per month and we will study the possibilities that a valve manufacturer can bring to such extreme situations. If you want to know any of the UNHCR projects related to water, please click the following link: https://eacnur.org/es/labor/areas-de-trabajo/agua On the other hand, we continue to collaborate with UNICEF to carry out our Christmas campaign and replace the cost of gifts to customers with an equivalent donation of water treatment pills. And, as in previous years, Belgicast supports, respects and promotes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and encourages you to know them in its literal United Nations text: https://www.un.org/es/documents/udhr/ Since 2015, BELGICAST collaborates with UNICEF so that POTABLE WATER PILLS reach their destination, where children need them the most. 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 GRI INDICATORS GRI IndicatorsHuman Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to BELGICAST recognizes freedom of association in its ethical guidelines exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Not applicable or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Not applicable and actions taken. Principle 1: EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local The minimum salary paid in BELGICAST is 163% of the minimum Businesses minimum wage at significant locations of operation. salary in Spain. should support LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 100% and respect the protection of LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– The safety table is formed by the management of the company, the EHS internationally worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on manager, the industrial manager, warehouse managers, HR manager proclaimed huoccupational health and safety programs. and the representation of employees. man rights LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Absenteeism. 6,65%. No fatalities. number of workrelated fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Have not been performed. place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Every health and safety topic is treated with trade union. 100% LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Percentage by gender: Men: 80,27% / Women: 19,73% employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Percentage by gender in management: Men: 77% / Female: 23% membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee In BELGICAST there is no wage gap between employees of the same category, by significant locations of operation. gender category. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and All our product components are according to the water regulations in services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant each country. products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and No incidents voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer No complaints. privacy and losses of customer data. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 GRI INDICATORS GRI Indicators.Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. observe that have undergone human rights screening. the ILO principles and respect for the environment. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to BELGICAST recognizes freedom of association in its Code od Conduct Principle 2: exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated Businesses or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. should make sure that they HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable are not complicit incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective in human rights abolition of child labor. abuses. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Not applicable or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Not applicable and actions taken. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 LABOUR: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. BELGICAST, as an integral part of TALIS GROUP, is sharing with its employees its vision and values with the intention that they are present in our daily work since they will not only help us achieve our objectives in quantitative terms, but will reinforce our standards Labor in terms of quality. With these values we intend to answer the question of how we employ at work. This year we have included in the SPOTLIGHT TALIS Awards, our awards for the best employee that are nominated by the coleagues of the Group, a new modality that is to nominate and reward the best team. These nominations are made based on the criteria of our values: Responsibility, Results, Willingness to Win, Respect and Teamwork. 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 Vision &Values Our Vision The leading provider of water flow control solutions, helping protect and provide water around the world Our Values ACCOUNTABILITY RESULTS WILL TO WIN RESPECT TEAMWORK We own and deliver on We put the customer at We strive for innovation We respect the code of We act as one TALIS our commitments the heart of everything and best solutions conduct and act with We build strong we do integrity in everything We are leaders in our We are focused on relationships based on that we do area of responsibility We take the initiative continuous improvement honesty, openness and to find creative ways to We create an inclusive trust We take accountability for We exceed customers deliver the best possible and diverse workplace our actions expectations We work together on business results where everyone is common goals We demonstrate We have the passion treated with respect and We are motivated and personal responsibility and hunger to achieve dignity We are open to feedback driven to achieve our for the safety and excellence and share our challenges individual and collective We respect the views and well-being of everyone KPI’s feelings of others and We recognise and around us consider the impact of acknowledge the our words and actions contributions of others in our team 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 GRI INDICATORS GRI IndicatorsLabour Standards LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 100% LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including BELGICAST applies, at least, the advance notice required by law. whether it is specified in collective agreements. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. Principle 3: HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification Businesses partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. should uphold HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, the freedom of aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at association and percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. the effective recognition of the right to collective HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination bargaining; HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to BELGICAST recognizes freedom of association in its Code of Conduct.. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. Principle 4: Businesses HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, should uphold aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at the elimination percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. of all forms of HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable forced and comincidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the pulsory labour; elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 GRI INDICATORS GRI IndicatorsLabour Standards HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. Principle 5: Businesses HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, should uphold aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at the effective percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. abolition of child HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable labour. incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by Total number employees 175,25. Rate of new employees: 32,81 ; age group, gender, and region. Rate per gender: Men: 38,39 / Women: 7,81 ; Rate per region: Mungia: 36,88 / Madrid:0 / Toledo: 22,22 / Gojain: 15,87 ; LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Percentage by gender: Men: 80,27% / Women: 19,73% employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Percentage by gender in management: Men: 77% / Female: 23% membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee In BELGICAST there is no wage gap between employees of the same category, by significant locations of operation. gender category. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. Principle 6: that have undergone human rights screening. Businesses should uphold HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification the elimination partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. of discrimination in respect of HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, employment and aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. During this year is running a campaign specific occupation. percentage of employees trained. training on the prevention of corruption, monopoly and conflict of interest.The campaign, which started last year, was aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administration. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 ENVIRONMENT: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Belgicast is committed to the “CEO Water Mandate” since 2014, therefore, the report of our activities related to Principles 7,8 and 9 on Environment, we made through the “COP-Water” The “CEO WATER MANDATE” is a commitment to action based on six core elements: 1) Direct operations The star product manufactured by BELGICAST is the soft sealing gate valve for water distribution. All our valves are subjected to a hydraulic pressure test to check no leakage occurs. In order to reduce water consumption as much as possible, we have equipped our facilities with a closed circuit in which the loss of water is minimal or non-existent. 2) Supply chain We involve our suppliers in the sustainability of water resources. In addition to demanding compliance with the principles of the International Labor Organization. 3) Colletive action Talis collaborates with the NGO Just a Drop and sponsors projects to give water accessibility to populations with technical or distance problems in Africa. In addition, we collaborate with UNHCR and UNICEF. 4) Public policy BELGICAST and TALIS participate in the most important water exhibitions and maintain a live channel of communication with their Stakeholders through their websites www.talis-group.com and www.belgicast.eu. They also publish the most important news on LinkedIn, as well as the videos on their YouTube channels. 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 During this year 2019 we have had an outstanding presence at the SMAGUA fair in Zaragoza, as well as at the IDA World Congress, the most important congress and fair on water desalination. 5) Community engagement Belgicast is a partner of Euskalit, the Basque Foundation for excellence. In Euskalit we share experiences and knowledge to contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development.. 6) Transparency The commitment to give clear accounts includes our involvement with regard to water resources, both in terms of consumption and measures adopted. Belgicast was the first company in its sector to adapt to ISO14001 and this year 2018 this approval has been renewed. 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 ANTICORRUPTION: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As stated in our Code of Conduct: “TALIS is committed to the principles of fair competition. This includes, among others, the commitment of TALIS to compete for business by the quality and price of its products and services, but not by offering improper advantages or benefits to others. “ The Code of Conduct of TALIS deploys its Corruption Prevention Plan in the third section of the code and develops it in 8 mandatory points. Training is considered basic to implement the standard. In this way, all TALIS employees who may have a task likely to be involved, directly or indirectly, in a corruption case, receive a training course as it is not always easy to detect risk situations. These courses are mandatory to develop the work activity in TALIS. 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 GRI INDICATORS GRI IndicatorsAnti-Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related All our sales offices are included in the TALIS anti-corruption training to corruption. program. Principle 10: SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 100% of the administration staff included in the program. Businesses and procedures. should work SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. There have been no corruption incidents against corruption in all its SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. forms, including lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation extortion and for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences bribery. contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, No financial contributions to political parties or related institutions politicians, and related institutions by country. performed 15 www.talis-group.com TALIS is the undisputed Number One for water transport and water flow control. TALIS has the best solutions available in the fields of water and energy management as well as for industrial and comunal applications. We have numerous products for comprehensive solutions for the whole water cycle – from hydrants, butterfly valves and knife gate valves through to needle valves. Our experience, innovative technology, global expertise and individual consultation processes form the basis for developing longterm solutions for the efficient treatment of the vitally important resource BELGICAST Internacional, S.L. “water”. B° Zabalondo 31 48100 Mungia (Bizkaia) Nacional Tel: 94 488 91-00 Nacional Fax: 94 488 91-30 Export Tel: +34 94 488 91-20 Export Fax: +34 94 488 91-25 12-2019A E-Mail: belgicast @ talis-group.com Internet: www.talis-group.com www.belgicast.eu Note: Specifications may be changed without notification at any time. Copyright: No copying without express written permission of BELGICAST. BELGICAST is a Registered Trademark.
