UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2019 LETTER OF COMMITMENT FROM MANAGING DIRECTOR, AYA BANK AYA Bank embarks on the 9thyear on the journey, and 7th year of commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). With the successful and landmark transition to democracy and large scale legal and regulatory reforms in the pipeline, particularly in the financial services sector, AYA Bank reaffirms our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Since adopting the UNGC principles, AYA Bank has been working consistently to raise the governance standards internally so as to become a role model for the rest of the industry. In the short period of 9 years, AYA Bank Ltd. (AYA) has become the 2nd largest private bank in Myanmar in terms of Customer Deposits, Loans & Advances, Capital, Branches and Number of Customers. For 5 consecutive years now, AYA is the only IFRS compliant bank as well as the only one to be audited by an international big 4 firm – Deloitte. AYA touches a wide cross section of customers with the largest 100 depositors comprising less than 9% total customer deposits. In working towards our goal to be a leading bank in the country, we adhere to and embed the UNGC Principles into our practices, policies and operations. In this 6th Communication on Progress Report, we highlight a summary of our progress in adhering to the Ten Principles. Additionally, we commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Myint Zaw Managing Director AYA Bank Limited UNGC Principle AYA Bank's Implementation Activities and Outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS  AYA Bank will not assist in  We publish our Human right policy, Code of ethical conduct 1 Businesses should support committing any forms Human right and Employee Hand book on our website www.ayabank.com and respect the protection of violation and will not tolerant in any  Relevant sections of the human rights policy are incorporated internationally proclaimed act of violation and abuses. AYA in the staff orientation and trainings along with work place human rights. ethic and non-discrimination policy. bank has its own Human Right  The bank has and will continue to encourage the suppliers to 2 Make sure Businesses are policy and code of ethical conduct follow suit. not complicit in human right which are adopted from Universal  Inspections will be conducted on suppliers. abuses. Declaration of Human Rights and  A hotline has been established for human rights grievances the ten principles of UNGC. and all staffs are required to report any suspected breach of  Also developed the Code of Ethical human right act through an established channel.  Conducted monthly review of grievance report at the HR Conduct and Employee Handbook committee. to provide guideline to all  Updated the employee hand book annually. employees and it’s the standard for  Established SOP on how to deal with human rights violations. relating with all our stakeholders.   The bank will continue to promote  First bank to voluntarily undergo a human rights audit and to and advocate human rights norms implement ILO recommendations and respect to fundamental human rights to all our stakeholders: customers, suppliers, partners and government regulators.  As the bank expands its retail network, we will expand our advocacy effort across the nation.  There is the grievance hotline to receive and handle complaint of human right violation and anticorruption LABOUR STANDARDS 2 of 5 3 Businesses should uphold st freedom of association and  More than 8057 up to 31 July 2019  Our human capital investment is the driving force that made it effective recognition of the employees drive our business and possible for us to go from 65 branched in March 2014 to more right to collective bargaining. AYA Bank fully takes pride in being than (258) branches as at 31th July 2019 and counting. an “Employers of Choice” in the  All AYA Bank branches and Offices are built to ensure the 4 The elimination of all forms country. working environment is conducive. of forced and compulsory  We believe in creating a conducive  AYA Bank provides Group Life Insurance Policies for all our labor. and rewarding work environment for staff to cover for untoward incidents. our employees.  AYA focuses on capacity development as we invest heavily in 5 The effective abolition of  AYA Bank places utmost importance training and development of staff with average age of (22 -28 child labor. on being transparent in our years) the youngest in the country and, we have organized procedures and processes when more than (100) capacity building programs across all levels 6 Eliminate discrimination in catering to our employees as well as to ensure continuing development. respect of employment and customers.  AYA Bank is also continuously reviewing the Policies to occupation.  AYA Bank is in a progress of ensure we have updated and transparent guidelines. We have educating the labor rights in the also issued a revised Employee Handbook with up to date supply chain and then they will have rules and regulations, revised staff benefits, etc., to ensure all to sign in the commitment which will our staff are fully aware of their rights and obligations. be attached with the service or  AYA Bank has internal Human Rights policy and also checks product contract our vendors to ensure that they also follow our terms and  Child Labor Policy is in place as part conditions, such as Anti-Corruption, No Child Labor Policies. of AYA Bank Human Right Policy.  First bank to implement / achieve zero gender-salary-gap ENVIRONMENT  AYA Bank recognizes,  To utilize solar energy generated ATM all across the nation/ 7 Businesses should support a understands the need to AYA Banks are developing plans to utilize solar energy to precautionary approach to environmental challenges. emphasize the environmental power ATMs across the nation. (Future Plan) impact caused by the rapid growth  A monitoring mechanism is implemented, to ensure the rules 8 Undertake initiatives to of businesses and industries. AYA and regulations on environmental impact are adhered. promote greater Bank actively promotes the Corporate Affairs is acting as a lead for this. environmental responsibility. objective of reducing negative  The rules and regulations to reduce the negative impact in the impact on the environment environment are being incorporated into our training 9 Encourage the development internally and externally. programs, and staff orientations. Similarly, such trainings and 3 of 5 and diffusion of  All AYA Bank suppliers and orientation will be delivered to our suppliers and vendors at no environmentally friendly vendors have to sign a mandatory cost or encourage them to follow AYA’s example. technologies. SCP agreement prior to entering  If there is a violation or misdemeanor, likely to cause negative any form of business relationship. environmental impact, the AYA Bank will notify a supplier or Within this SCP, the Supplier Code vendor to investigate. Depending on the impact, it could of Conduct serves as a controlling eventually result in a termination of contract and mechanism to prevent and reduce discontinuation of the services if no corrective action is taken negative environmental impact. by them.  AYA Bank has amended and  Within AYA Bank the following are mandatory: implemented rules and regulations  Double Sided Paper Printer internally to reduce the usages of  “Think before Print” sticker on all AYA Bank printers paper, petrol, and other natural  Recycling garbage at all AYA Bank branches: Paper, Plastic, resources. In addition, waste Can trash bin. (Future Plan) management system has also  Substitute plastic bag with recycled paper bags in all AYA been implemented. Bank branches. In order to attract customers to volunteering  The awareness sharing tools are in switch from the plastic bag to paper bag, AYA Bank will place. The AYA Bank is picking up incentivize with point system. A customer who chose to use a the momentum in promoting the paper bag will revive point(s), redeemable for Gift Items. awareness of environmental  Car Pooling is being implemented. impact to all stakeholders, partners  Encourage and remind all staffs to turn off light and Air and suppliers. Condition units after work.  Reduce Paper project, Save  AYA Bank has recently won the award, “BEST BANK FOR Energy, Recycle Bin (Internal CSR” by ASIAMONEY for our recycling project at all the Campaign to educated our AYA branches and Seat Belt campaign. Staff to aware of the risks and the  AYA Bank run tree planting program to encourage community effect on the environment) involvement.  Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) training video in progress to train staff and cover supply chain  Environmental (CSR) video production in progress to educated 4 of 5 public  Seat Belt campaign  Tree Planting Program ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work  AYA Bank’s Anti-Corruption Policy  AYA Bank has implemented a number of policies and against all forms of states that The Reputation of AYA disciplinary actions such as whistle blower policy and anticorruption, including Bank is our greatest Asset. corruption policy which are communicated to employees and extortion and bribery. Therefore under the Myanmar Antisuppliers via standard internal communication tools. Corruption Law 2013, AYA Bank is  AYA Bank has implemented Guidelines to ensure increased strictly against to all kind of anti-corruption efforts along the supply chain. corruptions and committed to  AYA Bank will also raise the awareness of staff toward antiensure that AYA Bank’s business corruption through training and case studies. activities are free from corruption.  AYA Bank Corporate Affairs Team also works closely with the  AYA Bank has declared and is Management and the Internal Audit Team to carry out Flying committed to zero tolerance for Squad (Surprise Audits) to ensure that there are no cases of Corruption. fraud or forms of corruption within the organization at any touch  AYA Bank will organize awareness point. programs for staff and suppliers on  We have internal audit team to practice regular auditing and Anti-Corruption Policy and on AYA Bank has no record of irregular payment amount been procedures to handle such cases. found.  Higher Level Management support  AYA Bank monitors the behavior of staff and suppliers towards anti-corruption policy and we have corruption. If any violation found, we will take necessary action quotes according to the relevant policies.  We just now newly developed Antifraud policy , we issued instruction and every staff got awareness and sign  AYA Banks also initiates “Open eyes projects” which aim to audit our branches throughout the country. 5 of 5
