MOBILITY N E X T G E N E R AT I O N F O R T H E N E X T G E N E R AT I O N GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL CONTENTS 2 3 ABOUT THE REPORT These icons can be used within the Sustainability 5 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 22 MATERIAL TOPICS Report by clicking with the 6 Organizational Profile 23 ECONOMIC 30 ENVIRONMENT 41 SOCIAL following functions: 10 Strategy 12 ZF Sustainability Program 23 Economic Performance 30 Materials 41 Employment 16 Ethics and Integrity 25 Indirect Economic Impacts 32 Energy 42 Labor/Management Relations Table of contents 17 Governance 26 Procurement Practices 34 Water 43 Occupational Health and Safety 18 Stakeholder Engagement 27 Anti‑corruption 36 Emissions 46 Training and Education 19 Reporting Practice 38 Effluents and Waste 49 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Search 40 Environmental Compliance 51 Non‑discrimination 40 Supplier Environmental 51 Supplier Social Assessment Assessment 52 Customer Health and Safety Print CONTENTS 53 IMPRINT Internal references External references ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT THE REPORT 3 ABOUT THE REPORT This is the seventh edition of the Sustainability Report published indicators in the fields of economy, environment and society. The by ZF Friedrichshafen AG; it is based on the fiscal year 2018. Our process for determining the material issues is described on page 20 Sustainability Report is published annually and was not submitted of the report. For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services for an external assurance. reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the ref‑ erences for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate Since the integration process of the Active & Passive Safety Tech‑ sections in the body of the report. nology Division was concluded in 2018, ZF conducted a new mate‑ riality analysis in cooperation with a sustainability consultancy. As a The report is intended to offer transparency, with a particular result, we also revised our sustainability program. Strategic objec‑ focus on our sustainability activities and objectives. At the same tives correspond to the identified material topics of ZF. time, the report represents our progress report to the United Nations Global Compact, which we joined in May 2012. It addresses cus‑ The following GRI disclosures are based on the Standards (2016) tomers, employees, suppliers, politicians, authorities and all other of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI Standards request target groups that are interested in our company and wish to know companies to perform a materiality analysis which sets priorities about our values and principles. in reporting and focuses on central elements of the performance ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ZF AT A GL ANCE 4 €36.9 BILLION Revenue 148,969 Employees €2.5 BILLION Research & Development 80% Cars and light commercial vehicles < 6 t 12% Commercial vehicles > 6 t 8% Construction, agricultural machinery, marine craft, aircraft, special and rail vehicles, wind power ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL 5 GRI Content Index GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORG ANIZATIONAL PROFILE 6 ORGANIZATIONAL mental sensors, such as camera and radar (see), electronic control units (think) and intelligent mechatronics in driveline, chassis and GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters PROFILE steering (act). Friedrichshafen, Germany GRI 102-1 The Group also offers a wide range of services that are marketed Name of the organization mainly by the ZF Aftermarket organization. These services primarily GRI 102-4 involve the spare parts business for driveline and chassis technology Location of operations ZF Friedrichshafen AG as well as maintenance and repair services. The most important ZF Aftermarket product brands include: As of 2018, ZF has 20 main development locations and operates GRI 102-2 at 230 locations in 40 countries. The Group has an international ser‑ Activities, brands, products, and services • SACHS: clutches, dual-mass flywheels, torque converters vice network of about 120 service locations and 650 service points and shock absorbers for passenger cars, motorcycles, commercial that offer ZF customers an extensive range of services worldwide. ZF Group is a leading worldwide supplier of automotive compo‑ vehicles and agricultural machinery nents and systems. With our vision of zero accidents and zero emis‑ GRI 102-5 sions, we shape our future in four technology areas: Vehicle Motion • LEMFÖRDER: steering and suspension parts, rubber-to-metal Ownership and legal form Control, Integrated Safety, Electric Mobility and Automated Driving components for passenger cars and commercial vehicles across three segments: passenger cars, commercial vehicles and ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation in accordance industrial applications. ZF is currently the only supplier to deliver • TRW: braking systems, steering and suspension parts and shock with German law. The shareholders of ZF are the Zeppelin Founda‑ autonomous driving systems, electric drivelines and predictive main‑ absorbers for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Brakes, tion, which is administered by the City of Friedrichshafen and holds tenance technologies to both automotive and industry applications. clutches, handlebars, pretensioners, radar, switches, accessories 93.8 percent of the company’s shares, and the Dr. Jürgen and Irm‑ and footrest systems for motorcycles gard Ulderup Foundation, Lemförde (Germany), which holds 6.2 As our technology can be found in many applications, mobility percent of the company’s shares. Employee stocks are not issued. solutions range from motorcycles and construction equipment to • BOGE: shock absorbers for passenger cars and commercial trucks and yachts. In the world of electromobility, ZF stands not only vehicles GRI 102-6 for efficient power consumption in electric vehicles, but also for Markets served intelligent power generation through renewable energy sources, • ZF OPENMATICS: connectivity and diagnostics solutions for such as wind parks. At the same time, the Group transfers its exper‑ passenger cars, trucks, industrial applications, manufacturers, fleets The main sales markets of the Group are Europe (47%), North tise to all other areas of application, including connectivity and and end consumers. Solutions for intralogistics and asset tracking. America (28%) and Asia-Pacific (21%). cloud-based solutions, and is working on digital solutions for mobil‑ ity providers and new automotive customers. Cars and light commercial vehicles make up the major share (80%) of the sales distribution by sectors, whereas commercial We also digitalize our products to enable Intelligent Mechanical vehicles over six tons (12%) and construction and agricultural Systems, which are being used for vehicles to see, think and act. machinery, marine craft, aircraft, special and rail vehicles, wind Autonomous driving becomes a reality through networking environ‑ power (8%)account for the minor shares. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORG ANIZATIONAL PROFILE 7 GRI 102-7 EMPLOY EE S TR U CTU R E WO R LDWID E Scale of the organization Number of people1 2018 2017 2016 At the end of 2018, ZF had a workforce of 148,969 employees ZF Group (total) 148,969 146,148 136,820 at approximately 230 locations and 20 main development locations. ZF had a portfolio of several thousand products, over 6,400 single Europe 86,388 85,294 81,667 brands and generated sales of €36.929 million in 2018. For detailed of which Germany 50,794 50,618 49,094 liabilities and equity, please see the Consolidated statement of North America 36,762 35,885 31,900 financial position, p. 31 in the 2018 Annual Report. South America 5,509 5,470 5,118 GRI 102-8 Asia-Pacific2 17,396 18,367 16,974 Information on employees and other workers India2 1,980 – – On December 31, 2018, ZF employees worldwide numbered Africa 934 1,133 1,161 148,969. This represents an increase of 1.93 percent over the previ‑ Employee category3 ous year. Direct 78,281 77,797 72,109 The year-on-year increase in the number of employees took place Indirect 70,688 68,352 64,711 in all regions except Africa. The small increase in the total number of Work contracts employees results from the sale of the Vehicle Control Systems busi‑ Regular4 143,198 141,954 133,802 ness unit (Body Control Systems). It was completed in April 2018 and accounts for around 4,500 employees worldwide. To support Limited4 5,771 4,194 3,018 ZF’s Next Generation Mobility strategy a technology center in Hyder‑ Full-time 146,383 143,513 134,339 abad (India) was established. In view of the increasing importance Part-time 2,586 2,635 2,481 of India, since 2018 the country has not been listed as part of AsiaPacific but as a separate region. Apprentices and External Agency Workers5 Apprentices 2,756 2,856 2,800 Almost two-thirds of the Group’s employees work in Europe, most External Agency Workers 12,421 15,195 14,137 of them in Germany, and 96 percent of employees have regular con‑ tracts with the ZF Group. The percentage of women employed by 1 Number of employees by contracts in accordance with IFRS regulations at the end of the year. the ZF Group is 16,1, with the North America region showing the 2 As of 2018, India is not listed as part of Asia-Pacific but as separate region. 3 Direct and indirect participation in value creation processes. highest proportion with 27,4 percent. The Active & Passive Safety 4 The corporate wording changed from “permanent” employees to “regular”, and “temporary” employees to “limited”. Technology Division is not included in this data, as gender is cur‑ 5 The corporate wording changed from “temporary workers” to “external agency workers” rently not being reported in regard to region or contract type. In 2018, ZF had a total of 12,421 External Agency Workers. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORG ANIZATIONAL PROFILE 8 EMP LOY E E S BY R EG I O N 2018 Risk assessment and evaluation are carried out prior to the introduc‑ tion of procedures and substances. Number of people Regular Limited Full-time Part-time In preparation for emergencies, every location has an emergency ZF Group (total) 143,198 5,771 146,383 2,586 organization in place. Emergency response teams are provided with Europe 82,620 3,768 83,806 2,582 adequate equipment and procedures. Mock emergency drills are of which Germany 48,580 2,214 48,476 2,318 carried out on a regular basis. Technical installations (e.g. flood or fire protection, collection trays, redundant installations) are company North America 36,269 493 36,761 1 standard, as are behavior-based measures for increasing awareness South America 5,509 0 5,509 0 for prevention of environmental damage. Asia-Pacific 16,207 1,189 17,393 3 Environmental due diligence is conducted as part of the acquisi‑ India 1,659 321 1,980 0 tion process to minimize liability and financial risks. Africa 934 0 934 0 GRI 102-12 External initiatives GRI 102-9 GRI 102-10 The ZF Group observes the core labor standards of the Interna‑ Supply chain Significant changes to the organization and its tional Labour Organization (ILO), the content of the German Corpo‑ supply chain rate Governance Code and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Solely for the procurement of production materials, ZF maintains a Enterprises. global network consisting of approximately 7,000 suppliers, ranging There were no significant changes relevant to this report. from small family businesses through to large groups. ZF signed the United Nations Global Compact on May 1, 2012, GRI 102-11 thus committing the Group to observe and promote its ten princi‑ The purchasing volume for production materials totaled €20.1 bil‑ Precautionary Principle or approach ples. Since joining, ZF has also become a member of the German lion in 2018 and includes directed buy volumes. The value of nonGlobal Compact Network and participates in exchanges between production materials amounted to some €6.1 billion. A core element of ZF’s environmental management system is the the member companies. evaluation of environmental risks. In the operation of facilities, the Since ZF manufactures products at 230 locations in 40 countries precautionary principle based on the result of the risk evaluation is worldwide, a major part of value creation in production lies in the an essential part of the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) man‑ supply of components. The costs for materials purchased from sup‑ agement system. All locations conduct environmental aspect assess‑ pliers account for some 54 percent of sales. ZF suppliers are nor‑ ments and risk assessments for their respective facilities and pro‑ mally contractors who procure the raw materials or basic compo‑ cesses in a local context on a regular basis. Internal and external nents for the products ordered, manufacture the products and, in audits are also conducted. All locations follow the principle “preven‑ some cases, also design products. tion before reaction” and therefore use processes to minimize risks. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORG ANIZATIONAL PROFILE 9 GRI 102-13 • Foundation of German Business – Memberships of associations Remembrance, Responsibility, and Future (as a donor) The ZF Group and its companies are committed to a wide range of associations and interest groups. The following list provides a • G  erman Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) representative selection: (ZF Luftfahrttechnik GmbH, Kassel-Calden is a member) • Association of German Engineers e.V. (VDI) – Lake Constance regional association • German Association of Materials Management, (as a supporting member) Purchasing, and Logistics e.V. (BME) • Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) • German Global Compact Network • Carbon Composites e.V. • German Association of the Automotive Industry e.V. (VDA) • Chamber of Industry and Commerce Hochrhein Bodensee • German Association of Electrical Engineering and the Electronics Industry (ZVEI) (the Auerbach plant, • Chamber of Industry and Commerce Electronic Systems business unit is a member) Oberschwaben, Weingarten • German Engineering Federation e.V. • Compliance Network e.V. (VDMA) • Employers’ Association Südwestmetall • German Federation for Motor Trades and Repairs • European Association of Automotive Suppliers • German Diversity Charter (Charta der Vielfalt e.V.) (CLEPA) • Wissenswerkstatt Friedrichshafen e.V. (as a supporting organization) ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STR ATEGY 10 STRATEGY At the same time, we are determined to strengthen our sustain‑ ability performance. Therefore, during the summer of 2018, a pro‑ GRI 102-14 found materiality analysis served as the basis for not just updating Statement from senior decision-maker our Sustainability Report but for overhauling our sustainability pro‑ gram. “Clean and safe mobility. More strategic steps were resolved, like stepping up our supply Automated, comfortable and affordable. chain management and increasing our decarbonization efforts to For everyone, everywhere.” contribute towards a low carbon economy. In a first step, the Board of Management signed a new EHS policy and the EHS management system underwent major revision. Also, several departments are Dear readers, implementing new reporting tools to provide smarter data and improve target tracking. The entire automotive industry is facing a fundamental transition. Carmakers and their supply chains are being challenged, balancing Since 2012, ZF has been a signatory to the United Nations Global multiple technological trends like electric mobility or the increasing Compact, promoting its ten principles in the areas of human rights, autonomy and connectivity of vehicles. At the same time, we need labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption. to look after the people being impacted by these trends by uphold‑ In the light of major challenges facing us and our industry, we are ing and promoting human rights in the supply chain and qualifying positioning ourselves to answer them in an agile and decisive man‑ our employees for future tasks. ner. With this report we wish to inform you of our progress; we wel‑ come your feedback and engagement. As the world is rapidly developing, and quicker than many observ‑ ers anticipated, we adjusted our strategy towards “Next Generation Mobility”: with a strengthened focus on our core technology Yours sincerely, domains – Automated Driving, Vehicle Motion Control, Integrated Safety and Electric Mobility – as well as a flexible, agile and open Wolf-Henning Scheider business culture. Chief Executive Officer ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STR ATEGY 11 GRI 102-15 Major opportunities are also listed and analyzed. They are then the ZF Advanced Urban Vehicle. In order to take full advantage of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities actioned if substantiated. Risks and opportunities are not set off these opportunities, ZF has invested in companies, creating a close against each other. network of strategic cooperation. We call this the ZF Vision Zero Eco ZF’s opportunities and risks culture is focused on sustaining the System. Group’s continued existence and increasing its value. Our risk man‑ More detailed information about our general approach regarding agement system aims to identify and take opportunities as early as risk managment can be found in the 2018 Annual Report, p. 38. With strong partners and wide-ranging expertise, ZF can make possible while preempting risks that could adversely affect the value this vision real one day: Driver assistance systems and the continu‑ of our activities by identifying them early, assessing them appropri‑ The context for our sustainability considerations is to a large ous development of automated and autonomous driving can drasti‑ ately and initiating suitable management measures. extent shaped by global megatrends. For instance, progressive glo‑ cally reduce the number of accidents. At the same time highly effi‑ balization has a major impact on ZF’s sales and sourcing markets cient hybrid drives and locally completely emission-free electric The Board of Management is responsible for the risk management and therefore requires stronger international focus in regard to struc‑ drives are contributing to emission reduction. system and reports to the Supervisory Board and the Audit Commit‑ tures and competencies. In addition, demographic change and tee about the identified opportunities and risks on a regular basis increasing urbanization are leading to changes in consumer behav‑ but also on an ad hoc basis as situations arise. The Supervisory ior – with a fundamentally growing demand in finite resources, Board is responsible for monitoring the Board of Management and which is leading to increased conflict. Several trends require a tech‑ therefore oversees the effectiveness of the risk management system. nology shift toward efficiency and resource conservation, which ZF The implementation of the ZF risk management system is regularly is pushing for by continually reducing CO2 and noise emissions, for audited in terms of compliance by Corporate Audit. In addition, the example. Megatrends also play a central role when setting targets external auditors check ZF’s early risk detection system as part of for innovation. ZF identifies a need for action, principally in the areas the annual Group audit. of efficiency, advanced driver assistance systems, autonomous driv‑ ing and integrated safety. ZF’s risk management system is set out in a ZF Group directive which can be accessed by all employees. The directive describes Innovative solutions in these areas are directed towards our Vision responsibilities and processes of the risk management system. The Zero: Zero accidents. Zero emissions. ZF therefore offers solutions directive is subject to regular review and updating and is binding for for almost all vehicle segments which are showcased for example by all ZF Group companies. the Vision Zero Vehicle, the ZF Tractor, the ZF Innovation Truck or ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ZF SUSTAINABILIT Y PROGR AM 12 ZF SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM The sustainability program presented here was revised following the updated materiality analysis during the reporting year 2018. Strategic objectives correspond to the identified material topics of ZF. We will regularly report and comment on how we are proceeding to achieve these targets, which projects and measures have already been implemented and what progress has been made. Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status P R O D U C T S Product safety: Zero accidents and zero fatalities ZF will develop an integrated concept for functional safety and SOTIF with New target through smart product solutions and highest qual‑ regards to technologies of the future. ity assurance ZF will develop a concept to align our systems expertise with benefits for New target all segments. Upstream and downstream emissions: Slowing Vision: Zero Emission Projects: EVD2 (PassCar); CeTrax (city buses; commercial vehicles); down climate change and working towards ZF will continue to improve product efficiency and as a result reduce AxTrax (city buses) healthier environments CO2 emissions. CO2 reduction in tons in the course of the development of new products, Target was rolled out to Divisions together with a new program for productusing carbon footprinting and life cycle assessments. Review of the target related environmental protection, which is part of the development process by 2020. acc. to GD PEP. By 2020, the existing monitoring system will be extended to upstream and New target downstream emissions. By 2020, a new initiative will be introduced worldwide to reduce the ZF Supply Chain Management is taking part in an initiative by BMW on CO2 highest CO2 emitting supplies and suppliers within the product life cycle. transparency in steel and aluminum supplies. Logistics: A pilot was set up for local logistics to compare CO2 effects of com‑ bustion engine, gas and electrical trucks in context of new logistics contract. Material efficiency of products: Reducing the Demonstrate environmental compatibility in product development, Recyclability of ZF products as part of ZFN 9005 assessment. use of raw materials and realizing a circular taking life cycle aspects into consideration (GD PEP in combination with economy ZFN 9005) Sustainable product portfolio: Gradually increas‑ By 2020, a concept will be developed to align environmental compatability New ZF Product Strategy Process ing the share of revenue from sustainable prod‑ of our products with the new ZF Product Strategy Process Demonstrate environmental compatability in product development ucts and services ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ZF SUSTAINABILIT Y PROGR AM 13 Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status S U P P L Y C H A I N Standards in the Supply Chain: We aim for an Increase coverage on sustainability-related certificates (e.g. ISO 14001) ISO 14001 is required for new sourcing decisions for environmentally critically implemented supply chain sustainability manage‑ within the ZF supplier base parts. ment by 2025. Increase CSR self-assessment for new suppliers 100% implementation of CSR Assessments for new suppliers. No new sup‑ plier approval without a CSR Assessment. E M P L O Y E E S Globally attractive employer: We aim to be By 2025, we aim to be among the Top 15 engineering & IT employers in Fostering and increasing university cooperations; Trendence/Universum rank‑ among the most attractive engineer employers our strategic markets. ings in combination with International ZF Benchmark Study in strategic mar‑ worldwide and well positioned in growing kets. Overall target achievement by 2018 was 50%. markets By 2020, the turnover rate for the Group will be lower than 12% With a turnover rate of 13.9 the target was not yet achieved. (compared to 13.3 in 2017). By 2025, functional excellence will be established through standardized Major recruiting and learning processes reviewed and standardized. Global operational processes. rollout supported by a new digital HR platform in early 2019. By 2025, more than 90% of our employees would recommend ZF as an The next Global Employee Survey is being planned to take place in early attractive employer, based on internal employer surveys. 2020. Training and Education: We aim to continuously By 2025, a global and innovative learning culture and a new leadership New open content networks and new digital learning formats have been contribute to improve the organization, in order to style will be established across divisions, functions and regions. made available and a learning culture analysis was kicked off in 2018. Target achieve a global learning culture of innovative definitions and actions will be subsequently derived. learning and development Re-inventing leadership style A learning culture analysis was kicked off in 2018. Target definitions and actions will be subsequently derived. Safety at work and health protection: In order to Reduction of the Group accident rate (LTAR: accidents with more than one Near-miss reporting, safety alerts, root cause analysis and Safety Leadership support the ZF Strategy 2025 through following day absence from work per million working hours) by 10% per year. program led to an improvement of 16% (5.5 -> 4.5) in 2018. our “Vision Zero”, we strive to improve our safety (Goal for 2019: 4.2) performance by conducting professional incident Safety Leadership & Behavior Based Safety (BBS): Approximately 345 workshops were conducted by internal Safety Leadership management, Safety Leadership and Behavior Conduct 200 Safety Leadership workshops worldwide per year. Coaches. Globally five sites in total were added to the BBS program. Based Safety actions as well as improving our Add 15 sites to the ZF global Behavior Based Safety program in 2019 functional safety areas Internal Transportation: Improve the safety of internal transport by reducing New target the potential risk to pedestrians and the number of incidents compared with the previous year by 20% ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ZF SUSTAINABILIT Y PROGR AM 14 Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status Occupational health management: We aim Developing and conducting a health campaign with a focus on office Founding a project task force, developing a campaign concept, delivering to ensure the protection of the health, and to workers campaign material, conducting the campaign, reporting the activities promote the well-being, of our employees Continuing the program “Leadership and Health” in the involved sites. Conducting trainings at all German sites. Reporting of participation rate. worldwide Roll out the program “Leadership and Health” at additional sites in Supporting the rollout at additional sites. Germany. Establishing an “International Health Group” to work on health issues Nomination of participants, constitutional meeting which are internationally relevant Initiate Health Management standards worldwide Information of involved person in charge and expert functions. Perform and analyze first self-assessment. Compliance: We aim to continually improve our By 2020, all compliance-relevant policies will be harmonized within the New and uniform harmonization process was initiated in 2018. Compliance Management System to uphold the entire Group. good reputation we have earned and to ensure the Group’s long-term business success P R O D U C T I O N Emissions of plant operations: By 2020, CO2 emissions will be reduced by 10% relative to sales based on CO2/energy steering team established. New targets on CO2 and energy Reduce CO2 emissions caused by plant the ZF Group performance of 2017 (including direct emissions caused by reduction were set up and rolled out. operations ZF operations). Target achievement by end of 2018: reduction of 7.3% By 2020, a well-established and comprehensive CO2 reduction program Energy survey was carried out. will be in place covering energy efficiency and renewable energy. Start of development of a concept on renewable energy strategy By 2020, the emissions profile of purchased energies will be part of the Programs to support locations in energy efficiency projects evaluation during the procurement process. By 2020, energy consumption will be reduced by another 10% relative to Target achievement by end of 2018: reduction of 3.7% sales based on the ZF Group performance of 2017. By 2020, energy productivity will be included in regular operations Energy efficiency as part of Operational Review process. reviews. In 2019 the work on the review of the current target setup will start. Science-based target setting will be evaluated in this context. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ZF SUSTAINABILIT Y PROGR AM 15 Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status Water: Saving water resources and supporting By 2020, water consumption relative to sales will be lower than the Reduction for raw water could not be achieved due to hot summer 2018 clean water quality previous year. (increase for complete water consumption is 0.44%). Reduction for municipal water was achieved. Target achievement by end of 2018: reduction of 7.7% By 2020, in water-scarce areas project-related targets will be defined and Expert group is currently elaborating definitions and setting up a monitoring monitored. system. Waste: Supporting recycling management and By 2020, the amount of waste for disposal relative to sales will be lower Alignment with Purchasing in scrap metal program. Program intensifies recy‑ reducing hazardousness of waste than the previous year. cling activities, e.g. in Mexico. Target achievement by end of 2018: reduction of 4% A special focus will be placed on minimizing landfilling of hazardous Sorocaba, Brazil, increased recycling volumes. waste. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ETHICS AND INTEGRIT Y 16 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Code of Conduct GRI 102-16 Correct, responsible and sustainable business management and Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior accepting corporate social responsibility are fundamental compo‑ nents of our corporate policy. We reject all forms of human traffick‑ A company can only achieve business success in an intact eco‑ ing and support the abolition of slavery, forced labor and child labor. nomic environment. A company’s focus on success must match the Our Code of Conduct explicitly states that we do not tolerate any development of the surrounding and dependent companies so that discrimination, especially on the grounds of race, gender, religion, sustainable corporate governance is possible for all. This principle age, nationality, social or ethnic origin, pregnancy, disability, belief, plays a major role in relationships with business partners, but also in sexual orientation, or political and trade union engagement. These investments in production materials and capacities. This is why the principles apply to all new and existing employees and the collegial Group has firmly anchored sustainable corporate management fac‑ relationships between employees, our dealings with business part‑ tors in its Guiding Principles. They are seen not as individual actions, ners and, lastly, how employees are promoted within the organiza‑ but as a central aspect of entrepreneurial activity in the day-to-day tion. See GRI 205 for more information and the recent revision of decision-making processes. our Code of Conduct. ZF Charter Business Partner Principles As an integral part of the ZF Management System, the ZF Charter The ZF Business Partner Principles (BPP) require all suppliers and defines aspects regarded as most important across all our divisions, service providers to make a commitment to respect national and functions and regions. The Guiding Principles of the ZF Charter are: international laws and regulations at their locations worldwide. They Innovation Approach, Customer Focus, Result Orientation, and Com‑ must ensure that human rights are respected and human dignity is mitment to People. The Guiding Principle “Commitment to People” protected in all business processes. See GRI 204 for more infor‑ helps us create a corporate culture that supports trusting collabora‑ mation on the BPP. tion and motivates top performance. The ZF Management System with its focus on Speed, Simplicity and Target Focus and its four principles are at the core of all our activities and actions and represent everything that makes ZF spe‑ cial. By concentrating on them, we become stronger, and grow faster and more sustainably. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE 17 GOVERNANCE Jaskula was appointed to the Board of Management, taking charge of the HR and Legal Corporate Function. On September 30, 2018, • For vacancies regarding the Board of Management, a quota of 10.0 percent female Board of Management members is envisaged. The appointment of Sabine Jaskula as member of the Board of Man‑ GRI 102-18 Peter John Lake took retirement and left the Group, stepping down agement for the HR and Legal Corporate Function means that this Governance structure as a member of the Board of Management. Dr. Holger Klein was target has already been met. appointed as a member of the Board of Management effective as of The shareholders, the Zeppelin Foundation and the Dr. Jürgen October 1, 2018. He assumes responsibility for the Car Chassis • For vacancies regarding the Supervisory Board, a quota of 30.0 and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation exercise their voting rights at the Technology and Aftermarket Divisions as well as the Regions of percent was set. The quota is currently 10.0 percent. annual shareholders’ meeting. Asia-Pacific and India and the Key Account Management of passen‑ ger car customers in these regions. ZF Friedrichshafen AG and the ZF Group are led by the Board of Management, which manages the company, and by the Supervisory The supervision of the Board of Management by the Supervisory Board, which monitors the Board of Management. For the most Board, whose members are appointed with equal representation, is part, the activities of the Board of Management are strategic in supported by an Executive Committee and an Audit Committee nature and comprise responsibility for the corporate functions, the which are both composed of members of the Supervisory Board. divisions and the regions. In this context, particular importance is Under the leadership of its chairman Dr. Ing. Franz-Josef Paefgen, placed on close networking and cooperation within the Group. the Supervisory Board comprised 20 members as of year-end 2018. Operational topics are mainly addressed in the divisions and busi‑ ness units. In light of German legislation governing equal representation of women and men in managerial positions in the private and public On January 31, 2018, Wolf-Henning Scheider was appointed sectors, targets for the relevant managerial levels have been dis‑ chief executive officer effective February 1, 2018, succeeding Dr. cussed and set for ZF Friedrichshafen AG to be achieved by June Konstantin Sauer, who alongside his responsibility as CFO had taken 30, 2022. interim charge of the company along with the R&D Corporate Func‑ tion and the Aftermarket Division. After Jürgen Holeksa resigned his • At the first managerial level (executive vice president/senior vice mandate as a member of the Board of Management on September president) and the second managerial level (vice president) below 30, 2018, Wolf-Henning Scheider was appointed director of labor the Board of Management, the percentage of women is planned to relations effective October 1, 2018. On January 1, 2019, Sabine increase to 15.0 percent each. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STAKEHOLDER ENG AGEMENT 18 STAKEHOLDER GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ENGAGEMENT As our approach to stakeholder communication and engagement ZF is in regular contact with its stakeholders through the following GRI 102-40 has been applied and refined for several years, all relevant stake‑ channels: the German Global Compact Network, personal contact List of stakeholder groups holders are well identified. Each group is important, since it con­ with residents at company locations, the media, direct discussions tributes unique insights and feedback. Our day-to-day interaction with customers and suppliers, as well as surveys on topics such as There are many significant stakeholders at ZF, including employees, influences the way we reconsider and reevaluate topics, process and sustainability, and with employees via the Works Council as well as customers, suppliers, the company owners, authorities, trade priorities. through internal events and Group media. unions, associations, the media and politicians as well as business partners and residents at company locations. An increasingly impor‑ TY PES O F S TA KEHO LD ER CO MMU N IC ATIO N (GROUP S AND TH E M E DI A) tant group includes the next generation of employees, which is why schools, vocational schools, universities of applied sciences, univer‑ Employees we>move employee magazine, social intranet „Zoom“ including CEO Blog and various news chan‑ sities and scientific institutes can be found at the top of the list of nels, townhall meetings, webinars, innovation challenges and pitch event, Excellence Award and stakeholder groups to be involved. As a B2B company, ZF has rarely family days, zf.com, social media, ZF hilft, ZF BarCamp New Work, ZF Digital Convention been in direct contact with national, non-governmental organiza‑ tions (NGOs) that represent ecological and social issues. However, Potential employees Cooperations with universities, Annual Report, Sustainability Report, advertisements, ZF website, as is the case with local environmental initiatives that are often in involvement in trade fairs, “vision” print/online magazine, social media direct communication with the location managements, these NGOs Former employees ZF website, ZF pensioner association, ZF Family Day Senior Professionals Program, “vision” maga‑ likewise number among the stakeholder groups that we consider zine online, social media important. Customers Annual Report, Sustainability Report, “vision” company magazine, ZF website, brochures, advertise‑ ments, customer days, involvement in trade fairs, key account management GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements End customers Annual Report, Sustainability Report, involvement in trade fairs such as the International Motor Show, North American International Auto Show, CES, non-automotive trade fairs, advertisements, The Group values open communication among its employees and ZF website, vision online magazine, social media respects their right – as is consistent with applicable law – to join Suppliers and partners Annual Report, Sustainability Report, ZF website, involvement in trade shows, advertisements, sup‑ or assist a labor union or works council, or to refrain from doing so. plier days, key purchasing strategy, ZF Global Supplier Summit, “vision” online magazine, social media No employee or employee representative shall be disadvantaged as Politics, associations, interest groups Annual Report, Sustainability Report, ZF website, personal discussions, department “Associations & Politics” a consequence of exercising his or her rights in this regard. Approxi‑ mately 60 percent of our employees worldwide are covered by Educational institutions Sustainability Report, Cooperations with universities and schools, ZF website, involvement in trade national, regional or local labor agreements. More precise reporting fairs, advertisements, “vision” online magazine, social media will be possible in the future as HR tools are currently being imple‑ Press and the media Annual Report, Sustainability Report, ZF website, press releases, press conferences, “vision” online mented. magazine, social media Communities Press, ZF website, advertisements, sponsoring, regional events, “vision” online magazine, social media ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STAKEHOLDER ENG AGEMENT | REPORTING PR ACTICE 19 Customer satisfaction Supplier Award quality aspirations, sustainability and business success arise not just between but also within stakeholder groups. While current customer Delivery reliability, the ability to innovate and cost competitiveness Around 300 ZF specialists and executive managers, along with preferences oppose a product-based sustainability strategy. In terms are basic qualifiers in today’s automotive industry. Due to regulatory representatives from the most important suppliers, met at the Global of product development, advantages on the one hand are always changes, rising consumer awareness and new supply chains for Supplier Summit at the ZF Forum in Friedrichshafen, the Corporate achieved at the expense of weaknesses elsewhere. megatrends such as electrification, the sustainability expectations Headquarters of the Group. The event was an opportunity to share towards the automotive industry are constantly growing. knowledge and discuss strategies on purchasing and logistics. The The topics of training and further education are currently regarded ZF Materials Management team used the event to honor seven out‑ as additional challenge, since the lack of skilled specialists is aggra‑ In this environment the role of a Tier 1 automotive supplier such standing suppliers in four different categories for their outstanding vated by trends such as rapid technological and demographic as ZF is rapidly changing. From selling components and systems we performance. The award for the best service provision in the digitali‑ change. are now offering complex vehicle functions to a greater extent, such zation sector premiered in 2018. For 2019, we intend to award in as autonomous driving or vehicle motion control. This requires not the additional category “Excellence in Sustainability”. Occupational health and safety are seen as an international com‑ only new skills but also a different market approach, offering the petitive advantage, and compliance as an increasingly important entire competence and product portfolio of ZF from the one source. economic factor. Social commitment helps a company to reinforce Furthermore, our customers expect an empowered counterpart that ZF Excellence Award the moral awareness of its employees; together with training, every can represent the entire Group. employee must be taught the meaningfulness of his or her work. New The fourth ZF Excellence Award set a new record with 776 appli‑ leadership cultures and models are also discussed. ZF is addressing In 2018 we therefore focused on building a new sales organiza‑ cations from more than 100 locations in 29 countries. Participation many topics and challenges with its updated Sustainability Program. tion with the input of our top customers to better serve them and across regions, divisions, and departments was very balanced. Of to provide solutions that only a unified sales approach can offer. the 15 teams that made it to the final, the Executive Board and top We will continue to survey our customers’ opinions (VOC) in 2019 to ensure that we are fulfilling their expectations. management selected five winners in each of the categories. REPORTING PRACTICE In addition to the categories “Products and Manufacturing Pro‑ GRI 102-45 cesses”, “Health, Safety, Environment and Social Affairs”, “Small Entities included in the financial statement Employee survey Projects”, “Learning from Each Other” and “Business Processes and Methods”, a special “Best Performing Plant” prize was again In addition to ZF Friedrichshafen AG, 34 domestic and 229 foreign Since employees collaborate on an everyday basis, feedback and awarded in 2018. subsidiaries controlled by ZF Friedrichshafen AG are included in the recognition are ever-present. Another element of employee engage‑ consolidated financial statements. ment is the comprehensive Global Employee Survey (GES). The objec‑ GRI 102-44 tive is to sustainably contribute to company goals through increased Key topics and concerns raised On August 30, 2017, ZF concluded an agreement with Luxshare transparency and by involving employees on all levels. The first survey Limited to sell its Global Body Control Systems Business Unit after the took place in 2015 and received over 15,000 suggestions for improve‑ The manifold communication with and involvement of stakehold‑ Supervisory Board of ZF Friedrichshafen AG had granted its consent. ment. One-third of these were put into practice the same year. ZF is ers clearly shows: With all the challenges that promoting sustain‑ The full transfer of the business unit was successfully completed on currently planning its second GES, to take place early in 2020. ability entails, conflicts of interest and conflicts of goals between April 27, 2018. The transfer was implemented partly as a share deal ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL REPORTING PR ACTICE 20 and partly as an asset deal. In connection with the share deal, five ZF MATER IA LITY MATR IX Employer attractiveness Emissions from upstream Product safety and downstreams acticvities companies left the Consolidated Group. The disposal led to a decon‑ solidation income of €83 million that was recognized under other income. The Global Body Control Systems Business Unit with its Corporate citizenship Diversity and Training and Occupational inclusion education health and safety headquarters in Radolfzell (Germany) employs 6,000 people world‑ wide at 16 locations in eleven countries. Relevance from stakeholder perspective More detailed information about entities belonging to the Group can be found in ZF’s 2018 Annual Report, pages 53 and 113. Water Compliance Sustainable product portfolio Social standards in Environmental standards GRI 102-46 the supply chain in the supply chain Defining report content and topic boundaries Since the integration process of the Active & Passive Safety Tech‑ Material efficiency of products nology Division was concluded by 2018, ZF conducted a new mate‑ Waste Company health management Compliance in supply chain Emissions from plant operations riality analysis in cooperation with a sustainability consultancy. Biodiversity Contribution to the economy In a first step, a list of all sustainability topics potentially relevant to ZF was compiled. An industry analysis and general sustainability standards served as the basis. In the next step, this list was evalu‑  Extent of business relevance ated by an external expert panel via qualitative telephone interviews and a supplementary online survey. Additionally, opportunities and Significance of economic, environmental and social impacts risks were concretized; and ZF’s opportunities to exert influence were discussed. As part of a workshop of the Sustainability Steering Committee, the topics were then prioritized with regard to business GRI 102-47 • 306 Effluents and waste relevance, relevance from the stakeholders’ point of view, and the List of material topics • 307 Environmental compliance impacts of ZF’s business activities. Topics for reporting and topics • 308 Supplier environmental assessment that should be the focus of strategic further development were iden‑ • 201 Economic performance • 401 Employment tified in this process. The results of the materiality analysis were • 203 Indirect economic impacts • 402 Labor management relations finally confirmed by the Board of Management. • 204 Procurement practices • 403 Occupational health and safety • 205 Anti-corruption • 404 Training and education • 301 Materials • 405 Diversity and equal opportunity • 302 Energy • 406 Non-discrimination • 303 Water • 414 Supplier social assessment • 305 Emissions • 416 Customer health and safety ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL REPORTING PR ACTICE 21 GRI 102-48 GRI 102-53 Restatements of information Contact point for questions regarding the report A few figures were updated with explanatory footnotes under ZF Friedrichshafen AG respective disclosures. Corporate Governance Sustainability Löwentaler Straße 20 GRI 102-49 88046 Friedrichshafen Changes in reporting Email: sustainability@zf.com In accordance with the updated materiality. GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the G RI Standards GRI 102-50 Reporting period This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016: Core option. This is the seventh edition of the Sustainability Report published by ZF Friedrichshafen AG and follows the 2017 Sustainability GRI 102-55 Report. It is based on the fiscal year 2018. G RI content index GRI 102-51 This GRI table is the GRI content index. Date of most recent report GRI 102-56 March 2018 External assurance GRI 102-52 This report was not submitted for an external assurance. Reporting cycle Annual ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL 22 MATERIAL TOPICS ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 23 ECONOMIC GRI 201 ECONOMIC GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ONGOI NG TA X PAYME NTS BY RE GI ONS 2018 (2017) PERFORMANCE 2016 in € million The ZF Group succeeded in increasing sales by 1.3 percent to 2018 GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) €36,929 million and invested €2,158 million (2017: €2,230 million) 201 7 Management Approach 2016 in research and development, which is 5.8 percent of Group sales. The ZF Group overall donated €5.61 million (2017: €6.87 million). 337 (269) Europe Total 36 (67) North America In 2018, under its new Chief Executive Officer Wolf-Henning 476 (439) 94 (92) Asia-Pacific Scheider, ZF established a new strategy, “Next Generation Mobility,” The production materials purchasing volume in 2017 totaled €20.1 9 (11) Other based on the core objectives of the ZF 2025 Strategy and augment‑ billion. This includes directed buy volumes. The value of non-produc‑ ing them with mediumand long-term targets. The strategy is tion materials amounted to some €6.1 billion. Overall personnel designed to position ZF and its systems expertise in the passenger expenses totaled €4.761 million (2017: €4.669 million), including car, commercial vehicle and industrial applications sectors in terms wages and salaries, social security contributions, benefit expenses of technologies for vehicle motion control, integrated safety, auto‑ and pension expenses. For more details see the consolidated mated driving and e-mobility. ZF's strategic approach is to ensure it statement of profit or loss in the 2018 Annual Report, p. 31. can meet both historical and future challenges by continuing to develop existing technology while also entering completely new ONGOING TAX PAYMENTS BY REGIONS 2016 – 2018 GRI 201-2 markets and fields, thus serving both existing and new customers. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities in € million 2018 2017 2016 due to climate change In line with this strategic alignment, ZF significantly increased Europe 337 269 217 research and development expenditure in the fiscal year 2018. One of the main factors resulting from our production activities is North America 36 67 45 the emission of greenhouse gases. Reducing these emissions is The top financial key figures ROCE (Return on Capital Employed), Asia-Pacific 94 92 97 therefore a central element of ZF’s environmental policy and targets, ZF Value Added, and Operating Result are used to measure and which are managed worldwide by our environmental management Other 9 11 5 monitor the financial performance of the ZF Group. For more details system according to ISO 14001. See GRI 300 for more details on see the 2018 Annual Report, p. 31. Total 476 439 364 ZF’s environmental management approach. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 24 Following the Paris Agreement of 2016, the German Climate Pro‑ Reliable supply chains in light of climate change Further influences tection Plan 2050 and the COP in Bonn in late 2017, many countries have been working on national regulations and programs to fulfill To minimize risks and manage them more effectively, the ZF Group The opportunities and risks for our wind power sector vary widely the conventions. The scope of these impacts on ZF’s businesses is is working on localizing sources. The objective here is to reduce since business development is still heavily dependent on subsidies, currently not fully foreseeable. Moreover, financial implications can‑ transport costs and actively contribute to lowering CO2 emissions. and overall development on emission-related regulations supporting not be quantified while legal requirements are under discussion and Furthermore, this can limit the impact of interruptions in the supply renewable energies. European companies are facing higher organi‑ not yet conclusively defined. chain to the region affected. We are also carrying out initial projects zational costs due to the obligation and the expanded requirements to identify robust methods for determining the emission values and for statutory and regulatory reporting, e.g. the EU Directive on the Operating costs are likely to rise due to increasingly strict legisla‑ environmental impacts of selected products and materials. disclosure of non-financial information. tion with tougher regulations for plant approvals and operations. In China, for example, the 13th five-year plan restricts air pollution to Finally, suitable precautionary measures must be taken to minimize fixed limits by region, which results in locations having to make Product level the diverse and often increased risks. We are also addressing identi‑ increasing efforts to ensure they comply with national and local legal fied risks with our environmental management system, and our sus‑ requirements. ZF generates a substantial proportion of its sales with products tainability program has set corresponding environmental targets. used in the combustion engine driveline. Even though progressive electrification in the passenger car and commercial vehicle drive GRI 201-3 Losses due to extreme weather segment may represent a competing technology, ZF sees promising Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement opportunities in the development of safe and clean mobility through plans Extreme weather situations caused by climate change such as its electric, electronic and mechatronic competence. high water and flooding or extreme drought have so far only affected Provisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested bene‑ our production locations in isolated cases. Nevertheless, ZF sees Moreover, with our Vision Zero we defined a strategic response fits and current pensions for entitled current and former employees these developments as a potential risk with more frequent and more impacting many levels and processes within the ZF Group. Aiming of the consolidated ZF Group and their surviving dependents. Vari‑ extensive consequences to come. This is why we include early pre‑ for zero emissions and zero accidents leads to new products and ous retirement pension schemes exist in accordance with the legal, cautions against extreme weather and natural disasters as part of services. The development of competitive products has opened up economic and tax situation in the respective countries, which – as our sustainable corporate development. new sales opportunities for ZF. At the same time, a possible increase a rule – are based on the length of service and emoluments of the in fuel or energy prices may result in an increase in logistics costs employees. In general, for company pension schemes a distinction We have only seen isolated examples of higher property insurance and a fall in the demand for individual mobility on the part of the can be made between defined contribution plans (DC) and defined premiums at locations subject to potential natural hazards such as market. We can mitigate this risk with innovations in hybrid techbenefit plans (DB). Plan benefits depend upon salary, length of flooding, storm or extreme drought. These could increase in the nology, e-mobility and lightweight design. For more information service and the cost of living index. For details about provision for future if incidents of damage occur more frequently. These issues about ZF solutions see GRI 302-5. pensions see the 2018 Annual Report, p. 60. are decisive factors when building new plants or purchasing produc‑ tion facilities. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE | INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 25 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government GRI 203 INDIRECT people as well as nature and landscape conservation. Jürgen Ulderup was the founder of the Lemförder Group, a company that is part of ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 the ZF Group today. In the fiscal year 2018, €42 million (2017: €18 million) in govern‑ ment grants was received. These were divided as follows: Invest‑ GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 203-1 ment grants were basically received for investments at various loca‑ Management Approach 2016 Infrastructure investments and services supported tions in the USA, Germany, Czech Republic, Hungary and China. Expense subsidies mainly comprise research subsidies and subsidies We are aware that a company can only achieve business success ZF makes significant investments in technical professions. We for education and vocational training. in an intact economic environment. A company’s focus on success aim to promote interest and enthusiasm for MINT subjects early on must match the development of the surrounding and dependent among children and adolescents, with particular emphasis on girls. G OV E R NM E NT GR A N T S 2016 – 2018 companies so that sustainable corporate governance is possible for ZF is achieving this objective for instance by actively participating in all. This principle plays a major role in our relationships with business the Girls’ Day and running Knowledge Workshops (“Wissenswerk‑ partners, but also in our investments in production materials and stätten”) in several German cities. These popular workshops enable in EUR million 2018 2017 2016 capacities. ZF is one of the biggest employers and customers in all hundreds of children and adolescents every year to gain hands-on Investment grants 31 10 12 the regions in which the company operates. See GRI 102-9 and experience in the world of technology. Expense subsidies 11 8 6 GRI 204-1 for details regarding our expenses for our supplier network, which has significant indirect economic impacts as we apply our In higher education, ZF finances a large number of endowed “local for local” principle. professorships in the Lake Constance region and across the world. Cooperation with renowned universities, for example the Zeppelin Corporate social responsibility at ZF is an important and intrinsic University and the Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University component of the company’s mission statement. In line with this in Friedrichshafen, the University of Ravensburg-Weingarten, the commitment, we therefore contribute a great deal to our local com‑ HTWG Constance – University of Applied Sciences, the RWTH munities by supporting education, sports and recreation, culture, Aachen University or the Tongji University in Shanghai, is part of and environmental and community projects. Activities of this nature the young talent promotion program. range from funding endowed chairs at universities, through the ZF Art Foundation supporting artists and musicians, festivals and As a Corporate Partner, ZF further extended its cooperation with non-profit organizations, to sponsoring the elite volleyball players the UNITECH Program in 2018. UNITECH International is a European of the VfB Friedrichshafen team or funding many local recreational network of top engineering universities and multinational companies. sports. At present, only nine universities from nine different countries are allowed to propose their twenty best students, of which only ten will be Each year, ZF gives the Zeppelin Foundation a dividend. The funds accepted. UNITECH students are people who want to become highly are used in line with the articles of association, especially in the qualified, internationally experienced engineering graduates with fields of science and research, art and culture, as well as child and access to prime international internships and employment positions. youth development. The Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation In 2017, ZF was able to recruit several students from the UNITECH in Lemförde supports the education and vocational training of young talent pool for internships, theses and final positions. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS | PROCUREMENT 26 Furthermore, ZF supports several teams of the Formula Student Germany competition. In this engineering design contest, interna‑ GRI 204 PROCUREMENT To minimize impacts of transportation, such as costs or environ‑ mental impacts but also aspects of timing, ZF’s strategy is “local for tional students compete against each other in various disciplines PRACTICES 2016 local” – buying where the supplied materials or components are with race cars which they build themselves. In addition to sharing its needed. Therefore, we continue to focus our localization activities on expertise, ZF has been supporting these young talents with highGRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Mexico, India, China and Eastern Europe. The objective here is to tech racing products, financial assistance and team-building activi‑ Management Approach 2016 implement the “local for local” concept with our existing strategic ties since 2002. In 2018, ZF sponsored 39 university teams. In the suppliers or to prepare and develop the local supplier base to meet up-and-coming Formula Student Driverless race category, ZF sup‑ Good materials management is vitally important for customer sat‑ ZF-specific requirements. ported seven teams. In this category, students face a completely isfaction. Only then can we guarantee the high quality of our prod‑ new challenge: developing a race car that runs without a driver in ucts and delivery reliability. This is why trusting and reliable collabo‑ autonomous mode – in line with the ZF triad “See – Think – Act”, ration with our suppliers is a priority for ZF. Business Partner Principles the leading principle for bringing artificial intelligence to vehicles. The specific requirements for suppliers result from the Advanced All new and existing suppliers are under an obligation to endorse Procurement Strategy (APS 25). The APS follows and supports the our Business Partner Principles (BPP). A standardized process for ZF-Innolab Group strategy and is based on the ZF Environmental Policy, the the request and confirmation of our BPP includes a tool-based solu‑ ZF Principles of Social Responsibility and the ten principles of the tion to track the information about the current BPP status of each As part of expanding its long-term commitment to cooperation United Nations Global Compact. All suppliers are required to comply supplier. Acceptance of BPP is taken into consideration in supplier with universities, ZF established an innovation laboratory at the with these three sets of principles. Establishing an effective and award decisions in the approval process for new suppliers. Friedrichshafen campus of the Duale Hochschule (DHBW) Ravens‑ efficient value creation chain throughout the Group is the declared burg in 2016. At the “ZF-Innolab” facility, DHBW students, under an objective of the APS 25. The strategy also pursues three subordinate The BPP represent values that ZF recognizes, supports and apprenticeship contract with ZF, conduct research on topics such as goals: increasing ROCE, total quality management and standardiza‑ communicates to partners. As guidelines, they specify fundamental autonomous driving and digital business models. The students at tion. Its systematic implementation is supported by a process which sustainability requirements for cooperation with our business part‑ the “ZF-Innolab” work closely together with ZF engineers from Cen‑ ensures that sourcing decisions are based on total cost of ownership ners. They address various topics such as human rights, labor stan‑ tral R&D in the field of future mobility, especially for automated driv‑ criteria. dards, occupational safety and health protection, environmental ing, automated operations and new logistics solutions. protection, responsible raw materials procurement, business ethics The Board of Management decided to complement the engaged and compliance. ZF reserves the right to scrutinize business relation‑ global divisional and business unit management with a strong ships and we consider it our duty to take appropriate action if we matrixed regional management in China. Beside other functions, identify deviations or violations. the Regional Materials Management Organization was redefined, effective since January 2018 to drive operational synergies and External service providers in Germany must sign a declaration strengthen local supply. of compliance to the collective agreements guaranteeing fair wages, normal working hours and a rejection of unregistered labor and tax The cross-functional Sourcing Decision Board enables us to evasion. This declaration also applies to subcontractors engaged ensure that along with pricing, environmental aspects are also con‑ by ZF and includes the proviso that ZF may check compliance at sidered in the selection of suppliers. any time. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL PROCUREMENT | ANTI-CORRUPTION 27 Improving supply chains calculated using a key indicator based on total spending including The Code of Conduct defines binding principles for correct, lawdirected buy and internal supply. The average over all divisions for abiding, and ethical behavior. Subjects covered include adherence In line with the principles endorsed by APS 25 we have integrated 2018 amounted to 54 percent (2017: 54%) for production materials. to laws, fair competition, human rights, anti-corruption, business and environmental and social standards (including safety and health) social responsibility, product compliance, occupational safety, data into supplier management and the supplier selection process – protection and transparency. The Code of Conduct is a core element evaluating potential new suppliers using supplier self-assessments and audits. The long-term goal is a purchasing strategy that dis‑ GRI 205 of the Compliance Management System (CMS) and is therefore available in more than 25 languages. As managers at every level are penses with procuring materials from critical sources. ANTI‑CORRUPTION 2016 responsible for the compliance culture within the company, they must confirm they have received the CoC and promise to follow its During the approval process, ZF requires new potential suppliers to GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) principles. submit a self-assessment using the Supplier Self-Assessment Sus‑ Management Approach 2016 tainability template based on the Business Partner Principles. Compliance is an essential element of successful management Compliance regulations ZF uses an adapted version of the so-called Self-Assessment and good corporate governance. It supports reliable and respectful Questionnaire on CSR and Sustainability developed by the European dealings with customers, business partners, employees and the Compliance and legal regulations include rules governing antiAutomotive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainability. The environment. Compliance also constitutes the basis of lasting corruption and antitrust law. They also include the correct approach advantage of using a standardized Self-Assessment Questionnaire co­operation in an atmosphere of trust. to handling favors, gifts and hospitalities. The following topics are for all participants (OEM and Tier 1) is to avoid duplication and to covered by the regulations: improve efficiency for the suppliers. This Self-Assessment Question‑ We rise to the challenge posed by globalization. This requires naire is a part of our Supplier Approval Process. law-abiding, honest and responsible behavior on behalf of our • Responsibilities, tasks, and authorities of the employees at all levels and in all areas as the core value of our Compliance Organization In 2016, ZF started to use a special tool to manage supplier corporate culture. ZF communicates the relevant rules proactively • Rules for lawful and responsible behavior inquiries about supplier contact data, the existence of a product to its employees, for example through the Code of Conduct (CoC) • Ban on corruption safety officer, HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), general com‑ or other compliance regulations. • Business partner integrity pany data and certificates. The annual update of the master data • Rules on handling favors, gifts and hospitality is handled by our service provider via a managed service. The tool In July 2018, with approval of the Board of Management, Corporate • Correct behavior in competition is mandatory for all strategic and accepted suppliers. Compliance implemented a new ZF Code of Conduct. This applies • Contacting the Corporate Compliance Office and to the entire ZF Group and replaces the previous ZF Code of Con‑ reporting incidents GRI 204-1 duct and the Standards of Conduct of the Active & Passive Safety • Conflicts of interest Proportion of spending on local suppliers Technology Division. The new ZF Code of Conduct was introduced to all employees via email by Mr. Scheider and Mr. Holeksa, members 77 percent (2017: 83%) of our global purchases for nonproduction of the Board of Management. materials (excluding investments) in the reporting year are to be made locally. The local procurement of production materials is ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ANTI-CORRUPTION 28 ZF Compliance Management System • The preventive elements of the ZF CMS are complemented by a GRI 205-1 case management system. This is connected for example to the ZF Operations assessed for risks related to corruption The ZF Compliance Management System (CMS) has created the Trustline, an electronic notification system that employees and third framework for meeting the respective legal requirements worldwide. parties can use to anonymously report suspected serious miscon‑ With regard to corruption-related categories, all operations are The objective of the CMS is to ensure compliance with internal and duct. Such cases might include violations of competition and anti‑ regularly assessed over a period of about three years. To achieve external regulations. The CMS focuses on preventing and investigat‑ trust law, or cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. more precise results, the risk analysis process follows the divergent ing violations in the areas of business models and is performed at business unit level. Three busi‑ • ZF developed an internal risk analysis process for compliance ness units were assessed for risks related to corruption in 2018. • Corruption, risks. The objective of this analysis is to identify and assess, on the • Antitrust law (in coordination with the ZF legal group), basis of the risk profile of ZF, compliance-relevant risks at an early GRI 205-2 • Code of Conduct stage and to counteract them. Communication and training about anti-corruption • Fraud and policies and procedures • Reputational damage. ZF CO MPLIA N CE O R GA N IZATIO N News and the sharing of information on compliance issues raise A primary goal of the CMS is to meet the following requirements: awareness among employees and communicate values and expecta‑ Prevent Detect & respond independence and effectiveness of the Compliance Organization, tions on employee conduct. Risk analysis Notification integration of compliance into business processes, transparent deci‑ sion-making processes and corresponding HR processes (sanc‑ Regulations Investigation A range of communication measures ensure that compliance is tions). The pillars of the CMS are: prevent, detect and respond. The firmly anchored within ZF’s culture. All employees, including the Communication Monitoring Compliance Organization is set up in line with the organizational Board of Management, have constant access to compliance topics Training Remediation & sanctioning structure of the ZF Group. through our corporate intranet “Zoom”, the compliance intranet/blog ComplianceHelpdesk and other channels. As a main communication channel, the intranet In joint ventures where ZF is the majority shareholder, the ZF also provides access to necessary compliance contacts and essential Business partner due diligence board representatives must ensure that either the ZF compliance documents. To ensure that compliance news reaches the manage‑ management or a comparable compliance management system is in ment teams of the individual ZF locations, compliance officers and place. compliance delegates periodically update the management team Business partners can pose a compliance risk if their actions or regarding compliance issues, so that management staff will pass failure to act can be attributed to ZF. All business functions of our this information on to their employees. Compliance tools company therefore must take appropriate measures – preferably before business relations with a partner are initiated – to ensure In the reporting year, the revised Code of Conduct was communi‑ • The ComplianceHelpdesk is a preventive tool for systematically that business partners are adequately assessed and instructed. A cated to employees by internal publication via the Corporate News, clarifying and documenting general compliance questions. ZF business partner due diligence process was established in 2015. the company intranet and other internal postings. The Code is made employees can contact the ComplianceHelpdesk whenever they are For more details on ZF’s risk management approach see Annual available to all new hires, who sign an Employee Compliance Certifi‑ faced with a compliance-related question in their day-to-day busi‑ Report 2018, p. 28. cation Form acknowledging receipt of the Code of Conduct and ness activities. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ANTI-CORRUPTION 29 accepting their responsibilities as outlined by the Code. They are also advised on how to ask questions about the Code and how to report any possible violations. Training opportunities The roll-out of the Code was supplemented by an online course on the topics covered. While it was made available to all employees, for approximately 17,000 management employees and the Board of Management this course was mandatory. The course was deployed in English, German, Latin American Spanish, Simplified Chinese and Brazilian Portuguese. Additional compliance topics will be deployed in this same man‑ ner for 2019, including Anti-corruption/Anti-bribery. The objective of these online courses is to firmly anchor compliance in employees’ consciousness and prevent wrong-doing. The courses convey knowl‑ edge and promote ability to act in critical situations. Target groups can be addressed in accordance with the necessities of a topic. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL MATERIALS 30 ENVIRONMENT GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) The EHS integration team also revised the EHS management Management reviews are conducted twice a year, in which the Management Approach 2016 system at large. It is currently being rolled out within the Group and Board of Management assesses the target achievement of the sites. (applicable to all environmental topics) will be implemented after a three-year period. Therefore, a new The Board also assesses whether the environmental management Group directive was issued in June 2018 to act as a bridging document system is qualified to fulfill current legal customer and management We are meeting our responsibility toward people and the environ‑ between policy and the new EHS Management System in order to requirements. ment by implementing a range of different environmental protection strengthen EHS processes throughout the company. measures. This responsibility is anchored in ZF’s values and protects Following the “design for environment” principle, our Group against entrepreneurial risks – in the areas of compliance, customer The global ZF environmental organization covers all areas of the Directive for Global Development & Product Evolution Process relations and reputation – while improving operating efficiency and company, from each individual division to different regions, right (GD PEP) puts particular focus on environmentally friendly product benefiting the environment. down to the locations. The corporate environmental protection design. Relevant aspects must be proven by means of a checklist officer is responsible at the Group level and senior environmental at various steps in the development process, taking into account Conserving natural resources is the fundamental principle of our protection officers are appointed at the divisional level. On plant level, environmentally friendly manufacturing and manufacturability, wear, environmental strategy. A corresponding policy therefore includes the EHS officers work on a daily basis towards securing environmental serviceability and repairability, recyclability and environmentally essential areas of activity such as climate protection, the environ‑ protection. The regional managers provide support for ensuring sound materials. mental impact of production, eco-friendly product design and envi‑ compliance in their respective regions, the implementation of ZF ronmental performance improvement. It is binding for all locations. standards and monitoring of the environmental management system. In the course of integrating the Active & Passive Safety Technology Systematic environmental management according to ISO 14001 GRI 301 MATERIALS 2016 Division, the work of the integration team for Environment, Health is the standard for all production and main development locations. GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) and Safety (EHS) led to an update of the environmental policy and In the year under review, the changeover to audits using the Management Approach 2016 targets. Our ZF Sustainability Program provides an overview of our ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Standard was environmental protection targets and actions, which is part of this success­fully completed. In the ZF Group, a total of 246 certifiAs raw materials become increasingly scarce and more expensive, report. Due to changes in the financial accounting system and orga‑ cates were issued up to 2018. These external expert audits confirm their efficient use is crucial. Likewise, materials must conform to our nizational changes in the divisional set-up, data for the year 2017 that the participating locations conform to current environmental, high expectations regarding quality and safety as well as environ‑ were recalculated to function as the basis for ZF’s new target period occupational health and safety legislation as well as certification mental and social standards. Regarding the Control of Prohibited & 2018 – 2020. standards. Regulated Substances our technical standard ZF 9003 applies in ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL MATERIALS 31 addition to worldwide laws and regulations. See GRI 204 for more Cradle to cradle GRI 301-1 details on procurement procedures and the general environmental Materials used by weight or volume management approach for details on the “design for environment” Over the years, we have gained valuable insights into closing principle. the loop. Like nature, the cradle-to-cradle concept knows no waste, The commodities steel and aluminum have the largest consump‑ no renunciation and no restrictions. Biological and technical nutri‑ tion share in the purchasing portfolio. The ZF Group purchases At ZF, product-related environmental protection begins with ent cycles provide the right materials at the right time and in the approximately 285,000 tons of aluminum and 1,960,000 tons of material selection. From the very start, during the product develop‑ right place. steel (including iron cast) annually. ment phase, we consider the total life cycle of a product, including factors such as product materials, utilization phase as well as dis‑ Ultimately, the result is always better quality. The “from the cradle ZF purchases not only raw materials but also a large number of posability and recyclability, and design our products accordingly. to the cradle” (C2C) production method directly contrasts with the assembled parts and products that already consist of a mixture By reducing material variety, ensuring materials are easily separated “from the cradle to the grave” model, in which material flows often of different materials. Therefore, figures on specific materials are not and using consistent materials, we continually increase the recy‑ ignore resource conservation. From this point of view, the Cradle to readily available. A standard ZF product, the 8HP70 8-speed auto‑ clability of our products. We systematically substitute materials Cradle Products Innovation Institute assesses products and processes matic transmission, comprises approximately 58 percent steel and containing hazardous substances. All these principles are embedded in the following categories: material health, material reutilization, 25 percent aluminum. The rest contains lubricating oil (7%), silicon in guidelines during the development phase. renewable energy and carbon management, water stewardship, and (3%), rubber and plastics (2.2%) and copper (1.5%) as well as other social fairness. metals, alloys and solvents in extremely small quantities. The ZF Materials Warehouse provides information on almost all existing materials, and, in the future, will also classify them into After certification of the MFZ 430 clutch cover and 8HP torque GRI 301-2 approved and preferred materials. It will then only be possible to use converter for automatic transmissions the ZF plant in Bielefeld Recycled input materials used a non-approved material after submitting a release application to the (Germany) achieved gold-level certification for remanufacturing Materials Department, which will review the material and check its clutch disks in 2018. This is the second highest certification level ZF frequently uses recycled materials in its production processes. conformity with set requirements. This procedure optimizes costs, and indicates in terms of a recycling economy that 95 percent of the Steel and aluminum constitute the highest weight share of ZF prod‑ simplifies material selection and guarantees that only materials are materials are reused. The Bielefeld plant team is now stepping up ucts. This includes steel from scrap steel and aluminum from scrap used which comply with technical standards and country-specific its ambition with preparations for certification of the clutch control aluminum. For standard steel, the minimum global recycling rate is laws banning certain materials. Materials in the ZF Materials Ware‑ system ConAct. This ZF product is an entirely new challenge 70 percent. house will be regularly screened for hazardous substances. This because, for the first time, electronic components are included that means materials containing hazardous substances can be substituted contain many different materials subject to the test procedure. For Recycled oils, for example hydraulic oil, are also used in produc‑ at the earliest possible stage of the material selection process, its constant commitment to environmental protection, ZF’s team was tion. Furthermore, ZF channels a high percentage of waste back into reducing the environmental impact of ZF products even before they honored with the Environment and Climate Protection Award from the material cycle via external recycling procedures, especially scrap are manufactured. the city of Bielefeld in 2018. metal and metal chips, waste oil, paper and cardboard, wood and ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL MATERIALS | ENERGY 32 demolition waste. As a result of their material composition, ZF prod‑ ucts make a disproportionately high contribution to meeting the GRI 302 ENERGY 2016 Detailed energy programs help the locations to achieve their targets. The core elements are behavioral changes, energy supply recycling quotas as stipulated in the EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive. GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) management, energy data management, and organizational and Management Approach 2016 technical energy efficiency programs. GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Managing energy is a top priority for an industrial company such Actions to increase efficiency and reduce energy consumption as ZF and a core element within the ZF EHS management system. are planned and implemented at all locations depending on the local To comply with respective legislation, ZF is required to take back By this means, all locations regularly evaluate their energy profiles consumption footprint and target achievement. These measures, in packaging. In Germany, ZF fulfills this requirement by, for example, and energetic topics. This involves conducting audits, identifying conjunction with the energy management system, considerably participating in external collection systems that involve taking back potential for improvement and defining actions and measures for improve energy efficiency worldwide. and recycling packaging through a dual system, or through sector improving energy efficiency and consumption reduction. In addition solutions (for automobile repair workshops or for information tech‑ to ZF EHS management, all German and European locations are GRI 302-1 nology, communications technology and consumer electronics). audited externally on a regular basis. Energy consumption within the organization Through this approach, we have more than exceeded statutory recy‑ cling quotas. Detailed data of the total amount of packaging material As an integral part of the energy management system, locations E NE RGY COM SUM PTI ON 2016–2018 used within the ZF Group were not available for this report, since define specific targets locally on an annual basis to increase energy in percent respective reporting follows a different cycle. efficiency and take appropriate action. Our revised target regarding energy is to reduce energy consumption by 10 percent relative to 2018 Concerning products, ZF has been committed for decades to sales by 2020 based on the ZF Group performance of 2017. Achieve20 1 7 2 01 5 remanufacturing procedures and has therefore established a global ment of our targets is monitored and controlled through key perfor‑ reclaiming system. Various parts like torque converters, ConAct and mance indicators within the environmental and energy management 65 Electricity dual-mass flywheels are being remanufactured for industrial use. system in conformity with ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. 29 Natural Gas More than 90 percent of production energy is saved in the remanu‑ 6 Other facturing of transmissions and other parts. Also, ZF was able to save The ISO 50001 Corporate Energy Management scheme covered over 10,000 tons of materials by remanufacturing more than 25,000 61 locations in 2018 (2017: 47); eight locations gained single-site gearboxes for trucks, buses, passenger cars and off-road vehicles, certification according to ISO 50001. Further european locations have and our site in Bielefeld (Germany) remanufactured over 340,000 conducted external audits to fulfill the European Energy Efficiency clutch pressure plates and discs and saves an additional 10,000 tons Directive (EED) following country specific options like EN 16247, of material each year. Moreover, the locations in Frydlant and ESOS (UK) or similar. Wrexham remanufactured almost 745,000 brake calipers from passenger cars. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENERGY 33 Energy is mainly used for production processes, especially heat A BS O LU TE EN ER GY CO N S U MPTIO N 2016 – 2018 GRI 302-3 treatment, surface treatment and compressed air. Another significant in gigawatt-hours Energy intensity field of energy use is associated with building and infrastructure management, for example heating, lighting, air conditioning and 4,800 As in previous years, ZF reduced its energy intensity. ZF brought ventilation. Due to the huge variety of production processes used down energy consumption per € million in sales by 3.7 percent in 4,107 4,156 4,072 4,121 within the ZF Group, the share of energy use differs greatly between 4,000 2018. This improvement in energy performance was reached by locations. increasing production volume and implementing a vast variety of energy efficiency measures. 3,200 Approximately 65 percent of the energy consumed at ZF comes from purchased electricity. Energy procurement and consumption SPE C I FI C E NE RGY CONSUM PTI ON 2016 – 2018 2,400 is therefore a major topic, especially at the ZF production locations. in megawatt-hours per € million in sales While the major share of energy consumption comes from electricity, 1,600 natural gas accounts for 29 percent. It is mainly used for heating 120 and production processes and partially in on-site combined heat and 800 104 100 power (CHP) plants. The remaining 6 percent comprise energy from 100 oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene and biogas. While the 85.4 share of renewable energy supply is still low it increased to 8.3 per‑ 82.2 80 cent of purchased energy in 2018. Approximately 12 percent of the 2016 2017 2017¹ 2018 electricity consumption involves CO2-reduced emission factors due Natural gas Electricity Other2 60 to special purchasing contracts or on-site production. 1 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management approach, page 30. 40 EN E R GY CONS U MP T I O N 2016 – 2018 2 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene 20 in percent of absolute energy consumption 2018 2017 2016 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Renewables 8.3 2 – 2016 2017 2017¹ 2018 The vast majority of energy consumption outside of the organiNatural gas Electricity Other2 zation comes from the use of our products. See GRI 302-5 for 1 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management Compared to the previous year the absolute energy consumption more information. approach, page 30. increased by 1.2 percent. Energy efficiency programs and measures 2 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene could not compensate for the increase in energy consumption due to expanded production. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENERGY | WATER 34 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption are intended to make a strong contribution to reducing emissions and accidents to zero. Accordingly, the Group has set a clear tech‑ GRI 303 WATER 2016 nology focus with its guiding principle “See – Think – Act”. The GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Special programs and actions at site level have brought about a company’s product and technology planning follows market and Management Approach 2016 constant improvement in energy efficiency. In 2018, ZF implemented product roadmaps, which are constantly updated. more than 165 projects to reduce energy consumption and increase Water is used at ZF locations for production, e.g. for surface treat‑ energy efficiency. These were mainly in the areas of plant engi‑ To achieve current and future climate goals and to eliminate par‑ ment processes, washing, rinsing and cleaning, as a coolant, or for neering, process optimization and building technology. ticulates, CO2 and noise in cities, public transport systems have to non-production purposes such as sanitary water, drinking water, in be rethought. ZF’s AxTrax AVE electric portal axle makes it easier for the canteen or during construction projects. Within the huge variety of measures taken, 165 projects were bus manufacturers and public transport authorities to switch over to reported to save approximately 42 GWh in 2018. This is enough quiet, zero local emission drives. This driven axle can be operated all At locations in water-scarce areas, water consumption in produc‑ energy to supply more than 10,500 households with 4,000 kWh/a electric not only by battery or overhead lines, but also in hybrid or tion is a major issue as the use of freshwater could become increas‑ on average. fuel cell configurations. The AxTrax AVE electric portal axle was ingly restricted in the future. However, the ZF water management honored with the 2019 EBUS Award in the category “Drives for Bat‑ objective goes beyond reducing consumption in risk areas: We want ZF also fosters behavior that reduces energy consumption by tery Buses”, as it stands out due to its powerful, compact design to constantly reduce specific water consumption throughout the empowering employees to identify and label equipment and lights and its flexible energy source configuration options. The award is Group. The target is therefore part of our revised environmental that can be safely turned off when not needed. sponsored by the Forum für Verkehr und Logistik e.V., an association objectives for 2018 – 2020. All sources of water will be considered. that promotes electromobility of buses in public transport. Location-specific projects focus on the reuse of water as well as on In the reporting year, our Częstochowa location achieved all conserving water in water-scarce areas. Progress is monitored and objectives of its project “The Way to Achieve Green Plants”, taking ZF’s new eAMT (electrified Automated Manual Transmission) managed in line with our environmental management system at the part in the ZF Excellence Award 2017: Greenhouse gases were technology is an innovative concept for the hybridization of frontindividual locations and at Group level. reduced by 20 percent through measures in heating and heat recov‑ transverse vehicles that integrates the company’s electric axle drive ery; energy efficiency increased by 20 percent due to the use of LED system (eVD) and an automated manual transmission (AMT) into GRI 303-1 lighting, air conditioning optimization and the use of a central cool‑ one system. In addition to the hybrid functions of electric drive and Water withdrawal ing system; and the share of renewable energy increased by 20 per‑ recuperation and boost, eAMT also features electric all-wheel drive. cent because of the use of photovoltaic modules. ZF software regulates the networking and coordination of the inter‑ The water supply at ZF locations is adapted to local circumstances nal combustion engine, electric motor and automated transmission. and mainly comes from the municipal water supply. At some loca‑ GRI 302-5 tions water from rivers or groundwater is used for cooling processes Reductions in energy requirements of products and As a worldwide leader in marine propulsion systems, supplying without any chemical change. Over the last year, the absolute con‑ services systems and components for all types of ships, ZF Marine offers a sumption increased by 5 percent. range of “hybrid-ready” transmissions to address the market needs. As a technology and cost leader, ZF aims to meet the demands Our systems can be integrated into all types of fast craft, from coast Besides various projects for reducing overall consumption, ZF of the mobility megatrends of tomorrow, such as efficiency, integrated guard vessels to fast offshore supply vessels. The resulting environ‑ makes use of available water treatment and reuse technologies to safety and automated driving. Following our Vision Zero, ZF products mental protection extends to fuel savings, lower CO2 emissions and reduce freshwater consumption – as for example the sewage treat‑ noise reduction. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL WATER 35 ment plant in Guadalajara (Mexico), which provides final disinfecting S PECIFIC WATER CO N S U MPTIO N 2016 – 2018 GRI 303-3 with ozone to ensure that the reprocessed water complies with local in cubic meters per € million sales Water recycled and reused quality standards. In future, it will also serve to wash and rinse the chromated parts. 360 ZF makes full use of all technical methods for saving water in pro‑ 332.5 336.6 duction processes, for example cascade rinsing systems for cleaning AB S OLU T E WAT ER CO N S U M P T I O N 2016 – 2018 300 processes or process water recycling. The significantly increased in million cubic meters amount of water recycled or reused (absolute and specific) bears out 228.5 the positive impact of our efforts. We will initiate further projects in 240 227.6 14 2019. 180 12 ABSOLUTE WATER RECYCLED/REUSED 2016 – 2018 11.452 10.896 in cubic meters 120 10 8.940 120,000 8.550 60 8 100,000 90,349 6 2016¹ 2017¹ 2017² 2018 80,000 75,721 Ground and surface water Municipal water Rainwater 64,907 2 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. 60,000 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management 49,038 approach, page 30. 40,000 2016¹ 2017¹ 2017² 2018 Ground and surface water Municipal water Rainwater GRI 303-2 20,000 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management approach, page 30. of water 2016¹ 2017¹ 2017² 2018 Currently no figures are available for affected water sources. Some 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. of our production locations, e.g. in Brazil and Mexico, are in so-called 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management approach, page 30. “water-stressed areas”. Permits for water withdrawal for production are occasionally restricted in these areas. If water scarcity persists, the situation could worsen or spread to other regions. Resource scarcity results in the need for increased investment or expenses to cover the technical modernization of production equipment. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL WATER | EMISSIONS 36 SP E C IF IC WAT E R R E CYCL E D/R E U S E D 2016 – 2018 in cubic meters per EUR million in sales GRI 305 EMISSIONS 2016 For us, this is the best way to ensure that transportation is organized efficiently and that environmental factors are systematically taken GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) into account. As part of our freight management, we are making a 3.0 Management Approach 2016 concerted effort to pool transport and increase the full truck load (FTL) quota to avoid unnecessary transport. 2.5 2.4 Our environmental and energy management system manages the reduction of emissions resulting from energy consumption at A new tender is currently being issued for local freight transport production facilities. Regarding production, the target is to reduce at the Friedrichshafen site. The shift to alternative means of trans‑ 2.0 1.9 1.81 C02 emissions by 10 percent relative to sales by 2020, based on port aims at the use of low-emission transport and alternative drive 1.59 2017 including direct and indirect emissions caused by ZF opera‑ technologies as well as the selection of suitable vehicles for the 1.5 tions. Emission profiles of purchased energies are part of the evalua‑ respective applications (e.g. GAS trucks, and later also hybrid vehi‑ tion in the procurement process. cles and e-vehicles). 1.0 Nevertheless, the majority of emissions in our value chain are In addition, the use of sustainable logistics service providers is to 0.5 generated during the utilization phase of our products. This is why, be reinforced. To this end, a concept takes into account the emis‑ as part of our emission reduction efforts, we are focusing on develop‑ sion evaluation in the award process to external companies as well ing products that contribute to cutting vehicle emissions. Therefore, as the evaluation of sustainability aspects of service providers used. 20161 20171 20172 2018 the revised environmental objectives from 2018 to 2020 support our 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. Vision Zero: aiming for C02 reduction in the development of new GRI 305-1 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management products through carbon footprint and lifecycle assessments. For Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions approach, page 30. more information see GRI 302-5. Direct emissions include emissions from energy consumed at the Our location at Chennai, India, took part in the ZF Excellence In 2016 and 2017, the emissions calculation was based on the sites, including natural gas, and fuels such as diesel, gasoline, biogas, Award 2018 with its “Preservation of Underground Water” project. VDA emission factors from 2015; for the 2018 calculation we used acetylene, liquid gas and others. The aim was to conserve groundwater reserves by reusing water the revised VDA emission factors from 2017. In 2016, ZF joined the while reducing costs at the same time. Through reverse osmosis CDP reporting scheme in 2016. Absolute CO2 emissions fell by about 2.6 percent, although the daily water consumption dropped from 37 cubic meters to energy consumption rose slightly due to increased production 20 cubic meters and energy savings of 30 percent were achieved. Regarding procurement-related emissions, ZF’s strategy is to (+1.19%). Direct emissions (Scope 1) remained almost constant buy where the supplied materials or components are needed. It (2017 adjusted: 264,461 MWh; 2018: 264,761 MWh). The reduc‑ therefore follows the “local for local” principle, which helps to avoid tion was mainly achieved by purchasing more electricity from renew‑ the impacts of transportation. As a consequence, ZF decided to be able sources, especially in Spain and Brazil but also at locations in responsible for all transport carried out from suppliers to ZF plants. Germany or Austria. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL EMISSIONS 37 AB S OLU T E CO2 E M I S S I O N S 1 2016 – 2018 GRI 305-4 SPE C I FI C CO2 E M I SSI ONS1 2016 – 2018 GHG emissions intensity in thousand tons 2018 20172 2017 2016 in tons per € million sale 2018 20172 2017 2016 The GHG emissions intensity results directly from the energy Scope 1 265 264 253 – Scope 1 5.3 5.5 6 – intensity and the footprint of each country where energy is pur‑ Scope 2 – market-based 1,290 1,332 1,393 – chased and used. In addition, the production footprint is strongly Scope 2 – market-based 25.8 27.9 33.7 – influenced by customer needs as well as national production and Total 1,555 1,596 1,646 1,570 Total 31.0 33.5 39.8 40 purchasing requirements. 1 Scope 1 + 2 emissions have only been reported since 2017 due to changing calculation 1 Scope 1 + 2 emissions have only been reported since 2017 due to changing calculation methods in recent years. methods in recent years. 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management Since 2018, our absorption chiller at Plant 2 in Friedrichshafen 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management approach, page 30 has been in full operation. The resulting CO2 savings amount to approach, page 30. approximately 500 t/a through the replacement in the electricity pro‑ GRI 305-2 curement by natural gas and avoidance of electricity procurement GRI 305-5 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions for conventional refrigeration. Reduction of GHG emissions Indirect emissions include emissions from purchased electricity Although energy consumption rose slightly due to increased ZF’s strategy focuses on continuously reducing GHG emissions. and all kinds of district heat. The Scope 2 value “market based” was production (+1.19%), direct emissions (scope 1) remained almost The improvements result from numerous initiatives and projects to calculated using VDA emission factors for sites that use “standard constant (2017 adjusted: 264,461 MWh; 2018: 264,761 MWh). increase efficiency and raise awareness at a local level. All projects electricity” and specific emission factors for sites that have a “green for reducing energy consumption or increasing energy efficiency also electricity” contract. Overall, and for the first time, CO2 emissions were reduced by led to a reduction in emissions. 2.6 percent despite increasing energy consumption, mainly in the The increase in absolute energy consumption due to expanded area of indirect emissions (Scope 2). These fell by around 3.1 per‑ Over 165 energy efficiency projects were implemented at ZF production led not to a rise in absolute Scope 2 fossil CO2 emissions cent (2017 adjusted: 1,331 thousand tons; 2018: 1,290 thousand locations around the world. These were mainly in the areas of plant in 2018. tons). engineering, process optimization and building technology. The installation of a photovoltaic field in Bouthéon with 10,300 photovol‑ GRI 305-3 The reduction was mainly achieved by purchasing more electricity taic panels will finally lead to an overall production of 3,000 MWh. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions from renewable sources. The location Bielefeld (Germany) has been purchasing 100 percent Our approach for Scope 3 emissions focuses on the supplies of its electricity from renewables since 2018. A total of 19 locations and suppliers with highest CO2 emission levels in the life-cycle (in Spain, Austria, Brazil, Belgium and Germany) purchased elec­ perspective. Scope 3 emissions are not yet part of this report, as tricity from renewables or with reduced CO2 emissions, leading to a only partially available data would not adequately represent ZF. total reduction of approximately 90,000 tons of CO2. See GRI 302-5 for more information on emissions from products and services. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL EMISSIONS | EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 38 Because these measures and growing purchase of renewable energy, ZF was able to avoid an increase in absolute emissions in Another approach to improving environmental performance is to change air filters from active carbon adsorption to thermal oxidation. GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND 2018. For details on projects see GRI 302-4. This way, solvents can be oxidized effectively and solid particles extracted. Further potential ways to reduce VOCs in paint processes WASTE 2016 GRI 305-6 are being evaluated in certain products from the off-highway seg‑ GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ment, bearing in mind the specific high corrosion resistance and Management Approach 2016 resistance to mechanical stress requirements. ZF locations worldwide manage their ODS emissions at local level Wastewater at ZF is usually discharged into the public sewer in line with our environmental management system and according to ABSOLUTE VOC, NO X AND SO X EMISSIONS 2016 – 2018 system and treated at local wastewater treatment plants connected to local legal requirements. At ZF locations, ODSs are relevant to air the system. However, our environmental management system aims conditioning processes and equipment. Therefore, locations engage in tons 20181 20172 2017 2016 at continually reducing the volume of wastewater and waste. Direct qualified contractors for the maintenance and service of coolant drainage into surface water only occurs at a few locations lacking VOC 1,123 1,014³ 1,014 886 equipment to ensure appropriate handling. public infrastructure. In these cases, water is drained only if approved SOX 2,984 4,068¹ 4,350 4,226 by the authorities and is treated in conformity with state-of-the-art The most relevant ODSs in operation processes are volatile NOX 2,224 2,675¹ 2,821 2,755 technology. Threshold values are strictly monitored here. ZF is com‑ organic compounds (VOC), mainly used in surface treatment pro‑ mitted to installing water-saving equipment that exceeds these stat‑ cesses. For detailed absolute and specific emissions of solvents 1 Data for 2018 now include the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management utory requirements. The amount of waste for disposal relative to sales (VOCs) see GRI 305-7. approach, page 30. of the current year is to be lower than for the previous year. 3 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. GRI 305-7 ZF is constantly working toward decreasing the volume of waste Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other SPECIFIC VOC, NO X AND SO X EMISSIONS 2016 – 2018 sent for disposal and hazardous waste by altering processes, optimiz‑ significant air emissions ing procedures and substituting hazardous substances in operations. in kilograms In addition, our revised environmental objectives are aiming at mini‑ A major percentage of ZF’s VOC emissions originate from large per € million in sales 20181 20172 2017 2016 mizing hazardous substances in products by substitution. Another painting and degreasing facilities. Wherever possible, we are con‑ focus lies on minimizing landfilling of hazardous waste. VOC 22 21³ 25 34 tinuing the transition to water-based paints and aqueous degreasing procedures so as to reduce VOC emissions from these processes. SOX 60 85¹ 105 107 The relevant processes at ZF with a potential risk for the release Wherever water-based paints cannot be used for reasons of product of hazardous substances are essentially surface treatment, carbide NOX 44 56¹ 68 70 quality, the captured exhaust flows from these facilities are techni‑ treatment, magnesium machining and hardening. Preventive technical cally treated to minimize VOC emissions. 1 Data for 2018 now include the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. 2 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management measures in place at the locations ensure that hazardous substances approach, page 30. cannot spill into the ground and endanger the groundwater, even in 3 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. the event of a potential release resulting from a breakdown. A Groupwide reporting obligation has been introduced to cover the eventuality of a release. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 39 GRI 306-1 S PECIFIC WA S TE WATER 2016 – 2018 AB SOLUTE WASTE 2016 – 2018 Water discharge by quality and destination in cubic meters in tons 2018 20171 2017 2016 The total and specific volumes of wastewater at ZF locations per € million in sales 2018 20171 20172 20162 Recycled 515,176 508,053 534,807 507,062 increased based on the use of raw water. The use of water from Sanitary wastewater 45 31 55 60 non-hazardous municipal supply decreased. The increase of raw water use was due to the hot summer in 2018 (e.g. the higher temperature of water Treated process wastewater 25 30 31 34 Recycled hazardous 38,208 34,856 43,254 41,180 from the Main river, which led to higher water requirements for cool‑ Untreated process 134 128 229 219 Total recycled 553,384 543,190 578,061 548,243 ing processes). wastewater Disposal 28,710 35,436 33,654 34,075 Total 204 189 316 314 non-hazardous Using water treatment technologies, ZF reduces not only freshwater consumption, but also effluents. The production process then 1 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management Disposal hazardous 37,250 35,772 40,373 36,895 uses the recycled water for washing, rinsing and cleaning operations approach, page 30. 2 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division Total disposal 65,960 71,208 74,027 70,970 and for the application of cooling lubricants. Total 619,344 614,398 652,088 619,213 AB S OLU T E WAS T E WAT E R 2016 – 2018 GRI 306-2 1 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management Waste by type and disposal method approach, page 30. in million cubic meters 2018 20171 20172 2016² While the total amount of waste rose by 0.8 percent due to an SPE C I FI C WASTE 2016 – 2018 increase in production, the specific amount of waste decreased by Sanitary wastewater 2.266³ 1.483 1.472 1.551 4 percent in 2018 compared to the previous year. in tons Treated process 1.252 1.411 0.831 0.870 per € million in sales 2018 20171 2017 2016 wastewater We initiated several projects worldwide to avoid waste or recycle Recycled non-hazardous 10.28 10.65 12.93 12.83 waste better in the future. For example, our location in Sorocaba, Untreated process 6.722 6.104 6.085 5.638 Brazil, increased its recycling volumes to reduce the amount of Recycled hazardous 0.76 0.73 1.05 1.04 wastewater waste that would otherwise have landed on landfills by 310 tons a Total recycled 11.05 11.39 13.97 13.88 Total 10.241 8.999 8.389 8.059 year. Necessary transportation by disposal truck was also reduced Disposal non-hazardous 0.57 0.74 0.81 0.86 1 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management from 170 to 45 entrances and exits per month by compressing the approach, page 30. collected recyclables and thereby reducing their volume. Disposal hazardous 0.74 0.75 0.98 0.93 2 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division 3 Due to new environmental reporting requirements for the Active & Passive Safety Total disposal 1.32 1.49 1.79 1.80 Technology Division, the combined KPIs for raw water at some locations of ZF in 2017 were not yet consistant. Total 12.36 12.88 15.76 15.68 1 Data for the year 2017 were recalculated for reasons mentioned in the management approach, page 30. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 40 GRI 306-3 GRI 307-1 Participation provides suppliers with an in-depth insight into ZF Significant spills Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations requirements, standards, guidelines and procedures so that they can subsequently apply them effectively at their companies. Since the In 2018, no significant spills with impact on the environment were ZF was involved in over 55 remediation projects, whose causes end of 2017, suppliers of the Active & Passive Safety Technology reported. date back at least a decade. The processing of these projects is Division have been able to participate in seminars as a result of the carried out jointly with the relevant local authorities. The costs for integration process. GRI 306-4 these projects amounted to €8 million in 2018. Transport of hazardous waste GRI 308-1 Furthermore, no major violations were reported in 2018. New suppliers that were screened using ZF does not export hazardous waste from one country to another. environmental criteria Our waste management is organized locally. GRI 306-5 GRI 308 SUPPLIER During the course of the reporting year, 100 percent of new ZF suppliers underwent self-assessment according to sustainability Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff ENVIRONMENTAL criteria defined by ZF. No indications of infringements of our princi‑ No bodies of water were significantly affected by wastewater ASSESSMENT 2016 ples of environmental protection, human rights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor or freedom of association were identified. drainage. We will continue to apply this procedure consistently in the future. GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Management Approach 2016 GRI 308-2 GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL When selecting suppliers, ZF carefully reviews their environmental Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken COMPLIANCE 2016 management. Furthermore, product-related environmental protection elements are addressed in the Supplier Quality Directive (QD 83). In China, the government took more strict measures in 2018 GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) The directive also aims at sub-suppliers and includes aspects as towards violation of environmental laws and regulations. ZF Management Approach 2016 REACH, logistics and packaging specification. See GRI 204 for informed its supply base to comply with EHS regulations and more details on the management approach for procurement, sup‑ organized appropriate training and self-assessment for selected We continue to operate responsibly as a business and a manufac‑ plier standards and assessment. suppliers. For suppliers with potential environmental risks, the Pur‑ turer of ZF products by constantly striving to comply globally with chasing and Supplier Management team is taking preventive action. legal requirements and internal standards. EHS requirements were implemented in the approval process for Capacity building new suppliers in China. In the context of environmental management, compliance is a core issue. Due to various local requirements, legal developments We set up the ZF Supplier Academy to create a strategic coopera‑ are pursued and evaluated and – if necessary – measures imple‑ tion and qualification platform in order to promote and support mented at all locations and levels of the ZF Group. Processes and cooperation with our production material suppliers. ZF suppliers events that are relevant to compliance must be reported. have the opportunity to take part in seminars held in their regions. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT 41 SOCIAL GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Management Approach 2016 • Innovation Approach: We develop pioneering products and tech‑ nologies that help us achieve our strategic goals – and are finan‑ GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT (applicable to all social topics) cially rewarding. Our employees and business units alike all strive to 2016 develop innovative and creative solutions. We think like entrepre‑ As part of the changing market environment, ZF is responding neurs. This also means we take risks and learn from our successes GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) to megatrends, strong growth in the Asia-Pacific region and North and failures. Management Approach 2016 America, technological and demographic change, and worldwide population growth. At the same time, highly qualified personnel are • Customer Focus: We win over our customers with our quality Responsible, supportive and fair – that’s the kind of employer key to the company’s long-term success. Therefore, attracting and and our passion, offering them clear added value. This applies to ZF aims to be. We want to create a corporate culture that strengthens systematically further developing personnel is one of ZF’s major internal and external customers alike. At the same time, we always collaboration and trust. And we are convinced that this approach challenges. This is why ZF is positioning itself as a globally attractive aim to be profitable – and act accordingly, in every part of our orga‑ also leads to better financial results. We provide support and make employer. nization. offers, but at the same time ask for our employees’ dedication and commitment. We want to create a work environment that rewards • Commitment to People: We support and encourage our employ‑ high performance. Fairness, as we see it, provides benefits for Preparing for future challenges ees in the fulfillment of their duties and responsibilities. In return, we employees and employer alike. expect commitment and performance. We provide constructive Our Management System (ZF MS) was created to provide both feedback and foster a culture of trust. ZF is looking for qualified experts in all markets. Once hired, they theoretical guidance and practical instruction for effective cooperation. enjoy attractive working conditions and qualification opportunities It aims at shaping our way of working in terms of speed, simplicity • Result Orientation: We set ourselves challenging goals and mea‑ at all our company locations worldwide. The varied cultural back‑ and target focus. sure what we achieve. We deliver as promised, and value agility. By grounds of our employees, their competencies and their diligence finding the right balance between quality and speed, we ensure that and motivation shape our corporate culture and are the key to our As core elements of the ZF MS, the four equally important princi‑ we succeed in what we set out to do. success. ples “Innovation Approach,” “Customer Focus,” Commitment to People” and “Result Orientation” form the ZF Charter. These prin‑ In order to develop and produce intelligent mechanical products, ciples provide direction and guidance to ZF employees regarding ZF still requires employees from traditional occupations. Due to expected behavior and mindset. They also define what is important changing mobility habits, however, employees and graduates in the to us, how we do business and what makes us special: software and IT fields are becoming increasingly relevant to the ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT | L ABOR /MANAGEMENT REL ATIONS 42 automotive industry. This is why the HR Department is stepping up its global activities in attracting such graduates or people who have GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are GRI 402 LABOR/ completed vocational training in the respective fields. For further not provided to temporary or part-time employees MANAGEMENT employer branding, the campaign “What’s next?”, which was rolled out in 2017, was extended in 2018 with testimonials in India and ZF employees with part-time, full-time, permanent or temporary RELATIONS 2016 Eastern Europe. The intention was to strengthen our global visibility employment contracts are provided access to the same benefit pro‑ as an attractive employer. Good results have been achieved since grams. Health and insurance benefits play a central role in ZF’s GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) the roll-out, e.g. for China and Germany, by individual benchmarks offering to employees. Of course, benefits vary according to local Management Approach 2016 and employer rankings. standards, regulations and market practice. Benefit programs for contractors and agency temps are treated according to the type of The common interest of employees, employee representatives and GRI 401-1 contractual engagement with ZF and according to local regulations. company management is to sustain our international competitive‑ New employee hires and employee turnover ness and achieve sustainable commercial success. Confronting the Provisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested ben‑ challenges of globalization, we strive for collaboration at all levels ZF hires approximately 600 new apprentices in Germany per year. efits and current pensions for entitled current and former employees based on mutual respect. Other parameters are currently not reported on for the Group in total. of the consolidated ZF Group and their surviving dependents. For details on the provisions for pensions see GRI 201-3. A trusting cooperation under the Works Constitution Act is a fun‑ EMP LOY E E T U R N OV E R FO R 2016 – 2018 damental factor in our corporate culture. This applies to all employee Following the acquisition of TRW, ZF is in the process of analyz‑ representative committees such as the individual works councils and ing the key benefit programs in the major countries and locations. committees, including the General Works Council, the Group Works as percent of headcount 2018 2017 2016 The benefits analysis for the USA has been completed and benefits Council and the European Works Council as well as the individual Europe 4.75 4.6 6 harmonization in the USA will be completed by 2018. contact persons on the employer’s side. North America 37.93 35.4 22.2 South America 2.59 2.3 2.2 GRI 401-3 GRI 402-1 Parental leave Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Asia-Pacific1 14.74 15.3 10.3 India1 0.73 – – At the end of December 2018, a total of 671 employees took All legal obligations are respected. Employee and employer repre‑ parental leave (up to three years) in Germany; of this number, 300 sentatives regularly interact in an atmosphere of trust. Employee Africa 1.50 1.7 2.7 were male and 371 female. 170 female and 1,504 male employees representatives are therefore comprehensively informed in a timely Total 13.91 13.3 9.2 took parental leave for a short period (up to one year) in 2018. Using manner about changes in the company. 1 As of 2018, India is not listed as part of Asia-Pacific but as a separate region. parental leave for a short period, in most cases two months, is very popular among parents. A 12-month retention after returning and Fundamental questions concerning the company’s development data for other countries in which ZF is active cannot yet be reported. are discussed in communications and at meetings. The discontinua‑ Reporting systems are currently being implemented. tion and relocation of companies or sub-units, investments and other changes to the organization are significant topics of discussion. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFET Y 43 GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL achievement is frequently measured, monitored and managed. The targets of ZF and the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division Managing safety HEALTH AND SAFETY were harmonized during the course of 2018 and communicated in Aiming for constant improvement, all ZF locations apply our new 2016 January 2019. internal management system. Locations may grant certification on a voluntary basis within our Integrated Management System (IMS) for While compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is the occupational health, safety, environment and energy, which con‑ GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) foundation of all our activities, we have implemented our own Groupforms to the international standards OHSAS 18001/ ISO 45001. Management Approach 2016 wide EHS standards (ZF EHS Management System). We aim to meet However, if stipulated by customer requirements or if locations fall or exceed customer requirements but also to prevent EHS risks. significantly short of their accident reduction targets, they are Our employees’ safety, health and well-being are core values at expected to join the certification scheme. In 2018, 71 locations (in ZF. They are therefore an integral part of the company’s culture and In addition, ZF believes that safe behavior cannot be achieved by 2017: 60) were matrix-certified. strategy. As we are aiming for appreciable value to our employees technical or organizational measures alone. Safety Excellence pro‑ and other stakeholders, the vision is to manage our Environment, grams have therefore been implemented at all levels of the organiza‑ First of all, the new EHS Management System focuses on the pre‑ Health and Safety (EHS) performance to occupy a leading position tion. These programs are constantly enhanced to build Safety Lead‑ vention and minimization of risks and impacts related to Health and in the automotive industry. ership and engage employees in the prevention of work-related Safety. Periodical risk assessments are performed calculating the injuries and illnesses. They form the basis for the world-class perfor‑ level of risk based on the severity and probability of potential harm, In March 2018 the Board of Management signed a new EHS Policy mance and the safety culture that we are striving for. applying methods similar to failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA). describing the mission, execution and responsibilities in fulfilling this Work stations and all related activities, for example, are subject to vision. A new Group directive was issued in June to act as a bridging these assessments. On the basis of the results, preventive measures document between policy and the new EHS Management System in Organizational structure are defined and implemented – applying the hierarchy of controls, order to strengthen EHS processes throughout the company. which means first endeavoring to eliminate or substitute hazards, The three-dimensional Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) organi‑ then devising technical control measures to contain hazards, and The new EHS management system was launched for the com‑ zation of the combined company comprises the following elements: finally organizational measures or personal protective equipment. bined company as a result of our “best of both” approach, in which Re-assessments are performed to confirm effectiveness. experienced specialists evaluated topic-specific best practices, stan‑ • Centers of Excellence developing program elements, dards and opportunities for cost reduction and synergies. Proce‑ Particular attention is given to non-routine activities, where most dures, specific requirements and guidelines were therefore defined. • Regional teams with focus on site service and legislation and severe accidents occur. Key criteria are considered for occupational To measure the implementation and effectiveness of the manage‑ health and safety protection in the planning and procurement of ment system, half-yearly self-assessments are to be performed at • ZF internal business partners who coordinate all EHS aspects in machinery and equipment. The ZF organization is supported by a each location and audits carried out by members of the global EHS the divisions and business units. Group-wide machinery safety expert team. team approximately every three years. The Health Committee and the Interdisciplinary Expert Group All employees and their representatives are involved in the con­ The ZF Group has defined targets to further protect, preserve and (IEG) were extended to the Active & Passive Safety Technology Divi‑ tinuous improvement of health and safety in the workplace and are promote health, well-being and job satisfaction. Progress in target sion in 2018. Additionally, an International Health group is to be subject to regular qualification measures. Staff are motivated to established in 2019. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFET Y 44 report near misses and unsafe situations at the daily shop floor contractor qualification and performance. Selection criteria have five Safety Basics. SL coaches received training to conduct work‑ meetings and to participate in activities such as risk assessments, been defined and Purchasing pointed out ZF’s expectations regard‑ shops in Module 2 that focus on hazards, risk assessment, incident kaizen workshops and suggestion schemes. ZF has established a ing health and safety to our contractors. Contractors are selected investigation and managing at-risk behavior. policy against reprisals and the employees receive feedback on how according to their proven ability to perform safety-critical activities. their reported information is handled. Also, ZF has established a To ensure contractor activities are safely performed, risk assessments Safety basics were implemented to support the program and make trustline where issues reported by employees are treated strictly are carried out and control measures defined and agreed upon, and it visible to the employees. These consist of rules related to the use of confidentially. supervision is provided in order to ensure implementation. Violations safety shoes, high-visibility clothing and mobile devices, unique safety can lead to removal from the list of approved contractors. Work per‑ flyers for visitors and envisioning accident-free days at the locations. The locations have developed employee reward schemes as mit processes have been defined for safety-critical activities. required by the EHS Management System, to recognize their contri‑ butions to improving safety. Implementation of employee involve‑ Employee involvement ment and employee reporting is subject to internal audits. At the Safety Excellence sensing session (an interview of non-supervisory employees with no Behavior Based Safety (BBS) aims to increase employee involve‑ presence of managers or supervisors), for example, which is per‑ The Safety Excellence program is ongoing and comprises three ment in safety by making employees more aware of how an individ‑ formed during the Corporate EHS audits, employees can express key areas: Safety Leadership, Employee Involvement and Continuous ual’s behavior at work largely determines safety outcomes. About how they are becoming involved in Health and Safety issues and if Improvement of Functional EHS Programs. This program aims to 100 (2017: 113) locations have implemented this process of safety there are any concerns. The origin of employee statements is kept sustainably foster the same culture of shared values regarding health coaching, with employees coaching their colleagues in working confidential. In case of unacceptable risk, employees have the right and safety for every employee and at every location. To build a safely. While five sites from different divisions and regions were to stop activities and talk to their supervisor and/or Safety officer culture in which safety is a value, ZF encourages and empowers added in 2018, the overall number decreased compared to 2017 and/or Safety representative. As part of the Safety Leadership pro‑ employees to make a positive impact on their work environment. as a result of divestitures. gram, all leaders are made aware of this possibility and train appro‑ priate responses. Safety Leadership Continuous improvement of functional EHS programs Incidents causing injury and near misses with the potential to result in severe accidents or fatalities are deeply investigated using The Safety Leadership (SL) Core Team continued to focus on the The backbone of the Continuous Improvement program is our root cause analysis, the 5 Why or 8D method. To prevent accidents rollout of the Safety Leadership program. In 2018 the implementation new EHS Management System which is currently being implemented. from occurring in the future, information is shared among the world‑ continued in Germany focusing on site level. Outside Germany, the The status of implementation is being evaluated using self-assess‑ wide locations using online Safety Alerts, with a summary of the rollout continued in all regions. In the reporting year, 4,223 leaders ments and as part of the EHS Corporate Audit Program. The audit event, the root causes and preventive measures taken; these are participated in 346 workshops delivered by Safety Leadership program also includes an evaluation of legal compliance, performed posted on the EHS intranet. Coaches – trained employees from EHS and production. Overall by a third party. Safety improvement programs are being developed 6,646 leaders have now participated in 570 workshops since the and rolled out for the combined company based on the best-of-both One of the focus areas for ZF in 2018 was to improve the EHS per‑ start of the program. approach. For example, since the ergonomics program plays a piv‑ formance of the supply chain, especially in relation to suppliers pro‑ otal role at ZF, a software-based ergonomics program was success‑ viding onsite services at the locations (contractor activities). A pro‑ Module 1 focuses on the transformation to a sustainable safety fully launched. It includes features such as e-learning, ergonomic cess has been defined and is being implemented to better manage culture, presenting nine Safety Leadership Elements and introducing risk assessment and best practice solutions. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFET Y 45 Managing our well-being ported in activities, teams and initiatives, such as EHS Committees With 1,329 work-related accidents resulting in 23,137 lost and Councils. All sites confirmed in their management reviews that working days, on the basis of nearly 3 million hours worked, the In the new EHS Management system we have included a new they comply with this requirement. Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) – accidents per one million working standardized element concerning Occupational Health. The proce‑ hours – amounted to 4.5. This represents a reduction of 18 percent dure is oriented towards ISO 45001 and covers Core Medical Issues The German Law of Occupational Health and Safety Act stipulates compared to the previous year. The number and rate of high-con­ as well as Health-Related Interdisciplinary Issues. that occupational health and safety committees are to be organized sequence work-related injuries will be determined in our future at German locations. Members of the Works Councils are also repre‑ reporting system. While the LTAR in the Active & Passive Safety Mandatory standards for training courses on leadership and sented on these committees. Prior to the occupational health and Technology Division still shows an excellent performance rate of 1.7, health were rolled out in Germany, and measures for the rollout in safety committee meetings, specialists in occupational health and other ZF divisions are also showing considerable improvements. For the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division were prepared. The safety, medical officers, representatives of the Works Council and example, our locations in Germany were able to reduce the LTAR by training on the basis of the defined curriculum is on track, and par‑ responsible executive managers carry out inspections and audits to 15 percent. This can be interpreted as the result of high manage‑ ticipation of all leaders (except for the Active & Passive Safety Tech‑ gain an insight into the current status and requirements for change. ment attention due to the Safety Leadership Program, along with nology Division) is planned to be completed by the end of 2019. monthly safety reviews. The Severity Rate (Lost Working Days per GRI 403-2 Lost Time Accident) was 17.4 (2017: 19.8). The integration of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational into the Interdisciplinary Expert Group on Health Management (IEG) diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number The most frequent types of injury involved the fingers and hands; is being realized. An Occupational Medicine expert group on “Skin of work-related fatalities these were sustained in the areas of assembly and production. Protection” was constituted in 2018. Work-related accidents resulting in lost time are recorded and R ATE OF ACC I DE NTS 2016 – 2018 Various preventive activities were carried out at all locations. analyzed in order to monitor safety performance. In 2018, the data While the focus in 2018 was on “Skin Protection” diseases, the included agency workers (workers who are not employees but whose (LTAR) Accidents with emphasis will lie on “Fit at Work” in 2019. work is controlled by ZF) but due to the current database structure, working days lost per one injury rates and gender cannot be disclosed separately. A new data‑ million working hours 2018 2017 2016 GRI 403-1 base is currently being implemented. Due to confidentiality con‑ EMEA 7.5 8.8 10.5 Workers representation in formal joint management – straints, health-related figures regarding absenteeism are not worker health and safety committees reported on. of which Germany 9.8 11.5 14.2 of which Europe 4.6 5.8 5.9 The new EHS Management System stipulates that site Manage‑ In 2018, no employee or agency worker faced a fatal work-related excl. Germany ment Team shall consult with employees and their representatives accident within the ZF Group. Unfortunately, one accident of a con‑ and encourage them to participate in EHS initiatives and decisionNorth America 1.7 2.2 2.6 tractor employee resulted in a fatality while performing work at a making processes. In some countries this is specified by law. Man‑ incl. Mexico site in Austria. As described before, a new contractor management agement shall define the scope of this involvement to satisfy the process has been implemented. South America 4.4 4.8 6.0 legal requirements (if any) and to make best use of the employees’ Asia-Pacific 1.0 1.0 1.1 involvement. Employee involvement in EHS Programs shall be sup‑ ZF Group 4.5 5.5 6.5 ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL TR AINIG AND EDUCATION 46 GRI 403-3 countries with increased health risks, including possible infectious tional enhancement and enrichment, and competency management Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases diseases, receive obligatory preventive care. are supported and strategically developed. Applying this holistic related to their occupation approach to management enables us to systematically monitor and GRI 403-4 anticipate workforce issues in all corporate areas. This, in turn, allows Information on occupational diseases are reported for Germany, Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements us to respond to the challenges of demographic change. this year for the first time including locations of the Active & Passive with trade unions Safety Technology Division. There were no indications of employee All training programs are systematically evaluated. Participants groups with a high rate or risk of disease resulting from their work at The system of codetermination in place at the German ZF loca‑ and trainers submit an evaluation after every event as part of a con‑ ZF during the reporting year. The risks of occupational diseases and tions also applies to health and safety at work. Close cooperation tinuous improvement process. These form the basis for regular work-related health problems typical of the metalworking industry on these issues occurs between the Works Councils and the Group reviews and appropriate revisions. We select external training pro‑ are well known. Preventive measures and contingencies for inter­ Works Council. Occupational health and safety issues are part of the viders and trainers according to defined criteria and a selection pro‑ vention are in place. Group Directives and guidelines applied at the various locations. In cess carried out jointly by the specialist department and Purchasing. Germany, the approval process for these regulations includes the Hearing impairment caused by noise was again the most frequently involvement of employee representatives regarding issues subject to The corporate HR Development and the HR Development depart‑ reported occupational disease among ZF employees. There were codetermination. On a location level, there are various guidelines on ments in the individual divisions, regions and technical departments 31 potential and 13 confirmed cases in 2018. As hearing impair‑ hand that cover occupational health and safety. work closely together. By shifting to a new Human Resources target ment caused by noise usually develops over years of exposure to operating model between Centers of Expertise, HR Business Part‑ noise, the latest figures for occupational diseases identified do not ners and HR Operations, we strengthen our customer, functional necessarily reflect current working conditions. Strain on the inner ear is also reduced by wearing suitable personal protective equip‑ GRI 404 TRAINING AND and operational excellence. We thereby ensure standardized opera‑ tional processes in HR Development as well as innovation and busi‑ ment (PPE). This hearing protection equipment is available to all EDUCATION 2016 ness orientation. employees affected, and wearing it is mandatory in noisy areas. GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Increasing digitalization and connectedness in production are Apart from hearing impairment, some work-related skin diseases Management Approach 2016 making their way into companies under the moniker “Industry 4.0”. were diagnosed. In 2018, 54 cases of potential work-related skin This is also changing the requirements for apprenticeship. As a diseases were diagnosed but only one was confirmed. We provide Individual and organizational development, qualification and life‑ result of the project “Apprenticeship 4.0”, ZF has integrated new the required skin protection to prevent work-related skin diseases long learning are decisive success factors when it comes to securing content specifically focused on electronics, IT and hybrid qualifica‑ and stipulate its use in skin protection plans. Whenever employees a company’s long-term future. Our employees require the right skills tions into the internal apprenticeship program. The following job suspect they have health problems, they can consult the company in order to guarantee that we retain our power of innovation. ZF profiles will gain importance in the future: qualified IT specialists and doctor or medical service during working hours. All employees have employees can choose from a wide range of advanced qualification productions technologists. In 2018, Lemförde, Düsseldorf and Fried‑ the option of undergoing additional health check-ups alongside opportunities. richshafen added the job profile “Qualified IT Specialist” to their cur‑ mandatory health care at ZF. In 2018 we placed particular emphasis rent portfolios and Saarbrücken includes the job profile “Production on skin health at all German locations in the form of skin protection ZF is committed to developing people, management and the orga‑ Technologist” in its current offer. In addition, the qualification of campaigns. In the metalworking industry, the risk of occupational nization by focusing on various layers and target groups and it invests vocational trainers has been identified as a main enabler to promote infectious diseases is negligible. People who take business trips to accordingly. Talent management, learning and development, educa‑ the implementation of “Apprenticeship 4.0” at ZF. For this reason, ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL TR AINIG AND EDUCATION 47 a ZF Vocational Trainer Day for all vocational trainers in Germany improvement process, specific improvement potential has been groups and provide workplace-integrated learning offers, such as was held in early 2018. As a follow-up activity, a design thinking identified and implemented. videos, tutorials and social learning elements combined with instruc‑ workshop was conducted with trainers and apprentices in order tor-led formats such as F2F training or live online training. Further‑ to develop a platform for sharing and exchanging learning content Knowledge and idea management in the Corporate HR function more, it is essential to take a closer look at the effectiveness of the as well as didactic and training materials. Furthermore, in April creates awareness of the effective handling of knowledge and ideas; training offers provided. We therefore expanded our business model 2018 the new position “Vocational Training” was established, which it provides advice and supports the professionalization of existing towards a higher prioritization on business needs and value-based aims to generate synergies between all ZF sites worldwide and activities as well as building new activities in knowledge and idea learning approaches. One of our first initiatives is the implementa‑ strengthen cooperation regarding vocational training activities. The management. tion of a global digital learning life cycle process, with greater focus internationalization of apprenticeships is also becoming more impor‑ on consultancy and support of subject matter experts in the creation tant for the ZF Group as a whole, and there are several initiatives in GRI 404-2 of digital learning formats. place for expanding the apprenticeship model outside of Germany. Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition One example is the ZF site in Mexico, Saltillo, which has been certi‑ assistance programs To support the digital transformation at ZF and the necessary fied as a recognized training company (“anerkannter Ausbildungsbe‑ cultural change, further specific initiatives and measures are being trieb”) since 2018 and offers the job profiles “Toolmaker” and ZF places great importance on education and training, resulting in implemented to develop our learning culture with a view to being “Mechatronic Technician” in its dual education system. improved qualifications. In the reporting year, about 618 young people more open, connected and collaborative. This includes learning in started an apprenticeship or dual study program at ZF in Germany. By communities, learning from mistakes and more self-responsible learn‑ the end of 2018 our apprentices numbered around 2,800 worldwide, ing elements. Another topic is that of providing the right offers to ZF as a learning organization including students from the Active & Passive Safety Technology Divi‑ develop the competencies/skills needed in the future. Here the team sion. Around 25 percent of these students are completing a dual study expanded its internal and external network and intensified its collabo‑ The knowledge management approach is currently only in place program at a university. This young target group can choose from 35 ration with external partners such as universities and institutes. at ZF sites in Germany and does not yet include locations of the different apprenticeships and Dual University courses of study. Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. The objective is the The ZF Academies promote advanced specialized training oppor‑ conscious, responsible and systematic handling of knowledge as a tunities for managers and employees in all corporate functions. The resource. Collaboration rooms, wikis and virtual communication New ways of learning objective is to achieve systematic and global advanced training of media support the virtual cooperation of employees. Best-practice employees with technical training programs derived from the Group databases store valuable practical experience and make it available The Global ZF Campus has been transformed to a global Center of strategy. Various internal ZF Academies offer an extensive range of for reuse. Expert forums ensure the targeted exchange of knowledge Expertise – Global Learning and ZF Academies. This implies a stron‑ advanced training opportunities for employees in Materials Manage‑ and experience. ger focus on global learning topics and the question of how we as ment, Quality, Finance, IT, Sales, Production, Digital and other asso‑ an organization need to adapt to be ready for the future. ciated functions. We are currently expanding activities and setting The suggestion and idea management schemes provide employ‑ up an R&D academy to ensure our readiness for future technologies ees with a platform for submitting improvement suggestions and A new essential component of the global Learning portfolio is the as well as an HR Academy to focus on qualification and processes ideas. The ideas@ZF project has created the conditions for an idea extension of our learning mix and the integration of different ele‑ dedicated to HR. Target groups are cross-divisional, cross-location management process across all locations. This allows ideas to ments into one common learning concept/architecture. The goal is and international. circulate between the German locations. Thanks to the continuous to offer the right format for the respective learning needs and target ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL TR AINIG AND EDUCATION 48 The course portfolio is tailored to functional and cross-functional Besides ZF Global Leaders we are increasing our international GRI 404-3 learning needs, thus establishing a globally consistent standard of training portfolio for the entire management group and are currently Percentage of employees receiving regular performance knowledge and expertise. developing global content training courses with a strong focus on and career development reviews virtual training elements. The most relevant topics are “Virtual Lead‑ ership”, “Leading in a Matrix”, “Agile Leadership” and “Artificial Intel‑ ZF emphasizes the importance of personal and professional devel‑ Improving qualifications and developing leaders ligence in the Context of Digitalization”. The revised training offer opment for all employees. Individual performance and development will be available as of 2019. opportunities are discussed and documented on an annual basis We have again extended our international training capacities. For according to the HR process cycle for non-managerial employees. example, we have intensified our cooperation with colleges and uni‑ Figures by gender and employee category are currently not available. versities in China, the USA and several European countries. Further Preserving knowledge successes have also been achieved in internationalizing our trainee As part of the integration of the Active & Passive Safety Technol‑ program. In order to retain knowledge in the organization, ZF has created ogy Division in 2017, a new potential and succession planning pro‑ knowledge batons whereby employees who are leaving the com‑ cess applicable for managerial employees in the Group was defined. Since leadership excellence is a strategic target of the ZF Group, pany make their practical knowledge available to the organization. This new process was implemented for pilot groups in 2017 and we continued our “ZF Global Leaders” program through 2018. This Existing expertise is documented on storage media so that knowl‑ was rolled out for all managerial employees in 2018. The process is comprises level-specific modules with a blend of in-person sessions, edge can be shared and exchanged using search engines in which supported by a cloud-based IT solution. In 2019, it is planned to virtual learning, self-reflection tools and peer group coaching and employees can enter specific queries. extend this process to employees in the pay scale who have poten‑ work on real cases. The objective of ZF Global Leaders is to provide tial for a managerial position. leadership with different development opportunities and to prepare In 2016, the ZF Group created a program to allow former employ‑ candidates for transition to the next management level. The ZF ees to contribute their valuable experience and extensive knowl‑ A Short-Term Incentive (STI) was rolled out Group-wide for all Global Leaders landscape fosters a global mindset and strong col‑ edge. The “Senior Professionals” program enables participation in managers in 2017. The system is intended to foster a culture of laboration. Over time it also aims at creating a uniform global lead‑ specific projects and matches specialist areas with senior experts. innovation and performance, resulting in a stronger target focus. ership culture through cross-divisional, cross-functional and crossThese temporary assignments can be managed with little adminis‑ The STI consists of key financial performance indicators and an indi‑ regional group composition. Further targets are strengthening the trative effort and provide ZF with a flexible and dedicated workforce. vidual component based on individual targets and personal perfor‑ company’s leadership pipeline and providing consistent global lead‑ In the reporting year, the program included 247 registered experts mance. Assessing the company and individual components ensures ership development throughout the various management levels. The with 32 work assignments. a comprehensive evaluation of the results achieved throughout the goals and content of the program are based on the Group strategy year. The process is transparent and defines the framework for our and are linked to the ZF Management System with its ZF Charter In Germany, ZF is pursuing a comprehensive approach to deal actions and priorities, and for the behavior and attitudes we expect and ZF’s leadership principles – thereby encouraging new ways of with the challenges of an aging workforce. For example, workplaces from the combined company’s managers. The Individual Target working together. are being designed to accommodate these requirements, and Agreement and Performance Process (iTaP) has been moved to a emphasis is placed on finding the right work-life balance between cloud-based IT solution. The iTaP process includes an annual feed‑ Almost 700 future managers from all over the world have partici‑ career and family. ZF is also focusing on health management, flexi‑ back meeting between managers and supervisors. pated in the programs since September 2017. For 2019 we are also ble working time models and lifelong learning. planning a significant number of groups to ensure the development of our potential candidates. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL DIVER SIT Y 49 GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND Managing diversity agement. The ZF Career Elements were rolled out globally and are well implemented in the organization. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 ZF understands diversity as the key to success, a driver of innova‑ tions and a factor in enhancing corporate value. Our HR strategy To increase the number of women in technical professions, ZF has GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) therefore highlights the issue of diversity as part of the Group strat‑ become a partner company of the highly renowned Femtec Associa‑ Management Approach 2016 egy. ZF focuses on particular dimensions to meet strategic chal‑ tion, which was founded by the EAF Berlin and the Technical Univer‑ lenges and contribute to enhancing the Group’s future competitive‑ sity of Berlin in 2001. Femtec is an international career platform for We believe that diversity and its appreciation have a positive ness. These dimensions include a balanced gender ratio, issues women in natural sciences and engineering. The organization impact on society and how people work together. That is why we such as cultural background and internationality of the workforce, recruits talented young female students for STEM (Science, Technol‑ signed up with the Diversity Charter and now belong to a group of a wide range of experience and expertise as well as responses to ogy, Engineering, Math) professions, qualifies excellent candidates approximately 3,000 signatories dedicated to a welcoming, preju‑ demographic changes. All of these factors are systematically ana‑ for a management career and offers distinguished career perspec‑ dice-free corporate culture. This voluntary commitment represents lyzed and processed on a regular basis, and results are reported to tives to focused female students in cooperation with the partner our pledge to actively promote diversity within our organization. the Board of Management. companies. Through its involvement in the Femtec.Network, ZF offers a glimpse into the working world at a technology company. ZF In 2018 we implemented a follow-up mentoring program for The introduction of ZF Career Elements for managers has enabled thus offers plant tours or specific projects, for example. During the women and men who are interested in pushing their careers forward us to define a binding framework for job and career decisions. The Innovation Workshop (“Innovationswerkstatt”) 2018, carried out with and expanding their networks. We started in October with 20 par­ modules determine criteria for promoting and supporting multidivi‑ and for ZF, the Femtec participants dealt with questions and ideas ticipants. The structured mentoring will last one year and is open to sional, multidisciplinary experience and help to internationalize man‑ for automated driving. all employees worldwide. We have created Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) in “Zoom”, ZF EMPLOY EES BY R EGIO N A N D GEN D ER1 2016 – 2018 our new intranet, to give employees the opportunity to exchange knowledge and experience worldwide. An example of an ERG is our Women Men community Women@ZF with over 500 participants (status November 2018). in percent 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Europe 14.30 13.85 13.81 85.70 86.15 86.19 From a global perspective, demographic change comes in many different forms. While western industrialized countries are primarily of which Germany 13.15 12.93 13.01 86.85 87.07 86.99 confronted with the challenges of an aging population, people in North America 27.46 26.62 26.02 72.54 73.38 73.98 developing and newly industrialized countries are much younger. South America 9.17 9.1 8.51 90.93 90.90 91.49 Since ZF is a global player with approximately 230 locations in 40 Asia-Pacific 16.63 16.91 18.89 83.37 83.09 81.11 countries, the age structure of the company’s workforce is very heterogeneous and is strongly dependent on the history of each Africa 16.25 14.73 15.07 83.75 85.24 84.93 particular ZF location. Total 16.12 15.73 15.74 83.88 84.27 84.26 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL DIVER SIT Y 50 ZF E M PLOY E E S BY G EN DER 1 2016 – 2018 Furthermore, additional family-friendly minimum standards were MANAGE ME NT DI V E RSI TY BY AGE 2018 defined and consistently implemented by an expert body for work, in percent family and private life. Having actively implemented the aspect of 2018 2017 2016 career and family care for many years, we have also extended child‑ Men 65,680 64,071 61,768 managers in the first, second and care places and options for short-term care throughout the Group. third management levels below Women 12,619 11,959 11,537 Another important element is providing daycare for about 700 the Board of Management employees’ children during school vacations in Germany. To name a 30 30-50 years 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division few more exemplary measures, these include operating agreements 70 > 50 years on mobile work, contact points for work and family at all major Ger‑ all other management groups The compatibility of work and family at ZF is still an important man ZF locations, connection of employee partners in family-related 3 < 30 years objective for promoting equal opportunities and employee satisfac‑ time out, well-established counseling services for professional and 53 30-50 years 44 > 50 years tion. This is why one of the ZF Career Elements is a “social career private crisis situations, various childcare services, support services element”, which covers parental leave, leave to care for relatives and and information on the subject of care as well as care solutions. other types of community and family commitments. GRI 405-1 Since 2006, the ZF location in Friedrichshafen has been certified Diversity of governance bodies and employees For vacancies regarding the Supervisory Board, a quota of 30.0 as a family-friendly company in Germany. As part of the “career and percent was set. The quota is currently 10.0 percent. family” (“berufundfamilie”) audit, family-related targets and mea‑ In light of German legislation governing equal representation of sures have been firmly established. women and men in managerial positions in the private and public The percentage of older employees is much higher in Germany, sectors, targets for the relevant managerial levels have been dis‑ whereas the workforce at the international locations is younger on In 2018, the existing audit was extended to other major locations cussed and set for ZF Friedrichshafen AG to be achieved by June average. of ZF in Germany: Besides Friedrichshafen, also Schweinfurt, MDS 30, 2022. Lemförde, Passau and Saarbrücken have participated. The “audit In 2018, the proportion of women in management positions in the berufundfamilie” is a widely recognized branding and an excellent At the first managerial level (executive vice president/senior vice Group amounted to 9.78 percent. instrument for increasing employer attractiveness and employees’ president) and the second managerial level (vice president) below commitment. It provides our employees with a framework that allows the Board of Management, the percentage of women is planned to Since 2006, ZF Friedrichshafen AG has been compliant with the them to reconcile their work, family and private life. A culture of coop‑ increase to 15.0 percent in each case. statutory requirements for employees with disabilities and recorded eration and partnership on the part of all concerned is of great impor‑ the rate for Germany. In 2018, the proportion of employees with dis‑ tance to us and will allow all parties involved to equally benefit from For vacancies regarding the Board of Management, a quota of abilities amounted to 5.64 percent. This level exceeded the five per‑ this certification. Our focus here is on a principle of give and take. 10.0 percent female Board of Management members is envisaged. cent minimum that legislation stipulates for the company. As a The appointment of Sabine Jaskula as member of the Board of Man‑ result, it was not necessary to make any compensation payments. agement for the HR and Legal Corporate Function means that this target has already been met. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL NON-DISCRIMINATION | SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT 51 GRI 405-2 ideas and methods as well as understanding between cultures and origin of their resources. Gold, coltan, cassiterite, wolframite and its Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men people. Our ZF Charter and ZF Leadership Principles contain a defin‑ derivatives such as tantalum, tin or tungsten from the Democratic itive statement on the issue of diversity: Employees at ZF are not dis‑ Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjacent countries, as used in Remuneration at ZF is based on compensation structures. While criminated against on the basis of skin color, gender, age, national‑ company products, are considered as conflict minerals since they in the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division compensation ity, religious denomination, social background, disability or sexual finance conflicts. structures are historically based on a global job classification sys‑ orientation. This applies to the recruitment of new employees, the tem, in other ZF entities the compensation structure for managers is existing employment relationship and professional advancement at ZF is using a web-based solution for the reporting and identifica‑ based on a global grading system. Compensation structures below ZF. The only traits that are important are performance, personality, tion of conflict minerals along the entire supply chain. As part of the management levels are based either on collective pay-scale agree‑ skills and qualifications. For further details on our values see GRI tool-assisted supplier inquiry program, a total feedback of 62 percent ments or on local grading systems. 102-16 and regarding managing compliance see GRI 205. was recorded in the reporting year. We intend to increase the feed‑ back rate from suppliers in 2019. The results of the inquiry indicate Job classification, grading systems and collective pay-scale GRI 406-1 that the reviewed supply chains potentially source products that agreements are intended to minimize the risk of discriminating Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken finance conflicts in DRC regions. A high-risk smelter follow-up is against women on compensation levels. Entities of the Active & conducted for the suppliers whose feedback indicated potential Passive Safety Technology Division have been fully integrated into There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination in the high-risk smelters, to constantly minimize any risks. We actively ZF’s grading process for management positions since mid-2017. reporting year. request the corresponding suppliers to eliminate critical smelters A global compensation database will be progressively introduced within their supply chains and ensure that new suppliers do not over a three-year period. The planned compensation database will source from identified smelters. As these minerals are necessary enable ZF – among other benefits – to report and monitor equal remuneration as well as potential gender gaps worldwide. ZF is GRI 414 for several functions and purposes of some of our products, ZF is clearly committed to further cleansing its supply chain. an equal opportunity employer and appointed a global diversity SUPPLIER SOCIAL manager to monitor equal treatment among employees. ASSESSMENT 2016 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria GRI 406 GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Management Approach 2016 During the course of the reporting year, 100 percent of new ZF suppliers underwent self-assessment according to defined sustain‑ NON‑DISCRIMINATION ability criteria by ZF. No indications of infringements against our 2016 ZF has an integrated approach regarding supplier environmental and social assessments; see GRI 204 for further details on our principles of environmental protection, human rights, labor prac‑ tices, forced labor, child labor or freedom of association were identi‑ management approach with suppliers. fied. We will continue to apply this procedure consistently in the GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) future. Management Approach 2016 To meet the requirement following the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act, Sec. 1502, and to ensure a conflict-free supply chain, ZF ZF is present in many countries of the world and embraces a wide requested all relevant production material suppliers to disclose the diversity of cultures and people. We foster the exchange of thoughts, ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFET Y 52 GRI 416 Our new DG 06-16 Functional Safety guideline was approved in 2018 and the deriving process is being applied in the Group world‑ See – Technology such as forward-looking cameras and 360-degree radar sensors monitor traffic situations and road condi‑ CUSTOMER HEALTH AND wide, replacing former guidelines of ZF and the Active & Passive tions, seeking to reduce risks to drivers, occupants and pedestrians. SAFETY 2016 Safety Technology Division. The Functional Safety Directive estab‑ lishes functional safety processes at ZF and Think – The central control unit processes information and is capable of activating safety functions, such as automatic emergency GRI 103 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) • specifies functional safety as an objective, braking or airbag deployment. Management Approach 2016 • creates awareness of the potential safety effects of errors, and • establishes responsibility for actions, consistent analysis and Act – Actuators turn electric commands from the control units In providing products and services for people, ZF works toward mitigation of problems on a sound technical basis. into mechanical movements, such as braking maneuvers. Recupera‑ improving customer health and safety in many ways. This is founded tion makes it possible to convert part of the kinetic energy back to on quality and reliability, which are of utmost importance as with electrical energy, which can be used to charge the battery of a other end customer products. Therefore, our ZF4Q quality strategy See – Think – Act hybrid or electric vehicle. is derived from the Group strategy and the ZF Quality Management System is based on three elements: In addition, our products allow for improving safety in mobility. GRI 416-1 With the updated Group strategy, ZF has chartered the course for Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product • Quality Planning for prevention, the future. By adhering to the “See – Think – Act” principle and our and service categories • Quality Assurance to secure the current volume production, and Vision Zero, ZF intends to make a strong contribution to future • Quality Management to shape processes and structures. mobility with its products and services – reducing emissions and ZF’s Global Development and Product Evolution Process (GD PEP) accidents to zero. establishes quality and safety management procedures for ZF’s The goal is to implement all processes, both industrial and products and services. Group directives implement processes for business-related, at a high level of maturity and evaluate them with ZF aims to meet the demands of the mobility megatrends of adapting specifications to specific products. Appropriate testing is a view to ongoing improvements, in line with the ZF Production tomorrow, such as efficiency, integrated safety and automated driv‑ done at different points in the course of the project. In the develop‑ System. ing. With its “See – Think – Act” guiding principle, the Group has set ment process, service concepts are also designed and then imple‑ a clear technology focus. The company’s product and technology mented by trained customer service personnel. With the advancement of complex programmable electronics, planning is based on market and product roadmaps which are con‑ functional safety has become increasingly important in product tinuously updated. Development has also focused on sensors for ZF’s commitment to product quality continues in manufacturing. safety, as overall safety depends on the correct functioning of safetyenvironment recognition, electronic control units, occupant safety ZF then has processes in place to monitor products in the field and related systems and other risk reduction measures. ZF is committed systems and automated driving functions. work with customers when potential issues arise. These efforts pro‑ to promoting functional safety as a priority. Each division is responsi‑ mote stable processes in production at ZF manufacturing locations ble for training employees on this directive and developing an orga‑ ZF’s “See – Think – Act” approach seeks to enhance the safety of worldwide. nization with clear areas of authority, responsibilities and functional its products. safety processes. ZF Sustainability Report 2018 GENER AL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL IMPRINT 53 IMPRINT By signing the United Nations Global Compact in May 2012, ZF committed itself to actively support ten principles of responsible business. UN Global Compact Principles Relevant GRI Disclosures Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 102-16, 205, 414 ZF Friedrichshafen AG Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 102-16, 205, 414 D-88038 Friedrichshafen Germany Labour Phone +49 7541 77-0 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Fax +49 7541 77-908000 of the right to collective bargaining; 102-41, 402, 414 www.zf.com Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 102-16, 205, 414 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 102-16, 205, 414 Contact ZF Friedrichshafen AG Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 102-8, 102-16, 205, 405, 414 Corporate Governance Sustainability Environment Löwentaler Straße 20 D-88046 Friedrichshafen Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 102-11, 308 Email: sustainability@zf.com Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308 Editorial deadline March 2019 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Consultancy, text and layout and bribery. 102-16, 205, 414 akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, D-80469 Munich, Germany ZF Sustainability Report 2018
