Im 2019 Sustainability Report p ev ro er vin lif y g e Growing our business Skin matters by enabling action Pg. 26 and impact on some of humanity’s greatest Clean your room challenges. Pg. 29 Outside-the-box thinking Pg. 24 Contents Our leadership Feature stories Who we are How we work What we create About report Message from our CEO 4 Feature stories 8 Introduction 46 Introduction 86 Introduction 190 Report scope and boundaries 220 Message from our CSO 6 Facility spotlight 36 3M Value Model 48 Corporate governance 88 Our customers 192 Indices to GRI and UNGC 226 Our Vision 49 Enterprise risk 96 Innovation management 198 Assurance statement 244 Our Values 49 Corporate Code of 100 Our products 210 Metric tables 250 Conduct Our Strategic 51 Sustainability Human rights 110 Framework Compensation 120 Global challenges 52 Employee programs 124 2025 Sustainability Goals 60 Health and safety 136 Communities 64 Environmental 142 Employee diversity and 72 management inclusion Raw materials 148 Recognition 80 Water 154 Climate and energy 160 Suppliers 176 Wholeadership Our we are A message Title xxxx from our CEO 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives A message from Mike Roman While 3M has a strong foundation, we know that we have the ability — and the responsibility — to do even more. Going forward, we are focused on three priority areas where we can make an even In December 2018, we announced a major initiative as part of this new framework: Beginning in 2019, every new 3M product will articulate a Sustainability Value Commitment, demonstrating Sustainability initiatives under our new framework in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. And we invite you to join us. greater impact on the world. how it drives impact for the – Mike Roman greater good. Because 3M Chief Executive Officer • S  cience for Circular: Design solutions launches approximately 1,000 that do more with less material, new products each year, crossing At 3M we are a revenue. We’ve also made progress advancing a global circular economy many industries and geographies, purpose-driven on 3M’s 2025 Sustainability Goals, and last year exceeded our • S  cience for Climate: Innovate to the impact will expand greatly with each successive year. enterprise. targets for renewable energy and decarbonize industry, accelerate reducing manufacturing waste. global climate solutions, and improve Looking ahead, we will continue We know that we can grow our our environmental footprint to step up our leadership toward a business while collaborating At the same time, we’ve invested more sustainable future — in our to solve some of humanity’s more to create a wide range • S  cience for Community: Create a own operations, and in solutions greatest challenges. And we know of innovative solutions that are more positive world through science, for our customers. In 2019, we that innovation isn’t innovation helping our customers be more and inspire people to join us plan to announce substantial new without Sustainability. sustainable — from strengthening solar and wind power, to making 3M is a longtime leader in businesses and homes more energy Sustainability, going back decades efficient. Last year alone, our to our ground-breaking Pollution products helped customers avoid Prevention Pays program, which nearly 15 million metric tons CO2 r has prevented more than two million tons of pollution. We have equivalents emissions through use of select 3M product platforms. Sc Sc Sc since built on that leadership C ie C ie by continuing to reduce our C ie lim n om n irc n c at ce own footprint; since 2002, for m ef ul ce example, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by nearly e fo un o ar fo ity r 64 percent, while doubling our r 4 5 Our leadership A message from our CEO 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives A message from Gayle Schueller Beginning in 2019, every 3M product entering We recognize that no one company or community alone can solve the world’s Sustainability challenges. We’re using this the new product framework to engage with our talented employees and global stakeholders to make connections commercialization and establish partnerships to make even greater progress. 2018 was a big can partner with our stakeholders to make the biggest impact. process will include It has been an exciting and promising year for Sustainability at a Sustainability Value year for Sustainability 3M, and going forward we expect at 3M. Building on our global capabilities to share more announcements Commitment that and diverse technologies, we are about new goals and partnerships We have a strong history of focusing on three priority areas: as we continue our journey as leadership in setting goals that drive Science for Circular, a purpose-driven enterprise. environmental stewardship and pollution prevention, and advance Science for Climate, and Science for Community. demonstrates how it – Gayle Schueller drives impact for the health and safety in communities Using this framework, we are Vice President and Chief around the world. We’ve made developing new milestone targets Sustainability Officer greater good. substantial progress against those for air, energy, water, and waste. ambitious energy, water, and climate 2025 targets — and we’re 3M CEO, Mike Roman, announced committing to do even more. The world faces tremendous this new business strategy in challenges in this time of November. One month later Creating products that use unprecedented change. Science we announced our first new energy efficiently and make plays a critical role in building a goal that embeds Sustainability the best use of the Earth’s resilient future where everyone into the pipeline that produces resources is not new at 3M. From can thrive. At 3M, science is at the 3M’s diverse global products. our automotive electrification heart of what we do. We collaborate technologies that power lighter, with our customers, governments, more durable, energy-efficient and communities — with the connected vehicles, to our filtration ambition to improve every life. technologies that protect people and filter air pollution, our products In this pivotal moment, we’ve and partnerships are changing the developed a new Strategic world. Sustainability goals are now Sustainability Framework to direct considered in the earliest stages of our efforts to areas in which we every new product’s development. 6 7 Feature stories Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives st Fe or a A legacy of leadership 10 Clean your room 28 3M takes front-row seat 12 3M inhaler connects 30 ie tu Scrub sponges 14 Rock for the ages 32 Innovative tools and tactics 16 Bringing smiles 34 s re Carpooling 20 Facility spotlight Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, 36 Power to the pipeline 22 Mexico Cynthiana, Kentucky 38 Outside-the-box thinking 24 Shanghai, Xin Qiao, China 40 Skin matters 26 Cordova, Illinois 42 8 9 Feature stories Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives A legacyof focus areas of the Sustainability Commitment in all new products operations across 70 countries to framework; and (3) uncover the builds on 3M’s history of creating renewable electricity by 2050. most effective ways to build products that emphasize engagement among stakeholders. reuse, recycling, and reduced And the journey has leadership resource use. For example: just begun Among the key findings: • R oofing materials that improve air quality and address climate Science operates within a set of concerns, like our awardrules. It follows specific methods. Shortly following, 3M’s executive • M ost material issues for 3M winning 3M™ Smog-reducing It delivers proof and proves cause inspires a framework team selected a small focus group fit well into the three focus areas Granules for rooﬁng shingles and effect. But science also to develop the foundation of this of our Sustainability strategy breaks boundaries, challenges the new strategy. With the foundation • A utomotive electrification, status quo, and improves lives. for greater good established, more than 80 company • Stakeholders overwhelmingly powering the future of mobility leaders and subject-matter experts show a strong interest in As a company rooted in scientific convened. Using Lean Six Sigma engaging and collaborating with • I ndoor freestanding devices that exploration and the belief that methodology, external insights, 3M on Sustainability issues attract and capture airborne dust, every problem has a solution, we 3M actively pursues SustainabilityBy any measure, 3M’s commitment and with bold leadership in mind, lint, dust mite debris, mold spores, are applying our technological inspired innovation. This is as true to Sustainability is not new. And by this team added depth to the • S takeholders encourage 3M to be pollen, pet dander, smoke, smog, expertise to help solve some of today as it was more than four no means has it been insignificant. framework by identifying the bold and share a science-based bacteria, and viruses from the the world’s biggest challenges. decades ago, when 3M launched But given the actions taken in current state and opportunities. point of view for each pillar air passing through the filter The challenges we must tackle for its groundbreaking Pollution the past year, it’s clear we now a sustainable future don’t always Prevention Pays (3P) program. have even greater ambitions for “Because 3M is a science-based At Investor Day in November, • S couring solutions that use up to follow clear rules or methods — working toward the greater good. company with diverse operations Michael Roman announced the 3M 100 percent recycled materials but we see them clearly. They When the 3P program was and a large product portfolio Strategic Sustainability Framework, are broad. They are interrelated. launched in 1975, the concept 2018: the year serving nearly every industry which focuses on three areas in 3M launches approximately 1,000 They are solvable. We know of applying pollution prevention across the globe, we’re in a unique which we will partner to make new products each year, with a science can help tackle them. on a company-wide basis and momentum multiplied position to make impact ourselves, the greatest impact: Science for significant fraction of its revenue documenting the results was an and enable impact by others,” says Circular, Science for Climate, generated from products released We are looking at ways to build industry first. Since then, employees In 2018, 3M took several steps Cassandra Garber, 3M Global and Science for Community. in the past five years. The multiplier purpose into leadership and have completed more than 15,300 to set an aggressive long-term Sustainability Leader. “Our new impact of this Sustainability Value talent development across the 3P projects, prevented more strategy for the company, with Strategic Sustainability Framework Putting our products Commitment on our product company, to recognize business than 2.5 million tons of pollution, the intent to use our passion, and demonstrates where our critical portfolio will be immense. opportunities that help the and saved nearly $2.2 billion. science, to tackle challenges where opportunity as a company meets where our purpose is company grow while addressing we can make the biggest impact — the critical opportunity of our world Reaffirming a societal issues. We cut across In the 1990s, we began publicly challenges critical to a sustainable and gives us a means of prioritizing In December, at the annual United industries and silos to collaborate reporting progress on Sustainability planet and the people living on it. how to most effectively take action.” Nations Climate Conference commitment to with suppliers, customers, goals. In 2015, we established a (COP24), we shared our first renewable and communities by working new set of ambitious 10-year (2025) It began in July, when new 3M Building from the strategy’s major goal in conjunction with together toward building a more goals addressing issues ranging Chief Executive Officer, Michael foundation, 3M launched an the Strategic Sustainability The year 2018 culminated with resilient world. We have a unique from raw materials to education Roman, announced that advancing internal survey and commissioned Framework: Beginning in 2019, finalizing plans for a stepped-up opportunity to apply our passion and development. And in 2018, 3M Sustainability at 3M is a priority Globescan, a public opinion every new product that enters commitment to renewable energy, and collaboration to help the was listed for the 19th straight year for us, our stakeholders, and research consultancy, to 3M’s commercialization process doubling our current 2025 global world prosper, and we’re looking on the Dow Jones Sustainability our customers. It’s at the heart interview external stakeholders must have a Sustainability Value goal and switching our St. Paul, forward to continuing the journey Index, a global stock index touted as of who we are. He asked what globally. The goals of this work: Commitment demonstrating how it Minnesota, headquarters to 100 as a purpose-driven enterprise. the gold standard for Sustainability it would mean to be visibly (1) identify the social, economic, drives impact for the greater good. percent renewable electricity, among corporations worldwide. leading, and innovating, for a and environmental issues 3M effective March 1, 2019. The more sustainable future. should focus on; (2) test the three Requiring a Sustainability Value goal is now to convert our entire 10 11 Feature stories Science for Climate 3M 2019 Sustainability Report 3M takes The selection worked out well. In 2007, the IPCC was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize “for their efforts to build up and front-row seat disseminate greater knowledge about man-made climate change, and to lay the foundations for the measures that are needed to counteract such change.” Mader was formally acknowledged for his contribution to that effort. in United Nations’ panel As science progresses, so do the on climate change IPCC guidelines. Currently, the group is working on its second year of refinements for the 2019 guidelines. Updates are primarily new GHG measurement methods companies and organizations When you do an online search of Established in 1988 by the World Each member can use, but also new categories. the term “climate change,” you get Meteorological Organization and country in the United Take, for example, the smelting more than 400 million results. the United Nations, the IPCC Nations nominates of rare earth metals: In 2006, no provides scientific, technical, method existed to estimate GHG And one of the most impactful and socioeconomic assessments people to represent emissions from rare earth metal organizations appearing in these on the state of climate change their country on production, but now there is, so results is the Intergovernmental and the risks associated with different climate there’s a new section on that. Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). it, along with detailed policy guidelines and recommendations subjects. Mader is About the process, Mader says, for the world’s policymakers. part of a 32-member “You spend time talking about committee that exact wordings — like, should For 13 years, 3M has had a frontfocuses on industrial a procedure be listed as good row seat to the IPCC proceedings. practice versus best practice? — 3M EHS Laboratory Manager processes and and then you form a consensus, Brian Mader is one of 188 authors product use. always based on science. and review editors from academia, national laboratories, industry, and Mader was nominated in 2005 by “Given the current contentious non-governmental organizations the U.S. Environmental Protection political climate, it’s admirable that (NGOs) who currently evaluate Agency, who liked the work 3M was IPCC reaches out across countries, and write reports on various areas doing on greenhouse gases (GHG): across industry, academia, associated with climate change. “When we did our first GHG report, it government, and NGOs. When was new territory for us. We had to I go to the meetings, it’s very develop a lot of our own methods to much a mixture of these folks, all determine our GHG inventory, and working for a common cause. we did that. When the EPA found out there was a desire on the part “It’s satisfying, too, that 3M thinks of the IPCC to write guidelines for it’s important enough to support how countries could add up their my involvement in this effort.” emissions, they recommended me.” ©FAO/Alessia Pierdomenico 12 13 Feature Stories Science for Climate 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Scrub sponges that scrub out waste In the past, society followed That’s because a recent 3M the Consumer Business Group, and a linear economy in which innovation has made it possible the Scotch-Brite™ Brand,” says companies made products, and for us to begin making the green Marketing Manager, Lisa Bloomer. customers used and disposed of scrubbing fibers from 100 percent “We’re pleased to combine this them. In recent years, people have recycled content (including an exciting material innovation that increasingly embraced a circular average of 35 percent postleverages recycled content with the economy, where the goal is to consumer recycled content). superior scrubbing performance our design out waste, keep products customers rely on with our brand.” and materials in use, and integrate With this change, 100 percent more renewable raw materials. recycled scrubbing fibers will Each of these not only be incorporated into One new example of the Scotch-Brite® Heavy Duty Scrub scrubbing products, circular economy at work — in Sponges, but also in U.S. versions by the way, will the home — is Scotch-Brite® of the following 3M products: provide performance Heavy Duty Scrub Sponges. equal to sponges • S  cotch-Brite® Non-Scratch These iconic yellow sponges Scrub Sponges (blue) made without with a green scrubbing layer recycled content. are a top-selling scrub sponge • S  cotch-Brite® Gentle Clean brand in the U.S. They remove Scrub Sponges (pink) Learn more on the tough, baked-on messes, which Scotch-Brite™ Brand here. makes them ideal for kitchen, • S  elect Scotch-Brite® garage, and even outdoor use. Dishwand Refills Just as important, when customers • S  cotch-Brite® Non-Scratch in the U.S. use their favorite and Heavy Duty Scour Pads sponge now, its ability to clean won’t be its only advantage. “Enhancing our products to fit the circular economy is a focus at 3M, 14 15 Feature stories Science for Community #improvinglives Innovative tools and tactics 3MSM Health Care Academy Education and training have always the Health Care Academy online platform in 2016, then added mobile capabilities in 2018 — so health care professionals could download courses from content, which will allow us to create new content that’s even more relevant to people whose everyday job is improving lives.” ceramic, composite and porcelain veneers; and advanced teeth modeling from composite materials. “The Master Class Conference help 3M work been part of the value provided to customers of 3M Health Care their phones, learn at their convenience, and monitor their Oral Care enabled attendees to learn techniques that can elevate toward training goal businesses. In 2014, an insightdriven design solution, 3M’s personal progress online. Master Class the quality of their work and save them time,” says Grzegorz Health Care Academy, established best practices for validating At the same time, there has been a focus on the content Conference Grzegorz, 3M Regional Scientific Affairs & Education Leader. “Just intuitiveness and usability of itself — making it as relevant and In October 2018, more than as important, these techniques the eLearning experience. The engaging as possible for health 400 oral care professionals from can help them improve the solution was created as an care professionals. (By the way, 75 Poland and Ukraine gathered lives of their patients.” Health and safety professionals educational platform that connects percent of the content is accredited in Lodz, Poland, for the second around the world need to stay industry leaders, scientists, and for continuing education.) edition of the 3M Oral Care “The conference has been an up to date on the latest training. inventors to improve professional Master Class Conference — three excellent way for us to strengthen This means access to educational expertise and patient outcomes. With the addition of 50 new days of live demonstrations, the bond we have with our content to learn, share, experience, offerings in 2018, the total library lectures, certification courses, clients, and for them to learn and make a difference. One of 3M’s Says Lisa Edstrom, Global Leader now consists of more than 1,200 and practical workshops for both from each other,” he says. 2025 Sustainability Goals revolves Health Care Academy, “Until courses. In addition, attendance at dental and orthodontic practices. around training. By building on 3M introduced the Health Care live webinars grew to 32,000 in More information about our existing customer education Academy, we lacked a unified 2018. And Health Care Academy Participants in this interdisciplinary this event can be found at programs, we are looking to help and reliable global resource content is now offered in 33 event included dentists, oralcaremasterclass.com. educate individuals on worker for providing education to our countries and 15 different languages. orthodontists, dental assistants, and patient safety in both health customers. From a technology In total, 3M has educated over dental clinic managers, and a roster care and industrial settings. standpoint, we didn’t have 350,000 professionals around the of internationally known lecturers, a consistent way to deliver globe through in-person events, including instructors from the Here are two examples of programs content and gather feedback webinars, and online education. highly regarded Style Italiano group. that are helping us reach this goal. from our customers.” What’s more, things continue to Among other highlights at the Before creating anything, Edstrom evolve. “Practically every month conference were four “phantom and her team first did deep-dive we’re taking steps to make our rooms,” which replicated actual research with customers and platform more robust,” Edstrom clinical working conditions. In these conducted a competitive analysis says. “Especially important to rooms, using phantom patients, of training platforms. Based on me is that we’re now able to dentists participated in hands-on what they learned, 3M launched track user feedback regarding workshops on adhesive cementing; 16 17 Feature stories Science for Community 3M workforce on various aspects of health and safety in general and send companies an official order to have their employees visit the Personal on the right selection of PPE in training units when they are in Safety particular. This effort helped to their area or at their factory. establish 3M as a subject-matter Division Since its launch in expert in the PPE category. September 2017, the Academy In 2017, the collaboration reached a new level when the first-ever program has trained public-private sector Memorandum more than 92,000 In a rapidly evolving business of Understanding (MoU) was industrial workers and occupational health and signed by 3M and the MOLE. safety landscape, one thing across 902 industries remains constant: the need for One concept brought to the MOLE covering 16 out of a effective training and education. by 3M was “Safety on Wheels,” two total 29 Indian states. mobile training units that would To that end, 3M’s Personal Safety travel to over 1.3 million small and Looking forward, the goal is Division(PSD) Academy offers medium-size enterprises at 550 to train more than 1 million a variety of tools and software industrial clusters throughout India. users in the next four years. to support the safety training needs associated with personal On board these 35-foot, fully Leading the Safety on Wheels team protective equipment (PPE), equipped mobile training for 3M India is Vinay Pathak, Senior including eLearning opportunities, centers, 3M’s network of experts General Manager – Technical, who demonstration vehicles, safety conduct safety training and says, “This program was first of roadshows, and even virtual demonstrations, educates workers its kind for the PSD. It has already reality learning experiences. and safety officers, and talks about been a great brand-building occupational safety and prevention initiative and promises to deliver One example: For more than 10 of injuries and disease. Among the strong long-term benefits for years, the PSD team in India has PPE products demonstrated by companies and for the people who been sensitizing the government’s the Safety on Wheels teams are work in industry in our country.” Ministry of Labour & Employment earplugs, eye and face protection (MOLE) and the Directorate gear, respirators, and full-body Learn about 3M Safety Roadshow General, Factory Advice Service fall protection harnesses. in the United States here. and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), a technical organization within the To support attendance, the MoU MOLE, on the need to enhance signed between 3M India and awareness among the industrial the MOLE enables the MOLE to 18 19 Feature stories Science for Climate #improvinglives Carpooling: 3M global team works together on electric vehicle batteries 3M: plugged in to the potential battery components together, thermal management materials Brandon Bartling, an advanced product development specialist that help take the heat away, and in automotive electrification, “light-weighting” products that “We don’t go to the customer To date, the stationary energy enable longer driving range. representing a division. We go to storage market has seen them as 3M. We learn what the rapid growth as utilities and Some examples: customer wants, then we bring that consumers have recognized the back and share it with our team, so In the automotive Changes have come faster in recent And then there’s the reduction of value in pairing batteries with • 3 M™ Novec™ fluid-based we can all work together to solve years, says Ray Eby, Vice President tailpipe emissions of operating windmills and solar panels. technology is designed the problem instead of trying to industry, the road of 3M Automotive Electrification, vehicles that run on electricity to help cool and protect figure out who gets credit for it.” ahead looks very and will continue to accelerate rather than gas. Electric vehicles The EV market can be more electronics and batteries different than the in the next few years, “driven by (EVs) reduce smog-forming and challenging than conventional 3M automotive electrification road in our rearview environmental and safety demands other pollutants harmful to human combustion engine vehicles. • 3 M™ E-A-R™ cushioning specialists in different regions and the need to provide users health, along with greenhouse Beyond the concern of the battery products help extend also work with their counterparts mirror. with the experience they expect.” gases, primarily carbon dioxide pack delivering energy, automakers battery life by guarding in other parts of the world, (CO₂). Typical passenger vehicles need to consider the effects of against normal structural because although they share Individual vehicle owners alone currently produce 4.6 harsh temperatures, mechanical vibrations and disruptions similar technology, countrycan see the benefits: greater metric tons of CO₂ per vehicle vibrations, and weight. Auto specific manufacturers often digital connectivity, lower per year.1 According to the EPA electrification designers must • High-temperature adhesives take a slightly different tack on fuel consumption, reduced Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies consider the complete car and tapes to help form strong what they want in an EV battery. maintenance costs, and, Calculator, it would take 5.4 ecosystem, ranging from cooling bonds in battery packs so someday, driverless vehicles. acres of U.S. forests to sequester systems to power electronics, and they hold up even in the Electrification is enabling great the typical passenger vehicle’s how those functions impact the most extreme conditions advancements in the auto industry, carbon emissions each year. car’s powertrain design and safety. says Bartling, and 3M is right in the • 3 M insulating and shielding middle of it. “In terms of circling Together, these industry changes 3M is helping them meet the materials help improve overall the wagons, and getting people are expected to transform electricchallenge. Using many of our battery performance together on it, 3M is among the powered automobiles from a niche technology platforms, we leaders in putting a concerted effort category to mainstream. According to International Energy Agency are producing EV battery pack components for both One global team around automotive electrification.” forecasts, the number of EVs on automakers and major Because so many technologies Find out more about our EV the road will increase from 3 million automotive industry suppliers. are used in improving EV battery battery solutions here. in 2017 to 125 million by 2030.2 performance, 3M leaders have 1https://www.epa.gov/greenvehicles/ Our involvement in EV battery done away with traditional division greenhouse-gas-emissionstypical-passenger-vehicle. development includes bonding boundaries and focused instead tapes and adhesives to hold on serving customer needs. Says 2https://www.cnbc.com/2018/05/30/ electric-vehicles-will-grow-from-320 million-to-125-million-by-2030-iea.html. 21 Feature stories Science for Community Power to the pipeline: the inside path to skilled the organization seeks to expand its outreach from 360,000 What enthuses Tholen most about the potential in this organization? A natural match for our 3M Science for trades development Community pillar students to a million in the next few “The greatest pleasure comes from years, as well as build a stronger talking to students and listening to alumni network, inviting past their stories. When you hear those SkillsUSA students to serve as stories, see what they’ve already 3M support of SkillsUSA and mentors, judges, role models, and accomplished, and realize the great WorldSkills is very much in line potential financial contributors opportunities they have in front of with our pillar 3M Science for For Maureen Tholen, 3M Safety & Their next thoughts expanded the to future training offerings. them, it’s very motivating for me.” Community, says Francine Savage, Graphics and Industrial Business possibilities: “We could see right 3M Health Care Sustainability Groups Sustainability Director, away that SkillsUSA represented a Tholen will serve a two-year term Asked about Maureen and 3M, Director. “These are organizations the lightbulb went on three years tremendous business opportunity as Chairperson of the SkillsUSA SkillsUSA Executive Director that every 3M business can ago. That’s when Tholen and some for 3M — an opportunity to Foundation Board, which is Timothy Lawrence said, “Having support. They enable productive fellow 3M employees made the help us create connections and made up of representatives from an individual of Maureen’s caliber employment and sustainable decision to travel to Louisville, broader awareness of the 3M business, industry, organized leading our foundation will have economic growth through the Kentucky, to see what the SkillsUSA brand among the next generation labor, and others who assist in a lasting impact on SkillsUSA investment and encouragement of national competition was all about. of skilled laborers, to help fundraising and offer expert advice programs.” skill building for current and future industry and schools expand and counsel to the organization. workers. Their community benefits “We went there to see what education in science, technology, “When major partners from 3M Science, via our products more 3M could be doing, and engineering, and mathematics 3M is also the lead sponsor and the expertise of our people.” should be doing, to support an (STEM) fields, and to help us of the 2019 WorldSkills USA like 3M step up to organization the company had create a pipeline of skilled workers team, selected and trained by support us, it sends already been involved with for for 3M and our customers.” SkillsUSA. This sponsorship will a powerful signal to more than a decade,” she said. support the efforts of the 23 corporate America The 3M team also felt there competitors and their technical Tholen and her teammates were was value in volunteering for a experts as they train to represent that we are doing first struck by the event’s footprint. leadership role in the organization, the United States at WorldSkills™, valuable work. There were more than 5,000 to have a voice in shaping the the largest international SkillsUSA could not competitors and nearly 2,000 future of trade careers in America. showcase of the skilled trades, exist without this judges and contest organizers from in Kazan, Russia, in August. across the country. There were This last observation became a level of industry also more than 100 categories in reality in October 2018, when support.” the competition, from architectural Tholen was named Chairperson drafting to dental hygiene to of the SkillsUSA Foundation, Inc., welding fabrication, many of which the nonprofit, philanthropic arm make use of 3M’s products. of SkillsUSA. In this position, she helps guide strategic thinking as 22 23 Feature stories Science for Circular Outside-thebox thinking leads to a sustainable Flex & Seal rolls are 15 inches wide by 10 feet long and made with the shipping solution same material as plastic bags — so you may be able to recycle it at retail stores that have a plastic bag recycling program (ask your retailer). One side of the roll is blue; the other side is gray. When you In fact, compared with have something you want to send, Anyone who has shipped something you cut a section of the roll that to a friend, family member, or can wrap around the item you’re business contact knows the truth: Packing an item for shipping traditional shipping sending. With blue side out, you fold the material over the item is a multi-step, multi-product process. First, you have to find the boxes, testing has and press gray side to gray side together for a secure seal. Apply shown that consumers right-sized box, then add filler to your label and you’re ready to ship. prevent damage to the item you’re The material cushions to protect a shipping, and finally seal your wide range of sizes and shapes. Plus, package with tape. Lots of tape. could save up to 50 the durable outer film resists water and tearing, and can be written on. But after doing research with consumers about the rigors of percent of their time, supplies, and space shipping, 3M has come up with an easier, simpler, sustainable option. It’s called the Scotch™ Flex & Seal Shipping Roll. by using Flex & Seal The Flex & Seal packing solution shipping rolls. No eliminates unnecessary steps, supplies, and space while boxes, no filler, and no tape are needed. protecting the package contents that are so important to you and the people who receive it. 24 25 Feature stories Science for Community 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Skin matters: With Thinking Skin Deeper, 3M is looking to elevate the importance of skin, and the benefits of properly Raising up the managing its condition. largest organ in the human body When the 3M Health Care business embarked on this journey in June advancements have been made to address them. It’s not a product those stories, I think it triggers something with them; that skin 2018, it decided it would create story. This program is, after all, not deserves to be higher on the list of three different buckets of content about short-term sales. It’s about care priorities than it sometimes is.” to help boost appreciation for shifting mindsets, long-term — skin among clinicians, facility opening doors in a different way. Matthew M. Cooper, Global Senior administrators, purchasing managers, Medical Director, 3M Health Care and anyone else who interacts with Many of the tools developed to Business Group, says, “When Skin is one thing we all have in patients on a daily basis, and makes help shift mindsets can be found at you think about it, skin is actually common. It’s the identity we share decisions on what kinds of skin care thinkskindeeper.com. Among them: the largest organ in the body. It with the world. It’s also a guide solutions will be used: emotional, individual story videos; is deeply entwined in what we that can inform assessment and long-form expert panel videos on think about ourselves, and how influence care. When we start 1. Education the state of skin; a 54-page state we present ourselves to the world. with skin, we make a different of skin report document; technical With this program, we are training commitment to the people we serve In this program, the point of webinars; award recognition to change the mindset about the — one that considers health from education is to define the natural for clinicians; and deeper dives importance of caring for skin as the outside in, not just the inside life cycle of skin, explain why skin into the most common forms part of a holistic view of patient out. It’s time to look beyond the matters, and describe the steps of skin problems, and how to care. It won’t be just what you do surface of skin. To treat it differently. that should be taken to ascertain its prevent and/or treat them. to repair the inside, but what you It’s time to think skin deeper. proper care in a health care setting. do to preserve the outside that Communications have included counts. Moreover, it will be one of “When you enter a hospital, or clinic, 2. Empathy online messaging on LinkedIn, the ways people differentiate great or other care facility,” says Heather periodic communications with hospitals from average hospitals.” Cmiel, 3M Communications Almost everyone has had an the database of clinicians 3M Strategist, 3M Medical, “Skin experience that captures what has developed through the There’s a Sustainability perspective often becomes an afterthought. happens when skin isn’t carefully years, and an audience-involving in this story, too. When you do Clinicians are more concerned with managed. Sharing an incident interactive skin exhibit used at the right thing from the beginning the condition of a patient’s heart, that has happened to them, or professional conferences. with skin, fewer materials are lungs, brain, liver, and other organs.” someone in their family, or needed and less waste is produced, someone they know is compelling In the first few months after recovery time is shortened, This incongruity is what led 3M motivation for clinicians to launching the Thinking Skin Deeper and less time and energy are to launch a new awarenessgive skin due consideration. program, the 3M team has come consumed treating compromised building, care-enhancing to one conclusion regarding skin. It all has a spiral effect program, “Thinking Skin Deeper.” 3. Solutions campaign metrics: The most prolific that is more than skin deep. numbers have been connected This content bucket explains with the individual story videos, different skin conditions and what says Cmiel. “When clinicians hear 26 27 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Clean your room takes on a whole new meaning In studies conducted by the U.S. Filter removes 99.97 percent All Filtrete™ models feature either Environmental Protection Agency of airborne particles2 that can three or four fan speeds, quiet and its Science Advisory Board (SAB), contribute to poor indoor air operation, and an electronic filter indoor air quality has been ranked quality — including PM2.5 life indicator. They are available for among the top five environmental (atmospheric particulate matter rooms up to 370 square feet in size. concerns facing the public today.1 as small as 2.5 micrometers in diameter) and particles Learn more about Filtrete™ Fortunately, for over 25 years, 1,000 times smaller than those Room Air Purifiers here. 3M has been delivering cleaner visible to the human eye. air to homes and businesses 1https://www.epa.gov/iaq-schools/whywith Filtrete™ Filters. Five Filtrete™ Room Air Purifier indoor-air-quality-important-schools. models have even earned the 2As small as 0.3 micrometers from the air Now, there’s a powerful new ENERGY STAR® certification by passing through the filter media; initial way to use this technology meeting strict energy-efficiency efficiency value. Features vary by model. to improve indoor air quality: guidelines set by the EPA. Filtrete™ Room Air Purifiers. Certified models are measured Combining an advanced air control based on a ratio between the housing with a high-performance model’s Clean Air Delivery Filtrete™ Filter, these freestanding Rate (CADR) for dust and the devices attract and capture airborne electrical energy it consumes. dust, lint, dust mite debris, mold spores, pollen, pet dander, smoke, An ENERGY STAR® logo on the smog, bacteria, and viruses from product packaging makes it the air passing through the filter. easy for consumers to identify and purchase these consoles — In fact, the Filtrete™ True HEPA helping save them money on (high-efficiency particulate arresting) energy bills without sacrificing performance, features, or comfort. 28 29 Feature stories Science for Community 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M inhaler In fact, up to an issue, nor is the forcefulness with which one breathes in. 94 percent of inhaler This is similar to some current connects inhaler technology. But any users make technique similarity ends there. The 3M™ Intelligent Control Inhaler also errors when using their has an “on board” display and a companion mobile app that can devices , and 1 provide medication and refill reminders — to promote adherence asthma, COPD patients 60 percent of patients — as well as real-time coaching on inhaler technique that keeps to better outcomes patients engaged in their therapy. don’t adhere to the Blakey says, “The app provides medication schedule tips and insights that can help patients improve their technique prescribed by their and better manage their respiratory It’s a story about 3M people Traditionally, these partnerships health. Patients can also choose applying wonder and curiosity to begin with the pharma company to share their data with clinicians the development of new technology that may well help improve and asking 3M for help formulating a drug into an aerosol format – and physician. to help evaluate device usage and monitor disease progression.” extend lives around the world. for device technology that delivers the drug with the most effective The 3M™ Intelligent Control More specifically, it’s about response from patients. 3M Inhaler will be brought to market in a new advancement in lung then responds with a design that These issues have led to lessPutting wonder partnership with a pharmaceutical disease management now in the matches the customer’s need. than-desired outcomes and higher to work company, and is projected to be in works, thanks to 3M science. rates of hospital admissions. Big use within the next several years. In some cases, though, we simply problems, when an estimated “We’ve done a tremendous For 60 years, 3M has partnered put wonder to work, innovating 334 million people worldwide are amount of research during the Says Blakey, “When with pharmaceutical manufacturers using our own initiative. affected by asthma, and another development of this technology in the development of inhalation 65 million people have moderate to with patients, health care providers, it does go to market, devices for patients with That’s what 3M scientists did severe COPD — which is expected and payers,” says Dr. Steven we believe it will lung diseases like asthma in 2014. They looked into the to rise 24 percent by the year Wick, Vice President, Product engage patients and chronic obstruction future of drug delivery to see 2034 and become the world’s third Development & Commercialization, and lead to better pulmonary disease (COPD). what could possibly be done leading cause of death.1,2 So in 2014, Drug Delivery Systems. “The to improve the management of 3M Drug Delivery Systems decided result is the 3M™ Intelligent respiratory health these diseases with a device. to take a proactive look into the Control Inhaler, a connected outcomes.” future and question how forwarddevice that improves both patient “The problem is that most patients thinking technology might address technique and adherence.” For more information on don’t use their inhaler properly, so device misuse and adherence issues. the 3M™ Intelligent Control they’re not getting the treatment The 3M™ Intelligent Control Inhaler Inhaler, click here. they need,” says Rebecca is breath-actuated. A patient 1 Lavorini et al., 2008. Respir. Blakey, 3M Global Business simply opens the cap, breathes in Med. 102(4):593-604. Leader, Connected Respiratory normally, holds his or her breath 2 Restrepo et al., 2008. Int. J. Chron. Health, Drug Delivery Systems. in for a few seconds, then closes Obstruct. Pulmon. Dis. 3(3):371-384. the cap. Timing of breathing is not 30 31 Feature stories Science for Climate 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Rock for the ages Founder and Executive Director of rays for 30 years or longer in rock by-product from 3M quarries Climate Resolve, a U.S. nonprofit a category where many of the as a supplemental cementitious organization focused on local alternatives fail in 10 years or less. material (SCM) in the production solutions to global climate change. of concrete. By promoting this Converting waste into environmentally-progressive The 3M Industrial Mineral Products alternative to traditional fly ash, Division has also developed other bonus business this fines reclamation process has products that help contribute moved thousand of tons of SCM According to the American Lung have a specialized photocatalytic “The roofing granules are a first to climate improvement. According to Josh Orman, to the company’s bottom line in Association, nearly four in 10 coating that 3M applies to the base for residential asphalt shingles,” Strategy and Marketing Manager the first 12 months of the initiative. Americans currently live in counties mineral on a shingle’s surface. said Frank Klink, 3M Senior Shrinking urban in Industrial Mineral Products, Add this to other fines reclaimed with unhealthy levels of groundLaboratory Manager. “The new the division is also developing by the 3M Little Rock, Arkansas, level ozone or particle pollution.¹ When sunlight hits the shingles, 3M granules will help roofing heat islands sustainable businesses around its plant — and sold for use in Unhealthy levels, unfortunately, the sun’s ultraviolet rays transform manufacturers develop high-quality, own waste products. “We know we construction fill, tile manufacturing, can translate into cardiovascular, pollutants such as nitrogen oxide aesthetically pleasing shingles 3M™ Cool Roofing Granules want to do more for Sustainability. asphalt roads, and other industrial respiratory, neurological, and other gases into nonpolluting, waterthat can turn any roof into an are up to four times more Reducing pollution is the right thing applications — and total mining byphysical challenges2 that take their soluble ions that wash away. active, smog-reducing catalyst.” reflective than other standard to do. And it can offset a company’s product sales exceeded hundreds toll on people living in those areas. colored granules, based on 3M costs. Less waste is less cost and of thousand of tons in 2018. In one early test, the manufacturer Lara Ughetta, Commercialization reflectivity test methods. They better for our environment. It’s At 3M, we’re working on many used a blend of 95 percent Leader for 3M™ Smog-reducing help communities bring down a win-win.” Offering an example, In its pursuit of business that ways to address these challenges, standard granules and five percent Granules, concurs: “We look at the urban heat island (UHI) effect Orman says 3M is now selling from aligns with Sustainability, the which also affect people in other 3M™ Smog-reducing Granules what the impact of this product in cities like Los Angeles, where its quarries formerly landfilled 3M Industrial Mineral Products countries around the globe. in its shingles. Shingles with this can be, and it’s pretty mindnonreflective impermeable rock dust, or fines, to ceramic Business leaves no stone unturned. blend were sent to Lawrence blowing when you start adding surfaces of urban roofs and tile manufacturers for use as a 1State of the Air© 2017. American Lung One of the most innovative and Berkeley National Laboratory up the aggregate effects of pavements get warm enough in component in their tile slurries. Up Association. Retrieved from www.lung. org/assets/documents/healthy-air/statepotentially powerful tools involves for evaluation, where they were individual roofs being turned into the sun to actually heat the air. to 30 percent of the volume of tiles of-the-air/state-of-the-air-2017.pdf. sunlight and a new generation exposed to nitrogen oxides in a smog-reducing surfaces. It could can come from these fines. And Reflecting on 2Health Effects of Ozone and Particle of coated roofing granules. reaction chamber. Nitrogen oxide make a big difference, especially because of the chemical properties Pollution. (2017). American Lung concentrations were recorded in markets where smog has of the fines, manufacturers are 3M™ Smog-reducing Granules in real time prior to, during, and been a persistent problem.” the commercial able to make tiles while keeping Association. Retrieved from www.lung.org/ our-initiatives/healthy-air/sota/health-risks/. for roofing shingles were created after UV illumination. The result? roofing scene their kilns at a lower temperature, and launched in 2018 by the 3M Lawrence Berkeley calculated that “We view smog-reducing thereby saving energy. These Industrial Mineral Products Division. each ton of these granules used technology, embedded into 3M™ Highly Reflective Granules fines can also be used to level out in shingles has the capacity to mainstream roofing materials, as are a component in asphalt cap construction sites and roadways. Inspired by a roofing mitigate the smog created annually a great step forward in addressing sheets, installed on commercial, manufacturer’s curiosity about by one car driven 3,000 miles. society’s air quality and climate low-slope roofs. They’re designed Another waste reduction play, says smog reduction, these tiny granules concerns,” said Jonathan Parfrey, to reflect 70 percent of solar Orman, is using a fine-as-flour 32 33 Feature stories Science for Community Bringing smiles to schoolchildren in China Jerry Spartz, 3M Oral Care Global Business Team Leader, explains: “We chose China for two reasons. Complementing the activities was a media campaign that received exposure from 130+ “What I liked most is that it really One, there is a real need there. newspapers, TV stations and demonstrates how They have a large, emerging digital media outlets in China. good connections middle class that can benefit from around the world education. Two, our 3M China Most important: after the program colleagues were as enthused was completed, 99.1 percent can help 3M have In 2018, in partnership with FDI about the program as we were.” of children said they believed it an impact globally. World Dental Federation (FDI) is very important to brush their Our community and the Chinese Stomatological Initially developed by FDI, the teeth every day, and the number extends beyond the Association, 3M Oral Care SAW program was designed to of children who said they were implemented an educational teach good oral hygiene to young brushing their teeth twice daily areas in which we program to increase oral children who have limited access increased by 20 percent.1 live,” says O’Neill. health knowledge and skills to oral health care, through cultural among schoolchildren, and to and educational programs that “We are thrilled with the success of The program will travel to other elevate teaching of oral disease are engaging and entertaining. SAW in China and the leading role communities and support World prevention among teachers children played in this initiative,” Oral Health Day in 2019. and oral health professionals. Program activities included: says Dr. Kathryn Kell FDI President. “Thanks to the support provided In other words, there’s a None of this is coincidental, says • D  entists and teachers using by 3M and working with our lot here to smile about. Eric Wenzel, 3M Oral Care teeth models to demonstrate member organization the Chinese 1https://www.fdiworlddental.org/ Global Business Director — proper toothbrushing Stomatological Association, we sites/default/files/media/documents/ fdi_smile_around_the_world-2018_ Restoratives. “If you look at our technique to children were able to raise oral health china-project_report.pdf vision, it’s to promote lifelong oral awareness among 3,614 children health. Working with different • C  hildren practicing toothbrushing in western China. We look forward organizations and associations in groups and checking each to educating even more children around the world like we did in this other’s results using a “Healthy in 2019 and extending the reach program helps us live that vision.” Smile Happy Smile” booklet of World Oral Health Day, so that together we can help lead the The Smile Around the World • C  hildren sharing the seven world to optimal oral health.” (SAW) program involved well over steps to healthy teeth with 3,000 elementary schoolchildren their parents, as homework Mitsi O’Neill, Global Scientific and 90 teachers in the Chinese Affairs, 3M Oral Health and provinces of Ningxia, Yunnan, and • C  hildren drawing their Prevention, is equally enthused Shaanxi, along with 115 volunteer image of an ideal smile about the prospects for the future. oral health professionals. 34 35 Feature stories Facility spotlight 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, Mexico 3M facility spotlight “Only 7 percent of the water treatment plant’s capacity was being used,” according to Acevedo. The rest was simply being returned to drainage. In 2019 and 2020, the remaining two buildings in the Edumex complex will be connected to the treated water pipeline. Total savings of potable “Among the companies in this city, Edumex has positioned itself as a pioneer in the use of treated water in its processes,” says Francisco J. Núñez, Director of Regulatory Compliance and Sanitation for the Edumex leaders and maintenance water on the campus Juárez City Water Department. personnel explored ways to will be more than 50 “They have been an example Water is a precious assembles products in Juárez, gain access to the water from to follow for other companies, resource everywhere, but and returns finished goods to the treatment plant, and after million liters a year. which also are gradually adopting especially in a place like the U.S., along with any waste two years of discussions and “We always knew there was an more sustainable practices.” Ciudad Juárez, Mexico. generated in the production negotiations with the Juárez City issue with water in Juárez,” says process. The plant employs up to Water Department, they came up Acevedo, “but I don’t think we “I give much credit for all of A city of more than a million 6,000 full-time and 1,500 seasonal with a way to lay a pipeline to their ever realized how many benefits these good things to the Edumex people located just across the workers — and provides food, facility without having to dig up would be possible from doing Maintenance Department,” says Rio Grande River from El Paso, health care, and transportation local streets or spend city funds. something like this. The outcome Acevedo. “We dream, and Texas, Juárez sees meager for employees and their families. has helped reduce our draw on maintenance makes it happen.” rainfall and many days with In 2016, this pipeline was the clean water system, we’ve 90 degree F heat every year. The challenge for Edumex has opened, and the treated water been able to plant and irrigate It should also be noted that Edumex According to the WBCSDbeen water. Due to their heavy flowed to three of five buildings more trees on our property and is a good corporate citizen in Global Water Tool™, Juárez water use and proximity to in the Edumex complex for use make it possible for as many as other ways. The Juárez facility is in a water-stressed area as local neighborhoods, Edumex in bathrooms and for irrigation 10 other nearby maquiladoras donates to multiple orphanages, defined by the extremely high and other maquiladoras in of green areas. This is water to tap into this water supply.” provides scholarships to students, baseline water stress value.1 Juárez can actually “starve” the that was formerly returned to helps remodel classrooms at surrounding areas of water. drainage. Potable water was The city of Juárez is on the the local technical university, The use of treated water in still used for toothbrushing, bandwagon, too. They are willing provides adult learning classes Juárez is a key to maintaining But when Edumex sought ways to handwashing, and food preparation to take on some of the cost of for employees, and helps build the area’s water supply. This lower its dependence on potable in the company’s cafeteria. laying pipeline, because they see houses in the community. is where a 3M partnership water, it made an unexpected a benefit in doing so for Juárez is improving lives. discovery: A city water treatment In 2017, nearly 80 percent of residential neighborhoods. To In more ways than one, you could plant located near the Edumex total water consumed in the prevent exhausting aquifer call this an oasis in the desert. Edumex is a 3M-owned facility had more treated water than three Edumex buildings was reserves, the city is also working 1The World Business Council for Sustainable maquiladora company that it knew what to do with — because treated or recycled water. Only to change local construction Development Global Water Tool™ (WBCSD): https://www.wbcsd.org/Programs/ provides production capabilities there was no way to share it, says 20 percent was potable water codes. They are even talking Food-Land-Water/Water/ for 12 divisions of 3M. As a Laura Acevedo, Environmental, from the city’s aquifer. Acevedo about doing a media campaign to Resources/Global-Water-Tool. maquiladora, Edumex receives Health and Safety (EHS) Manager. says the 80 percent figure raise awareness of the adverse raw materials from the U.S., will go even higher in 2018. effects of not conserving water. 36 37 Feature stories Facility spotlight Cynthiana, Kentucky 3M facility spotlight “This, along with oversight company’s Consumer Business Group. The goal of the summit: to share best practices and, in doing so, help other facilities with their plans to improve employee from leadership, has safety and deliver on the corporate Sustainability initiatives. By the enabled us to reduce the number of recordable conclusion of the event, attendees There are several ways Cynthiana, looked for ways to do something had developed a five-year plan safety events by 30 to Kentucky, stands out among besides send them to landfill.” for each manufacturing facility. 3M facilities in the company’s worldwide operations. “Since 2010, the facility has been At 3M Cynthiana, commitment to For starters, it would be hard to able to eliminate 360 tons of waste per year that previously went to zero waste to landfill is only one of many Sustainability initiatives. 40 percent in the last find a facility that’s more colorful. 3M Cynthiana, you see, makes the world’s supply of Post-it® landfills,” says Michael Thrun, 3M Cynthiana EHS Manager. Says Thrun, “Every day, we’re also looking at ways to reduce water, energy consumption, and volatile two years.” Notes — which includes no less According to Eric Opland, organic compound emissions.” — Michael Thrun, 3M Cynthiana EHS Manager than 56 different colors (at last Plant Manager, “Right now, 97 count) of the iconic 3M product. percent of our facility’s waste In addition, through daily is recycled in some fashion.” production reviews, facility Community support have been directed to CynthianaCynthiana is also one of seven leaders have identified five areas area organizations, including U.S. 3M facilities that send That said, reaching the zerothat account for 80 percent In addition to donating each year security improvements for no manufacturing operations waste-to-landfill milestone in of recordable worker safety to local nonprofits, employees local schools, support for 4-H waste to landfills, and it’s the the fourth quarter of 2016 was events — pinch points, powered participate in a wide range of programs, and STEM-related largest of those facilities. not the end of the journey. industrial vehicles, knife injuries, volunteer service activities — from (science, technology, engineering, housekeeping, and ergonomics. an annual clean-up of Licking River and mathematics) educational The effort to make the facility In 2018, the facility held a Thrun says, “We have teams to painting Cynthiana City Hall, to opportunities for students. “zero waste to landfill” began in number of kaizen (continuous assigned to each hazard, to volunteering time on community 2010, says Bryan Schroers, EHS improvement) events, exploring identify where the risks are, and boards. On average, 3M Cynthiana “I’ve been working at 3M for 18 Engineer. “In the beginning, our ways to improve disposal efforts, conduct training in those areas employees donate about 2,500 years,” says Opland, “and giving cross-functional team did a lot such as combining waste streams for all 3M Cynthiana employees.” hours annually to local nonprofits. back is one of the pillars of what we of dumpster diving and made where appropriate and authorized. do. This will always be the case.” a lot of trips to landfills. As we Finally, 3M Cynthiana stands came across waste streams The Cynthiana EHS team also out in applying for and receiving Learn more on 3M Cynthiana here. that could be identified, we participated in a 3M EHS Summit grants from the 3Mgives program. in February 2018, attended by the In the last three years, grants 38 39 Feature stories Facility spotlight Shanghai, Xin Qiao, China 3M facility spotlight The facility makes products for four Energy use. Improvements in the of the five 3M business groups: emissions capture method has Industrial, Electronics and Energy, To address new emission control reduced VOC emissions. RTOs Consumer, and Safety and Graphics. requirements established by the and TOs have been upgraded Shanghai Environmental Protection to increase their destruction Waste Bureau (EPB), 3M Shanghai Xin removal efficiency (DRE). Qiao is optimizing operation and Brian Peng, Shanghai Xin Qiao maintenance of its pollution control Together, says Peng, these At 3M, the concept of continuous The plant uses Environmental, Health, and Safety equipment, regenerative thermal actions have reduced VOC improvement doesn’t begin five different (EHS) Manager, says, “In terms of oxidizers (RTOs), and thermal emissions from about 500 tons and end with products. manufacturing waste reduction, we have optimized oxidizers (TOs). This increase in to about 140 tons per year in our coating and mixing processes pollution control equipment also the future, an achievement that Proof positive of this can platforms — to allow us to reuse solvent for means an increase in consumption was rewarded with a Shanghai be found in the company’s coating, converting, cleaning and reduce the quantity of of electricity and natural gas, so Green Supply Chain Award from facility in Xin Qiao, a suburb of compounding, hazardous waste we generate. We actions have been taken to offset the Shanghai EPB and an EHS Shanghai, China’s largest city. extrusion, and nonalso categorized the waste we had been incinerating and found that this increase. A new solar system generates about five percent of Achievement Award from 3M. Opened in 1998 and currently woven fabrication — we could recycle some of it instead the facility’s electrical power “We will work to continue to home for around 800 3M to produce a wide of incinerating it. These efforts also requirements, including lighting, bring this number down, but it’s employees, Shanghai Xin Qiao has range of products, have the added benefit of reducing electric car charging, some encouraging to see the results made significant strides in recent our overall VOC emissions.” process equipment, and hot water we’ve been able to achieve in the years to reduce waste, volatile including paper tape, for employee use. A redesigned last couple years,” says Peng. organic compounds (VOCs), water foil tape, conductive Water local exhaust ventilation and consumption, and electrical usage. tape, structural and coating line oven process reduces And just so the facility’s emissionsspray adhesives, At Shanghai Xin Qiao, water emissions air flow and energy advanced products themselves conservation and reuse opportunities use. Behind the scene, an online don’t get overlooked, it should be reflective sheeting, are continually evaluated. The energy monitoring system tracks noted that the facility manufactures and fire protection facility is reducing its use of city energy use by production line every a wide range of waterand products. water (potable drinking water) and minute, every day, every month. solvent-based, low-VOC, and replacing with non-potable water. GREENGUARD™ certified At the same time, by developing VOC adhesives for some of the most onsite storage for this non-potable demanding applications in the world. source, the facility has been able In the past two years, continuous to further reduce its dependence improvement has also produced “Whenever customers are on the city’s drinking water supply. reductions in VOC emissions. ready to go greener,” says Adhesive ingredients have been Peng, “3M Shanghai Xin Qiao redesigned, reducing solvent is ready to take them there.” 40 41 Feature stories Facility spotlight Cordova, Illinois 3M facility spotlight “One area we are focused on now “Through the year,” says Stutzki, “we is waste-to-energy streams. We’re average one fund raiser a month actively identifying outlets that at the facility. One month it’s for a can convert our waste materials Suicide Prevention organization in to energy,” says Parent. Camanche, Iowa; the next month we’re helping to buy food for a food Rich Stutzki, Environmental Health, shelf in Fulton, Illinois. Around the Safety and Regulatory Manager holidays we have a sharing tree that The population of Cordova, Opened in 1970, 3M Cordova at Cordova, says the facility has inspires employees to buy gifts for Illinois, is less than 700. makes a wide variety of specialty also been active in developing and children in families who can’t afford chemicals and adhesives. At executing 3M Pollution Prevention to buy them on their own. Projects So, it stands to reason that Cordova, they blend, react, and Pays (3P) projects, since that like this are happening all the time, with more than 480 employees purify hundreds of products using program began in 1975. Throughout in addition to year-long volunteer working at the 3M facility a wide variety of technologies the history of the program, the efforts by many employees.” in that community, many of throughout the facility. Ultimately, facility has implemented more these employees come from these products are used than 500 3P programs, large “In a way, supporting our well beyond the city limits. by other 3M manufacturing and small, that have prevented communities is a lot like addressing facilities or go into industrial, over 145.8 million pounds of Sustainability issues in our facility,” It also explains why, when it commercial, and consumer air, water, and waste pollution. says Parent. “Our people are comes to stepping up to improve applications around the world always looking for ways to make the lives of people living in for a broad range of customers. A spirit of giving that things better for the community. the area, the people at 3M Whether it is improving our Cordova put few boundaries Novec™ 1230 Fire Protection goes for miles Sustainability performance, on their efforts. More on Fluid is one example of a product volunteering for local charitable this in a few paragraphs. being produced at this high-tech As mentioned, 3M Cordova organizations, or getting active in facility. Novec 1230 is a clean employees come from a broad their communities in a number of First, let’s talk business. agent fire extinguishant, which was radius of communities in northwest ways, like coaching or volunteering developed as a halon replacement Illinois and northeast Iowa. This with local fire departments.” and hydrofluorocarbon leads to involvement in a wide (HFC) alternative. range of volunteer and fund-raising Learn more on 3M Cordova: here. projects, which are directed by Mike Parent, 3M Cordova Plant the facility’s Community Giving Manager, is in contact with Committee and often suggested managers of the other four by individual employees with divisional facilities at least once a a passion for various causes. week, often comparing notes on topics related to Sustainability. 42 43 Who we are Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives w W Introduction 46 Global challenges 52 3M Value Model 48 2025 Sustainability Goals 60 e h Our Vision 49 Communities 64 Our Values 49 Employee diversity 72 Our Strategic 51 and inclusion ar o Sustainability Framework Recognition 80 e 44 45 Who we are Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives We are A sense of purpose is at the heart of how Sustaining our business, and our planet, means protecting natural resources and empowering committed to individuals and communities we approach every throughout the world to encourage progress. And above all else, it means uniting under a common business, every idea, goal: Improve every life. apply science every product, every Imagine a world where every life is improved — where natural resources are readily community, and every available, people have access to education and opportunity, and to improve life we touch. communities are safe, healthy, connected, and thriving. We aim to help make that world a reality by designing a world where every life. 9 billion people can thrive by applying boundaryless, It is the foundation of all that collaborative science to sustain follows. Reflecting our core the products, processes, and purpose, 3M employees are systems that improve every life. empowered and encouraged to The resilience of our planet, our pursue purpose-driven innovation. people, and our business demands it. This is the continued story of Working in a highly collaborative our purpose: #improvinglives. environment, our scientists use 46 core technology platforms, ranging from adhesives and abrasives, to sensors and electronics materials. They leverage these technologies to invent unique, customer-inspired products that touch our lives at home, at work, and in our communities. 46 47 Who we are 3M Value Model 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M Value Model Our Vision Our Values 3M’s Value Model requires an intense focus on Sustainability. 3M continues to be inspired and The 3M Code of Conduct is In all aspects. It is at the heart of motivated by our corporate Vision, truly what it means to be a 3M our innovation. What we do in which guides our work every day: employee. Our Code is about Sustainability is what we practice building trust with stakeholders in our operations; it’s what we 3M Technology — and doing so through the practice across our enterprise. Advancing Every Company dedication of every employee to 3M’s actions are guided by our Vision and Values of Vision 3M Products never compromise that trust. It’s about every employee “being 3M”: Taking these actions will truly enable us to drive our Value Model uncompromising honesty and Strengths Enhancing Every Home inclusive, respectful, encouraging, sustainably into the future. integrity. We are proud to be challenging, and the champions recognized worldwide as an ethical 3M Innovation of diversity and Sustainability. and law-abiding company. As a Improving Every Life company, we are committed to Technology Manufacturing Global Brand How do we become the most capabilities sustainable development through Our Vision helps define what we inclusive enterprise we can environmental protection, social do, how we do it, and where we be? By attracting top talent responsibility, and economic Priorities do it: advance, enhance, improve. around the world. That leads success. Our Value Model makes It’s about how we do it with our to a much more diverse 3M, a us unique among companies and technology, our products, and stronger 3M, a more creative differentiates us in the marketplace. our innovation. It’s about where 3M, a higher-performing 3M. This Value Model links our Vision, Portfolio Transformation Innovation People and we do it for our customers. And culture our fundamental strengths, the it’s aspirational: Improve every An essential value is supporting the priorities we’re driving, and our Values as a company. Values company, every home, and every life — that aspiration drives individual: respecting, encouraging, and challenging everyone in the us as we look to the future. company to be the best they The power of 3M comes in how we can be — and that requires the connect our fundamental strengths In short, this Vision serves as culture to make it happen. With to customers, and our fundamental a daily reminder to all of us of the support to reach their best, strengths support the heart of what the 3M Brand stands for. 3M employees succeed in their 3M: Technology, manufacturing, individual careers, as part of team, global capabilities, and brand. and as part of the entire enterprise. 48 49 Who we are Sustainability Strategic Framework 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Apply science Our Strategic Sustainability our passion for science. We believe this is what makes us uniquely capable to deliver on our purpose. These priority areas build off the strength of our existing 2025 Sustainability Goals as we apply to improve Our intent is to use our passion and science to improve every life. Framework science-based approach to tackle challenges most material to 3M, They also guide business decisions and strategy, as well as how we Advancing Sustainability for 3M and critical to the Sustainability focus our efforts for local and is a priority. It’s not just for 3M, of our planet, and the people global community impact. every life. it’s for all of our stakeholders. living on it. That is why we are It’s at the heart of who we are. committed to three priority areas: We have set a clear commitment and Science for Circular, an ambitious, long-term strategy for Science for Climate, and our business. One that will leverage Science for Community. r Sc r Sc Sc C ie C ie C ie om n irc n lim n c m ef ul ce at ce un o ar fo e fo ity r Design solutions that do more Innovate to decarbonize Create a more positive with less material, advancing a industry, accelerate global world through science and global circular economy. climate solutions and improve inspire people to join us. our environmental footprint. 50 51 Who we are Global challenges Global challenges Looking at Sustainability in terms of shared global needs. Our We are looking at ways to build commitment purpose into leadership and talent development across the company, to recognize business opportunities Science operates within a set of that help the company grow while rules. It follows specific methods. addressing societal issues. We It delivers proof and proves cause cut across industries and silos and effect. But science also to collaborate with suppliers, breaks boundaries, challenges the customers, and communities by status quo, and improves lives. working together toward building a more resilient world. We have a As a company rooted in scientific unique opportunity to apply our exploration and the belief that passion and collaboration to help every problem has a solution, we the world prosper. are applying our technological expertise to help solve some of the world’s biggest challenges on raw materials, water, energy and climate, health and safety, and education and development. The challenges we must tackle for a sustainable future don’t always follow clear rules or methods — but we see them clearly. They are broad. They are interrelated. They are solvable. We know science can help tackle them. 52 53 Who we are Global challenges 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Raw materials Water Climate and energy Health and safety Education and development The world’s population People consume it, farm with it, Access to a dependable energy Global health and safety issues is growing larger, living longer — and manufacture products with supply directly affects all are prevalent in workplaces At 3M, we believe science is just and consuming more. With this it. Reducing water consumption businesses and communities. around the world. Governments, science until you use it to improve increased pressure on our finite and improving water quality are From air emissions to fossil corporations, and consumers are the world with the products and natural resources and materials, important elements of water fuels, 3M takes a proactive driving global demand for safety, services we offer. Our science not we must move beyond low-cost, stewardship. Aging infrastructure and collaborative approach protection, health care, and only impacts our customers, but recyclable materials to renewable and increased demand must to addressing energy demand food safety solutions. Creative also makes a difference products. Companies that address be addressed to assure socially and climate change — in our innovation, technology, education, in the way we work. this issue not only help the equitable, environmentally operations and for our customers. and collaboration are all critical if planet, they gain a competitive sustainable, and economically we are to tackle these human health As a technology company, 3M advantage in the marketplace. beneficial use and treatment Energy usage and climate concerns and workplace safety concerns. recognizes the importance of of water. require systemic change, and we’re well-trained science, technology, Improving raw material usage here to help drive that forward. For decades, 3M has had entire engineering, and math (STEM) through product design and Some of our customers are finding Partnering with our customers will business divisions focused on graduates as well as the critical operational considerations provides it difficult to source or deliver clean, help us understand their needs and creating products and services need for a skilled workforce in benefits throughout the supply accessible water. We help them address those needs. The issues for human health, protection, advanced manufacturing and chain in material use, energy, solve this problem by developing surrounding effective use of energy security, and safety. We are vocational skills — we need bright and transportation efficiency. technology that increases water resources and climate change are committed to helping improve minds to step into specialized roles efficiencies and improves quality. complex and interconnected. the health and safety of people and help our company and our We will continue to innovate into worldwide so we can all focus customers solve future challenges. the future, developing renewable We will continue to work to reduce We will continue to seek on what matters most to us. alternatives for impacted resources, our corporate water footprint solutions that promote energy We will continue to support revolutionizing recyclable materials, and offer products that enhance conservation, clean energy We also embrace this commitment empowerment and enrichment and becoming more sustainable. water quality, respecting and infrastructure, and reductions for our own operations and, to that to enable people everywhere protecting this important resource. in greenhouse gas emissions. end, will continue to take steps the opportunity to live life to protect our most important to their fullest potential. asset — 3M employees. 54 55 Who we are Global challenges 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our actions Levels of engagement with stakeholders vary greatly by (NGOs), trade unions, 3M retirees, and non-3M private-sector was incorporated into our consideration for our Strategic 2018 focus area assessment Along our journey, we seek internal geography, type, and function. For businesses. At the same time, Sustainability Framework, Ethical business Climate change and external input on top social, example, 3M employees globally 3M conducted a similar process milestones, and actions as we economic, and environmental are engaged frequently through through an internal online employee continue to evolve and advance Human rights Community global challenges. We utilize this Sustainability communications survey. Following completion our company purpose. Moving health & safety/ Transparency development information to inform both our and events with diverse content of the interviews, GlobeScan forward, we will continue a reporting and strategic planning. based on our materiality topics. analyzed insights and inputs from consistent rhythm to produce a Water quality As a science-based company, we the stakeholders to develop our comprehensive third-party focus Materiality Energy use include among our stakeholders evidence-based focus area matrix. area (materiality) assessment. customers and consumers, assessment investors, government agencies, From this matrix, 3M and the Data provided in this report includes industry organizations, subjectIn 2014, 2016, and 2018, 3M readers of this report can information on issues that were Impact on 3M reputation matter experts and academia, commissioned GlobeScan, an understand stakeholder found through this assessment Responding to natural Treatment of workers Reducing toxic disasters substances non-government organizations, independent research consultancy, expectations of the degree of to have the highest potential to Air quality and other corporations. to assist us in better understanding importance our stakeholders place impact our reputation and that are Employment Water shortages Scarcity of raw our stakeholders’ perspectives on each issue, the ability of 3M to of great importance to internal and Workplace diversity materials Reducing waste Stakeholder of key issues, and assessing make a positive difference on the external stakeholders. Because from operations engagement our corporate reputation and issue, and the level of impact an we are a diversified company, Food safety Improving access to education Availability leadership opportunities. issue may have on our reputation. several other environment-related of sustainable 3M’s stakeholder engagement topics and performance indicators products and strategy on priority focus areas Through an in-depth interview Past, present, and relevant to various sectors of the services continues to evolve. We continually process conducted for the 2018 future focus areas company are also included in the look to our stakeholders to help us assessment, stakeholders shared report. 3M’s Science, Technology, Engagement with increase understanding, broaden their short (0 to 1 year), medium (1 From our 2018 assessment, the top and Sustainability Committee citizens on sustainable behavior our awareness, seek technical to 5 years), and long-term (10-plus focus areas for stakeholders center reviews, approves, and assures input and expertise, and evaluate years) expectations for 3M. As around climate change, waste from material topics are covered in Human health possible collaborations and part of the process, they revisited operations, fresh-water shortages, our Sustainability Report. Advocating laws strategic partnerships. We rely on top focus areas identified in 2016 energy use, human rights, and the supporting their counsel and expertise to help compared with current areas. reduction of toxic substances. Most All material aspects defined Sustainability guide us. We believe stakeholder of these focus areas were perceived within this report are deemed engagement should be based on Stakeholders included in the to have increased in importance material for all entities within candid and authentic dialogue — comparative assessment were since 2016, along with scarcity of the 3M organization. The grounded in the company’s values academia, consultants, customers, raw materials, water quality, social prioritization for the different Importance to stakeholders — and should contribute to the governmental/regulatory agencies, equality, and ethical business. aspects may vary within 3M evolution of our strategic priorities. group purchasing organizations, operations and geographies, Indicates a higher priority on 2018 versus the 2016 assessment non-government organizations The feedback from this assessment but they are still material. 56 57 Who we are Global challenges 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Stakeholder key focus areas Membership and The world around us is changing fast. Waste and resource scarcity Stakeholder key focus areas partnership threaten our natural systems and every species. Climate change External engagements and is accelerating and endangers Unemployment and under-employment collaboration efforts on priority everyone’s well-being. People Scarcity of focus areas help provide us with around the world will need to raw materials diverse viewpoints, a better come together to create a more Climate change understanding of the positions of positive future in which everyone our stakeholders, and a mechanism can thrive. More than ever, we Poor air Stakeholders: to learn from the successes and need science. The resilience quality failures of our peers, all of which of our planet, our people, and Academic contribute to our commitment our economy depends on it. Consultants to purpose-driven business. Customers We believe we can help, and this Violations of Government, regulatory As part of GlobeScan’s 2018 is our purpose. That is why we are human rights interview process, a series committed to three priority areas Group purchasing of questions were framed on — Science for Circular, Science organizations engagement tactics to better for Climate, and Science for Non-governmental communicate with relevant Community — and it is why we are organizations stakeholders. From these reinventing the products, processes, Other private sector Waste from interviews, we learned stakeholders and systems that will improve Accumulation manufacturing, of toxic mention a variety of groups to every life. We are transforming Trade organization operations substances prioritize, including customers/ our business and putting science 3M retirees consumers, local communities, to work for the greater good. 3M employees investors, government agencies, and NGOs. In addition, they Shortages preferred communication that of available is simple, intuitive, and easy Excessive energy, fresh water to understand such as this declining energy Poor water report, blogs, and new releases. quality This aligns with our current engagement practices. Science for Science for Science for Circular Climate Community Science for Science for Science for Circular Climate Community 58 59 Who we are 2025 Sustainability Goals 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 2025 Sustainability Climate and Goals Raw materials energy Invest to develop more sustainable Improve energy efficiency indexed materials and products to to net sales by 30 percent. Raw materials help our customers reach Respect our planet’s resources their environmental goals. Increase renewable energy to and reimagine waste as a nutrient 25 percent of total electricity use. Important journeys start to assure we have abundance for Reduce manufacturing future generations. waste by an additional Ensure GHG emissions at least 10 percent, indexed to sales. 50 percent below our 2002 baseline, with calculated steps. Water Promote clean water for everyone, everywhere, so that Achieve “zero landfill” status at more than 30 percent of while growing our business. Help our customers reduce every person, business, and manufacturing sites. their GHGs by 250 million tons community has the water they of CO₂ equivalent emissions Our This is apparent when one considers how well our goals align with the Our view of Sustainability is about finding those intersections need to thrive. Drive supply chain Sustainability through targeted raw material through use of 3M products. commitment United Nations 2030 agenda for Sustainable Development released where our goals move us forward toward growth while supporting Climate and energy Transform the way the traceability and supplier performance assurance. Health and safety We have been setting global in 2015. This agenda, including the company Vision to advance, world uses energy, because it Provide training to 5 million people environmental goals at 3M 17 sustainable development enhance, and improve. impacts the climate, and the Water globally on worker and patient safety. since 1990. A strong part of our goals (SDGs), is designed to build climate impacts everyone. company history, these goals upon the historic work of the Sustainability at 3M also includes Reduce global water use by have helped dramatically reduce Millennium Development Goals collaborating to find better Health and safety an additional 10 percent, Education and our own environmental footprint and stimulate important action in solutions for customers. The way Improve the health and safety of indexed to sales. development and established us as a leader three dimensions of sustainable we see it, global challenges must people worldwide, so we can all in environmental stewardship. development: economic, be addressed together to assure focus on what matters most to us. Engage 100 percent of waterInvest cash and products for social, and environmental. we can all live healthy, fulfilling stressed/scarce communities education, community, and Stakeholders increasingly expect lives. That’s why we are committed  ducation and E where 3M manufactures on environmental programs. companies to do things that benefit We set our goals with the to partnering with customers to development community-wide approaches society in more direct ways and perspective that we have to identify and collaborate on solutions Support empowerment and to water management. 100 percent participation in are not solely focused on benefits succeed as a company while also to help them address their goals. enrichment to provide people employee development programs to the company. That is why we supporting the communities where everywhere the opportunity to advance individual and made such an active effort to we operate. It’s a two-pronged to live life to its fullest. organizational capabilities. involve stakeholders when we approach that is both practical developed our 2025 Sustainability and thoughtful — and filled with Double the pipeline of diverse Goals. These goals go well beyond the integrity 3M is known for. talent in management to build advancing our environmental a diverse workforce. stewardship efforts. They are framed around global challenges. 60 61 Who we are 2025 Sustainability Goals 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard We’ve made such significant Our actions Making progress toward 3M’s Water Health and safety progress on our 2025 Sustainability Goals, we’re raising the bar. Moving • I ncreased water use by 0.7%, • P  rovided 98,900 training instances forward through our Sustainability In 2018, we entered the third 2025 Goals indexed; behind goal of 10% reduction though eLearning platform; toward leadership framework, we are year of an ambitious 10-year goal 2018 Progress goal of 5 million training instances² cutting across industries and silos cycle. The 2025 Sustainability • 1 00% (25 facilities) located in to collaborate with suppliers, Goals we are now pursuing reflect Raw water stress/scare areas engaged; customers, and communities by a heightened commitment to materials maintaining goal of engaging 100% Education and working together building a more going beyond compliance and development resilient world. We at 3M have the thinking holistically about how our • L  aunched Sustainability Value unique opportunity to apply our operations and products affect Commitment; advancing goal Climate and • $  66.3M investments in total global passion and collaboration to help the world and every life in it. We of developing more sustainable energy giving; toward goal of continuing to the world prosper. The milestones see the opportunity, in the next materials and products invest in global giving programs established with our new framework decade, to create systemic change • Improved energy efficiency will enhance and continue to grow that addresses global Sustainability • R  educed manufacturing waste by 2.8%, indexed; toward • 5  0+% participation in employee our existing 2025 Sustainability challenges involving raw materials, by 11.7%, indexed; exceeding goal of 30% improvement development programs; toward Goals and commitments. water, climate and energy, health goal of 10% reduction goal of 100% participation and safety, as well as education • I ncreased renewable energy Our customers, and the and development. For additional • 3  0.4% (56 manufacturing facilities) footprint 26.8%, total electricity use; • I ncreased pipeline of diverse talent in communities in which we information on the development zero landfill; exceeding goal of exceeding goal of 25% increase management by 5.7%; toward goal of operate, deserve it. Our people of our 2025 Sustainability 30% of manufacturing facilities doubling the pipeline are motivated by it. Our future Goals, see global challenges. • S  cope 1 and 2 emissions 63.7% will be all the better for it. • R  evised and re-launched our below baseline; ahead of goal 1 2002 baseline year; all others Supplier Responsibility Code; for 50% below baseline1 have a 2015 baseline. maintaining our commitment to drive 2 Value represents 2018 relearning supply chain Sustainability through • O  ver 40 million metric tons training instances only. targeted raw material traceability CO₂ equivalent customer and supplier performance assurance avoided emissions; toward goal of 250 million metric tons 62 63 Who we are Communities 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Communities Creating a more positive world through science, and inspiring others to join us. Community training resources. • 3  M has been a sponsor of the Society of Women Engineers (SWE) opportunity to experience science in 3M labs and manufacturing As manufacturing evolves and for many years and upped our facilities and discover the ways companies like 3M invest in support in 2018 when thousands we apply that science to real life. facilities of the future, it is essential of female professionals, students, Learn more on supporting science that our local technical schools and educators from across the and technology teachers: here. and high schools get access to U.S. convened in Minneapolis, appropriate technologies and Minnesota, at the year’s largest STEM-equity support. Our To assure that our support brings maximum benefit to kind investments, and employee engagement remain core to training. Here are three programs 3Mgives is investing in to help keep gathering for women in engineering and technology — the SWE To support efforts in communities commitment the communities being served, 3Mgives assesses the impact our 3Mgives strategy. Since 1953, we have invested $1.65 the workforce pipeline flowing: Annual Conference. Close to 100 3M employees from all over the where our facilities are located, 3M, in 2018, awarded grants to 3M helps build sustainable of prior grants and employee billion in cash and product • T  he 3M Manufacturing and country attended, and many spoke 14 organizations with effective communities through strategic engagement initiatives to inform contributions in 3M communities. Academic Partnership (MAP) on panels during the event. A 3M STEM-equity programs. investments and the thoughtful future engagement, and provides program provides manufacturing grant of $100,000 went toward the involvement of 3M businesses, facilities, and employees signature partners with financial support to help evaluate outcomes. Our actions equipment, teacher training, and student scholarships through conference, including professional development programs for college  oar Detroit in Michigan, nominated • S by 3M Detroit, for a program to worldwide, who volunteer partnerships with high schools and students and working engineers. provide one-on-one classroom and leverage their skills and 2025 Goal: Empowering the next technical colleges in communities Learn more about this and other 2018 reading tutors for first, second, and experience to make a difference. Invest cash and generation where we operate. In 2018, we academic support initiatives: here. third graders at two schools where supported 30 high schools, reading test scores were low The primary social investment arm products for 3M empowers the next generation 10 community and technical A science curriculum for teachers. of 3M is 3Mgives, which maximizes education, of scientists and engineers colleges, and we provided nearly • H  arrison County Board of Education social impact by combining 3M community, and by supporting education 50 scholarships. For additional Teachers are the most important in Kentucky, nominated by 3M employee expertise with our initiatives that advance equitable information on one effort, see here. school-related factor in influencing Cynthiana, to provide high-quality, products, technologies, and environmental outcomes in STEM and business student achievement. That is hands-on STEM programming philanthropy. 3Mgives develops programs. for underrepresented and  ince 2013, 3Mgives has helped • S why, for 34 years, 3M TWIST to middle and elementary school and implements strategy, and underresourced students. to close the workforce gap across (Teachers Working in Science and students through Project Lead partners with leading community We continue to invest in increasing many industries around the world Technology) has been one of 3M’s the Way. Plant engineers from organizations that have a proven access and opportunity for all by supporting WorldSkills™ signature science encouragement 3M Cynthiana also visit schools track record for delivering results. people worldwide to succeed in and SkillsUSA, two programs programs, helping teachers to support these programs Oversight is provided by the 3M science, technology, engineering, that provide forward-thinking gain practical knowledge of Foundation Board of Directors and mathematics (STEM) and educational programs, events, and scientific concepts to enhance and Corporate Contributions business fields, and to improving competitions. More on skilled trade students’ classroom experience. Committee, comprising seniorthe quality of every life through development can be found: here. Since 1984, 3M has helped 40 level executives in the company. investments in environment and teachers improve their classroom community programs. Cash, ininstruction by providing an annual 64 65 Who we are Communities 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives • U niversity of Wisconsin-Stout, Passion making a difference. all of our moments matter for Standing out among standouts. Atlanta, Georgia, who was honored • I n related news, 3Mgives launched nominated by 3M Menomonie, to collective impact internationally. for her work with the Warren a one-stop web shop for community hold a STEPS for Girls camp, where When asked why they love to Examples of these efforts: For the past 32 years, the 3Mgives Boys & Girls Club. In addition to engagement, My 3Mgives. The new 160 middle-school girls built a work for 3M, many employees say Volunteer Award has celebrated coordinating 3Mgives and 3M portal enables 3M employees to find robot, participated in leadership they enjoy making a difference • 3 M France participated in several extraordinary 3M volunteers who Sales Connection events for the volunteer opportunities based on ZIP development, interacted with female in the world. To draw on this activities: helping transform an generously share their time and Boys & Girls Club, Kathy started code or preferences, and to request industry professionals, and toured passion, the company offers a old fort in a Paris suburb into an talents to improve lives in the areas the STEM Wizard summer learning matches, including Volunteer Match local manufacturing companies program called 3M Impact, where urban farm and cultural site, sorting of education, community, or the program and assists with homework employees travel to communities clothing for migrants, painting environment. In 2018, 29 awardees and mentoring programs to help Giving that starts at home. One giant STEP for student. around the world. Learn more on murals at children’s facilities, were honored globally, including: prepare youth for the future 3M’s Impact program: here. and making dolls for children In 2018, 3M launched a new Each year for 47 years, the 3M as part of The United Nations • D  eborah Diaz, Trade Marketing • M auricio Baeza, Finance Manager Community Giving Campaign Science Training Encouragement Post-graduate learning International Children’s Emergency and Corporate Marketing Manager in Chile, who was honored for his to provide more options for Program (STEP) has offered a nineopportunity. Fund (UNICEF) program in Puerto Rico, who was honored work with United Way Chile — employees to support organizations month science encouragement for her work coordinating and serving as director, treasurer, and they are passionate about, with experience to underrepresented The 3M Optimized Operations • 3 M China established a 3M engaging fellow 3M employees liaison between 3M and the United 3M matching dollars now following and underresourced students Experience (O2 Engage) is a STEM education base at primary in relief and recovery efforts Way to support the education of employee gifts. The program located near 3M’s headquarters manufacturing and supply chain schools covering Beijing, Shanghai, following the destruction of children with limited resources. In produced an expanded giving in St. Paul, Minnesota. In 2018, development program that provides Guangzhou, Chengdu, and Suzhou. hurricanes Irma and María. Her addition, Mauricio participates footprint, tripling the number of 37 junior and senior high school recent engineering, supply chain, Volunteers attended the events efforts included securing essential in a youth mentorship program organizations from last year’s students had the opportunity and environmental, health and and contributed their volunteer supplies, organizing volunteer campaign. With a maximum of to participate in on-site science safety graduates the opportunity to hours. The programs aim to outreach, and fostering alliances Big hearts, matched. $500 in corporate support per training, mentorship with 3M jump-start their careers. 3Mgives inspire students’ curiosity about with other local organizations employee, 3M employees stepped scientists, and hands-on experience partnered with the O2 Engage science and foster their creativity As part of the 3M Volunteer Match up to invest more than $3 million in 3M labs in the summer. Learn program in 2018 to embed a social through innovative educational • M  ary Ann Demition, Advanced program, 3M donates money to in current donations and 2019 more on 3M STEP: here. responsibility project into the experiments and experiences. In Application Engineer in the eligible nonprofit organizations for pledges. When including the 3M program, enabling O2 employees addition, 3M announced that Philippines, who was honored for which a 3M employee or retiree match, this equals more than $4.5 Inspiring employees to utilize their skills to positively its R&D center in China will be sharing the wonder of science volunteers 25 hours or more per million in donations to help solve impact the community. Learn calendar year. Since 2000, the our communities greatest needs. to make an impact more on O2 Engage: here. open to students who are from the 3M STEM education base with schoolchildren as a 3M Visiting Wizard. She has also company has donated $7.91 million organized school supply donations in 3M Volunteer Match dollars By investing in programs promoting A world of volunteers. for Tibag Elementary School, to support 5,500 schools or nona circular economy, the fight against an underresourced school in a profit organizations throughout the climate change, and creating Now in its fifth year, 3M remote area of her country U.S. In 2018, the match doubled a more positive world through Global Volunteer Day brought from $250 to $500. The number of science, 3M inspires employees 3M employees from around • K  athy Barber-Clark, Account participants increased 16 percent. to make an impact on the world. the world together to make Manager, Consulting Operations in 66 67 Who we are Communities 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Enhancing and flooding in Trinidad and be used for hanging signage and 2018 giving by focus area community vibrancy Tobago, California wildfires, and securing wires in temporary shelters hurricanes Florence and Michael Cash In-kind Total Volunteer hours 3M enhances community vibrancy in the southeastern U.S. To • I n 2018, 3M Mexico earned the by assuring access to basic needs, support communities impacted, “Social Impact Company of the preparing youth for lifelong success, 3M provided cash and product Year” award for its response to the Community $17,500,000 $11,700,000 $29,200,000 243,000 increasing access to diverse arts donations valued at more than $1.94 major earthquake that hit Mexico opportunities, and contributing to million to humanitarian aid partners City in 2017. The 3Mgives grant Education $14,800,000 $19,000,000 $33,800,000 78,500 global humanitarian relief efforts. including American Red Cross, helped build eight houses in Mexico Direct Relief and MAP International. City’s Xochimilco neighborhood, Environment $3,320,000 $5,110 $3,330,000 11,300 GO-power for NGOs. one primary school in the state Big challenges met. of Estado, toy libraries in Mexico Total $35,600,000 $30,700,000 $66,300,000 333,000 3M worked with the National City, and helped rehabilitate the Values presented in this table represent the most current values, in $USD, but are still subject to change. Total may vary due to rounding. Association for the Exchange Product donations can be especially office of Fondo Unido. 3M Mexico’s Volunteer hours include employees and retirees. of Industrial Resources (NAEIR) critical in times of disaster by 3Mgives also organized multiple to provide needed materials enabling relief organizations to volunteer events throughout the year and supplies to a multitude of respond to immediate needs. In to support rebuilding efforts in the 2018 global giving by region nonprofit organizations, from the case of Hurricane Florence, area impacted by the earthquake hospitals to schools to shelters. for example, 3M™ Surgical In addition to streamlining 3M’s Masks, ScotchBlue™ Painter’s Empowering local communities. Cash In-kind Total Volunteer hours excess product donations process, Tape, Avagard™ Hand Hygiene NAEIR is a 3Mgives strategic Solutions, ACE™ Bandages, and 3M U.S. locations have their own Asia Pacific $1,610,000 $652,000 $2,260,000 6,720 partner, administering the 3M FUTURO™ first aid products were 3Mgives budgets and the discretion Europe, Middle East, Supplies for Community Partners used for emergency health care to determine local community $457,000 $96,900 $554,000 11,000 Africa and the 3M Supplies for Schools services for displaced residents. needs and giving priorities. product donation programs in In addition, 3M Community Latin America $2,200,000 $91,400 $2,290,000 8,950 3M communities across the U.S. • I n addition to responding when Vibrancy Grants promote natural disasters strike, 3M works economic development, youth Canada $697,000 $720,000 $1,420,000 4,200 A natural response to with our humanitarian aid partners development, or access to diverse natural disasters. to pre-stock warehouses with arts programming for underserved United States $28,200,000 $25,000,000 $53,200,000 302,000 supplies commonly used during populations. For example: In OUS, region In 2018, devastating disasters relief operations. For instance, the Michigan, 3M Detroit provided $2,470,000 $4,060,000 $6,530,000 – not defined occurred around the world, American Red Cross stocks their a grant supporting the Matrix including flooding in Thailand, Disaster Field Supply Centers with Human Service’s Osborn Youth Total $35,600,000 $30,700,000 $66,300,000 333,000 an earthquake and tsunami in 3M dust masks and respirators, and Employment Initiative. According Values presented in this table represent the most current values, in $USD, but are still subject to change. Totals may vary due to rounding. Indonesia, Typhoon Mangkhut includes ScotchBlue™ Painter’s to a recent American Community Volunteer hours include employees and retirees. in the Philippines, torrential rains Tape in shelter support trailers to Survey, Detroit’s poverty rate of 68 69 Who we are Communities 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng Global community investments ard Key 34.5 percent remains one of the Global community investments While our international and highest for major cities in the Volunteer programs U.S. giving efforts share a nation. This level of concentrated Foundation boards common philosophy, our support poverty has had multi-generational STEM-type programs for international programs impacts on families, making it just 3M impact projects stands out in two ways: Lithuania as challenging for impoverished Latvia Switzerland youth to succeed as it is for Estonia • S  upport for international United States Germany Sweden Poland their parents. The Osborn Youth Netherlands Czech programs originating in the U.S. is Norway Austria Republic Ukraine Employment Initiative advances Canada Belgium Hungary conducted through intermediary equity by intervening on behalf Denmark Romania organizations based in the UK Kazakhstan of this neighborhood’s young U.S. that have global reach people, providing them with new Mexico Ireland Russia opportunities to explore careers, • S  ubsidiaries have local community France China prepare for college, and find Guatemala engagement programs positive employment experiences. Jamaica Italy Japan South Korea focused on social concerns Honduras specific to their locations Dominican Portugal Hong Kong Republic Taiwan El Salvador Spain Thailand Vietnam Our international approach is Puerto Rico Costa Rica Greece evolving to expand our reach and Panama Philippines build local ownership. Our goal Morocco 3M is to increase international cash Trinidad & Gulf Malaysia Tobago Turkey giving (comprising 3Mgives cash Pakistan Indonesia Brazil Eygpt investments and subsidiary cash Colombia Venezuela Nigeria Sri investments) to 25 percent of Lanka Australia Israel total 3M cash giving by 2020. Ecuador Peru Saudi Uruguay New Zealand Arabia South Africa India Throughout 2019, 3M will add Chile Singapore Kenya depth and direction to the Strategic Argentina Sustainability Framework, including Science for Community. Volunteer programs STEM programs Seven countries hosted Foundations in in 29 countries in 22 countries 3M impact global projects four countries Volunteer programs STEM programs Seven countries hosted Foundations in in 29 countries in 22 countries 3M impact global projects four countries 70 71 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Employee diversity and inclusion and harassment, but it involves more than compliance with the law. It is a work environment that is free of inappropriate or unprofessional 2025 Goal: Double the pipeline of diverse talent in management to build a diverse To date, we have made 5.7 percent progress toward this goal, moving from 32.6 percent to 38.3 percent. A culture that thrives because of, behavior and consistent with 3M’s ethics and values — a place workforce. Our actions where all employees can do not in spite of, our differences. their best, and are free to report workplace concerns without fear of retaliation or reprisal.” Increasing diversity in every region in which we operate is a core part of our Sustainability strategy. Doubling Every day, we work to assure that the 3M workforce is representative of the people with whom we do our diverse talent in management business. This entails strengthening Our customers, suppliers, and channel partners around the world. feel comfortable to collaborate, agree, disagree, and respectfully To foster this kind of workplace, we follow our Equal Employment positions will ultimately help build a diverse pipeline for executive 3M’s reputation as a great place for diverse people to work: commitment Just as important, we know that exchange, learn, and create. Opportunity (EEO) policies, which prohibit all forms of discrimination leadership as well. That said, we recognize that definitions of • S  eeking and attracting diverse and How do we become the most inclusion is the key to unlocking Our Code of Conduct is what or harassment against applicants, diversity vary between countries qualified candidates globally inclusive enterprise we can be? It’s the power of diversity. An inclusive it means to be a 3M employee. employees, vendors, contractors, and cultures. The 3M definition about attracting top talent around culture is one that supports And that code includes the 3M or customers on the basis of race, of diversity includes gender, race/ • B  uilding our global pipeline the world. That understanding and appreciates differences Respectful Workforce Principle. color, creed, religion, sex, national ethnicity, nationality, people with of diverse candidates leads to a much more diverse 3M, a and provides fair and equal origin, age, disability, veteran’s disabilities, U.S. military veterans, stronger 3M, a more creative 3M, opportunities for everyone — a Be Respectful: We strive to have a status, pregnancy, genetic and people who identify as Beyond our day-to-day efforts higher-performing 3M. Diversity culture where people realize they work environment that reflects and information, sexual orientation, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, to support diversity in 2018, we and inclusion are the foundation are respected for their whole values the best in all of us, where marital status, citizenship status, questioning, and intersex (LGBTQI). also actively promoted initiatives of our Value Model. Our Value and unique selves, and that we treat each other respectfully status with regards to public To measure progress against our to engage our people, attract the Model comprises the actions we they belong. Inclusion leads to and professionally, and where assistance, gender identity/ 2025 goal, we use the 3M Diversity best talent, and make everyone take that make us unique among engagement, which in turn fosters individual differences are valued. expression, or any other reason Index, which represents the total feel safe and included. companies and differentiate us in the collaboration, creativity, and prohibited by law. Our affirmative number of diverse future leaders our marketplace. innovation that drive long-term 3M’s Respectful Workplace action policies and programs within the company globally. Catalyst CEO growth, for 3M as well as for Principle states that “everyone is are designed to assure equal The way we look at it, a diverse, our people and our teams. entitled to respectful treatment opportunities for qualified In the U.S. and in many other Champions for global workforce — people with in the 3M workplace. Being minorities, women, covered countries, we provide our Change different experience, ethnicity, Above all, creating a culture that respectful means being treated veterans, and individuals with people with the opportunity age, gender, sexual orientation, supports diversity and inclusion honestly and professionally, with disabilities, and also to provide to opt in to the index research As part of 3M’s commitment to personalities, styles, and ways of is the right thing to do. Diversity each person’s unique talents, reasonable accommodation to and confidentially provide building a diverse and inclusive thinking — helps us relate more and inclusion are about creating background, and perspectives individuals with disabilities. information such as disability work culture, 3M CEO Mike closely to the needs of all 3M intellectual and emotional oxygen valued. A respectful workplace is status, veteran status, sexual Roman signed on to Catalyst’s for all people to flourish and free from unlawful discrimination orientation, and race/ethnicity. CEO Champions for Change 72 73 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives initiative, joining more than 50 been done to date and, at the same strengths of others helped them the process. Meanwhile, at the 3M “Navigating Your Professional companies, including Best Buy, CEOs and industry leaders who time, noticed that there is still more set their teams up for success. Global Service Center in the Career: A Conversation with General Mills, Medtronic, Target, also have made personal pledges to be accomplished. To further our Philippines, employees participated Minnesota Vikings Executives.” and US Bank to share best practices to accelerate gender equality and journey in 2018, 3M established Connect: Understand and in a problem-solving activity using The event opened with a keynote for bolstering diversity and inclusion in their organizations. U.S. and global inclusion teams appreciate the unique tangram puzzles. address by 3M leader Joaquin inclusion in the workplace. This to help fortify our culture of perspectives of others. Delgado, Executive Vice President “Different minds inspire” event gave “3M is honored to be part of inclusion and drive improvement of the Consumer Business Group employers a chance to share their Catalyst CEO Champions for in their individual organizations’ Seeking insights and perspectives and Executive Sponsor of the successes, ideas, and challenges Change,” said Roman. “Diversity Inclusion Index results. from others allows one to learn WLF. This was followed by a as Minnesota seeks to build a and inclusion is one of our core from their experiences and presentation by two leaders of the workforce that better reflects and business strategies because As part of the “Different minds increases appreciation for other Minnesota Vikings NFL football includes the rich diversity of its we know that championing a inspire” campaign, we focused viewpoints. One such event, World management team, who spoke people. The state of Minnesota diverse and inclusive global on communicating around three Day for Cultural Diversity held about their career experiences in and 3M hope these partnerships team helps us better serve our actions each of us can take on May 21, honored diversity professional sports and beyond. extend into the future, cultivating customers and build an even to support inclusion: Reflect, of our people and customers, a network across Minnesota that stronger 3M. Advancing inclusive Connect, and Wonder. recognized the importance of Global Inclusion Day will allow leaders to continually leadership advances us all.” intercultural collaboration in learn from each other’s successes. Reflect: Identify your own solving today’s challenges, and We turned science inward to Different minds unique strengths. encouraged 3M employees to explore how inclusion affects Employee Resource inspire deepen their understanding and To maintain the momentum of the the brain and body, and how Networks Focusing on and understanding appreciation of other cultures. “Different minds inspire” campaign these results, in turn, can shape The central thread of 3M one’s own talents, skills, and through 2018, 3M took it steps our culture as part of our Global 3M Employee Resource Networks diversity and inclusion efforts perspectives makes us who we are Wonder: Imagine what we further: Inclusion Day, a day devoted to (ERNs) are nine organizations is our “Different minds inspire” and enables us to determine how can accomplish together. looking at the science of inclusion designed to nurture leadership skills campaign. Initiated in 2017, this we can make a difference — and Learning the — the inherent connection and collaboration across cultures, campaign continually confirms our helps us recognize the talents Understanding and valuing the between inclusive behaviors, lifestyles, and genders through inclusive culture, which supports others have to offer, too. For dreams, needs, and desires of score with sports biology, and well-being. events and activities as they align to and appreciates differences instance, on March 8, partnering others fuels our ambition to solve management leaders their mission. Open to all employees, and provides fair and equal with the Women’s Leadership pressing challenges together. For Connecting and these organizations help 3M recruit, opportunities for everyone. In Forum (WLF) on International instance, on Wonder Day, Curiosity and collaboration engage, and retain diverse talent and its inaugural year, the 3M Global Women’s Day, participants September 21, surfboard artist are a powerful combination in inspiring Minnesota’s work with our businesses to provide Inclusion Index (a baseline measure were invited to discover their Drew Brophy visited 3M Center in business. To delve into what it business leaders relevant customer insights that of how included employees feel in unique strengths in a two-part St. Paul to paint a series of five takes to collaborate effectively, can expand our marketplace reach. the workplace) was created based event held at the 3M Center in surfboards with artistic the Diversity and Inclusion team, On August 10, 3M welcomed Learn more by visiting 3M’s ERNs. on responses to questions in the 3M St. Paul, Minnesota. The day representations of how each of the along with the WLF and the Men Governor Mark Dayton and Standard Opinion Survey. We see included a panel of 3M leaders five 3M business groups improves as Advocates group, conducted diversity and inclusion leaders that as an endorsement of what’s revealing how appreciating the lives, using many 3M products in a special event in June of 2018: from public and private Minnesota 74 75 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Current progress and opportunity – racial, ethnic diversity Current progress and opportunity – racial, ethnic diversity Racial, ethnic diversity Minority hires (U.S.) (U.S.) 19% 34% 2018 81% 66% ERN Community New and continuing being a part of this ERN, email Champions and grants support for those militarysupport@mmm.com. who serve 18% 29% Our nine ERNs, in partnership National Industries for 2015 with 3Mgives, created the ERN 3M has expanded paid leave Community Champions program benefits for military training, the Blind (NIB) 82% 71% in 2018. This program, launched doubling coverage from two weeks For more than 30 years, 3M has on 3M Community Champions to four weeks each calendar year. partnered with NIB, the nation’s Service Day (October 4), connected This policy change will help 3M largest resource for jobs and % change 1% 5% the ERNs to the faces, voices, employees in the National Guard or training for people who are blind. In and dreams of the community Reserve units meet their increasing 2018, 3M was awarded the highest Diverse Non-diverse impacted by two societal training requirements in support honor from the NIB as the first inequities: education disparity of our nation. Eligible employees corporation to receive the Irwin and homelessness. ERN members on leave for annual encampment Award. Check out the full story here. traveled into the community and or training may be entitled to engaged experts who helped differential pay for the difference Best Places to Work Current progress and opportunity – percentage of global Current progress and opportunity – percentage of global them better understand current between their 3M pay and their for Disability Inclusion female employees female employees and desired situation dynamics military pay. For additional details Executive Board of within these two inequities. on this policy enhancement, click Representing people with Global Management Management Directors here to access the Paid Leave disabilities is an important Domestic partner Policy for Military Training. dimension of 3M’s Sustainability benefits goal to double the pipeline of 2018 3M strives to be the premier diverse talent in management by 35% 30% 28% 31% At 3M, diversity and inclusion is company for the military 2025. To that end, we earned a top the cornerstone of our organization community and this policy change score of 100 percent on the 2018 and essential to innovation. This reflects our commitment to Disability Equality Index®, making us is why 3M now offers benefits for veterans and the mission of the one of the “Best Places to Work for eligible opposite-sex and same-sex Military Support Network (MSN). Disability Inclusion.” Participating domestic partners of employees, in this index helps us identify 2015 34% 27% 24% 18% and their eligible dependents. As The MSN provides active support ways we can further enhance part of its work, the Diversity and and outreach, reoccurring our policies and practices around Inclusion team invited employees professional development, disability inclusion. It's part of our to learn more about domestic and focused veteran hiring commitment to be an inclusive partner benefits, eligibility, available services to current 3M military culture and workplace where % change 2% 3% 4% 13% coverages, costs, tax considerations, veterans, their families, and other people of all abilities can thrive. and dependent certification, and military members seeking to Male Female were able to enroll for 2019 benefits. join 3M. If you are interested in 76 77 Who we are Employee diversity and inclusion 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Asia Society Awards Current progress and opportunity – percentage Announced on Global Inclusion Day of female hires, 2018 2018, the CEO Inclusion Council is In June of 2018, 3M was a multiple a diverse group of 3M leaders from winner in the Best Asian American across the company who will focus Employer Awards, presented at the Current progress and opportunity – percentage of female hires, 2018 on action planning for inclusion Asia Society Corporate Insights and diversity initiatives. With CEO Summit, in New York City. These Mike Roman as the champion, the awards recognize Fortune 500 and CEO Inclusion Council will meet other large companies that have quarterly beginning in 2019. demonstrated an exceptional ability to successfully attract, develop and Canada On the same day, it was retain Asian Pacific American (APA) announced that each country, leaders. 3M won two Best Employer business, and staff group at 3M Awards, for Best Asian Pacific will have a designated Inclusion American Employee Resource 37% United Europe, Champion who will lead action States Middle East, Groups and Best Employer for 2% Africa plans to advance inclusion Promoting Asian Pacific Americans initiatives within their group. into Senior Leadership Positions. In addition, the company received With the direction provided by a Best Practices Award for 37% Asia Pacific these people, we will continue promoting LGBT Asian employees. 3% 38% our journey of steady progress in Latin America 2% increasing the pipeline of diverse Best Places to Work 42% talent in management in 2019. In for LGBTQ Equality 13% addition, through the “Different minds inspire” campaign, we will For the seventh year in a row, 3M 56% engage employees in activities and was named one of the “Best Places behaviors that strengthen inclusion to Work for LGBTQ Equality” in 8% and create space for respecting 2018, scoring 100 percent on diverse perspectives. We’ll the Corporate Equality Index continue to focus on integrated (CEI). The CEI is administered by collaboration by combining the Human Rights Campaign and diverse capabilities and people benchmarks corporate policies, on teams to share knowledge and including non-discrimination discover breakthrough outcomes. workplace protections, domestic partner benefits, and transgenderProgress since 2015 Male Female inclusive health care. 78 79 Who we are Recognition 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Recognition environmental impact, gives back • 3M Bolivia Best DEI Places to the communities they operate in, commits to ethical and diverse to Work • 3M Brazil leadership, and creates abundant In the fourth annual Disability job opportunities. • 3M Costa Rica Equality Index® (DEI®) survey, 3M earned a top score of 100 percent, • 3M Canada making 3M one of the “Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion.” Here at 3M we strive to improve have also historically outperformed • 3M Greece (3M Hellas) every life, act with uncompromising other companies from a financial TIME integrity, and ask question after perspective, supporting the notion question to develop innovative that sound ethical practices are • 3M Panama Pacifico Best Inventions 2018 solutions with a purpose. We appreciated in the competitive Glassdoor’s “Best • 3M Poland 3M was recognized by in TIME value the recognition we receive, marketplace. This year’s honorees Places to Work” Magazine's list of Best Inventions of as it shows we are a company spanned 23 countries and 57 • 3  M Central American and 2018 in the Sustainability & Social driven by employees who are truly making a difference in the world. industries. It was the sixth consecutive year 3M made the list. Forbes and JUST As the No. 1 Minnesota-based global company, 3M ranks 60 Caribbean Region Good category for the 3M™ SmogCapital America’s out of 100, in the large, U.S.Best Places to Work reducing Granules. 3M Brazil: Pró Ética Most Just Companies based companies division, with an for LGBT Equality Certification Award overall rating of 4.3 out of five. Irwin Award Forbes and JUST Capital came out Human Rights Campaign 3M is the first corporation to For the fifth year, 3M Brazil with their list of America’s Most Just What are other employees and Foundation’s 2018 Corporate receive the National Industries was recognized by the Brazilian Companies in 2019, and 3M moved candidates saying about working Equality Index is the national for the Blind (NIB) top national Government with the Pró Ética up 26 spots from last year, to land and interviewing at 3M? Check benchmarking tool on corporate award. The award honors 3M’s Certification Award. The award, at number 26 overall and second out 3M’s Glassdoor page. policies and practices pertinent longstanding commitment to the first of its kind in Latin America, in the Industrial Goods sector. to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and creating employment opportunities The World’s Most Ethical was created to promote ethics Great Places to Work® transgender (LGBT) employees. for people who are blind. 3M is the Companies® program, managed by and encourage companies to To come up with the list, Forbes For the seventh straight year, second organization, and the first the Ethisphere® Institute, honors take voluntary steps to prevent and JUST Capital surveyed 81,000 In 2018, Great Places to Work® 3M earned a perfect score of corporation, to receive the Irwin companies that excel in “promoting corruption, creating a more ethical, Americans on what they most want ranked 3M 21st among the World's 100 percent and, along with it, Award. The award is named for Dr. ethical business standards and transparent, and honest business to see from the nation’s biggest Best Workplaces and 20th Best the distinction of being named Robert B. Irwin, Executive Director practices internally, enabling environment. 3M Brazil was businesses, then ranked companies Workplaces in Manufacturing among the “Best Places to of the American Foundation managers and employees to make recognized for top management’s with these seven priorities in mind: & Production. In addition, the Work for LGBT Equality.” for the Blind in the 1930s and a good choices, and shaping future commitment to ethics, their whether the company pays workers following countries and areas member of the team who worked industry standards by introducing policies and procedures, and their fairly, treats customers well and were ranked and awarded as a toward the formation of NIB. tomorrow’s best practices today.” risk monitoring and analysis. protects their privacy, produces best place to work in 2018: According to the institute, honorees quality products, minimizes their 80 81 Who we are Recognition 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives World Business ISS Environmental Council for and Social Quality Sustainable 3M earned best-in-class in risk Development, management around environmental Reporting Matters and social areas of concerns by Institutional Shareholder EcoVadis awarded 3M a In 2018, Reporting Matters, Services (ISS) with a score of “1” Gold Recognition Level for FTSE Russell confirmed that 3M, in published by the World Business — or a top-performing score. Sustainability Award achievements in the top one 2018, had been independently Council for Sustainable Industry mover 2019 percent of suppliers assessed in assessed according to the Development (WBCSD), recognized 50 Best Places to corporate social responsibility FTSE4Good criteria, and had 3M for its good practice of Work for New Dads For the 19th consecutive year, 3M (CSR) in global supply chains. satisfied the requirements to providing evidence of activities was selected as a member of the become a constituent of the through our annual Sustainability Fatherly.com named 3M on its Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a FTSE4Good Index Series. Created Report: “3M provides consistent list of 50 Best Places to Work for global stock index that recognizes by the global index provider FTSE evidence to demonstrate how New Dads, coming in at 45. and tracks the performance of Russell, the FTSE4Good Index it has addressed material issues leading sustainability-driven Series is designed to measure the throughout the reporting period. companies worldwide. With performance of companies It uses strategic, outcome-driven DIVERSEability our 2018 assessment, 3M was demonstrating strong ESG case studies with historical context magazine recognized as a SAM industry practices. The FTSE4Good indices to help drive the narrative. Case mover for achieving the largest Euronext and Vigeo Eiris included are used by a wide variety of market studies tie to their #improvinglives 3M was recognized in the Fall/ proportional improvement in 3M, for 2018, in the Euronext World participants to create and assess messaging on purpose, provided Winter 2018 issue of DIVERSEability its Sustainability performance 120 and Euronext U.S. 50 based responsible investment funds and at the beginning of the report, magazine as being “Best of the Best compared to previous year. upon environmental, social, and other products. which enhances story and Top Disability-Friendly Companies.” governance (ESG) performance. messaging and brings a sense of Index components are reviewed MSCI ESG Ratings cohesion to the wide range of and updated twice a year, in June issues covered in the report.” and in December. Companies MSCI's ESG ratings provide included in this index have achieved institutional investors with a the highest scores, as determined robust ESG integration solution. by nearly 330 indicators, assessed In 2018, MSCI awarded 3M the by the agency. AAA rating, the highest rating. 82 83 How we work Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives w H Introduction 86 Corporate governance 88 e ow Enterprise risk 96 Corporate Code of 100 Conduct w Human rights 110 Compensation 120 or Employee programs 124 Health and safety 136 k Environmental 142 management Raw materials 148 Water 154 Climate and energy 160 Suppliers 176 84 85 How we work Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Sustainable Just as Sustainability is embedded throughout our Value Model, sustainable thinking is embedded them the freedom to follow their instincts. At the same time, our Tech Forum is a key enabler of thinking is firmly at the core of 3M and in collaboration. This self-directed, the strategic planning process self-organized group unites we use for every region, every 10,000-plus scientists and market, and every business. engineers who work together to solve problems across oceans embedded In each of our business groups and continents, regardless of and regions we have dedicated which business they’re from. Sustainability leaders who develop a relevant and well-informed For the D , 3M development teams strategy specific to their market within each of our business groups demands and business goals. draw upon our core technologies firmly at the to create products for targeted Annually, like many companies, markets and geographies. we go through a strategic planning process during which Moving forward, we will continue our divisions and regions develop to expand beyond our own core of 3M. their business strategies for the operations and focus more on next few years. However, unlike 3M Sustainability goals and the others, we formally require that needs of our customers and each plan address Sustainability communities. While we recognize factors relevant to their market the importance of what we do needs and business opportunities. in our own businesses, and will continue to innovate there, we R&D at 3M is a little different: see that far greater impact can be realized when we partner to We separate the R and the D. understand and overcome the challenges we face together. First, the R . Scientists in our central laboratory are free to focus on pure research, in search of unscripted, unexpected opportunities for breakthroughs. Our unique “15% Culture” gives 86 87 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Corporate governance  he Board’s current leadership T confusion regarding the Board’s innovation, commercial structure is characterized by: oversight responsibilities and transformation, manufacturing the day-to-day management and supply chain transformation, • A combined Chairman of of business operations. and people and culture. the Board and CEO The Board plans the succession Our long-term strategy is outlined • A strong, independent, and highly to the position of Chairman/CEO in the 3M Value Model. The 3M experienced Lead Director with welland other senior management Value Model is what differentiates 3M believes that good corporate Our governance of the company. defined responsibilities that support positions. To assist the Board, the our company in the marketplace. commitment governance practices serve the The guidelines address matters the Board’s oversight responsibilities Chairman/CEO and senior vice It’s how we create extraordinary long-term interests of stockholders, such as the respective roles president of human resources value for customers, and premium strengthen the Board and and responsibilities of the • A robust committee structure annually assess senior managers returns for shareholders. The model management, and further enhance Our corporate governance Board including leadership consisting entirely of independent and their succession potential for is built around four elements: our the public trust 3M has earned from principles govern how we do structure, responsibilities of the directors with oversight of the position of Chairman/CEO Vision, our strengths, our priorities, more than a century of operating business daily, enabling us to independent Lead Director, director various types of risks and other senior management and our Values. Additional with uncompromising integrity outperform and lead the way to independence, membership criteria, positions. As a result of a thorough details can be found earlier in this and doing business the right way. sustainable growth. They provide committees, and management • An engaged and independent Board and thoughtful succession planning report under 3M Value Model. a framework that defines the evaluation. The Board’s Nominating process, on March 5, 2018, the roles, rights, and responsibilities and Governance Committee is The Board of Directors believes Board appointed Michael F. Lobbying and Political of different groups within the responsible for overseeing and that this leadership structure Roman CEO, effective July 1, organization, the Board’s role reviewing the guidelines, at least provides independent Board 2018, succeeding Inge G. Thulin. Activities Principle in risk oversight, public policy annually, and recommending leadership and engagement while engagement, and 3M’s commitment proposed changes to the Board deriving the benefits of having Board’s role in the As a concerned member of to the environment and society. for approval. The Corporate our CEO also serve as Chairman our communities, 3M actively Governance Guidelines, Certificate of the Board. As the individual company’s long-term participates in public policy and 3M’s Board of Directors oversees of Incorporation and Bylaws, with primary responsibility for strategy legislative advocacy, or “lobbying.” the CEO and senior management charters of the Board committees, managing 3M’s day-to-day As appropriate, 3M also participates and assures that appropriate Director Independence Guidelines, operations and with in-depth Each year management presents to in political activities to elect and procedures and controls are in place and Board of Directors Code of knowledge and understanding the Board, and the Board discusses work with elected representatives covering managements’ activities in Conduct provide the framework of the company, CEO is best and approves, detailed long-term and government officials. 3M’s operating the company on ethical for the governance of the company positioned to chair regular Board strategic plans for the company. In Government Affairs organization grounds on a day-to-day basis. and are available on our website meetings as the directors discuss addition to the overall strategic plan coordinates and oversees 3M’s at www.3M.com, under Investor key business and strategic issues. for 3M and the business groups, lobbying and political activities. 3M’s Board of Directors has Relations — Governance. Coupled with an independent Lead the discussions also focused on 3M Political Activities Board, adopted Corporate Governance Director, this combined structure breakout sessions with the directors which is made up of senior 3M Guidelines which provide a provides independent oversight on strategic corporate-wide executives, oversees 3M’s political framework for the effective while avoiding unnecessary themes of portfolio management, contributions and the activities of 88 89 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M’s Political Action Committee individuals who have distinguished also evaluate whether the nominee’s companies in their investment 36 percent of our outstanding company and otherwise meets the (3M PAC). 3M PAC is a nonpartisan records of leadership and success skills are complementary to the decisions, capital allocation, and shares, or approximately 55 percent requirements for independence fund comprised of voluntary in their arena of activity and who existing Board members’ skills, risk management. Prior to founding of our institutional stockholders. of the listing standards of the employee and stockholder will make substantial contributions the Board’s needs for particular Mildstorm LLC, she worked at The meetings included an overview New York Stock Exchange. contributions that is used to make to Board operations and effectively expertise in certain areas, Goldman Sachs in various roles, of 3M and a discussion of practices The independent directors will contributions to U.S. federal, represent the interests of all and will assess the nominee’s including as an economist, and at on corporate governance, including make the Board decisions on state, and local candidates as stockholders. The committee’s impact on Board dynamics, the World Bank in Washington, D.C. Board refreshment and diversity, corporate governance matters. permitted by law. These activities and the Board’s assessment of effectiveness, and diversity of The combination of her banking director evaluation, directors’ skills must always comply both with Board candidates includes, but is experience and perspectives. and financial services industry matrix, Sustainability, succession The Guidelines specify the criteria applicable laws and 3M’s Lobbying not limited to, consideration of: experience along with her extensive planning, and Board leadership by which the independence of and Political Activities Principle. Board refreshment knowledge of macroeconomics, structure. The feedback from our directors will be determined, • R  oles in and contributions valuable geopolitics, and global markets these meetings was shared with including strict guidelines for Our actions to the business community We regularly add directors to infuse new ideas and fresh brings valuable insight to the 3M Board. A new nominee, Pamela J. the Board of Directors and helped inform the Board on corporate directors and their immediate family members with respect to • P  ersonal qualities of leadership, perspectives into the boardroom. Craig, is the retired Chief Financial governance practices and trends. past employment or affiliation Board membership character, judgment, and whether the In the past five years, six new Officer of Accenture plc, a global Although stockholder engagement with 3M or its independent criteria candidate possesses and maintains independent directors have joined management consulting, technology is primarily a function of registered public accounting firm. throughout service on the Board our Board. In recruiting directors, services, and outsourcing company. management, our lead independent The Guidelines also prohibit Audit 3M’s Corporate Governance a reputation in the community at we focus on how the experience She served as Accenture's CFO director and executive chairman and Compensation Committee Guidelines contain Board large of integrity, trust, respect, and skill set of each individual from 2006 through 2013, following attended some of these meetings. members from having any direct Membership Criteria which include competence, and adherence to complement those of their fellow her many other leadership roles or indirect financial relationship a list of key skills and characteristics the highest ethical standards directors to create a balanced at Accenture during her 34 years Director with the company, and restrict deemed critical to serve 3M’s board with diverse viewpoints and with the company. Her experience both commercial and not-for-profit long-term business strategy and • R  elevant knowledge and diversity backgrounds, deep expertise, and as CFO at a global Fortune 500 independence relationships of all directors with expected to be represented on of background and experience strong leadership experience. company, and her skills in financial, The Corporate Governance 3M. Directors may not be given 3M’s Board. The Nominating in business, manufacturing, audit, risk management, and Guidelines and Director personal loans or extensions of and Governance Committee technology, finance and accounting, At the 2019 Annual Meeting, two governance matters, adds valuable Independence Guidelines provide credit by the company, and all periodically reviews with the marketing, international business, nominees will be standing for expertise to the 3M Board. that independent directors must directors are required to deal Board the appropriate skills and government, and other areas; and election to the board for the first comprise a substantial majority at arm’s length with 3M and its characteristics required of Board time. Dr. Dambisa Moyo, who Stockholder of the 3M Board. A director subsidiaries, and to disclose members given the current Board joined the Board in August 2018, is “independent” if the Board any circumstance that might be composition. It is the intent of the • W  hether the candidate is free of conflicts and has the time required holds a doctorate in economics engagement affirmatively determines that perceived as a conflict of interest. Board that the Board, itself, will be for preparation, participation, from the University of Oxford and We maintain a vigorous stockholder the director has no material a high-performance organization and attendance at all meetings has expertise in examining the engagement program. During 2018, relationship with 3M directly creating competitive advantage for interplay of international business members of senior management or as a partner, shareholder, the company. To perform as such, In addition to these minimum and the global economy. Her met with a cross-section of or officer of an organization the Board will be composed of requirements, the committee will background includes advising stockholders owning approximately that has a relationship with the 90 91 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Diversity Governance actions and in our operations. And 3M3M Board Board ofof Directors Directors we know that innovation isn’t For 3M, diversity, in its myriad Our committees are designed innovation, without Sustainability. manifestations, is fundamental to assure the execution of 3M’s As we seek to improve every Director tenure Director age Gender diversity to innovation, performance, vision for the future. The Board life, we see partnerships to help and relevancy. 3M employees reflect that diversity. The Board currently has 13 directors and the following four committees our customers and communities achieve their Sustainability 6.5 62.9 31% of Directors regards diversity as following their charter: Audit, goals as key to that ambition. Average Director tenure Average Director age Women Directors an important factor in selecting Compensation, Finance, and Board nominees to serve on Nominating and Governance. Our corporate Vision states: the Board. Although the Board “3M technology advancing 0-4 years 5-9 years <59 years 60-65 years Women has no specific diversity policy, During 2018, the Board of Directors every company... 3M products when selecting nominees, it held eight meetings. Overall enhancing every home... and 3M 10-14 years 15-19 years 66-70 years 71-73 years Men actively considers diversity in attendance at Board and committee innovation improving every life.” recruitment and nomination of meetings was 97 percent. It is that vision — carried out in directors, such as gender, race, collaboration with our customers, and national origin. The current Commitment communities, and partners — Board size and independence Independent Lead Director composition of our Board reflects that guides our Sustainability to economic, those efforts and the importance of diversity to the Board. environmental, and strategies, goals, and aspirations. 11 / 13 social topics Sustainability is a topic at all levels Directors are independent An inclusive culture at 3M is built of our company. On an annual basis, on our Be Respectful Principles At 3M, we are purpose-driven our Chief Technology Officer and • Independent Lead Director with robust authority — to respect the dignity and enterprise. We know that we our Chief Sustainability Officer worth of individuals; encourage can grow our business, while report directly to the Board’s Independent Not independent • Separate Chairman and CEO positions the initiative of each employee; collaborating to solve some of Nominating and Governance challenge individual capabilities; humanity’s greatest challenges. Committee on our Sustainability and provide equal opportunity. 3M efforts. The Science, Technology, is continuously focusing on building We apply our expertise and and Sustainability (STS) Committee, Meeting attendance Other public company Boards 97% 1.4 and maintaining an inclusive culture. technology to solve problems our executive committee, provides Additional information on our collaboratively, and with a focus leadership, oversight, and inclusive culture can be found in on long-term, sustainable solutions strategy to encourage and assure the diversity and inclusion section. that demonstrate our commitment Sustainability opportunities and Overall attendance at Board Average Board positions and societal purpose. Sustainability innovations are supported and and committee meetings is fundamental to our business recognized at the highest level — from Sustainability-inspired of the company, and with strong There were eight Board meetings in 2018 0 Boards 1 Board 2 Boards 3 Boards innovation, product stewardship, policies, and procedures, in place. 92 93 How we work Corporate governance 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard In 2018, STS members included our 3M’s Code of Lobbying and Political • E  conomic development incentives We regularly post governance Executive Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Senior Conduct Activities Principle and workforce development news, events, and presentation information in the Investor Relations Vice President and Chief Financial • Military readiness and modernization section of our website. See 3M Officer, and Senior Vice President More than a century of operating All 3M political action committee events and presentations. Research and Development with uncompromising integrity (PAC) receipts, disbursements, • Personal and worker safety policy and Chief Technology Officer. has earned 3M trust from our and contributions are publicly Throughout 2018 this executive customers, credibility with our disclosed as required by law. • S  ustainable solutions and committee met with increasing communities, and dedication 3M’s reports are available on the environmental policy frequency as we created our from our employees. And Federal Election Commission new business strategy, known for the sixth year in a row, website. Corporate contributions Detailed information on each as our Strategic Sustainability 3M has been recognized by directly to candidates, political priority, can be found in our Framework. This senior leadership Ethisphere® as one of the World’s committees, ballot measures, 2018 U.S. “Top-10” Priority team was highly engaged and Most Ethical Companies®. Section 527 organizations, and Public Policy Issues statement. involved in its development and issue advocacy or “lobbying” are remains increasingly engaged The Code of Business Conduct outlined in our Political Activities Governance Links in the resulting innovations and and Ethics for Directors of and Issue Advocacy report. actions. To assure Sustainability is the Company incorporates F  or more information on corporate embedded across our enterprise, long-standing principles of In 2018, 3M’s top priority governance at 3M, see: a global Sustainability leadership conduct 3M and the Board public issues were: team meets monthly to discuss follow to assure the company’s • Corporate Officers shared opportunities, best practices business and the activities of • T  ax reform implementation and new ideas. This team includes the Board are conducted with and conformity • Board of Directors senior representation from all of integrity and adherence to the our business groups as well as 3M’s highest ethical standards, and • A  utomobile electrification • Committee Composition regions worldwide, and members in compliance with the law. and connected vehicles of key functions contributing to our • Governance Documents Sustainability strategy and plan. Our Code of Conduct applies • Chemical regulation to all employees, including our • A  nnual Reports and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, • Health care policy Proxy Statements and Chief Accounting Officer. See our Code of Conduct • I nternational trade policy, section for additional details. agreements, and enforcement • Regulatory reform 94 95 How we How we work work Enterprise risk 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Enterprise risk We continually evaluate our approach to potential risks facing the company. Our actions thorough assessment for their respective risk(s). Together, with subject-matter experts and senior 3M Board member to discuss risk management in general as well as specific risk-related topics facing Corporate-level management, the outcomes the company. These meetings gave are mapped to demonstrate the Board members an opportunity to 3M’s Enterprise Risk Management relative level of risk and likelihood share what risk issues were top-of(ERM) initiative, launched in 2001, of risk. This “heat map” identifies mind for them, and which should has helped assure adequate the highest-risk areas to focus be reviewed and addressed by the Our appointed by, and report to, the Audit Committee of the Board. assesses the major risks facing the company and works with those recognition and ownership of the most significant potential risks to internal efforts on. In addition, external resources and data are Board. For most Board members, the most critical risk in 2018 and commitment Risk oversight executives responsible for managing each specific risk. The General the company’s shareholder value, using a process that proactively continually reviewed to assist in the risk identification process. into the future was cybersecurity. The concept of risk appetite Auditor periodically reviews with identifies and communicates The results of our various risk Business-level and tolerance is an essential The Board has delegated primary the Audit Committee the major enterprise risks within the company. assessment exercises are shared component of our strategic responsibility for the oversight risks facing the company and the This includes confirming that with the Corporate Operations In 2018, 3M served customers planning, and it’s the responsibility of risks facing the company to steps management has taken to appropriate plans and oversight Committee and the company’s through five business groups. of our senior business leaders the Audit Committee. The 3M monitor and mitigate those risks. exist for all major risks, providing full Board of Directors. Annually, leadership from each to plan accordingly. Company Board of Directors for ongoing review and assessment business group presents to the Audit Committee Charter states While the Board’s oversight of risk of risk, and aiding in generating 3M places particular emphasis on Board, and the Board discusses It is our firm belief that good that the committee will “discuss is primarily performed by the Audit awareness and engagement of protecting our company against and approves, detailed long-term corporate governance practices policies and procedures with Committee, the Board has also general risk matters throughout the emerging risks in an ever-changing strategic plans for the company, serve the long-term interests respect to risk assessment and delegated to other committees the company. The approach provides world. Case in point: cybersecurity. both at the area and business group of stockholders, strengthen risk management, the company’s oversight of risks within their areas a customized capability that Strong cybersecurity programs are level. Each presentation includes 3M’s Board of Directors and major risk exposures, and the steps of responsibility and expertise. leverages 3M’s comprehensive, essential, and we continue to invest the following: an overview of the management, and further enhance management has taken to monitor experience-based global knowledge in information technology systems business group, shortand longthe public trust 3M has earned and mitigate such exposures.” We believe this governance of risks and capabilities rather than and activities around cybersecurity term financial performance and from more than a century of by Board committees, who share tools often used in financial or training and awareness, especially goals, an assessment of portfolio operating with uncompromising The Vice President and General information with the full Board, insurance-oriented businesses. when it comes to avoiding phishing growth opportunities, strategic integrity and doing business Auditor, Corporate Auditing, whose is appropriate for a diversified and other threats targeting 3M. priorities to drive our Value Model. the right way. Governance appointment and performance technology and manufacturing To assure long-term success, we includes broad risk oversight by is reviewed and evaluated by the company like 3M. 3M’s 10-K, are committed to discovering Board members and Facility-level the Board and its committees. Audit Committee, is responsible for Item 1A, outlines risk factors and preparing for all potential Risk analysis is reported to the leading the formal risk assessment applicable to the company. threats to our Vision. Risk owners general auditor Our Environmental, Health, full Board, the General Auditor, and management process within familiar with the environmental, meet 1:1 and Safety (EHS) management and Chief Compliance Officer. the company. The General Auditor, economic, and business aspects system looks carefully at each Both the General Auditor and consulting with the company’s within the company are interviewed In 2018, the Vice President, General 3M site and new acquisition and Chief Compliance Officer are senior management, annually and requested to complete a Auditor met with each independent performs a crisis risk analysis that 96 97 How we work Enterprise risk #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard considers factors such as potential The Crisis Management Planning 3M will continue deploying a impact to the environment, the Guidelines are designed to single enterprise resource planning community, and 3M employees. provide a common framework for (ERP) system worldwide to provide Each site is ultimately ranked integrating crisis management a consistent, comprehensive, and based on the risk it poses to into the standard operations of discrete information platform the company, and necessary each 3M facility. All plans must be for our businesses everywhere. steps are taken to minimize prepared in accordance with good It’s another example of our potential risks. Acquisitions are of engineering practices and with the commitment to continual growth particular focus as we bring each full approval of management. Also, and adaptation to emerging risks new sight under 3M’s protocol to evaluate the effectiveness of in an ever-changing world. with the proper training. the plans, scenario exercises are conducted periodically at facilities. In addition to conducting environmental, health, and safety risk analysis, we created a crisis plan for every single 3M plant in the world. Although we hope to never use the Crisis Management Planning Guidelines, it’s critically important that we have them in place, keep them up to date, and drill employees often to make sure everyone understands what to do should an emergency occur. We care about the safety of our people and communities around the world. 98 99 How we work Code of Conduct 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Global compliance The program consists of: program • A  core set of business 3M’s global compliance program conduct principles is managed and administered by the Compliance and Business • Education and training Conduct Department, led by the Chief Compliance Officer and • P eriodic evaluations, audits, Vice President of Compliance and procedures to measure and Business Conduct. The and assess the compliance department is staffed with program’s effectiveness compliance professionals stationed around the world. The • A  24-hour global helpline and Business Conduct Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Audit Committee website through which all employees and others can report Committee of the 3M Board of Directors. concerns and ask questions Our applies to our 92,000 employees in over 70 countries globally. Our 3M employees, including all supervisors, managers, and The 3M Business Conduct The Audit Committee assists the Board in oversight of 3M’s anonymously, in most countries commitment Code of Conduct summarizes 3M’s compliance principles other leaders, are responsible for knowing and following the ethical, Committee is composed of several senior executives and is chaired legal and regulatory compliance efforts. This direct reporting • R isk-based due diligence on business partners, potential acquisitions, and The Code of Conduct is part of and raises awareness for doing legal, and policy requirements that by 3M’s Chief Compliance Officer. line assures the independence candidates for hiring and promoting 3M’s Value Model and positions business the right way, always apply to their jobs and for reporting This committee oversees 3M’s of the Compliance and Business 3M for long-term growth. Our and everywhere. The Code is our any suspected violations of law or compliance efforts to assure that Conduct Department, which is • Investigation expertise values bind us together as 3M guide for answering questions the Code. Executives and managers 3M has an effective and worldresponsible for overseeing and employees — across business and providing direction when the are accountable for creating an class compliance program that administering strategic, systemic, • I ncentives and discipline to address groups and across geographies. right choice may not be clear. inclusive workplace environment is agile and anticipates changes and operational components compliance successes and failures that encourages asking questions in the external landscape and of 3M’s compliance program. Great companies are built on 3M’s Code of Conduct and raising concerns. internal business strategy. The Compliance training trust ­— trust from customers, defines how we work: Business Conduct Committee, as The compliance program is shareholders, employees, and Be Good The Code is available in appropriate, updates the Audit designed to meet the U.S. Federal and education communities. We’ve earned that Be Honest 25 languages and sets clear Committee of the 3M Board of Sentencing Guidelines and, as 3M offers a comprehensive online trust and our reputation for integrity Be Fair expectations not only for Directors and Corporate Operating designed, meets similar global compliance training program over many decades, and no one Be Loyal employees, but also for relevant Committee. Additionally, similar standards and requirements of to all employees worldwide. at 3M is free to compromise it. Be Accurate stakeholders and business committees exist at country or other countries’ anti-bribery laws. Be Respectful partners. All new employees regional levels to operationalize and The program’s training modules are To make it as simple as possible, we receive a copy of the Code. prioritize compliance activities. assigned to employees based on have one Code of Conduct that their role and area of responsibility 100 101 How we work Code of Conduct 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives within the company. Most courses Conduct Department — in close helpline and online reporting In 2018, we initiated a project to 3M global globalallegations 3M allegationsand anddisciplinary actions disciplinary actions are mandatory for approximately collaboration with 3M Legal Affairs, system. It is managed by a thirdincorporate metrics from a broader Total number Total number 46,000 global employees. An local compliance contacts, finance, party vendor and is available to 3M range of 3M functions that conduct 1400 annual training plan is established and human resources — provides employees and others externally. investigations and track employee each year based on an assessment frequent, tailored in-person training The system does not trace phone concerns. This provides a more 1200 of internal and external factors to businesses, subsidiaries, staff calls or use caller identification, nor complete view of the frequency to prioritize topics and timing of groups, and third parties. Some does it generate or maintain internal and type of concerns reported 1000 deployment. Online courses are of this training occurs as part of connection logs containing internet globally and better reflects the offered in 22 languages. Examples an annual schedule, and other protocol (IP) addresses. Web-based “speak-up” culture that exists within 800 of recent training modules include: training occurs as requested reports are made through a secure 3M. This data is used to prioritize or deemed appropriate. internet portal, which does not resources and focus strategies. 600 • D  ata Privacy and Protection: trace or show user screen names. The Real World Reporting concerns “Speak up” poster 400 The Compliance and Business • Security and Protection Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct Conduct Department has the 3M encourages all employees to 200 and values is the responsibility of responsibility to review every “Speak up” to raise a concern or • Gifts, Entertainment, and Travel everyone acting on 3M’s behalf. business conduct concern that suspected violation of the Code. 0 We encourage our employees to is reported. After review, the In 2018, we created a poster that Allegations Substantiated Disciplinary • A  voiding Bribery and Corruption: ask questions or report concerns to department determines which encompasses many of our most reported allegations actions A Global Overview management, 3M’s Compliance and reports require an investigation. frequently used languages and In 2018, data was compiled using a different method than previous years. Business Conduct Department, 3M If an investigation is needed, an encourages our speak-up culture. • Understanding Global Competition Legal Counsel, 3MEthics.com, their appropriate investigation resource assigned human resource manager, is assigned to the matter. For 3M’s non-retaliation For anonymous reporters who • C  reating a Harassment3M Corporate Audit Department, concerns that are substantiated, 3M Ethics & Compliance process used 3MEthics to raise a concern, Free Workplace or the Audit Committee of the disciplinary actions may be taken. 非倫理的な行動 報告する義務があります。 the follow-up is handled through 솔직하게 말하기! Tala ut! Board of Directors. Our strong Discipline comes in a range of ROZMAWIAJ Z NAMI! Çekinme Söyle! Prehovorte! 3MEthics to maintain anonymity. If Parla apertamente 直言不讳! Ungkapkan! Высказывайте сомнения! Exprimez-vous Говори открыто 直言不諱! • C  ode of Conduct and Ethical ethical culture requires and forms consistent with similar Spregovori 3M prohibits retaliation against claims of retaliation are identified, NGRIJE ZËRIN Speak up! Progovori Decision Making empowers employees to make past violations, from warnings, Vorbeste anyone who raises a business the investigation team will follow Hãy lên tiếng! ΜΙΛΗΣΤΕ ΑΝΟΙΧΤΑ Pozovite the right choices every day. 3M to suspensions, to termination. Fale! conduct concern or cooperates in a up on them. All concerns raised Sprechen Sie mit uns Suarakan Kecurigaan! ¡ HAZLO SABER! • Recognizing Conflict of Interest makes it clear that speaking up is Disciplinary actions may impact one อย่าละเลยไม่รายงานพฤติกรรมผิดจรรยาบรรณ company investigation. To monitor are expected to be made in good the right thing to do. We know our or more persons associated with a Speak up. this risk, a compliance investigator faith. 3M has a strong position Ask a question. The Compliance and Business employees care about the company single substantiated violation. The Be 3M Raise a concern. Go to 3MEthics.com contacts the reporter several against retaliation, which is Conduct website on 3M’s intranet and want to do the right thing. Global allegations and disciplinary months after an investigation reflected in the Non-Retaliation offers additional on-demand action graph illustrates business closes to discuss if the person has Policy and within 3M’s Employee online training courses. In addition In addition, 3MEthics.com is a 24conduct related reports raised experienced any form of retaliation. Obligations and Reporting Principle. to offering online training, the hour confidential and anonymous in 2018, using our reporting This is done either by phone or via Compliance and Business (where permitted by local law) tools found at 3MEthics.com. email for non-anonymous reporters. 102 103 How we work Code of Conduct 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Assessments the importance of operating in Bribery and Corruption: A Global on due-diligence processes related including providing guidance “At 3M, we pride an ethical, compliant manner. Overview” training is required of to potential venture investments and advice on identifying, ourselves with A dedicated team within most non-production employees and mergers and acquisitions. managing, and mitigating risk. our long-standing 3M’s Compliance and Business and specifically employees in These processes help identify risks commitment to doing Conduct Department conducts Commitment to higher-risk roles, including those in the target company before an Political values the right thing. By periodic compliance and antianti-corruption in legal, audit, sales, marketing, acquisition or investment is initiated. Living our Code of bribery evaluations in various 3M export, and global trading. The This process accelerates our efforts 3M respects our employees’ right subsidiaries and operating units As a member of the United Nations Chief Compliance Officer provides to integrate an acquired company’s to engage in the political process, Conduct, it allows each year. These evaluations Global Compact (UNGC), 3M is quarterly updates on all activities employees to 3M’s compliance and, at the same time, 3M is us the opportunity are selected using objective and committed to support Principle to the Audit Committee of the program and culture. Ultimately, committed to prevent potential to advance every subjective risk factors, and include 10 on Anti-Corruption. Our Board of Directors and the 3M the Compliance and Business corruption. When allowed by law, company, enhance reviews of financial transactions, commitment and involvement with Business Conduct Committee. Conduct Department is charged any corporate political contributions compliance records, interviews the UNGC, and with our community with conducting a risk review outside of the United States require every home, and with business personnel, and of peer companies, provides us 3M’s commitment to anti-corruption and implementing any necessary approval by the Area Vice President improve every life.” audits of selected third-party with the opportunity to collaborate is also reflected in our management remediation activities upon the and assigned legal counsel. intermediaries. In 2018, we and share best practices related of third-party intermediaries closing of every acquisition. In — Veena Lakkundi interviewed approximately 900 to work against corruption in and other business partners. 3M 2018, as part of our compliance For additional information on 3M Chief Compliance Officer and Vice President non-production employees as all its forms. Additionally, the conducts due-diligence reviews integration process, we completed our Code of Conduct, please Compliance and Business part of the evaluation process. compliance professionals on of our third parties based on an a follow-up compliance culture visit https://www.3m.com/3M/ Conduct Additionally, the number of third our team regularly participate, assessment of risk factors, including survey that was initially piloted en_US/company-us/about-3m/ parties reviewed or visited through present, and are members of transaction size, type of relationship, with an acquisition in 2017. These compliance-business-conduct/. an evaluation grew substantially. organizations and associations government interactions, and surveys help identify whether This growth was enabled by an working to improve compliance geography. Depending on the new employees understand enhancement introduced in 2017 controls and reduce legal risk. outcome of the review, we 3M’s compliance expectations Third-party brochure called a local evaluation, which respond to any identified risks and where further assistance uses the same methodology of 3M’s Code requires compliance with specific actions, such as or training can be provided. To enhance our communications the existing evaluation program with all applicable anti-bribery laws, training, inclusion of relevant and expectations with third parties, but has a more focused scope. including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt contractual terms, and other riskFinally, the Compliance and 3M has an online training course A number of local evaluations Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, mitigating controls. 3M may end Business Conduct Department and has created a brochure for in 2018 specifically focused on Brazil’s Clean Company Act, and a relationship with a business has a group of specialists our business partners. The online third-party business partners. local laws where 3M operates. It partner if the risk presented is focused on assuring that 3M training course covers anti-bribery applies to 3M employees, as well as determined to be too high and conducts government contract and is available in 22 languages. The Not only do audits, evaluations, to our business partners. In addition, cannot be appropriately mitigated. and subcontractor business brochure, available in 27 languages, and risk assessments help detect 3M’s Anti-Bribery Principle and antiin compliance with all laws. provides another way for 3M to opportunities for improvement corruption policies and procedures Further, the Compliance and This group trains, assists, and communicate with our business and gaps in processes or have been communicated to Business Conduct Department coaches 3M employees on all partners regarding our commitment procedures, they also reinforce all employees. Our “Avoiding collaborates with 3M Legal Affairs government contracting needs, to combat global bribery. 104 105 How we work Code of Conduct 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our actions Global Ethics and Compliance Day with employees about their area of expertise, answered their questions, and new processes to guide the program and provide clarity on hotline and resulting disciplinary action taken for cases, which we Senior leadership training Code of Conduct and addressed some common myths about their areas. Games and the type of conduct we recognize. This program is important to 3M, substantiate and close each quarter. Leadership is critical to creating We recently launched a refreshed All over the world, we held Ethics videos were created to bring the because it is the way we recognize Supervisor toolkit a culture of trust, ethics, and version of our Code of Conduct, and Compliance Day events to Code to life in a fun, interactive way. employees who go above and compliance. To help build upon Be 3M, which is available in further build employee engagement beyond to do the right thing. Because most ethical challenges our already strong leadership 25 languages. We leveraged about the Code and doing the are raised to a person’s manager foundation, we launched training feedback from global stakeholders right thing. For the second year or supervisor, we created a series sessions for all Country Business and employee focus groups to in a row, we held a compliance Case studies of tools and reference material Leaders and their Management identify opportunities to make day in the U.S. Featured speakers and metrics for supervisors to help address Operating Committee members. the Code more contemporary. included Mike Roman, Chief employee questions and respond Over 500 leaders went through We improved readability and Executive Officer; Veena Lakkundi, To provide greater transparency appropriately when dealing with individual one-on-one sessions added new sections: social media, Chief Compliance Officer and on the challenges our employees potential violations of the law or with subject-matter experts Sustainability, speaking for the Vice President Compliance and sometimes face, the Compliance the Code of Conduct. The tools in compliance or legal. The company, and volunteering and Business Conduct; and Ivan Fong, and Business Conduct Department include a simple guide and badge discussions were interactive and charitable giving. To create more Senior Vice President and General publishes and distributes case holder that describes the type of covered topics from all areas of interest, we added interactive Counsel of 3M. In addition, we held Living the studies quarterly to all employees, matters that should be immediately ethics and compliance, including learning aids, additional graphics, a panel of business leaders who Code award highlighting real-life ethical escalated to a subject-matter expert respectful workplace, third-party and imagery. We maintained our discussed ethical challenges, and dilemmas. The quarterly series to handle and resolve. Additionally, due diligence, and the investigation Code’s organization around the we hosted a customer who spoke This year, we promoted our Living of case studies not only includes we created a handbook to educate process, to name a few. six “Be” mandates, which are about the value of working with an the Code recognition program more missteps but also includes positive supervisors on the proper way to universally understood (Be Good, ethical and compliant company. The broadly and widened the audience stories of individuals who made manage an employee concern. This Be Honest, Be Fair, Be Loyal, Be theme of the U.S. compliance day from which we accept nominations. the right choice and received our handbook explains the investigation Accurate, and Be Respectful). was myth-busters. 3M scientists Previously, nominations were Living the Code recognition. process, so supervisors have showcased experiments and raised through the Compliance visibility into how 3M manages explained scientific myths, while and Business Conduct Department Without revealing personal investigations. Finally, we created experts from various compliance and our network of compliance information, we include with each an animated video that illustrates functions in the company (including contacts in our countries and case study details on outcome and examples of good and poor Corporate Audit, Global Security, businesses. Also, this year, we any disciplinary action the company practices when dealing with Government Contract Compliance, opened the nomination process took. Employees appreciate this employee concerns or questions. Treasury, Finance, Investigation to all employees and launched level of transparency and find Teams, EHS, IT Quality and a communication campaign to the relatable examples useful Compliance, Regulatory Trade, energize employees about the for their learning. Finally, the and U.S. Compliance Contacts) program. To assure timely receipt quarterly series of case studies were stationed at booths where and processing of nominations, we includes metrics and infographics they held interactive discussions created a supporting infrastructure that highlight activity from our 106 107 #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard We continue to focus on building We will enhance our existing Local and maintaining our culture of Compliance Contact Network to ethics, encouraging speak-up, expand our reach, reduce gaps, and enhancing our controls. and improve our overall culture of compliance. We will standardize Building on our foundation of the role globally and provide executive messaging, we will clarity on the responsibilities of a turn our focus on messaging to contact. Further, we will identify middle management. Middle the attributes of an ideal candidate management influences day-to-day for this position and the value operations, and these individuals the role brings to a contact’s are typically the first people career development at 3M. employees consult regarding ethical concerns. In 2019, we will Finally, we will expand our data launch quarterly communications to analysis by leveraging data from supervisors, providing information sources outside of Compliance that will enable them to set the and Business Conduct, including right tone and candidly discuss Finance, Customer Relationships, ethical issues with their team. and other systems. We will analyze this data to be more predictive in While supervisors play an important the manner we assess risk, identify role in managing employee trends, and prioritize activity. We concerns, protecting 3M’s will also seek to simplify and reputation is the responsibility automate compliance processes of all employees. To reinforce by integrating them into new this message, we will continue to systems and workflow tools at 3M. hold ethics and compliance days around the world. We will also test new communication tools to increase employee engagement and awareness of compliance. We will develop and release a unique “Moment of Truth” video series that will feature 3M employees telling their stories of ethical dilemmas. 108 109 How we work Human rights 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Human Rights Doing business the right way. At all times. Under all circumstances. A respectful workplace manufacturing. 3M also complies with all applicable laws relating to where 3M does business.” In the event of business operations overtime and breaks. Additional changes, we follow all applicable As part of 3M’s Code of Conduct information can be found in local laws and regulations regarding to Be Respectful, the Respectful our compensation section. notice periods for both union Workplace Principle states that and nonunion employees. “everyone is entitled to respectful Freedom of treatment in the 3M workplace. Approximately 8 percent of 3M’s association and the Our at Work. Adopted in 1998, the declaration commits member states Leadership Behaviors. We continue to implement our human rights Being respectful means being treated honestly and professionally, right to collective global workforce is unionized, with the number rising to 21 commitment to respect and promote principles and rights in four categories, program through our global policies, management system, assessments, with each person’s unique talents, background, and perspectives bargaining percent when labor agreements are included. We are aware that Our Human Rights Policy whether or not they have ratified audits, training, and ultimately, valued. A respectful workplace is 3M works diligently to create in some countries, collective applies to all 3M employees, the relevant conventions: freedom metrics tracking. Our audit process free from unlawful discrimination a work culture that affords all bargaining rights are not protected contingent workers, anyone doing of association and elimination of is truly global, and we are increasing and harassment, but it involves employees the opportunity to work or recognized. Nevertheless, 3M business with or on our behalf, discrimination in employment and the number of assessments we more than compliance with the law. without fear of intimidation, reprisal, assures that freedom of association candidates for hire at 3M, and occupation, the right to collective are performing, which gives It is a work environment that is free or harassment, in an environment and collective bargaining aspects others acting on 3M’s behalf. bargaining, the elimination of us a global perspective on our of inappropriate or unprofessional where employees are able to get of our Human Rights Policy apply forced or compulsory labor, and own internal locations, including behavior and consistent with their questions addressed in a fair to all 3M employees worldwide. In 2014, we became a participant the abolition of child labor. all manufacturing locations. 3M’s ethics and values — a place and timely manner. In all locations, of the United Nations Global where all employees can do the company’s relationship with Child labor and Compact (UNGC), thereby Guided by deeply Human rights their best, and are free to report employees, whether union or minimum hiring age committing to align our operations workplace concerns without nonunion, is a key responsibility and strategies with the UNGC engrained principles elements brought fear of retaliation or reprisal.” of all leaders, assisted by human 3M is committed to doing our principles on business and human in our culture to life resources representatives. Human part to help abolish child labor. rights. We support its “protect, resources professionals work with This commitment is evident in our respect and remedy” framework At 3M, the respect for human rights Our commitment to upholding Working hours and employees to maintain positive Human Rights Policy and Supplier and its principles of due diligence. is deeply engrained in our culture. human and workplace rights living wages employee relations. Responsibility Code. Although Furthermore, our Code of Conduct Within our own business, 3M’s is embodied in the 3M Human the permissible hiring age for requires compliance with all approach for managing and assuring Resource (HR) Principles, which 3M complies with minimum Our Human Rights Policy has a employees may vary based on the applicable laws and respect for human rights is derived from 3M’s respect the dignity and worth of all wage legislation globally, and we specific subdivision on the freedom laws of different countries, 3M internationally recognized human Code of Conduct, which recognizes individuals, encourage the initiative make every effort to exceed legal of association, which assures has adopted global expectations rights in all global operations. the right of employees to have a of each employee, challenge minimum wage. Our competitive that we respect “the ability of regarding the hiring of minors. respectful workplace. This culture individual capabilities, and provide compensation reflects our practice employees to choose whether or Even if local law permits it, 3M will We also recognize the International continues through our human equal opportunity for development. of establishing competitive salary not to join unions and engage in not hire any employee nor engage Labor Organization Declaration on resources policies, programs, and ranges based on actual pay data collective bargaining, as permitted a contingent worker (individual Fundamental Principles and Rights management systems, including 3M from benchmark peer companies in by applicable laws in the countries provided by a third-party staffing 110 111 How we work Human rights 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives agency to perform temporary work) visitors in both emergency and free flu shots, health-conscious Standard defines the rules that Medical surveillance Human trafficking below the age of 15 for any job. If non-emergency situations such as options in the cafeterias, travel must be followed to protect the applicable laws impose a higher accidents, incidents, loss or theft, kits, and immunizations for workers’ medical information. We monitor our employees Our approach to human minimum age requirement than 15, suspicious items or behaviors, and travelers, on-site fitness centers This standard assures that 3M periodically based on their trafficking, sometimes referred 3M follows the stricter standard lock-outs. 3M’s Global Security and medical care, telehealth, medical information is handled in potential exposure to chemical and to as “modern slavery,” is very in compliance with the law. Operations Center (GSOC) monitors adoption and foster care support, a manner consistent with the 3M physical hazards in the workplace. simple: We do not tolerate it. risks and intelligence sources and the FlexAbility approach to Data Privacy Principle. The standard We screen for early signs of Forced and worldwide and supports local providing more flexibility to help covers access, collection, storage, occupational illnesses to protect Our Human Rights Policy details our operations in severe situations. 3M employees optimize their work and security, release of information, workers from further exposure prohibition on human trafficking. compulsory labor Alert emergency messages inform personal life through one-on-one transfer of records, record and provide prompt care. We We are committed to using 3M complies with all applicable workers of safety and security planning with their supervisor. retention, and record destruction. also look for trends in the health effective systems and controls to laws and employment regulations threats and situations and also data in working populations to prevent human trafficking from and does not engage or participate provide a response mechanism Additional information can be Some of our preventive programs assure that potential hazards are taking place anywhere within in forced labor. We have those to check on the safety of workers found in the employee programs include hypertension management, well-controlled. While many of our business or supply chains. same expectations for all after a catastrophic or severe event. section of this report. cardiovascular risk reduction, these programs are mandated vendors doing business with us. The GSOC also manages traveler smoking cessation, and nutrition by government requirements, These prohibitions apply to 3M This commitment is evident in safety, using 3M-provided tools 3M Medical consultations and cancer others are established to meet and its subsidiaries as well as our Human Rights Policy and and resources to help employees prevention in partnership with 3M’s more protective standards. to our federal contracts and Supplier Responsibility Code. anticipate disruptions and easily 3M Medical is committed to the Healthy Living program. subcontracts for either commercial change their travel plans if protecting and enhancing the 3M is one of the few companies or non-commercial items. needed, and to provide emergency health and productivity of our supporting an internal occupational Safe and healthy care and services if needed. employees. We promote a International epidemiology program. For the Expectations regarding labor workplace culture of health and well-being travel health past 24 years, this group has and human resource practices Additional information can be at 3M by understanding and conducted epidemiologic studies also apply to all of our suppliers 3M policies assure that the found in the health and safety addressing the potential stressors Our travel health team prepares 3M to examine health outcomes among worldwide (see the supplier section company provides a safe and section of this report. in the workplace and promoting employees for international business 3M manufacturing workers and of this report for more details). 3M healthy workplace to all employees, disease prevention and health travel through comprehensive their potential association with suppliers must comply with all local and that the 3M workplace Healthy living improvement. We also respond to travel health consultations that occupational exposures and other country labor and human resource complies with applicable laws, health concerns of our workforce include a personal health history workplace conditions. Occupational laws and cannot use labor that is regulations, and policies. Health, wealth, wellness, and and communities and provide review, immunizations, appropriate epidemiology research is used obtained through mental or physical resilience create a framework for a medical care for our employees. travel medications, and travel to inform risk assessments coercion, physical punishment, 3M’s facilities are secured and collection of programs, resources, health education. We also assist and the development of risk slavery, or other oppressive labor monitored to protect 3M’s property, and services designed to help Our programs are designed to all of our employees who may management activities within 3M. conditions, and cannot engage in assets, people, and operations, employees and their families prevent health-related problems. require medical assistance while any form of human trafficking. and are accessible with badge achieve their well-being goals. Clinical services for illness and away from their home base. access. Uniformed security workers While programs and services injuries are offered at 3M facilities support and assist workers and vary globally, examples include worldwide. 3M's Medical Record 112 113 How we work Human rights 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Security personnel training and acknowledge 3M’s Systems Access Control Standard and  M Compliance and Business • 3 Conduct Department standards, and procedures. 3M’s Compliance and Ethics Our actions Holistic approach to human rights other 3M policies and standards. Department offers a comprehensive procedures • 3MEthics.com online compliance training Strong support for due diligence With the alarming rise in corporate Management requires employees, program for all employees human rights charters security breaches worldwide, contingent workers, and suppliers See 3M’s Business Conduct website worldwide so 3M employees are The 3M Code of Conduct our Human Resource Security to apply security in accordance for more information regarding aware of and understand their 3M continues to support several describes the company’s business Standard presents the controls with established policies and how to report a concern. Additional responsibilities and obligations. human rights charters. Among them: conduct principles, or core values, required to achieve human procedures. All 3M employees information can be found in the which set forth global corporate resource security based on industry and, where relevant, contingent Code of Conduct section. Our online training program • United Nations Global Compact expectations for all 3M employees standards and best practices. workers and suppliers, must receive assigns training modules to each and third parties who act on 3M’s appropriate awareness training and 3M prohibits retaliation against employee based on their role and • Universal Declaration behalf. The principles in this Code Roles and responsibilities of regular updates in organizational anyone who asks a question, area of responsibility. An annual of Human Rights remain consistent with 3M’s information security employees, policies and procedures, as reports a concern in good faith, training plan is established each long-standing business conduct contingent workers, and suppliers relevant for their job function. or participates in a company year based on an assessment of • European Convention principles, its values, and our shared must be defined and documented in investigation. This position is internal and external factors for on Human Rights ethical standards for conducting accordance with the 3M Information Filing, addressing, reflected in the Non-Retaliation prioritizing topics and timing of business with uncompromising Security Management System Policy and within 3M’s Employee deployment. This includes a series honesty and integrity. (ISMS). Background checks verify and resolving Obligations and Reporting Principle. of new employee onboarding • U nited Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights on all candidates for employment, workplace concerns courses. New employees In our view, human rights due contingent workers, and suppliers In addition, we conduct audits receive email notifications • I nternational Labor Organization’s diligence requires a holistic must be carried out in accordance When concerns related to of site, workplace, and human about course assignments and Declaration on Fundamental approach. We assess our own with relevant laws, regulations, human rights, labor practices, resource practices, and we conduct timeline for completion. New Principles and Rights at Work business, and others acting on and ethics, and be proportional environmental, or safety issues assessments and audits of suppliers employee courses are due our behalf — in supply roles, to the business requirements, the arise, our employees and nonto assure compliance with 3M’s within 60 days of assignment. • O ECD — Organization for government relationships, classification of the information to employees are encouraged and expectations related to labor Economic Co-operation and acquisitions, mergers, and be accessed, and the perceived risks. trained to raise questions or practices (see the supplier section Development Guidelines for divestitures — to identify the report misconduct or potential of this report for more details). Multinational Enterprises, salient human rights issues As part of their contractual obligation, misconduct. We provide a variety including OECD Due Diligence applicable to our business. We employees must agree to and of mechanisms for reporting Assuring human rights Guidance for Responsible Supply have a grievance mechanism sign the terms and conditions of and resolving concerns: in place, 3MEthics.com, which their employment contract, which through training Chains of Minerals from ConflictAffected and High-Risk Areas can be used to raise a concern states not only their own, but their • E  mployee’s management and/ regarding any adverse human organization’s responsibilities for or human resource manager We perform global training to • A genda 21 — United Nations rights impacts. We also comply information security. Contingent assure that all 3M employees Convention against Corruption with all applicable laws and honor workers and suppliers in the • 3M legal counsel comply with the law, 3M’s Code U.S. are required to review and of Conduct, supporting policies, 114 115 How we work Human rights 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives the principles of internationally commitment, and includes these and are based on material issues Within our own of everyone acting on 3M’s compliance with all applicable recognized human rights when points of review: safe and healthy regardless of where they’re behalf. Multiple processes are in labor and human resource laws, faced with conflicting requirements. workplace, respectful workplace, identified within the value chain. business place to assure 3M’s principles we expect our suppliers to be workplace security, work hours are being upheld by these committed to upholding the Assessing and wages, freedom of association, Based on this assessment process, Within 3M, our approach to parties. Case in point: our human rights of workers, and child labor, forced labor, human we have determined that in our managing and assuring human approach to health and safety. to treating them with dignity human rights trafficking or recruitment fees to various spheres of influence (our rights aligns with the 3M Code and respect as understood by Our assessment on human rights obtain employment. Evaluations are own business and others acting on of Conduct, which recognizes Under our Workplace the international community. aligns with our corporate Human integrated into other assessment 3M's behalf), the sphere with the the right of employees to have Environmental, Health, and Safety This applies to all workers, Rights Policy, as outlined under Our and management processes greatest potential for human rights a respectful workplace. Principle, 3M’s Code of Conduct including temporary, migrant, impact is within our supply chain. requires 3M employees to select student, contract, and direct To protect that right, our Employee and retain suppliers, contractors, employees. These expectations Relations (ER) Assessment tool or outsourced manufacturers are laid out in the 3M Supplier Segment Salient risk* Action plan to address enables any 3M location globally and service providers who Responsibility Code, and we have Assuring conformance to assess its policies and practices. comply with all applicable laws a 2025 goal to drive supply chain 3M employees with the 3M Code of See Code of Conduct section for additional details on our actions Using the tool, and tracking data and regulations and meet 3M’s Sustainability through targeted Conduct throughout the assessment process, environmental, health, and raw material traceability and Unsafe working leaders can review practices related safety values. In addition, at 3M supplier performance assurance. Others acting on 3M’s conditions, mistreatment See Workplace Environmental, Health, and Safety Principle to 3M’s Human Rights Policy, locations, all visitors, vendors, behalf of workers identify strengths and opportunities and contract workers are held For details on our risk-based Assuring conformance for improvement, and develop an to the same safety and health supplier assessment process, with 3M Supplier See supplier section for details on our risk-based supplier Suppliers action plan for closing any potential requirements as 3M employees. see the supplier section. Responsibility Code assessment process expectations gaps. Our ER organization audits Not adhering to all See Doing Business with Government Agencies and Contractors locations around the globe to See the health and safety section Government relations Government relations applicable laws, rules, and ensure adherence to our principles, for additional information on Principle for more information regulations policies, and procedures. this assessment process. Under our Be Fair Principle, 3M Failing to recognize human Prioritize and address human rights issues relative to risk and is committed to be a responsible Acquisitions, mergers, rights issues during the compliance; see Human Rights Policy, Respectful Workplace Principle, For additional details on our Our suppliers company with uncompromising and divestitures acquisition integration or and Workplace Environmental, Health and Safety Principle for more employee processes, see the integrity in all its dealings with divestiture process information diversity and inclusion and At 3M, we recognize the choices local, state/provincial, and national Inequitable opportunities employee programs section. we make for our material and governments, and their prime to succeed in science, Assess community partnerships to assure support is dedicated to service providers must also reflect contractors and subcontractors Local communities technology, engineering, underrepresented populations to receive equal pay for equal work; and customers and math (STEM); skilled see our community section for additional information Others acting on our values. We want our suppliers around the world. In all our to share our commitment to activities with governments, we trades occupations 3M’s behalf maintaining compliant, responsible, carefully follow all applicable *Risks as per human rights (safety and healthy workplace, respectful workplace, workplace security, work hours and wages, freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, or recruitment fees to obtain employment, and human trafficking) Upholding 3M’s Code of Conduct and sustainable operations and laws, rules, and regulations. and values is the responsibility practices. In addition to full 116 117 How we work Human rights #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard 3M is committed to upholding Before entering into any Acquisitions, especially to the communities legislation designed to eradicate government contract, or in which we live and work. any agreement related to a mergers, and modern slavery and human government customer, 3M divestitures We have created a robust, trafficking. In 2019, we will be tracking new country laws, employees must consult 3M’s stakeholder-driven approach including the Australian Modern Government Contract Compliance 3M regularly pursues the sale and to Sustainability materiality Slavery Act. As always, we seek Department or their business purchase of business interests. that includes human rights. Our to strengthen our due-diligence groups assigned legal counsel. For each business that may be materiality assessments and management system to identify and acquired or divested, human stakeholder engagements are vital address any salient human rights Human trafficking and forced rights issues are prioritized and components of our company’s issues within our sphere of influence labor-related provisions are also addressed relative to risk and strategy and reporting. Details of and stay aligned with internationally included in 3M’s government compliance during the acquisition our materiality assessment can accepted frameworks like the contract flow-down requirements integration or divestiture process. be found in our global challenges United Nations Guiding Principles. for suppliers. In the United States, section. Our 2025 Sustainability the government has adopted Additional information can be Goals were developed from a regulation (FAR 52.222-50) found in our Respectful Workplace the materiality assessment. prohibiting human trafficking, Principle and environmental including slavery, servitude, forced management section of this report. For additional information on our and compulsory labor, and coercion stakeholder engagements, see to induce a commercial sex act the global challenges section. or to procure the same — all of Partnering with local which result in the deprivation communities and of a person’s liberty by another in order to exploit them for customers personal or commercial gain. Under our Be Respectful Principle, 3M has implemented processes 3M’s core values include treating to assure compliance with the each other and our stakeholders U.S. FAR, including a Human with respect and respecting our Trafficking Prevention Standard. social and physical environment. For more information, see Doing With our Every Life Ambition, we Business with Government work to imagine a world where Agencies and Contractors Principle. every life is improved. The power is in partnership. As a global corporation, we believe that we have a significant responsibility to society in general, and 118 119 How we work Compensation 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Compensation Competitive and comprehensive. Across the board and around the globe. Director committee on the compensation of non-employee directors. 3M innovation takes a lot of people who are constantly compensation searching for new and better ways philosophy and to make innovation happen. People elements Here, we are all who challenge the status quo and leaders welcome change. And people who The Nominating and Governance know how to leverage internal and Committee periodically receives Compensation to 3M employees external networks to create winOur of two categories: short-term cash incentives in the form of an of the independent members of the Board of Directors. reports on the status of the Board’s compensation in relation is not just tied to their job description, but how they act win solutions. commitment annual performance-based award opportunity, as well as long-term The Compensation Committee to other large U.S. companies and is responsible for recommending on it. This holds true for general leadership responsibilities, as To make sure we are constantly innovating, our leaders must equity incentives in the form of reviews stakeholder proposals to the Board changes in well as performance related create an environment that 3M is committed to providing annual awards of performance relating to executive compensation compensation for non-employee to Sustainability issues. 3M allows and challenges people to competitive market pay and shares and stock options, and in matters and recommends directors. In developing its Leadership Behaviors, standards seek out new ideas and process comprehensive benefits. certain circumstances (for purposes to the Board the company’s recommendations, the committee set forth in the 3M Playbook, improvements that drive success. In addition to providing a of hiring or retaining key talent, response to such proposals. is guided by the following goals: establish expectations and ways Our “Innovate” Leadership Behavior professional work environment for example), grants of restricted everyone can demonstrate and includes an expectation to support that promotes innovation and stock or restricted stock units. 3M executives are also eligible • C ompensation should fairly pay meet those expectations through 3M’s Sustainability goals. rewards performance, 3M’s total to participate in three deferreddirectors for work required in a their actions and interactions. compensation for employees As detailed in the 3M Board compensation plans that enable company of 3M’s size and scope Ratings of achievement against Six behaviors of effective includes a variety of components of Directors’ Compensation them to save for retirement or for measurable targets impact leaders at 3M: that support sustainable Committee Charter, all aspects other reasons and receive certain • A significant portion of the total employees’ award values for employment and the ability to of compensation are reviewed other benefits, such as financial compensation should be paid in stock Play to win those who are eligible for variable build a strong financial future. regularly by the Compensation planning services. Approximately to align directors’ interests with the compensation. For those employees Committee, which is composed 100 executives were eligible for long-term interests of stockholders Foster collaboration eligible to receive long-term We believe in pay solely of independent nonthis program in 2018, including all and teamwork incentive compensation, ratings of employee directors. The committee, of the named executive officers. Leadership Behaviors impact their for performance along with their independent • T he structure of the compensation should be simple and transparent long-term incentive grant values. Innovate 3M is a pay-for-performance compensation consultant, assesses 3M’s 2019 Notice of Annual company. In addition to earning the design and risks associated Meeting and Proxy statement Periodically, at the request of Prioritize and execute Earn up to your true base salary, executives are with executive compensation provides additional detail on the Nominating and Governance compensated for their contributions and recommends changes, when executive compensation. Committee, Frederic W. Cook potential to the company’s growth, appropriate. Its recommendations & Co., Inc. conducts a survey of Develop others and self profitability, and other goals. related to compensation for director compensation at other All employees have the opportunity This compensation falls into one 3M’s Chief Executive Officer large U.S. companies and provides Act with integrity to grow through challenging work are subject to ratification by all expert advisory support to the and transparency and be rewarded for their efforts. 120 121 How we work Compensation #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Our employee performance review At 3M, the proportion of total move forward, we will continue Delivering on the process directly connects to an rewards aligned with variable to look for ways to handle promise of fair and individual’s compensation. The (incentive) pay increases with job this process in an increasingly intent of the process is to align level and is reflective of the job efficient and consistent manner. equitable pay individual goals and performance level’s influence on both shortand with business objectives and long-term results. Eligibility for 3M’s Our Global Market Pricing Process 3M has the same annual incentive outcomes, creating a win-win Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) and assures market-competitive plan design for everyone, from situation for the employee and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is compensation for employees and our executive officers all the way company. In addition, the process based on job level, considering both drives consistency and transparency through the entire organization — helps identify and develop leaders the job level’s ability to influence the in compensation practices across the same payout curves, thresholds, to meet 3M’s ongoing talent needs. incentive period being measured all regions. Using common job maximums, metrics, and metric and market competitiveness for descriptions and grades throughout weightings. By direction from Additional information on 3M’s these types of compensation. the world, this project used data the Compensation Committee employee development and from three global surveys to of the Board of Directors and compensation can be found Additional information on 3M benchmark pay levels and map job our continuous improvement in our employee programs Total Rewards can be found in grades, which helps drive our pay efforts, we redesigned the AIP to section and at 3M.com. our employee program section. principles for fair and equitable pay. bring the payout curves closer to those of our peers. Peers include Our actions Pay based on role, responsibilities, skills, companies we compete with for investors, executive talent, and general employee talent. Moving 3M has an industry-leading and performance forward, with the new payout formula for compensation that curves, our plan is designed to helps provide equitable pay for all We maintain our focus on our be more competitive, pay out employees. We compare 3M salary global compensation principles to higher when we exceed targets, data and compensation practice provide market-competitive, fair, and hit the maximum sooner than annually, and make both market and equitable pay. We continue our in the past. But it’s a give-andand competitive adjustments journey to assure we appropriately take situation: In order to provide as needed to assure our pay benchmark compensation within the chance for a better upside levels at each grade level are our many locations globally and use payout, we must accept the competitive. Ultimately, we factor consistent methods of analyzing additional risk of a smaller or no in performance accelerators based our compensation position against payout if we don’t meet targets. on an annual performance review the market. Efforts continued in and the Leadership Behaviors 2018 to standardize and simplify In 2019, the Compensation discussed in Our Commitment. our methodology around market Committee formally added a review pricing, utilizing data sources of matters relating to internal pay from multiple vendors. As we equity to their list of responsibilities. 122 123 How we work Employee programs 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Employee programs A culture that nurtures. Ever going, ever growing development is reached through formal training. plans without performance or compensation implications. At 3M, our 91,500 employees do Our learning orientation and Employee work that matters, applying our philosophy focuses on experiential science in ways that make a positive learning and skill building rather development for all impact on people’s lives. Today’s than classroom-style training. While business environment demands that we can estimate that our training Effective employee development Our around the world, it makes a difference in the way we work. 2025 Goal: 100 percent participation we become faster and more flexible in anticipating and exceeding numbers are close to averages found in other large manufacturing programs are crucial to enable our goal of 100 percent of employees commitment Our company touches nearly in employee the needs of our customers, shareholders, and employees. companies, measures such as training hours or costs per engaging in development activities. With the global launch of our At 3M, our culture is critical to every industry in every market development Creating a high-performance employee are not leading human new employee learning platform, enabling the magic we know as globally. If you work at 3M, you programs to culture built on continual learning capital performance indicators Develop U, employees are easily science. It’s extremely important that all our employees are able have a range of development opportunities few other companies advance individual helps 3M achieve business growth for the company and professional for 3M. We believe indicators that align people’s results to able to access development resources to support their career to focus on making an impact on can offer. Our people can live in and organizational growth for employees. the success of the company are aspirations and advance strategic the world and feel empowered to different countries, learn different capabilities. direct performance indicators of capabilities within 3M. Develop bring innovation into their work. cultures, and develop different Investing in development programs. Leadership U provides employees with a skills across different industries. Our employees are encouraged and employee engagement, personalized experience by Engaged employees, we believe, and supported to pursue our people employee retention rates, recommending relevant content are more satisfied with their work, It’s possible for someone to go areas of interest and develop brand recognition, acquisition based on their role within the tend to stay longer, and are more from a lab, to marketing, to sales, career paths and opportunities The growth of our people is integration milestones, and Lean organization. Additionally, content productive and committed. We to business development, and aligned with those interests. essential to the growth of our Six Sigma (LSS) project value are is organized and aligned to directly foster and reinforce behaviors all the way up to the C-suite. business. Although we achieved a few examples of indicators that support our organizational priorities, that support engagement on many levels, including networking, 3M is so diverse that people can reinvent themselves and their Our actions over 25 hours per year of training and development per full-time contribute to 3M's recognition as an industry and global business leader. including the 3M Leadership Behaviors, company-defined collaboration, diversity, and career all within one company equivalent (FTE) employee, those functional competencies, LSS, inclusion. We focus on the quality — and so inclusive that they’ll Our most valuable resource is hours are only one part of the 3M has prioritized learning and Sustainability, and supervisory and the impact of professional be able to collaborate with our people, and we invest in their picture. We leverage a 70-20-10 career development opportunities content. Develop U provides access development and career growth. other curious, creative minds success. We offer a wide range of development model which indicates not only for leaders, but for to tens of thousands of unique, justwherever they go. For more benefits and discounts designed to that, over the course of a career, all employees. Further, 3M in-time learning resources in over If you want to develop as an information, see the employee help our people live their best. We 70 percent of learning is done on has separate processes for 15 languages, allowing 3M’s global individual, there are many diversity and inclusion section. also provide tools, opportunities, the job, 20 percent comes through employee performance and workforce to engage in employee things that make 3M the and support for people who other employees, and only career development. This permits development. Given this breadth, place to be. Our science not want to grow their careers. 10 percent of meaningful employees the freedom to we’ve seen more than 50 percent only impacts our customers create meaningful development of our global workforce engage 124 125 How we work Employee programs 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives in formal training on Develop U. Functions also provide development A consistent, comprehensive future by embedding inclusive make a step-change impact for leadership development and Further, 2018 saw the broad-scale suggestions that can grow the onboarding platform provides leadership strategies, promoting 3M and the world we live in. bring together (virtually) more launch of virtual, instructor-led competency through on-thepre-start information delivery and development through corporate than 3,700 leaders from around trainings and webinars, facilitated job activities or social learning engagement for new employees social responsibility, and offering Amplify the world under one journey. through Develop U. These and other through a coach or mentor. on the front end, and clear mentoring opportunities. live events pushed our live event Currently, the competency-based metrics, reporting, and tracking Amplify is a nine-month journey Development for completions total to over 102,000 resources cover approximately for 3M on the back end. This Global executive for leaders with potential to people leaders and reached both production and 93 percent of the non-production investment sets up new employees reach the director level. Similar non-production employees globally. professional employee population. to succeed and make meaningful and leadership to the Catalyst journey, Amplify contributions from the start. development is scaled to the leadership With focus on the critical skills that Employees create or update At 3M, wisdom is shared. Just challenges faced by future leaders need to be successful in Nurturing development plans that include as we share and combine our The 3M Leadership Way is a directors. These individuals already leading others, the Essentials for activities to elevate individual technologies, we also share and suite of high-potential leadership lead teams and organizations People Leaders program emerged skills and further career development. Employees can combine our knowledge through mentorship and storytelling. We the leader in development journeys within the 3M Global Academy of across every part of 3M. as a multi-module program with flexibility to be delivered as faceuse additional skill-mapping tools in collaboration with their define mentoring as a unique relationship in which a mentor (a everyone Innovative Development, bringing one consistent approach to how Ignite to-face classroom training or as online, virtual training. This flexible supervisors to identify long-term more experienced person) helps Leadership development is a 3M develops leaders across all Ignite is a six-month journey for delivery format is key to providing a desired goals and define actions a mentee (a less experienced competitive advantage at 3M. geographic areas, business groups, leaders with potential to reach consistent development experience needed to help reach those goals. person) with their development in a To maintain this advantage, we and functions. Each program is an senior manager level. These for all leaders of 3M while still particular area. Further information are leveraging new technologies integration of customer-focused, individuals are transitioning to allowing for needed localization. A key part of career development can be found at Mentorships at 3M. and delivery methods, thereby results-driven, and experiencelead teams, and development is based learning that takes leaders is understanding career paths and assuring impact, consistency, outside the classroom walls to focused on critical challenges All-leader resources. 3M makes available to and global inclusivity. such as vertical and horizontal employee’s functional competency Doing things right, sharpen their skills with leadership management savvy and building development challenges for our customers and in models that clarify expectations right from the start Through various stages in a our global communities. and leading high-performing teams. All our people globally, at every regarding the knowledge, skills, leader’s career journey, there are level of the organization at 3M, and abilities to be developed 3M invests in onboarding and many development opportunities Spark are provided with opportunities over a career within a specific developing new employees so that and programs available, across Catalyst to develop themselves as leaders. function. Based on shared they have the tools, resources, and every geographic region and 3M Launched in 2017, Spark is a These leadership development expectations, career paths are networks they need to succeed. business. Programs include a range Catalyst is a 12-month journey yearlong development journey offerings target areas of aligned with investment in training Our onboarding process begins of online and self-paced offerings, focused on developing the for individual contributors and strategic importance, including and development resources. Each at the time a candidate accepts a from personal effectiveness to company’s top 250 leaders. These frontline leaders with potential the development of a growth function follows its competency job offer and continues through financial acumen, that cover individuals are game changers with to reach manager level. For the mindset, agility, innovation, and model to leverage 3M’s learning the first year of employment. core skill development aligned aspiration, potential, performance, first time, 3M has leveraged the customer focus. Delivery of platform and direct employees to to the 3M Leadership Behaviors. and with a pace even beyond power of technology to offer content is available face-to-face in relevant training opportunities. These programs also focus on the their high-potential peers to experiential workshops, through 126 127 How we work Employee programs 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives virtual instructor-led training, allow 3M to execute our strategies • M  anagement Team Reviews function and our average response rates initiatives. Thus, our surveys support Temporary employees are 3M and via self-paced e-modules. and meet our objectives. not only to provide comprehensive are typically about 85 percent. strategy and business objectives employees hired temporarily information about an employee, but directed at supporting sustainable with intent to be employed Coaching The performance assessment also to further the goal that rating The Standard Opinion Survey corporate success through our short-term. They do not process helps hold each of our considerations will be consistent for program enables us to regularly employees’ behavior on the job. include contingent workers. 3M has invested in an internal team employees accountable for his employees within an organization assess the state of employee of certified leadership coaches or her contribution and everyday engagement and other workplace Long may your 3M follows all applicable local to support and accelerate the behaviors. The process aligns Each year, all 3M non-production factors critical to high performance curiosity flourish here laws and regulations regarding development of leaders around personal goals with organizational employees identify their and being a great place to work. notice periods in the event of the world. These coaches work in goals — we strive to achieve contributions in meeting their We provide in-depth reports Our global voluntary turnover business operations changes. a variety of ways with 3M leaders. our goals in ways that support specified goals through an for the leaders of the business rate continues to be under 6 We offer one-on-one time with a and strengthen our culture and employee performance process. 3M groups surveyed and assure their percent, a source of great pride 3M’s Human Resources Department coach to help employees apply new achieve sustainable growth. In strives to have 100 percent of nonleaders and top 3M leadership for our company. We calculate is unique in that we have one global learning or work through a change addition, 3M has long prioritized production employees complete the are aware of these survey results. voluntary turnover separately system to track HR information. with on-demand coaching. We taking a well-rounded view of an entire performance review process. This is a cycle of continuous from retirements, companyAt every 3M location around the also work with teams to help them individual’s performance, assuring In 2018, all eligible employees improvement for us, year after year. initiated turnover, and reductions globe, we have instant access stay close to changing stakeholder that employees are treated in a were rated through the calibration in force. Voluntary employee to this information — using expectations and lead 3M into the fair and consistent manner: meetings, and these employees and Each unit or business group that turnover is defined as turnover our global reporting tool. future. More than 725 leaders have their supervisors received tasks surveys must review their results, due to employee-initiated already worked with a leadership • P erformance goals, linked to to complete the year-end process present them to their employees, reasons (for example, returning Workforce coach at 3M. More than 3,000 in the performance system. and execute an action plan to to school or going to another leaders have been through a higher-level organizational goals, are set jointly between the address the issues that arise from job in a different company). experience, services, coaching skill-building workshop. individual and his or her leader Learning from the results. We built supports into and rewards our process that make it easier Total turnover includes voluntary listening Be rewarded • T ools provided to leaders facilitate to bring about successful change turnover and all other forms of The more 3M employees contribute For more than 50 years, 3M has through action planning — such as turnover (for example, termination to 3M’s success, the more success for your efforts conversations between leaders and employees to assure mutual been conducting surveys to solicit accountability checks and specific as a result of restructuring, they create for themselves. We understanding of expectations employee observations, attitudes, tools to act on the results. We termination for poor performance, offer a competitive base pay, and To drive 3M’s successes, we and desired behaviors and opinions. Our Standard identified key drivers of employee and retirements). Our total depending on position, variable provide incentives to our employees Opinion Survey program covers engagement and developed and employee turnover rate is an incentive pay linked to company to excel. Our process includes two • F eedback on progress toward the entire globe and provides deployed learning opportunities annualized rate that measures and individual performance. We components: measurable targets these goals is provided formally, specific and relevant feedback to for leaders (multiple on-demand employees who have terminated also offer a wide range of benefits agreed upon by employees and twice a year, and supervisors major units within the company instructional videos on engagement, or retired from 3M during and discounts designed to help their supervisor, and Leadership are taught and encouraged to (divisions, locations, and countries, for example). We continually the calendar year, excluding 3M employees live their best. Behaviors ratings, which reflect provide routine feedback to help for example). All employees have assess survey content and update foreign service employees and the extent to which the employee employees adjust performance the opportunity to complete the as needed to assure alignment 3M temporary employees. engaged in core behaviors that and meet or exceed goals 3M Standard Opinion Survey, with company strategy and major 128 129 How we work Employee programs 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Be rewarded 3M global employeesemployees by region FlexAbility puts into practice a for your efforts Employee parental leave new way of thinking: that your 3M global Full and Full and part-time, part-time, by region total total work life and your personal life Medical, dental, and vision plan can coexist. A FlexAbility plan Usage parental leave 2017 *2018 100,000 options; savings and retirement can put the power in your hands plans; a 3M employee stock Female 306 354 to make choices that benefit you, 90,000 purchase plan; and many other your work, your team, your friends resources can enhance a 3M Male 794 805 and family, and 3M. For more 80,000 employee’s life, both physically details, visit FlexAbility at 3M. and financially. All regular full-time Total 1100 1159 Our footprint 70,000 employees in the U.S. are eligible for these benefits — regular partFemale returned 292 288 time employees who work at least Data related to employee metrics 60,000 20 hours a week are also eligible. Male returned 765 732 has been derived from our human Some programs and benefits capital management system. For 50,000 may differ internationally due Total returned 1057 1020 the data in the charts provided to local laws and regulations. below, 100 percent has been 40,000 U.S. work retention rate 96.1% 88.0% calculated with no assumptions. As of January 1, 2019, benefit Additional information on data 30,000 eligibility also extends to domestic *2018 data may change. Some employees currently out on leave may be returning in 2019. management can be found in partners and their children. the about report section. 20,000 Our parental leave policy helps after leave, was 81 percent for incentive pay linked to company The employee metrics in the 10,000 employees be their best selves at females and 91 percent for males. and individual performance. For charts are reflective of employee home and at work. All U.S. salaried more details, see the compensation headcount as of December 31, 2018 0 mothers and fathers of newborn or Further information on 3M’s wide section and Working at 3M: Pay. (total number of 3M full-time and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Europe, newly adopted children are entitled range of benefits, healthy living, part-time employees) not 3M fullGlobal Asia Pacific Canada Middle East, to up to 20 weeks (10 weeks paid and discounts designed to help Where and when to do time equivalent (FTE) employees. Latin America United States Africa and 10 weeks unpaid) of parental employees live their best can be Due to acquisition integration leave. This policy was instituted found at: Working at 3M: Benefits. your best work schedules factored into 3M’s in late 2016. In 2018, 1,159 U.S. human capital management system, eligible employees participated, Highly competitive Based on their job function, 3M detailed employee information including 354 females and — we’re employees and their supervisors below may differ from employee proud to say — 805 males. pay can make individual arrangements totals in 3M financial reports. for a flexible work practice In 2018, our overall U.S. work and We offer a competitive base pay, that maximizes professional retention rate, those returning and, depending on position, variable and personal productivity. 130 131 How we work Employee programs 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M regional and global employee age distribution 3M regional and global employee age distribution Full and part-time, percentage of total 3M Total global new employee hires by region 3M global new employee hires by region Full and part-time, percentage of total Total 100 16,000 90 14,000 80 12,000 70 60 10,000 50 8,000 40 6,000 30 20 4,000 10 2,000 0 Asia Canada Europe, Latin United Global Pacific Middle East, America States 0 Africa 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Europe, Generation Z Generation Y Generation X Baby Boomers Global Asia Pacific Canada Middle East, (>1994) (1981-1994) (1961-1981) (1943-1960) Africa Latin America United States 3M regional and global employee hires age distribution 3M regional and global employee hires age distribution 3M global contract employees by region 2018 percentage 2018 percentage 3M global Permanent contract and temporary employment total employees by region Permanent and temporary employment total 100 12,000 90 80 10,000 70 8,000 60 50 6,000 40 4,000 30 20 2,000 10 0 0 2016 2017 2018 Asia Canada Europe, Latin United Global Europe, Pacific Middle East, America States Global Asia Pacific Canada Middle East, Africa Africa Latin America United States Generation Z Generation Y Generation X Baby Boomers (>1994) (1981-1994) (1961-1981) (1943-1960) Contingent hourly or daily workers only, see GRI 102-8 and employee contract definitions 132 133 How we work Employee programs 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M global female employees by region 3M global Percentage female employees by region of total employees 3M global female employees 3M global female employees Full and part time Percentage of total employees Full and part-time 50 40,000 40 35,000 30 30,000 Lo 20 25,000 fo oki rw ng 10 20,000 ard 15,000 0 In 2019, we will continue to work 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Europe, 10,000 toward our 2025 Sustainability Global Asia Pacific Canada Middle East, Goal for employee participation in Africa development by strengthening our Latin America United States 5,000 “development for all” philosophy. One example: We’ll be launching 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 a Data Analytics / Big Data University-type program, given Part-time Full-time this skill set has been identified as a development need across 3M. We will also be continuing our work to meet employees where they are by offering more choice in 3M global 3M global female hires female Percentage of total hires by region hires by region 3M global 3M global females in management Percentage of total females in management how content is made available. For Percentage of total hires Percentage of total example, we’ll have both single60 30 hour virtual sessions and multi-hour in-person workshops on the same 20 topics — allowing employees with 50 the time and interest to invest in an in-person session, and those with 10 40 less time or a remote location to attend a condensed virtual program. 0 30 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 As we build 3M for the future, Values represent the percentage of management positions held by women strengthening our culture is a 20 top priority. At its core, culture is how we do things at 3M, and 10 it belongs to all of us equally. As part of obtaining information or 0 input on a topic, we are engaging 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 our employees by broadening Europe, Global Asia Pacific Canada Middle East, our listening strategies. In 2019, Africa actions will be taking place Latin America United States on how 3M’s culture operates today and how it can and should operate in the future. 134 135 How we work Health and saftey 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Health and safety All good things start with a safe Rates (EMR), employee training Process hazard Our actions and healthy working environment. records, and safety committee activities. Contractor performance management evaluations include safety Environmental, health, reviews. Pre-construction 3M is committed to rigorously safety reviews are conducted to managing the risks associated and safety (EHS) address potential hazards and with hazardous processes, such harmonization project controls related to the work. as those with potential to result Our Employee safety and health To assure consistent reporting and metrics globally, 3M, like Each 3M location has a contract in catastrophic fires, explosions, and sudden release of toxic In 2018, 3M began laying the foundation for global harmonization commitment The 3M Safety and Health many multinational companies, follows the U.S. Occupational coordinator who is the main 3M contact for working with materials. We use a Hazardous Process Evaluation Tool (HazPET) of the company’s EHS process, the EHS harmonization project. As a company that makes a vast Policy applies to 3M operations Safety and Health Administration contractors on safety issues. The to categorize hazardous processes. The goal of this continuous array of products designed to everywhere, including new (OSHA) recordkeeping rules and contract coordinator is empowered Process hazard analyses (PHAs) are improvement project is to build protect workers, 3M is front and acquisitions. Hazards in 3M’s formulas to record and measure to participate in pre-bid meetings used to assess the effectiveness consistency worldwide; standards, center in the global effort to bring workplaces must be well injury and illness rates worldwide. and pre-qualifications for of existing safeguards. Layers self-assessments, and software new science and innovation to understood and effectively At all facilities within 3M’s contractors. He or she is on-site and of Protection Analysis (LOPA) is systems are being reviewed. For workplace safety. At the same managed to protect 3M operational control, 3M employees therefore available for contractor also used in some instances to instance, software systems will be time, as an enterprise with employees, visitors, locations, and contingent employees meetings and safety reviews as evaluate safety-critical devices and configured for consistency across 91,500 employees working and surrounding communities. are covered by our injury and necessary and appropriate. systems, providing more attention all EHS functional areas, including around the world, we are always illness recordkeeping rules. to independent protection layers. the 3M Global Safety and Health taking steps to further advance In addition, in the spirit of Contractors are asked to submit Facility sitting assessments help Plan Tool (GSHP). Ultimately, the the safety of our employees. continuous improvement, Contractor and visitor notification to 3M of worker hours us identify and mitigate maximum impact of this ambitious project much is being done to evaluate and any injuries occurring while credible event scenarios that should make all 3M EHS efforts 3M is committed to helping opportunities to raise our safety safety and health performing work in accordance could impact workers at some more effective and efficient. improve the safety and health of standards. We visit locations to 3M requires all visitors, vendors, with a 3M contract. Any contractor facilities, and a global initiative people worldwide, so we can all identify and manage environmental, contingent workers, and contract incidents are reported in the 3M that builds on 3M's existing Global safety and focus on what matters most to us. health, and safety (EHS) risks; workers at 3M locations to follow all Worldwide Incident Management guidance to our facilities around health plan tool evaluate compliance to regulatory applicable 3M workplace safety and System (WIMS), including injuries effectively managing potential We also embrace this commitment requirements and conformance to health requirements. For example, and contractor worker hours. combustible dust hazards. GSHP, which is part of 3M's EHS for our own operations, and, to 3M policies and standards; identify contractors must complete a In 2018, a contractor fatality management system, is required that end, will continue to take opportunities for continuous pre-qualification process before occurred as a result of injuries to be implemented by global 3M steps to further advance the improvement; and share exemplary they may perform work on 3M sustained from a fall while locations. This approach utilizes a safety of our most important practices among 3M auditable premises. That process includes, working at height. Additional well-developed self-assessment asset: 3M employees. entities. Additional details on among other things, reviewing the preventive measures were process that is categorized into these efforts can be found in the contractor’s employee injury/illness implemented to further strengthen multiple elements addressing various environmental management section. rates, Experience Modification the safety of the operation. 136 137 How we work Health and safety 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives areas and standards related to • I dentification and investigation risk associated with more than Ergonomics risk and noise baseline exposure risk sources, security of radiation safety and health. 3M utilizes a of potential hazards 27,000 higher-hazard activities. management assessments have been completed sources, training of personnel, variety of tools to manage risks for all jobs. As prescribed by our and regulatory compliance. from hazards in the workplace. Development and enhancement Since 2012, the SIF rate has seen 3M’s Ergonomics Risk Reduction Global Safety and Health Plan, we We’ve used specialized tools of tools to readily capture the a net reduction of 42.1 percent. Process (ERRP) is a global, have also conducted proactive Global EHS team successfully for a number of years key areas above has begun. A This represents significantly fewer comprehensive program that assessments of dermal exposure, in the areas of process safety, companywide rollout of the injury/illness incidents per year. integrates ergonomic job analysis engineered nanoparticles, hazard 3M’s global EHS team continues industrial hygiene, and ergonomics. program will begin in 2019. The following chart shows the and engineering design criteria communication, personal protective to evolve to its current operational Each of these disciplines uses a worldwide SIF rate trend for all 3M to reduce exposure to commonly equipment, respirator protection, state, which we believe sets us risk management approach to Significant injury/ employees, contingent workers, identified musculoskeletal disorder and ventilation. These assessments apart from our peers. Comprised categorize hazard levels and define and contractor workers combined. (MSD) risk factors. To accomplish help us determine whether any of business-level EHS committee appropriate levels of control. illness and fatality this, we apply ergonomics risk changes in exposure management members, regional EHS managers, (SIF) rates assessment tools globally to programs are warranted. and corporate subject-matter As part of our continuous identify and assess ergonomics experts, this committee will work improvement efforts, in 2018, GSHP At the end of 2018, over 93,000 risk in the industrial environment. Radiation protection with EHS facility staff globally elements were incorporated in the risk assessments had been to address and replicate best new EHS harmonization project. completed, which resulted in the Online ergonomic training is also 3M’s Corporate Radiation practices, solve problems, and identification and reduction of available 24/7 to any employee Protection and Compliance group drive worthy EHS initiatives Culture of who wants to learn more and has (CRPC) provides hazard evaluations to the operational level. access to the 3M intranet. All and develops and provides excellence pilot of these efforts have paid off in training for both radiation source In 2018, 100 percent of 3M In the first quarter of 2018, an 3M global serious injury/illness incident (SIF) rate 3M global serious injury/illness incident (SIF) rate reduced numbers of ergonomic users as well as facility radiation manufacturing locations initiative was launched at 24 Total 3M, contingent, and contractor employees recordable injury cases; see safety officers to help protect 3M worldwide had active employee Total 3M, contingent, and contractor employees 3M facilities globally to drive a recordable incident rate chart. employees, our customers, and safety and health committees. 0.20 stronger culture of excellence the public. This includes uses of in EHS. The project touches on Industrial exposure radiation in both manufacturing the following key areas of EHS and R&D; ionizing radiation sources organizational performance: 0.15 risk management such as radioactive materials and x-ray emitting devices; and • Leadership and 0.10 To accurately assess exposure non-ionizing radiation sources employee engagement management programs such as lasers, microwave and and activities, 3M uses the radiofrequency radiation, magnetic • Standardized work 0.05 comprehensive approach outlined fields, and ultraviolet, infrared, and practice observations by the American Industrial visible light. Annual program audits Hygiene Association (AIHA). evaluate facility performance in 0 • R ecognition of exemplary In the past decade, over 95 managing hazards during routine work practices 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 percent of all chemical agents use and maintenance of radiation 138 139 How we work Health and safety 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M regional and global recordable incident rate 3M regional and global recordable incident rate Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) 3M global recordable incident rate category 3M global recordable incident rate category Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) 2.50 0.6 2.00 0.5 Lo 1.50 0.4 fo oki rw ng 1.00 ard 0.3 0.50 In the coming year, 3M will be 0.2 working to define how the company can deliver the highest-quality, 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0.1 lowest-cost solutions to customers, with the shortest lead times in Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Middle East, Africa every market that we serve, in 0.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the safest and most sustainable Latin America United States way. Our EHS organization will Contact with object, equipment Exposure, Physical agent be leading the charge to define chemical exposure exactly what “safe and sustainable” Ergonomics Miscellaneous Slip, trip, fall means, and how to get there. Exposure, Noise exposure Transportation biological agent accident 2019 will also be year one for globally deploying the programs 3M regional and global lost time incident rate 3M regional and global lost time incident rate Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) and technology that make up the Per 100 3M employees (200,000 work hours) new EHS harmonization project. 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Worldwide Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Middle East, Africa Latin America United States 140 141 How we work Environmental management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Environmental management Stewardship for the Quarterly scorecards report data at Environmental Environmental greater good. the facility, division, business group, investments management and corporate levels. Scorecards are reviewed by executive implementation management for performance on In 2018, 3M expended about selected indicators, enabling 3M $27 million for capital projects Implementation of our to monitor and identify successes, related to protecting the EMS continues to increase risks, and opportunities for environment. This amount excludes throughout the world. Our a framework of environmental, social, and economic values. We environmental thinking. As reflected by our environmental performance improvements and footprint reductions worldwide. expenditures for remediation actions relating to existing matters Our approach calls for each site to commitment are committed to complying with all applicable environmental performance indicators and 2025 Sustainability Goals, environmental Environmental, health, caused by past operations that do not contribute to current establish, implement, and maintain documented environmental 3M formalized its commitment requirements worldwide. Beyond stewardship is a core corporate or future revenues, which are objectives and targets. When to environmental stewardship compliance, the company continues commitment backed by decades and safety incident expensed. Capital expenditures establishing an EMS plan, each 3M when the company’s Board to make significant investments of proven performance. management for environmental purposes location must address financial, of Directors adopted the 3M to reduce the environmental have included pollution control technological, operational, and Environmental Policy, in 1975. footprint of our operations and Since 2010, all 3M locations devices — such as wastewater business considerations. The This policy established the our products with sustainable Management globally are required to internally treatment plant improvements, objectives and targets should be framework for our approach attributes to help customers report environmental exceedances, scrubbers, containment structures, measurable and consistent with our to responsible environmental reduce their environmental 3M’s Environmental Management spills, agency notices, and fines solvent recovery units and thermal environmental policy, including our management and conservation of footprint and help meet their System (EMS) framework provides through one dedicated system — oxidizers — at new and existing commitments to prevent pollution resources, emphasizing prevention Sustainability goals. Always, 3M structure and consistency for 3M’s Worldwide Incident facilities constructed or upgraded and comply with applicable of pollution at the source. believes environmental policy and overseeing daily activities, and puts Management System (WIMS). in the normal course of business. regulations and other requirements. regulations should be guided by the company in proactive, rather Consistent with the company’s Since then, we have created science-based decision making. than reactive, mode regarding WIMS has led to continuous emphasis on environmental 3M’s multifaceted strategy for supporting policies using a needsits environmental focus. We improvement related to increased responsibility, capital expenditures implementing EMS and global Our actions driven process. When we identify have extensive global systems awareness of responsibilities, (other than for remediation auditing of environmental potential risks to the environment, in place to identify, track, and understanding of the holistic projects) for known projects are compliance for our operations is health, and safety of our employees, manage relevant information on system, and more consistent presently expected to be about key to understanding any potential products, and communities, we Setting and implementing corporate-wide environmental reporting requirements for 3M’s $75 million over the next two gaps and gaining resolution quickly. take steps to modify processes and global environmental policies, management and performance. global operations. years for new or expanded standards to address these risks. management systems, and key This includes covering a full range programs to build facilities All manufacturing locations, and performance metrics enables of environmental compliance and or modify manufacturing new acquisitions based on their 3M’s strategies for sustainable 3M to continually integrate and operational performance metrics processes to minimize waste integration progress, are required development encompass the drive environmental stewardship relevant to 3M operations, some of and reduce emissions. to complete a Global Environmental pursuit of customer satisfaction in our business groups globally, which are provided in this report. Management Self-Assessment and commercial success within assuring consistency and innovative (GEMSA) at least annually. GEMSA 142 143 How we work Environmental management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives -F  indings, with assignments of elements reflect procedures, a wetland database. Site visits training modules in our Global Facility selfComprised in the responsibility, due dates for closure, and systems, and processes that are comprehensive and mandatory to also identify areas such as rivers, creeks, and potential wetlands Learning System. The modules are used by learning coordinators assessments and auditing process: tracking to completion maintain compliance with legal or that are on or near the location. to create courses, manage learner auditing -D  etailed reviews of findings to assure corrective actions are complete other requirements. Additional ISO roles, process certifications, and • T  he frequency of environmental 14001 elements and associated We conduct additional biodiversity run reports; by learners to search 3M verifies regulatory compliance compliance audits on manufacturing, 3M’s EHS auditing program is questions are provided to enable assessments during our annual for courses and launch e-learning and alignment with prioritized distribution, and laboratory audited periodically by 3M’s sites to conduct further review evaluation, utilizing the definitions classes; and by supervisors to view sections of the self-assessment, operations is based on relative risk Corporate Auditing Department. of their EMS. Data from the and tools established by the World the learning activities of their direct conducting environmental-related assessments are validated through Business Council for Sustainable reports and to pre-book courses. audits on a risk-prioritized basis. • A  t least annually, all global operations All EHS auditors, except for audits, site visits by subject-matter Development (WBCSD) to screen In all, our EHS facility audits are assessed against a variety of 3M EHS professionals who are experts, and other data systems. the company’s various uses of water. All together, our ISO covered sites that manufactured criteria to establish a prioritized list guest auditors, are required to Additional details on this process 14001-certified locations account 32.6 percent of sales value of locations for compliance auditing take a certification test. 3M EHS Beginning in 2019, GEMSA will can be found in the water section. for approximately 92.3 percent of production (SVOP). professionals are assigned to become part of the 3M EHS of 3M’s total product output. • 3  M uses a variety of tools an audit team or lead auditor to harmonization project, which Applying ISO 14001 Key objectives of audits: and resources for compliance provide support on the auditing has been designed to bring more Third-party assurance auditing, including: process and/or a specific consistency to environmental, The ISO 14001 Environment subject during the audit. health, and safety assessments at Management System (EMS) of Sustainability Managing global risk and compliance -I nternally developed compliance protocols created by subject-matter 3M facilities worldwide. Additional standard is an internationally metric reporting Develop experts in regulatory programs and 3M Maintain processes information on the 3M EHS recognized approach for managing compliance environmental Manage risk professionals harmonization project can be found the immediate and long-term Bureau Veritas (BV) provided -3M’s GEMSA as an evaluation tool in the health and safety section. environmental impacts of an independent third-party verification Identify -E xternally purchased compliance Build common organization’s products, services, of 3M’s 2018 environmental Share best common practices areas for understanding protocols, especially for operations of requirements and processes. In 2018, 3M data (volatile organic compound improvement outside the United States, to assure local Environmental site continued working with an outside emissions, water, waste, compliance obligations are understood and met assessment consultant to help individual environmental compliance locations learn how to transition metrics, energy consumption, and -I nternal environmental compliance Outside 3M’s EMS and GEMSA, 3M and recertify to the latest version greenhouse gas emissions) included experts from around the company has completed environmental site of this standard, which was in this 2019 Sustainability Report. -E xternal environmental consultants, assessments at most locations, with established in late 2015. 3M For additional information on our as needed, to provide additional expertise and third-party verification the goal of identifying potential completed timely recertification of third-party assurance, see Bureau of our auditing protocols historical liabilities. Because of all relevant sites to the updated ISO Veritas’ Assurance Statement. these assessments, we can identify 14001 standard by year end 2018. -C  omplete and robust documentation of audits these biodiverse areas. Where applicable, 3M conducts searches To help facilities comply with of public databases, which includes the new standard, 3M provides 144 145 How we work Environmental management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Compliance analysis, context of applicable regulatory safety management employees on to environmental stewardship, in This $850 million grant aligns with We will continue to drive requirements and company topics that draw global interest. May 2000, 3M made the decision our commitment to improving lives environmental management programs documentation, and policies and standards through The webinars were recorded and to phase-out of certain PFAS through science and protecting across all our global manufacturing verification the use of CAMMS dynamic audit placed on a website that allows compounds, including PFOS and the environment. The grant facilities. Starting in 2019, we will be checklists. In addition, CAMMS convenient access for those who PFOA. We chose to stop production prioritizes investments in drinking globally deploying the programs and In an effort to create more utilizes a risk assessment tool couldn’t attend the live events. A ahead of any regulatory requirement water quality, groundwater technology that make up the new consistency in global auditing for prioritizing resources to wide range of topics were covered, to do so and we shared our learnings recharge, and habitat improvement EHS harmonization. We will also be of locations, 3M has refined implement corrective actions. including environmental auditing, with the EPA and our competitors. in the state of Minnesota. implementing new global standard its Compliance and Auditing agency compliance inspection, air work and supporting tools in WIMS Management and Metric Systems (CAMMS). Primarily focused in EHS professional emission modeling, and specific waste management procedures. 3M is committed to responsible environmental stewardship and The Grant is managed by the Minnesota Pollution Control to put best practices in place across the globe for EHS management. the U.S. and Canada, CAMMS training protecting natural resources. We Agency (MPCA) and the is a system for maintaining Commitment to work with federal, state, and local Department of Natural Resources Beyond EHS management, we are environmental compliance As part of our ongoing authorities regarding environmental (DNR) through a Working committed to PFAS stewardship and in documents and determinations. training efforts, in 2018 3M PFAS stewardship aspects of our operations and Group. 3M is a member of the the future, we will continue to lead on It allows us to conduct internal conducted monthly webinars are dedicated to acting with Working Group but the MPCA the issues of science and stewardship compliance audits in the for environmental, health, and PFAS are a family of chemical integrity in the way we treat our and/or the DNR have ultimate around PFAS. Our activities are compounds made up of two customers and the way we treat the responsibility to determine the centered in three areas: 1) limit the essential elements – carbon environments in which we operate. projects to be implemented. footprint of PFAS on the environment, 3M EHS audit locations, 2013-2018 and fluorine. The carbonincluding our decisions to phase out 3M EHS audit locations, 2013-2018 fluorine bonds are exceptionally Globally, 3M has invested more To learn more, visit the production of PFOA and PFOS strong and stable even at high than $625 million on research, www.pfasfacts.com. and several product categories, temperatures. They represent a technology, and cleanup efforts well before other manufacturers; broad class of compounds with related to PFAS. More than $50 2) continued investments to many applications of industrial million has gone toward installing remediate any contamination from and social significance, including carbon filtration systems for our manufacturing facilities around health care, advanced electronics, drinking water sources. More than the world; 3) continued investments and replacement of materials with $100 million has been invested in in novel solutions to capture and high global warming potential. testing water sources around the recycle materials from our waste country to better understand the streams. As with many of our 3M is constantly and proactively quality of both groundwater and other products, we have dedicated examining the environmental impact drinking water in communities. significant resources to study PFAS of our products. And, as the science and continue to develop and share the of PFOS and PFOA progressed, Additionally, in 2018, 3M worked science behind PFAS through internal we learned that these chemistries with the state of Minnesota to research, external collaborations had the potential to build up over establish the 3M Grant for Water with universities, and interactions time. As part of our commitment Quality and Sustainability Fund. with government regulators. 146 147 How we work Raw materials 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Raw materials Circular economy solutions help us do more with less. Within each region, business, and division, results are reviewed a waste-to-energy or incineration location controlled by a third party. Between 2015 and 2019, 3M has reduced the amount of material quarterly and annually against goals sent for landfill and incineration by and tracking metrics. Specialized teams work on a variety of projects Our actions 11.7 percent, indexed to net sales. and programs, ranging from basic 3M is also dedicated to operating in office recycling to more complex We have decreased our waste accordance with all regulations and projects such as developing and indexed to net sales by 32.4 managing waste materials safely Our core waste program elements and 2025 Goal: Reduce manufacturing waste capturing intrinsic waste materials percent since 2005. and responsibly. All 3M locations commitment encourages waste minimization generated off a manufacturing line. are required to manage all returned, and recycling whenever possible. by an additional Through an evaluation process, In 2018, we continued with our recycled, and waste materials from Per the standard, each 3M all aspects of material reduction company-wide strategy on reuse, the time of generation until reused, The world’s population is growing location has a waste management 10 percent, indexed benefits or risks are reviewed. reduction, and internal recycling, recycled, treated, or disposed. larger, living longer, and consuming coordinator who is responsible to sales. as well as collaboration with more — which puts a strain on for coordinating appropriate 2025 Goal: Achieve our own technical community, Maximizing beneficial finite natural resources. To address waste training for all personnel. We’ll continue to drive “zero waste” channel partners, and civic this challenge, 3M continually Compliance with all 3M and other thinking with our product designs “zero landfill” and conservation leaders in use of raw materials looks for ways to recover, reuse, regulated waste requirements is and process technologies, as well status at more communities where 3M operates. and recycle by-products and other evaluated through the internal as material reduction work at our than 30 percent of Raw material usage is a waste material. We are moving from environmental auditing program. manufacturing operations. Our manufacturing sites. 3M’s waste metrics include 3M measurement of overall product recyclable to renewable materials definition of manufacturing waste manufacturing operations with total and process yield throughout our in our product and package design. Our Disposal of Chemical Waste for this goal includes materials In addition to our waste reduction output greater than 4.54 metric manufacturing processes and is a Improving our raw material usage Standard calls for appropriate sent to incineration and landfill. goal, we plan to increase tons per year (10,000 pounds), key metric for 3M. It is indicative through product design and management and disposal of repurposing, reusing, and recycling which represents 99 percent of of operational excellence in our operational considerations provides chemical waste to manage risks 3M Corporate Environmental of potential waste materials to sales value of production (SVOP) product design and manufacturing cost benefits throughout our supply and protect the environment. Operations identifies opportunities divert from landfill disposal. of our manufacturing locations. processes. Our raw material chain, in material use, energy, This includes efforts to reduce for efficiency improvement and Composting materials from our usage includes the product, the and transportation efficiency. the amount and hazards of waste measures progress toward raw A location receives zero landfill manufacturing operations is an process, and all by-products. materials generated, to recycle or material usage and waste reduction status when it has gone a full extremely small component of The 3M Waste Management reuse those materials whenever goals for locations within our calendar year without sending any our manufacturing operations. The diversity of manufacturing Standard applies to all 3M locations practical, and to control waste global manufacturing footprint. waste to a landfill. It will continue technologies, processes, and provides a framework for disposal through final disposition. The results and raw data are used to be a zero landfill location as long 3M practices material minimization and products at 3M provides managing all waste types from the to identify, quantify, and prioritize as no manufacturing operations whenever practical to reduce the opportunities for creative surplus time of generation until reused, projects to improve, utilizing Lean waste is sent to a landfill. Waste, as number of by-products generated material solutions for the company. recycled, treated, or disposed. The Six Sigma (LSS) methodology. defined here, does not include ash and to reuse, recycle, or create Accurate identification and standard sets a baseline for several generated from 3M material sent to energy from as much of the characterization of those materials remaining material as possible. is a continual education process and 148 149 How we work Raw materials 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives provides a foundational opportunity industries. We’ve chosen a holistic Operational material 3P (Pollution Using kaizen events Aligning with to further advance minimization and recycling at all our locations. definition: Zero landfill means no by-product is sent directly to a management Prevention Pays) to improve flow of Business One business’s surplus material, for landfill from a 3M manufacturing process streams Transformation example, may be another business’s location in a calendar year. A significant amount of effort in An industry first in 1975, the 3M raw material. As we continue to 2018 focused on improving and Pollution Prevention Pays (3P) Kaizen is the Japanese word for Driving continuous improvement grow internationally, integrating Our location waste data are evolving our Global Environmental program is based on the belief “continuous improvement.” In in surplus materials management consistent, yet resourceful, surplus reported in a corporate database Management Self-Assessment that a prevention approach to 2018, in a continuation of previous has been a multifaceted effort at material management practices quarterly. This data is third-party (GEMSA) program, which is pollution is more environmentally efforts, 3M EHS conducted several 3M. In addition to LSS, which helps in accordance to 3M standards validated at select locations and at now a core element of our EHS effective, more socially acceptable, kaizen events, including facility us gain a better understanding remains a key objective. the corporate level. We also require harmonization project. This and more economical than walk-throughs, waste-by-cause of all the components involved locations seeking this status to program helps drive continuous treatment. In the last 44 years, the analyses, and identification of and the total cost of materials, As such, we continually look for complete an internal assessment improvement in EHS performance. program has prevented more than circular uses for surplus materials. our Business Transformation ways to recover, reuse, and recycle to assure accurate reporting. Requirements were added for all 2.5 million short tons of pollutants With our learnings from these platform and our global enterprise by-products and other surplus sites to identify and implement and saved over $2.2 billion based events, we developed a Lean Six resource planning system bring material when feasible. And when By the end of 2018, 30.8 projects to meet their internal goals on aggregated data from the Sigma (LSS) Sustainability Tool Kit visibility to each manufacturing it’s not, recoverable, reusable, percent of 3M locations had for waste and water reduction. first year of each 3P project. with templates and examples for location’s by-product. This allows or recyclable, we responsibly attained zero landfill status. See additional information on the replication across the company. facilities to better use LSS tools dispose of waste materials. The EHS harmonization project here. As part of the program, select to identify and prioritize projects, concept of maximizing beneficial We have multiple ways to meet projects are honored based upon Part of the solution requires utilizing and ultimately reduce waste. raw material use is important our 2025 zero landfill goal, their exceptional achievement. LSS within a location to segregate both internally and externally to including product and process Some highlights include: and manage material flow for address the global challenge of optimization, onsite and offsite material streams and analyze the resource efficiency and scarcity. recycling, composting, and I n 2018, 3M Personal Safety availability of internal and external waste-to-energy practices. As we Division was recognized as by-product handling alternatives. monitor progress toward this goal, division of the year along with 3M Zero landfill facilities listed will change due to China as country of the year. As locations identify opportunities operations (for example, facility to divert material streams, we Zero landfill is a goal that resonates closures, acquisitions, and sites protect 3M’s reputation while with our local communities as well missing zero landfill by one day of managing by-product, and set as our suppliers and customers. the year). To read how one plant up contracts with our haulers, However, it has various definitions became zero landfill, go here. recyclers, and waste-to-energy for different people and locations. companies to confirm that our We’ve spent a lot of time during material is handled appropriately. our goal development process benchmarking peer companies that span relevant business sectors and 150 151 How we work Raw materials 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Global waste Global waste diversion by type Global Metric tons perwaste MM $USD net sales Global Metric tons waste diversion by type Metric tons per MM $USD net sales Metric tons 7.0 350,000 6.0 300,000 5.0 250,000 4.0 200,000 Lo 3.0 150,000 fo oki rw ng 2.0 100,000 ard 1.0 50,000 As we look ahead toward a more 0.0 0 circular economy, 3M is focusing 2005 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 on initiatives that will help us Starting in 2016, waste no longer includes waste-to-energy. engage more of the value chain. Waste-to-energy Offsite recycle Offsite reuse* Onsite recycle + reuse* We’re looking to maximize product *Does not include onsite recycle & reuse and offsite reuse from 3M's industrial mineral product (IMP) division. output and reuse waste in other locations, processes, and products. In addition, we are working with 3P global pollution prevention achievements: 1975-2018 3P global pollution prevention achievements: 1975-2018 First year total pollution prevention cumulative totals, short tons our researchers to create products First year total pollution prevention cumulative totals, short tons to assure the effectiveness of raw 2,500,000 materials. We’re also identifying and testing technologies that make our processes more efficient. Global waste by disposal type Plans are also underway to expand 2,000,000 Metric tonsby disposal type Global waste the scope of the successful 3P Metric tons program. We’re adding the ability 180,000 to track 3P projects from the idea 160,000 generation phase through project 1,500,000 planning, execution, completion, 140,000 and award recognition. This will provide business leaders visibility 120,000 to barriers that may jeopardize the success of footprint reduction 1,000,000 100,000 projects, and assure the largest 80,000 opportunities are addressed. 60,000 3M, with our scientists and 500,000 technologies, is uniquely positioned 40,000 to lead the advancement of circular solutions. 20,000 0 0 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total air pollution Total waste pollution Total water pollution Treatement, incineration Landfilled prevented prevented prevented � Starting in 2016, waste no longer includes waste-to-energy. 152 153 How we work Water 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Water Giving Earth’s most valuable natural resource the attention it deserves. Risk-mitigation 3M uses the definitions and Each 3M site located in a planning tools established by the World Business Council for Sustainable water-stressed area is required to understand its water use, Development (WBCSD) to screen the associated business risks At 3M, we continually evaluate our the company’s various locations and impacts, and to work approach to opportunity and risk. and their water use with validated with local water resources to We believe the whole concept of WBCSD water availability, understand potential impacts on risk management is an essential population, and biodiversity the surrounding area. It is also Our and federal regulations with an eye toward the future. 2025 Goal: Reduce global water use by an component of strategic planning. This includes a broad risk oversight information both on a country and watershed basis. In 2018, requested that those sites do water conservation planning, commitment Water is an important component additional 10 percent, by the 3M Board of Directors and its committees, with committee-level 25 sites with annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 outlining current and future water conservation efforts. Applying 3M technology and for the manufacturing and support indexed to sales. risk analyses reported to the full cubic meters were in waterAnnual stress-level screening working together, we have the systems of several of our products. 3M operations must manage their Board and executive-level internal stressed areas as defined by the evaluations are conducted for strength to bring real, lasting Because of this, 3M continues water resources through alignment auditor and Chief Compliance extremely high baseline water global operations using available improvements to water availability to actively understand, manage, with regulatory requirements, Officer appointed by, and reporting stress value, according to the updates from the water tool, an and quality on a global scale. and work toward reducing conservation, and reuse, and directly to, the Audit Committee. WBCSD-Global Water Tool.™ analysis of site operations, and our corporate water footprint reporting of water usage internally. water usage and local conditions. Water is the most valuable while providing innovative natural resource on our planet solutions to our customers. ­— supporting billions of plant, 2025 Goal: Engage animal, and human lives and We respect our ecological and 100 percent of water3M locations in-scope for the 2025 Sustainability helping ecosystems thrive. Our ethical responsibility and have stressed/scarce water-stressed/scarce communities goal 3M locations in-scope for the communities where 2025 Sustainability water-stressed/scarce communities goal consumption of this resource a vested interest in preserving must be accordingly nurtured and improving water availability and thoughtfully managed. We and quality in the communities 3M manufactures, recognize that reducing water we serve and beyond. on community-wide consumption in our operations approaches to water United States (11) and improving water quality 3M’s Water Stewardship Standard management. Mexico (five) are important elements of outlines our commitment to Peru (one) optimizing our environmental water resources that secure 3M will partner with local Venezuela (one) stewardship. Quantitatively, the social equity, economic growth, communities to advance water availability of water must meet and environmental protection. recycling and conservation. India (two) the needs of current and future Water resources include Ultimately, we aim to help China (two) consumer demands. In addition, water intake, effluent water these communities build and United States (11) Mexico (five) Singapore (two) working to exceed local, state, discharge, and rainwater. manage their own clean water Peru (one) Venezuela (one) India (two) China (two) efforts into the future. Singapore (two) Japan (one) Japan (one) 154 155 How we work Water 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our actions Total water consumption has decreased 39.4 percent Globalwater Global withdrawal water Water conservation The problem, however, is that the process requires a lot of Another case in point: Bangalore, India. At the 3M plant here, toilet We are continually evaluating between 2005 and 2018 indexed withdrawal In 2018, we continued to evaluate heat. Previously, this heat came flushing, cleaning, and gardening 2018percentage 2018 percentage our water use footprint with a to corporate-wide net sales. policies, programs, and procedures in the form of steam, but a team were consuming potable water. consistent, company-wide focus Results also indicate that the while expanding our global of scientists at the 3M plant in Engineering and the EHS team on reuse, reduction, and internal largest share of 3M water use internal systems. We use those Tonawanda came up with a way at the facility worked together recycling, as well as collaboration in operations is for processing findings to create, identify, and to make sponges that uses less to identify and map areas where with our own technical community, products in manufacturing and share best management practices water. They repurposed hot potable water could be replaced channel partners, and civic heating or cooling of those related to water conservation. water that previously had gone with recycled, non-potable water. and conservation leaders in processes and associated to the sewer. That water is now A separate pipeline was created communities where 3M operates. operations. We continue to We are continuing our efforts used to heat up the process step to deliver treated water for toilet improve our data accuracy through to implement water reduction before steam is used, and then flushing, floor cleaning, and 3M’s total water usage includes monitoring and measurement. projects at targeted facilities while it’s recycled back to the start gardening purposes. These steps, sanitary, process, heating, cooling, evaluating external partnerships. of the process to be reused. and others, produced an overall remediation, and miscellaneous Our water conservation efforts have savings of 3,226,000 liters of sources. Water usage data are been achieved through recycling, As we have for decades. The new process has led to a 25 potable water in the first year. tracked and reported annually on reuse, product redesigns, and percent reduction in water usage a global basis for manufacturing improvements to our buildings Case in point: Tonawanda, New at the Tonawanda plant. This also sites that produce greater than 4.54 and manufacturing processes. Groundwater 47.2% York. In 1946, two chemical means less energy is consumed metric tons (10,000 pounds) of A majority of our water-intense engineers and a chemist came because less water has to be heated product per year. The reported data manufacturing operations are Other sources 11.8% up with a process for making during the sponge-making process. accounts for 99 percent of sales located in the U.S. and Europe, in artificial sponges to take the value of production (SVOP), which areas that are not water-stressed Public municipal 19.5% place of natural sea sponges. To learn more on 3M provides solid coverage of water or water-scarce. However, they Tonawanda, go here. use considered material to 3M’s also contribute significantly to Surface 21.6% operational environmental footprint. our conservation efforts. As the company continues to grow globally, thoughtful consideration is placed on the type of operations and availability of water sources. 156 157 How we work Water #improvinglives Global water usage Million cubic meters Global water usage Million cubic meters 60 50 Lo 40 fo oki rw ng 30 ard Water is a valuable natural resource 20 for life and thriving ecosystems. Because of this, 3M continues to 10 actively manage and work toward reducing our corporate water 0 footprint while providing innovative 2005 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 solutions to our customers. Water will be part of our strategic focus on empowering Science for Circular, Climate, and Community. Global water usage Million cubic meters per MM $USD net sales Global water usage Million cubic meters per MM $USD net sales 0.0025 0.0020 0.0015 0.0010 0.0005 0.000 2005 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 158 159 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Climate and energy Taking innovative steps to Public policy • I nclude provisions that promote Corporate and local plans take decarbonize industry. into account the risk of natural engagement the efficient allocation of emissions reductions and assure all sectors disaster, infectious disease, contribute to reduction targets, employee safety, protection of 3M endorses voluntary approaches with the effect of allowing fair assets, customer service, and other to GHG emissions management. competition and avoiding market business continuity requirements. Any mandatory GHG emission distortions within industrial sectors reductions should be developed or across national boundaries Our climate risk Our • S  erving our customers through a wide Standard to set GHG emission reduction targets. For this reason, through international negotiations and follow these policy principles: 3M is actively engaged in public process includes: commitment range of innovative products that help them improve energy efficiency we are incorporating the findings policy development to address and reduce their carbon footprints of the Special Report on Global • A pply broadly to countries climate change concerns. For Governance Through the years, 3M has led Warming of 1.5°C, published by the or groups of countries, and additional information, see the industry in addressing both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate GHG emission sources global challenges section. The Board has delegated primary challenges and the opportunities Executive-level Change (IPCC) in setting our goals responsibility for the oversight presented by climate change and energy conservation. commitment and actions.1 This report, prepared by 91 authors from 40 countries • B e guided by sciencebased decision making Climate risk of risks facing the company to the Audit Committee. The 3M Our proactive leadership is best We are committed to innovate to decarbonize industry, accelerate and based on over 6,000 scientific references, finds that limiting • U tilize a consistent, marketprocess Company Board of Directors Audit Committee Charter states that the defined by five areas of action: climate solutions, and reduce global warming to 1.5°C (2.7°F) based approach committee will “discuss policies our own environmental footprint. above pre-industrial temperatures Risk-mitigation and procedures with respect to risk • E xecutive-level commitment to This commitment was launched would require “deep emissions • E ncourage investment and protect planning assessment and risk management, these important topics and our through our Strategic Sustainability reductions” and “rapid, far-reaching intellectual property to facilitate the company’s major risk exposures, related principles, commitments, Framework (Science for Circular, and unprecedented changes in technology breakthroughs Severe weather and longand the steps management has and risk-mitigation planning efforts Science for Climate, and Science all aspects of society.” Achieving term trends could aﬀect 3M’s taken to monitor and mitigate such for Community), on Investor Day this goal also would “reduce • I nclude provisions for carbon operations and supply chain. To exposures.” For the purposes of • I ndustry-leading efforts to 2018, by Michael F. Roman, 3M’s challenging impacts on ecosystems, emissions trading and/or alternative address these and other risks, 3M discussing climate-related risks, reduce our own greenhouse Chief Executive Officer, and is human health and well-being.” investment and compliance programs maintains a systematic Business “substantive financial impact” gas (GHG) emissions rooted in our ambition to apply 1Special Report on Global Warming of Continuity and Planning Process means an event or circumstance science for the greater good. 1.5ºC (Report). Incheon, South Korea: • P rovide full credit for early and Crisis Management Program that would individually or in Intergovernmental Panel on Climate • E xtensive public policy Change (IPCC). 7 October 2018. reductions in GHG emissions which coordinates eﬀorts of the aggregate have a material engagement on both climate As a science-based company, 3M local crisis management teams adverse effect on the consolidated change and energy conservation uses the World Resources Institute • B alance multiple country-level maintained at each 3M location financial condition or operations (WRI) / World Business Council priorities, including energy and international subsidiary. of 3M Company and subsidiaries • A decades-long track for Sustainable Development reliability and independence, and affiliates taken as a whole. record of improving energy (WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate national security, and economic efficiency at our locations Accounting and Reporting growth and employment 160 161 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives While the Board’s oversight of Board’s oversight involved in its development and Frequency of monitoring of business resources. We have Corrupt Practices Act and other risk is primarily performed by the remains increasingly engaged in the operations in over 70 countries, anti-bribery and anti-corruption Audit Committee, the Board has 3M’s Science, Technology, and resulting innovations and actions. 3M will assess climate-related risks bringing together a combination of laws, and other matters. The also delegated to other 3M senior Sustainability (STS) Committee at least once every six months, and our 46 unique technology platforms outcome of these legal proceedings management committees the assesses and advances strategic Corporate officer's oversight more often if a risk is considered to to produce over 55,000 product is often difficult to reliably predict. oversight of risks within their areas growth areas, long-term be more time-sensitive. Part of the lines in nearly every country. Any For a more detailed review of of responsibility and expertise. investments, and inspired innovation In addition to members of the assessment will be to evaluate risks risks from technology would be this topic, see the discussion The Environmental, Health, opportunities. Committee members STS Committee, 3M’s Senior Vice that go beyond six years well into identified and mitigated through in Note 16 “Commitments and and Safety (EHS) Committee as of December 31, 2018, include President of Supply Chain, a direct the future. our New Technology Introduction Contingencies” within the of 3M senior management Inge G. Thulin, Executive Chairman report to the Chief Executive (NTI) process, New Product Notes to Consolidated Financial provides input on climate and of the Board; Michael F. Roman, Officer, has the highest level of Risk factors Introduction (NPI) process, and Statements in The Company’s environmental related risks. Chief Executive Officer; Nicholas direct responsibility for assessing continuous improvement program. Annual Report to Shareholders. C. Gangstad, Senior Vice President and managing climate-related Regulatory 3M continually Integration into enterprise risk and Chief Financial Officer; John issues. This person will carry on evaluates aspects of regulatory risk This product diversity enables Market Results are impacted by P. Banovetz, Senior Vice President, the company’s history of proactive during regular business through 3M to identify unique solutions to the effects of, and changes in, 3M continually evaluates aspects of Research and Development and leadership in addressing both the new product development and solve our customers’ challenges. In worldwide economic, political, risk; our analysis has not identified Chief Technology Officer; Gayle challenges and the opportunities continuous business improvement. 2018, 3M invested $1.82 billion in and capital markets conditions. all aspects of climate risk as an R.T. Schueller, Vice President and presented by climate change and 3M’s operations are affected by research and development to build 3M operates in more than 70 enterprise risk with a substantive Chief Sustainability Officer. energy conservation. national, state, and local laws upon our existing technologies countries and derives approximately financial impact. Our primary around the world. 3M has made, to find innovative solutions for 60 percent of its revenues from categories of enterprise risk are Frequency on Identification and plans to continue making, our customers' challenges. This outside the United States. The detailed in our Annual Report. Board’s agenda and assessment necessary expenditures for unique combination of diversity and company’s business is subject to Additional details on our enterprise compliance with applicable laws. investment enables 3M to remain global competition and geopolitical risk assessments can be found in the Sustainability is a topic at all levels Managing risk requires integrating 3M is also involved in remediation on the cutting edge of science risks and may be adversely affected enterprise risk section of this report. of our company. On an annual basis, a multi-disciplinary, company-wide actions relating to environmental and support our customers’ future by factors that are beyond its our Chief Technology Officer and risk identification, assessment, matters from past operations needs as the climate changes. control, such as slower economic Timeframes our Chief Sustainability Officer and management process. at certain sites. Our analysis Our analysis has not identified this growth, disruptions in financial report directly to the Board’s has not identified this climate climate factor as an enterprise risk markets, economic downturns, ShortMediumLongNominating and Governance factor as an enterprise risk with with a substantive financial impact. inflation, elevated unemployment term term term Committee on our Sustainability a substantive financial impact. levels, sluggish or uneven recovery, efforts. In addition, throughout Legal The company’s future results government deficit reduction, 0-1 years 1-5 years 5+ years 2018 the STS committee met with Technology 3M’s five business may be affected by various legal natural disasters, and other factors increasing frequency as we created segments bring together common and regulatory proceedings and in specific countries or regions, our new business strategy, known or related 3M technologies, legal compliance risks, including or in the various industries in as our Strategic Sustainability enhancing the development of those involving product liability, which 3M operates. Our analysis Framework. This senior leadership innovative products and services antitrust, intellectual property, team was highly engaged and and providing for efficient sharing environmental, the U.S. Foreign 162 163 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives has not identified this climate and maintaining appropriate stocks substantive financial impact. reduce our risk from local climate to address these and other Accuracy Develop corporate factor as an enterprise risk with of raw materials and contingency Risks from downstream product impacts on our operations. physical climate opportunities. systems and auditing procedures a substantive financial impact. plans with key suppliers to assure uses are identified at the product allocation to 3M in the event of level through the Life Cycle 3M’s five business segments Metrics Transparency Report on emissions Reputation Around the world, supply disruption. Our analysis Management (LCM) process at bring together common or related and activities in a way that is customers rely on 3M to provide has not identified this climate 3M, which evaluates the planned 3M technologies, enhancing We have established key metrics relevant to stakeholders innovative solutions to advance factor as an enterprise risk with use and disposal of 3M products the development of innovative to measure and manage climate companies, enhance homes, and a substantive financial impact. and identifies hazards and risks products and services and risk that go beyond compliance 2025 Goal: Improve improve lives. We are defined by associated with the use and providing for efficient sharing to thinking holistically about how more than just what we make — we Upstream 3M depends on various disposal of 3M products. Mitigation of business resources. Our our operations and products energy efficiency are defined by how we do business: components, compounds, raw of these risks is highly diverse and operations bring together a affect the world and every life in indexed to net sales the 3M Way, always making the materials, and energy (including product-specific. Our analysis combination of our 46 unique it. We report on historical periods by 30 percent. right choices for our company and oil and natural gas and their has not identified this climate technology platforms to produce to allow for trend analysis with a our customers, and protecting our derivatives) supplied by others for factor as an enterprise risk with over 55,000 product lines, which clear description of methodologies Energy-efficiency improvements reputation in all we do. Our analysis the manufacturing of its products. a substantive financial impact. are sold in nearly every country. we use to calculate or estimate help reduce energy use, energy has not identified this climate It is possible that any of its supplier limitations and assumptions. associated costs, and GHG factor as an enterprise risk with relationships could be interrupted Financial risks We believe this governance of risks emissions. 3M energy management a substantive financial impact. due to natural and other disasters by Board committees, who share Principles goes beyond energy-efficiency and other events, or be terminated At 3M, we continually evaluate our information with the full Board, efforts in factories and buildings: Physical (acute and chronic) Every in the future. Risks from upstream approach to opportunity and risk. is appropriate for a diversified 3M’s 2025 Sustainability Goals It is a team effort guided by 3M’s year, local crisis management suppliers are identified at the We believe the whole concept of technology and manufacturing and Strategic Sustainability global Corporate Energy Policy teams at every 3M facility and product level through the New risk appetite and tolerance is an company like 3M. 3M’s 10-K, Framework milestones. and coordinated by the Corporate international subsidiary must review Product Introduction (NPI) and essential component of strategic Item 1A, outlines risk factors Energy Management team, with and update its Crisis Management continuous improvement processes planning. This includes broad risk applicable to the company. Relevance Clearly oversight by 3M’s Corporate Plan to reflect current conditions. at 3M. An on-site assessment oversight by the Board and its define boundaries Energy Manager and Engineering It also performs a tabletop or may be conducted, by 3M or committees, with committee-level Financial opportunities Vice President, and active support actual crisis response exercise. third party, and any deficiencies risk analyses reported to the full Completeness Strive to calculate from the Chief Executive Officer. 3M Corporate Auditing and are ultimately corrected through Board and executive-level internal Financial opportunities include and report data coverage to 99 Corporate Security monitor facility a Corrective Action Preventive auditor and Chief Compliance products and services and percent of inventory for Scope 1 3M has taken a broad approach compliance with the Corporate Action (CAPA) process. Our analysis Officer appointed by, and reporting resource efficiency. Access to and Scope 2 emissions. We will to managing our energy footprint, Crisis Management Program. has not identified this climate directly to, the Audit Committee. dependable energy supplies and continue to develop and support which includes evaluating the factor as an enterprise risk with energy efficiency directly affect advances in Scope 3 methodology impact of our new products, 3M mitigates supply chain risks a substantive financial impact. 3M has operations in over 70 all businesses and communities. manufacturing processes, through a variety of management countries, with a regionalized Energy usage and climate concerns Consistency Base our data equipment, and locations, as well practices, including multi-sourcing Downstream Our analysis has supply chain that enables more require systemic change. 3M is a on approved methodology as reducing the energy footprint raw materials, pre-qualification of not identified “downstream” localized and diversified production diversified technology company of our existing manufacturing and potential outsource manufacturers, as an enterprise risk with a of our products. This helps providing innovative solutions administrative locations. In addition, 164 165 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives we actively share information about our energy management By conserving energy, reformulating products, and prioritizing Our actions A focus on energy from naturally ISO 50001 and SEP™ certification Transforming the ways we use and program with external stakeholders opportunities, 3M has been Energy management, replenishable sources evaluate energy such as suppliers, customers, and able to achieve industry-leading inside and out The internationally recognized other interested organizations. GHG emission reductions. Other As part of our 2025 goal to increase ISO 50001 standard, and the U.S. companies are setting goals to 3M reviews its Strategic Energy the use of renewable energy Department of Energy’s (DOE's) The doors of collaboration were 2025 Goal: Increase move closer to the achievements Management Plan annually to sources, 3M continues to expand Superior Energy Performance once again opened during the 2018 we have already realized. prioritize programs and meet wind energy operations. In 2018, (SEP™) certification program, Plant Engineering Global Excellence renewable energy to global goals. The plan uses input we entered into contracts with help 3M locations become (PEGE) & Energy Leadership 25 percent of total 2025 Goal: from stakeholders, including two wind energy developers to attuned to recognizing and seizing Conference. For the second year in electricity use. Help our customers manufacturing directors, plant off-take the electricity from their opportunities to increase energy a row, with nearly 100 attendees, managers, operations employees, projects, Gunsight Mountain and efficiency in site operations, and the conference was packed with Achieving this goal will mean reduce their GHGs and executive management. Rocksprings, both located in Texas. move from delivering energy a wide variety of valued subjectadding nearly 800,000 MWh of by 250 million tons Goals of the plan include to In 2018, the electricity output projects in a loosely organized matter experts and a focus on the renewable energy use globally. The of CO2 equivalent continuously improve results, from these two projects alone is fashion to a structured system of importance of partnerships in the primary sources of this renewable leverage engineering expertise now 26.8 percent of 3M’s total management. By integrating the achievement of our Sustainability energy will be wind and solar. emissions through and advances, drive facilityglobal electricity use, thereby systematic ISO-based framework goals, as well as currently existing use of 3M products. level efficiency improvements, achieving the company’s 2025 of “plan-do-check-act” for the opportunities that assure energy2025 Goal: Ensure maintain top management support, renewable energy goal. With the management of energy in on-site efficient operations at our locations. While 3M has made significant and protect 3M’s reputation. goals we set in 2025, we’re raising operations, our locations have Along with delivering those GHG emissions at GHG emission reductions across the bar as part of our strategic seen savings in energy costs messages, external speakers yielded least 50 percent our global operations, we realize we Pubic speaking engagements focus on empowering Science for and consumption, expansion insight on Sustainability and process below our 2002 can make far greater contributions and partnerships are integral Circular, Climate, and Community. of employee engagement, and control from the perspective of baseline, while by helping our customers reduce elements of the plan. In 2018, 3M See the “looking forward” increased visibility to the tracking leaders from other industries. their GHG emissions through the experts spoke at several energy section for additional details. of site energy performance. 3M growing our business. use of our products. For additional industry conferences, including the has been busy increasing its ISO Beyond this one-day summit-style information on how we work with Association of Energy Engineers Our renewable efforts don’t 50001 and SEP-certified profile, event, we also conduct monthly 3M is in a leadership position due our customers, see Our Customers. (AEE), the Western Electricity stop at the corporate level. Our with 30 locations now certified web conferences for our global to our early actions to reduce our Coordinating Council (WECC), the facilities actively seek alternative or working toward certification network, at which we share GHG emissions, which started U.S. Department of Energy (DOE's), energy sources, including active under those two programs. upcoming or changing regulatory in 2000. We are committed to and the Better Buildings Summit. combined heat and power, solar, requirements and best practices. continuing that leadership even We are also one of 30 businesses wind, and other projects, such as we grow the company in order and organizations that have formed as utilized excess steam. Learn to help our customers address the Minnesota Sustainable Growth more about the actions we’ve the issue of climate change. Coalition, which is dedicated to taken at one of our combined defining and achieving a fully heat and power facilities here and realized circular economy. solar energy installations here. 166 167 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives From many the end of 2018, just under 70 3M Midway, 3M Gendorf, Global energy use Global energy use MMBtu perspectives, a percent of all global facilities Tennessee, U.S. Germany MMBtu productive year had completed this challenge. 30,000,000 Steve White, Amy Powell, Dennis Thomas Hoelzlwimmer, Throughout the year, employees Also, energy coordinators Shipley, Charles Shipley, Richard process engineer. 3M Gendorf conducted treasure hunts at were named for each of four Fox, and Johnny Ramey. The performed simple optimization facilities to find conservation regions: Asia Pacific, Canada, Midway team chose to attack of the control concept for its 20,000,000 opportunities. Ten more sites Europe, and Latin America. energy efficiency indirectly. By central cooling compressor joined in the hunt this year. These focusing on process improvements, and, in doing so, reduced the sites identified approximately $4.5 million (USD) in energy savings Energy they were able to significantly increase the size of each of their electrical power consumption at its facility by 5 percent. This, in 10,000,000 opportunities. Several more sites are scheduled in the future. Excellence furnace batch runs, without a corresponding increase in turn, produced energy savings of $100,000 (USD) per year. Evaluating new metering technology Awards electricity input. Fewer batch runs also translated into a decrease 2018 Plant Energy 0 2005 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 in 2018 aided in the identification in landfill scrap associated of energy costs associated with the The Energy Excellence Awards with each furnace load. Award manufacturing processes and allow honors individuals and teams At the conclusion of each year, the for better analysis of energy cost that incorporate the goals of 3M London, Corporate Energy Management reductions during both production the Corporate Energy Program Ontario, Canada team recognizes the top facilities Global energy use Global energy use and non-production time periods. in engineering projects. The in our program for their results MMBtu per MM $USD net sales MMBtu per MM $USD net sales nominated projects and individuals Steve Doyle, senior electrical in energy metrics. To qualify, 1,400 An energy analysis tool was actively demonstrate their technologist. Utilizing ISO50001 these facilities must demonstrate developed in 2018 for use by all 3M commitment to include energy processes, site monitoring an active culture of energy 1,200 locations. The tool is designed to efficiency in the design of systems, current technology management practices on-site, quickly analyze and identify energy projects, in equipment selection, platforms, and the knowledge as evidenced by their delivered 1,000 projects and estimate payback or in the use of alternative energy of its workforce, London Oxford project savings, their energy periods. It uses actual site energy supplies. The award is one of implemented projects at every team assessment score, and the 800 costs and weather data for analysis global recognition within the 3M production and business center resulting improved efficiency of energy costs in lighting, motors, Engineering community. This year, at their facility. Among them: in energy intensity on-site. 600 makeup air, and compressed air. we saw 29 project and individual combined heat and power Eight platinum awards, 12 gold 400 award nominations total, from installation, boiler automation, awards, and eight silver awards The Lighting Challenge nine countries globally. In May compressor upgrades and were presented to facilities with 200 continued in 2018, focused on 2018, three awards were given sequencing, lab heating ventilation the most impressive results. 3M locations upgrading their at the 2018 Engineering Awards and air conditioning (HVAC) 0 lighting systems to light-emitting ceremony in St. Paul, Minnesota: cutbacks, and LED upgrades. 2005 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 diode (LED) technology. At 168 169 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Greenhouse gas emissions, Scopegas Greenhouse 1 and Scope emissions, Scope 1 and 2Scope 2 Million metric tons CO2 equivalents, absolute Million metric tons CO2 equivalents, absolute 20 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 Direct (Scope 1) and EHS Laboratory maintains an updated as needed to agree with 2 accreditation to ANSI/ISO/IEC current calculation methodologies. indirect (Scope 2) 17025 through A2LA — a signatory However, whenever a methodology 0 2002 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 greenhouse to the International Laboratory change is implemented, 3M will, gas emissions Scope 1 GHG emissions Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions Accreditation Cooperation Mutual wherever possible, recalculate For methodology, please refer to the about report section: base year and other adjustments, Recognition Arrangement (ILAC prior year’s GHG inventories to and greenhouse gas metric table. Since 2002, 3M has reduced MRA). Although it is not possible assure that past and current-year Scope 1 GHG emissions by 71.5 to put 3M’s GHG inventory GHG inventories are comparable. percent, providing a direct and methodology on the lab’s scope Where this is not possible, 3M immediate reduction in our impact of accreditation, our calculation will either call this out or assure on the environment. During this methodology has been improved that the difference is not material. same timeframe, we have achieved by incorporating several quality These quality system elements and a 63.7 percent reduction in system elements from ANSI/ISO/ procedures coupled with a robust absolute Scope 1 and 2 locationIEC 17025 Standard, including: internal and third-party review Indexed greenhouse gas emissions, based GHG emissions. In 2018, our of our emissions help assure that Scope Indexed 1 and greenhouse Scope gas emissions, Scope 21 and Scope 2 Scope 1 emission did increase. This  efined responsibilities and • D 3M’s GHG inventory is aligned with Million Million metric metric tons tons CO₂ CO2 equivalents equivalents per MM $USD pernetMM $USD net sales sales is due to an increase in demand interrelationships of all key staff the core principles of relevance, 1200 for products with high emission completeness, consistency, profiles. We are actively working • D  ocumentation of key accuracy, and transparency. GHG 1000 on projects to reduce the emission personnel qualifications emission reductions are achieved profiles of these product lines and through a variety of methods: 800 our commitment to innovate to • C  ontrol over quality system improving process and equipment decarbonize industry, accelerate documents and procedures efficiency, upgrading equipment, 600 global climate solutions and improve reducing our demand for energy 400 our environmental footprint. Results • Control of records use, increasing our use of renewable of these efforts will be included in energy, and implementing and 200 our 2020 Sustainability Report. • C  orrective and preventive maintaining pollution control action system technologies. These methods, and 0 Since 2002, the 3M EHS more, are integral to the company’s 2002 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Laboratory has calculated 3M's • Internal audit program overall success and assist us with Indexed Scope 1 Indexed Scope 2 GHG inventory in accordance the challenge of helping to address GHG emissions location-based GHG emissions with the World Resources Institute • D  ocumented and approved global climate change concerns. For methodology, please refer to the about report section: base year and other adjustments, and greenhouse gas metric table. (WRI) / World Business Council calculation procedures for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate Every year, 3M calculates GHG Greenhouse Gas Accounting inventory according to approved and Reporting Standard. The 3M internal procedures that are 170 171 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives GHG emissions Evaluating customer through detailed calculations using tons CO2 equivalents through use Air quality pollutants, which are listed on attributable to GHG emissions product-specific information). of select 3M product platforms as management many environmental permits for calculated in accordance with ISO specific facility operations, are our suppliers and reductions The same boundary is then used for 14064-2 and 3M standard operating An important component to tracked and reported externally customers (Scope 3) the estimation of GHG emissions procedures. Since 2015, this is over 3M’s Sustainability strategy is where required by federal, state, To track progress towards our for the baseline scenario. Because 41 million metric tons avoided CO₂ our commitment to improving or local regulations for individual 3M has been developing our Scope 2025 GHG customer goal, 3M the data sources may be different equivalent emissions through use of air quality globally. locations. 3M internally tracks 3 GHG emissions inventory since has a process in place to develop than the 3M product scenario, we select 3M product platforms. This all fuel usage and calculates the the publishing of the WRI/WBCSD reasonable estimates for avoided apply conservative assumptions avoidance represents only a portion As a company that uses many combustion emission rates using GHG Protocol Corporate Value emissions associated with use of as needed, where conservative of our product portfolio. Products solvent-based materials, 3M accepted emission factors. Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and select 3M products. This estimation is defined as a choice that results including films, fluids, and food inherently releases volatile Reporting Standard in September procedure is based on the ISO in the minimum GHG emissions safety, are a few examples of the organic compounds (VOCs) Main VOC by 2011. We place a high value on 14064-2 standard for determining for the baseline scenario. For selected products included in this from many of our manufacturing decision making based on sound GHG emissions reductions. It example, if emissions data is not evaluation. In the future, the list will processes. Because of this, many source type science. When the complexity of provides a framework for the available for the production of likely expand as a result of the new of our locations require permits the supply chain does not allow for estimation of emissions from the an intermediate chemical in the Sustainability Value Commitment. with rigorous VOC tracking • 3 M’s VOC emissions are primarily direct calculation, an input/output 3M product scenario (also referred baseline scenario, we assume the requirements. Even where tracking attributed to coating lines model calculation method is used. to as the “project scenario”) in emissions to be zero. In some cases, is not required from a regulatory relation to a baseline scenario. there is no equivalent to the 3M perspective, 3M voluntarily tracks • R eactors and mixing are also We continually evaluate our product. The baseline scenario VOC usage and emissions from significant sources of VOC emissions methodology and auditing practices We start by defining the boundary is the absence of the 3M product major sources of emissions in order to assure meaningful, consistent, of the 3M product scenario as entirely. The result is a comparison to identify further opportunities VOC by location and accurate comparison of extraction from nature through that conservatively estimates the for reduction. 3M has developed emissions over time. At this time, the end of the product use phase potential impact of the 3M product. internal programs to minimize • 8 8 percent of our locations emit a base year has not yet been (product end-of-life or disposal its VOC emissions. We track less than 100 tons per year VOC established for Scope 3 GHG is included where reliable Due to the estimated nature of the and report emissions based on emissions; see the looking forward information is available). The GHG data used, the uncertainty for these raw material usage, engineering • 3 1 percent of our locations emit section for additional information. emissions for this scenario are studies is plus or minus 50 percent, estimates, and stack test data. less than 1 ton per year VOC then estimated using high-level which approximates data of fair to estimates and average data (for good quality as defined in the WRI/ For many 3M manufacturing example, manufacturing emissions WBCSD Product Life Cycle and processes, nitrogen oxides (NOx), may be determined based on the Accounting Standard Quantitative sulfur dioxide (SO₂), carbon average energy use per pound Inventory Uncertainty Guide. monoxide (CO), hazardous air of all products produced at a pollutants (HAPs), persistent manufacturing location, rather According to our calculations, in organic pollutants (POPs), and than determining the emissions 2018 alone our customers avoided particulate matter (PM) are emitted emitting nearly 15 million metric as products of combustion. These 172 173 How we work Climate and energy 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Implementing Global volatile organic compound Ozone depleting In the coming year, 3M will be establishment of a science-based and maintaining (VOC) emissions substances charting the pathway to 100 target. Calculating Scope 3 Global volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions percent renewable energy. Categories 9-12 is a challenging pollution control Metric Metric tonstons per$USD MMnet per MM sales net $USD sales Specifically, we will evaluate what task to complete. Our 55,000The Montreal Protocol is the first will be required to improve all plus product lines are heavily 3M has made significant progress 0.35 worldwide agreement designed aspects of energy efficiency, what diversified across a large variety in reducing air emissions — at the to protect human health and organizations can help us move to of use cases. We are working to 0.30 source and by improving process the environment against the a total renewable energy portfolio, overcome this challenge while efficiencies. Where emissions 0.25 adverse effects of the depletion and what agreements with utility maintaining the core principles cannot be reduced within the of the stratospheric ozone companies can help us reach our of the GHG inventory: relevance, process, 3M installs and maintains 0.20 layer. The agreement identifies ultimate destination. For updates, completeness, consistency, air emission control equipment the list of ozone depleting and to learn more about our accuracy, and transparency. 0.15 as required by federal, state, and substances (ODS) that are ongoing work on the 3M Strategic local regulations. We evaluate all targeted for control practices, Sustainability Framework, go here. 0.10 equipment options, select those reductions, or total phaseouts and that are the most environmentally 0.05 provides a phaseout schedule. Regarding supplier and customer effective and cost-efficient, and In addition, some countries emissions, we are actively working strive to properly operate emission 0.00 have established regulations toward developing methodologies 2005 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 control equipment. Technologies regarding the management of around Scope 3 Categories 9 include thermal oxidization, solvent refrigeration appliances. (downstream transportation and recovery, carbon adsorption, distribution), 10 (processing of biofiltration, electrostatic 3M has set forth requirements in sold products), 11 (use of sold precipitators, baghouses, order to provide a framework for products), and 12 (end-of-life scrubbers, and cyclones. how 3M operations are to manage treatment of sold product) to their refrigeration appliances better understand opportunities containing ODS in the context of to reduce our emissions, and applicable international protocols, to potentially consider the local regulations, and current and future economic impacts. These requirements include conformance to the Montreal Protocol when applicable. 174 175 How we work Suppliers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Suppliers Sustainability is a journey we take with everyone in our supply chain. To learn more about these topics, see our human rights section The SRC, as with our previous 3M Supply Chain Policies, establishes Health, and Safety (EHS) are updated at least twice a year, and 3M’s expectations for new and sourcing leadership quarterly, on • Environment, health, and existing suppliers anywhere in the the program’s status. Both groups safety: We expect our suppliers world and for any supplied material have the opportunity to provide to care as much about the or service. Our new supplier vetting input on the various program safety of their workers and their process includes review of the SRC activities. Sustainability-related communities as 3M does, and to expectations and confirmation topics, along with supply chain, Our work with us to transform our shared supply chain when needed. Strong policies aligned with implement proper procedures that their programs and practices as well as their subcontractors are discussed by the Science, Technology, and Sustainability commitment and controls to protect them our values involved in the supply of products (STS) Committee and taken up We actively verify our new and • E thics: Expectations align to the and/or services conform to annually as an agenda item for the At each step in the supply chain, existing suppliers’ performance 3M Code of Conduct and hold standards consistent with the 3M Board of Directors, as required. The 3M Supplier Responsibility there are benefits (like employment against our expectations on a our suppliers to the same high SRC. Our contract agreements Code (SRC) outlines 3M’s and community-building) as well as risk-prioritized basis, using our foundational social and standards of honesty and integrity. have included expectations from Supplier risk the potential for negative impacts Due Diligence Management our Supply Chain Policies and are (like pollution or unsafe or unfair System, which is modeled environmental expectations in the Suppliers must prohibit any form of bribery and corruption, and now being updated to phase in and assessment and labor practices). Our commitment after the Organization for following areas: prevent conflicts of interest incorporate the SRC expectations. supply chain is to maximize the positives and Economic Co-operation and transparency mitigate the potential negatives by Development (OECD) Guidelines • L  abor: Requirements align with the • M anagement systems: We We expect our suppliers to aligning our supplier expectations for Multinational Enterprises. 3M Human Rights Policy and include expect our suppliers to establish establish and implement their own In addition to full compliance with our own corporate values. important concepts like freely chosen processes to systematically conform relevant policies and programs with all applicable environmental We expect our suppliers to Our Due Diligence Management employment (no forced, bonded, to the 3M SRC as well as all legal in alignment with this SRC and laws, we expect our suppliers be transparent about their System consists of the following or trafficked labor), restrictions on requirements, and to commit to enforce these expectations to integrate environmental environmental and social practices, elements, which aid with our working age (no child labor), and to continuous improvement with their own suppliers, thereby responsibility into their operations. provide improvement ideas, and continuous improvement efforts. appropriate working hours and propagating our high Sustainability Suppliers should work to minimize wages. Setting these expectations The SRC is based on the 3M standards up our supply chains. adverse effects on the community, 3M supply chain helps assure our suppliers’ actions corporate values for sustainable environment, and natural Due Diligence Management System will reflect 3M’s values on human and responsible operations and 3M’s Vice President of Strategic resources while safeguarding rights as well as the values underlying aligns with the 10 Principles of the Sourcing and Packaging the health and safety of workers Values Transparency Transformation Verification Report the International Labor Organization United Nations Global Compact, Solutions is accountable for 3M’s and the public. Additional establish strong identify and design and audit report on policies and assess risks implement supply chain supply chain (ILO) and laws such as the California of which 3M is a signatory. The Responsible Sourcing program. information can be found: here. management in the a strategy to due-diligence due-diligence Transparency in Supply Chains SRC is also materially consistent Executive leaders from Supply systems supply chain respond to activities Act, the United Kingdom Modern with the Code of Conduct of the Chain, Compliance & Business Our general supplier performance identified risks Slavery Act, and the U.S. Federal Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). Conduct, Strategic Sourcing, verification process begins with Acquisition Regulations (FAR) on Legal, Sustainability, Human a self-assessment questionnaire forced labor and human trafficking. Resources, and Environmental, (SAQ). The SAQ helps 3M 176 177 How we work Suppliers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives understand supplier programs and and specific formal expectations to because of potential environmental 3M has a long-standing 3M proactively reaches out to • Find “new-to-3M” diverse suppliers determine whether they conform drive more sustainable, responsible risks, such as deforestation and commitment to sustainable various organizations, including to 3M expectations. An on-site practices. This includes our use of habitat loss; potential human rights business practices and supporting the National Minority Supplier • F urther disrupt the status quo by assessment may be conducted, certain minerals with the potential issues, such as infringement of the economic success of our Development Council (NMSDC), working to move some of our Tier by 3M or a third party, to identify to be sourced from conflict areas, indigenous peoples’ rights; and communities, including working Women’s Business Enterprise 2 spending to Tier 1 and focusing any deficiencies, which are our use of timber-based products potential unsafe labor practices. with both diverse and smallNational Council (WBENC), on diverse suppliers in our request ultimately addressed through an and other plant materials (pulp As a global paper purchaser and business suppliers. 3M considers a Metropolitan Economic for proposal (RFP) activity SRC Corrective Action Preventive and paper), and all new suppliers Sustainability leader, 3M is welldiverse supplier any supplier who Development Association (MEDA), Action (CAPA) process. CAPA may in the higher-risk countries, such positioned to positively influence qualifies for one or more of the Small Business Administration (SBA), In 2018, 3M spending with small include announced or unannounced as in the Asia Pacific region. practices throughout the forest following classifications: Minorityand others. We also have a supplier businesses represented 26 percent, follow-up assessments. products supply chain. We adopted Owned Business; Women-Owned portal that allows businesses of which 4.6 percent were diverse Focus: conflict our Pulp and Paper Sourcing Business; and Small Business, to provide a portfolio of their suppliers. Our progress is routinely If the assessment identifies gaps Policy in the spring of 2015 to including Small Disadvantaged, capabilities, which is distributed communicated to leadership or findings, and if a supplier is not minerals set standards of excellence for HUBZone, Woman, Veteran or to 3M’s sourcing organization. across the organization. able or willing to resolve them, the Another prioritized area in our our suppliers and their suppliers Service-Disabled Veteran. CAPA would escalate to a corporate raw material supply network through all tiers of supply from the 3M establishes goals and regularly We remain committed to Supplier Corrective Action Request is the responsible sourcing of forest. Additional information on Our diversity program is about tracks the dollar value of goods supporting small businesses and (SCAR). This assures appropriate minerals. 3M deplores the violence our commitment can be found on collaboration, communication, and and services purchased from small diverse suppliers by continuing resolution and conformance with and inhumane treatment that our Sustainable Forestry website. active participation. Our supply businesses and diverse suppliers to reassess elements of our 3M’s requirements. If a supplier has occurred in the Democratic chain organization is encouraged in concert with goals set annually approach, working across the is unwilling to work with 3M on Republic of Congo, adjoining Supplier diversity to actively participate in diversity with the U.S. federal government as industry to assure best practices. the identified gaps or unable countries, and other high-risk outreach events. In 2018, 3M part of our subcontracting plan for to close the issues within a regions as defined by global 3M is committed to diversity and employees attended the Small federal government contracting. More on our supplier diversity reasonable timeframe, alternative regulatory bodies, and is committed inclusion, which involves working and Disadvantaged Business program can be found in actions are determined with a to supporting responsible with small businesses. We strongly Opportunity Council (SADBOC) To achieve our goals, 3M has the partners and suppliers cross-functional business team to sourcing of 3TG (tin, tantalum, encourage using diverse suppliers Procurement Fair to identify implemented a four-part diversity website, here. elevate and resolve the situation. tungsten, and gold) from all such across our sourcing organization. additional diverse suppliers. We strategy aimed to: regions. Additional information We back up our commitment hosted two diversity events: the Additional can be found in our Conflict through initiatives that directly seek Small Business Liaison Officer • I ncrease our spending with Mineral Policy, and in Supplier out diverse companies to support Conference at 3M’s corporate expectations Direct, Supplier Requirements. 3M’s business needs. Equally facility and an outreach effort current diverse suppliers by reviewing our existing diverse for higher-risk important, we recognize that for small and diverse suppliers at suppliers by diversity category supply chains Focus: pulp and paper diversity is a core value that helps 3M’s Washington, D.C., facility. strengthen our competitiveness • I dentify additional diverse suppliers In addition to the global SRC 3M has prioritized pulp and paper and provides opportunities for in our existing supply base by expectations for all suppliers, products as an area that warrants new ideas and fresh perspectives. reviewing our top non-diverse certain areas warrant additional additional formal expectations suppliers by spending category 178 179 How we work Suppliers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our 2025 Goal: Supplier locations Supplier locations Supplier spend by region Supplier spend by region 2018 percentage The SRC (Supplier Responsibility Drive supply chain 2018 percentage Code) Steering Team provided Sustainability through 50 training in 2018 to more than 200 assessors globally to assure a targeted raw material 45 detailed understanding of 3M’s traceability and 40 SRC expectations, processes, and supplier performance 35 supporting tools. The training assurance. 30 covered each of the elements of the SRC, including labor and 25 We understand that our human rights, EHS, ethics, and 20 Sustainability impacts extend management systems requirements. beyond our own operations. By 15 In addition, training materials were purchasing raw materials and 10 made available on 3M’s business services from small and large 5 partners website for suppliers companies all over the world, we 0 to expand their knowledge in participate in a global, complex 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 such topics as global bribery and supply chain. And it doesn’t Asia Pacific Canada Europe, Middle East, Africa corruption awareness; eliminating Latin America United States stop there. Our suppliers have forced labor, slavery, and human their own suppliers, extending trafficking from the global supply back to the original source chain; and preventing corruption; of each material we use. and mitigating compliance risk for distributors and business partners. Our actions 3M works with a broad, complex supply chain, consisting of over 78,000 suppliers in over 300 subcategories in 110 countries around the world. 180 181 How we work Suppliers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Responding to risks, Verifying our supplier In the past eight years, over 6,300 Forced labor and China prison labor As part of our responsible transforming our performance self-assessments or on-site audits human trafficking allegations sourcing expectations, in 2018 of suppliers have been conducted 3M refreshed its Conflict Minerals supply chains in prioritized countries. Along In 2018, 3M launched an Policy and 3TG-related objectives Although applicable to all suppliers, the way, our assessment process 3M’s efforts to eradicate forced investigation into labor practices for our suppliers. 3M expects its We are constantly managing our supply chain risk assessment has become more evolved and labor and human trafficking of suppliers in China based on suppliers to adopt a similar policy changes in supply markets both process focuses on prioritized more comprehensive. In 2018, from its direct supply chains are allegations made in the Financial and due-diligence management where there is an opportunity to suppliers, each of which must 3M completed 550 assessments, discussed in more detail in 3M’s Times. We completed a document system and require the same extract value and defensively where complete an SAQ and/or be which included the comprehensive California Transparency in Supply and record review of 3M suppliers of their suppliers to proliferate necessary to mitigate risk and subject to an on-site assessment RBA framework and expanded Chains disclosure and 3M’s United in China and found no evidence responsible sourcing practices secure supply. As described earlier, as specified in our SRC. from 10 to 18 countries, covering Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of suppliers using prison labor for throughout the supply chain. we focus efforts on the salient every region of the world. Statement. These disclosures the manufacturing or packaging issues in categories where human communicate our commitment of 3M products. These findings In addition, 3M is an active member rights and environmental risks are to legal and ethical practices were confirmed by an independent of Responsible Mineral Initiative Cumulative supplier assessments, since 2008 the greatest. More broadly, we Cumulative Total number supplier assessments, since 2008 through our membership in the third-party onsite audit of (RMI), which develops tools and conduct robust risk prioritization Total number United Nations Global Compact, suppliers based near the prison. guidance for companies regarding to determine other suppliers we in implementing 3M’s Code of conflict minerals. Our membership will engage via an assessment against our SRC, which includes 7,000 Conduct, and by working with others to abolish human rights Conflict in RMI and various sub-teams such as the Smelter Engagement Team policy and contract conformance. 6,000 atrocities, especially as it relates to human trafficking, forced labor, minerals (SET), Due Diligence Practice Team, and Plenary Team enable 3M has historically used industry indices to identify higher-risk 5,000 modern slavery, and other related crimes. 3M is committed to doing actions 3M to be involved in special activities like the Due Diligence supply chains and has adopted our part to eradicate human White Paper update. The teams the use of a data-driven software 4,000 trafficking in any form from the Forging ahead provide useful venues for 3M to solution in conjunction with global supply chain. We have robust with continuous offer its ideas and learn from other industry information and Lean Six 3,000 policies and systems in place to improvement member companies as we all work Sigma (LSS) tools to optimize and control these practices in our own together on this important journey strengthen its risk management 2,000 operations and with our suppliers. The 3M Conflict Minerals of transforming our supply chains. processes. The criteria matrix As 3M sets a high bar for itself program, now in its sixth year, helps rank global suppliers, using 1,000 regarding labor and employment, has gone through continuous With the evolution of conflict multiple factors such as geographic, it expects the same from its improvement, based on learnings mineral programs, 3M partnered category, and business-critical 0 suppliers as articulated in the SRC. from past campaigns and external with a third party to manage our elements to determine where 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 benchmarking that provided 2018 program outreach and data assessments should be performed. In 2018, we updated our assessment progress and ways to optimize and increase the collection. The third-party platform increased the scope of each assessment. effectiveness of program activities. automates the collection, validation, and centralization of data to support 182 183 How we work Suppliers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M’s responsible minerals sourcing Conflict mineral supply Commission filings found on as a result of our engagement Pulp and paper supply This deeper engagement could program. Suppliers entering chain traceability 3M Supplier Direct, Supplier with suppliers. These include: chain traceability take the form of a series of web the portal are linked to training 2018 percentage Responsibility Expectations. 2018 percentage conferences, in-person meetings, resources with access to topics • M eeting with suppliers’ senior or field assessments at the mill and webinars such as Responsible Minerals Trends and Best Practices, Pulp and corporate executives on the importance of assuring responsible and/or forest level. We do not limit this engagement to our direct Global Conflict Minerals, and Practical Tips to Enhance Your paper actions and sustainable supply chains, and agreeing to collaborate on that goal suppliers. In fact, as appropriate, we will work directly with indirect Conflict Minerals Program. (Tier 2 and Tier 3) suppliers on As part of our regular review • S uppliers establishing new policy conformance verification 3M’s membership in RMI opens process, in 2018 we republished positions within their companies work, with a goal of involving our alignment to emerging risk and our Pulp and Paper Sourcing Policy direct (Tier 1) supplier(s) in these assessments in raw materials supply that was published in 2015 and the • S ignificant increases in supply chain activities whenever possible. chains utilizing the Risk Readiness supporting Policy Conformance traceability and transparency Assessment (RRA) tool. RRA is the Guidance Document. Changes With the help of our third-party basis for corporate assessments to the policy included updating • Increased engagement provider, we have conducted 12 of material risks in 3TG supply guidance links and resources, and by our suppliers with their field assessments so far across chains and in particular with RMAP conformant 81% adding details and clarification upstream supply chain all regions, covering more than social and environmental risks. where beneficial. We also added Traceable to forest source 36% 14 million hectares. Four of those RMAP active 2% translated versions of the policy Through an online survey, 3M or 100% recycled assessments were of Tier 2 pulp The EU Conflict Minerals Regulation, and Policy Performance Guidance suppliers can provide complete mills, which were also attended by RMAP not enrolled 15% Traceable to pulp mill 30% which takes effect in 2021, will Document for three additional supply chain information all the a Tier 1 supplier. 3M’s participation expect companies to take a wider Based on Responsible Minerals languages including Korean, way to the forest sources, or they on supplier field assessments with Assurance Policy (RMAP) Traceable to paper mill 21% view of their sourcing practices. Spanish, and Russian, bringing can easily forward parts of the our third-party provider helps When it takes effect, regions Members of our European the total number of translated online survey to their suppliers Not yet engaged or 13% us to understand firsthand the beyond the Democratic Republic Government Affairs team have versions to seven languages. (paper or pulp mills, for example) traceable challenges faced by pulp and paper of the Congo explicitly will been closely aligned with industry for completion. We aim to work companies and forest managers come into focus of our Conflict and government to understand the Pulp and paper policy with suppliers and peer companies information we obtain from our around the world. This in turn Minerals Program. 3M’s SRC scope, impacts, and timing of the to document as much of our global supplier surveys and combine enables us to actively participate in covers foundational expectations new European regulation. The team implementation on paper supply chain as possible, that with geography and industrydeveloping solutions and advancing for our suppliers by taking a has proactively assessed potential the ground to amplify our efforts to mitigate specific knowledge to conduct conversations about responsible holistic approach to supply applicability so 3M will be best risks, improve efficiencies, and “desktop” risk assessments of sourcing and sustainable forestry. chain due diligence in areas of prepared to implement the new rule. Throughout our policy drive sustainable practices our supply chains. We use these labor, environmental health and implementation, we have seen throughout the supply chain. assessments to prioritize further 3M and our third-party provider safety, ethics, and management. Additional information can several examples of marked engagement to learn more about are committed to working with be found in the 3M Conflict improvements in responsible pulp We partner with a third-party our suppliers’ responsible sourcing suppliers to promote protection Minerals Securities and Exchange and paper sourcing practices provider to help us review and sustainable forestry practices. of high conservation values in the 184 185 How we work Suppliers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Canadian Great Northern Forest Conservation in the Through 2018, family woodland • I ncrease awareness and members, including 3M, committed 3M values continuous improvement (boreal forest) and the ability of Carolinas owners in the U.S. Coastal Carolinas understanding of the importance to the goals of the National Pact. and is conducting a Lean Six Sigma the forests to provide wildlife Plain were directly engaged, of sustainable forestry and active project to improve the efficiency habitat, ecosystem services, and new components were added management among 30,000 Supplier recognition and effectiveness of the SRC natural beauty for generations to 3M helped launch the Carolinas to the project, such as forester woodland owners who collectively process and toolsets. The project is come. This is accomplished through Working Forest Conservation trainings, and much broader own 2.4 million acres of forestland in Our Supplier Recognition global in scope and will positively field assessments of supplier Collaborative (CWFCC) along with partnerships were built than the Coastal Carolinas Plain region program seeks to recognize those impact the methodology, resources, practices, deep engagement with the American Forest Foundation, originally anticipated. All of this is outstanding suppliers that help and results of the activity. forest managers and scientists, International Paper, and The with the intent of accomplishing • W  ork with at least 450 landowners us succeed in accomplishing and a focus on identifying Procter & Gamble Company in 2017. the following objectives: across 36,500 acres in the our Vision of 3M technology We recognize there are risks innovative management practices. project counties to connect them advancing every company, 3M in the supply chains of many To maximize the likelihood of with technical assistance and products enhancing every materials. Through strategic success, these actions require resources to get them started home, and 3M innovation partnerships, we are continuing collaboration with industry, in forest management improving every life. to increase our ability to mitigate indigenous peoples and local Pulp and paper assessments risks through collaboration. For communities, with the aim of Pulp and paper assessments • E  ngage at least 160 woodland Each year 3M sourcing example, RMI is actively working restoring balance to the relationship owners within the project area professionals nominate exemplary on formulating risk mitigation tools between people and nature. to enhance, restore, or expand suppliers to be recognized for for the cobalt industry. We will bottomland hardwood forests world-class performance, based increase efforts with providers Each assessment results in a and quality habitat for at-risk on strategic support, contract of pulp and paper, understanding comprehensive report detailing the species on at least 13,000 acres compliance, actions taken to and evaluating conformance with supplier’s performance against our improve 3M’s competitiveness, 3M’s environmental and social policy requirements, and action • C  ertify at least 120 landowners and overall supplier performance. expectations, which will include items to address any performance in a recognized forest field visits. 3M is committed to gaps. We expect each supplier certification standard In 2018, 3M recognized over 30 expanding our due-diligence efforts to develop corrective action suppliers among thousands in for higher-risk materials to further plans with reasonable timelines Collaboration its global supply base for worldmitigate risk to our business and and continue to collaborate with class performance in providing advance responsible supply chains. 3M on resolution of identified for change products and/or product. They opportunities. More information Completed Planned were honored at regional events on these assessments can be Completed Planned 3M Brazil is a signatory to The in Canada, EMEA, Latin America, found in our Pulp and Paper National Pact to Eradicate and the U.S., as well as local Sourcing Policy progress reports. Slave Labor and has now joined programs in Japan and Korea. InPACTO — the Institute for the National Pact — a trade Learn more about the Supplier association focused exclusively of the Year Award here. on collaborative efforts among 186 187 What we Create Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives w W e h Introduction 190 192 cr at Our customers Innovation management 198 ea Our products 210 te 188 189 What we create Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our customers’ Using our 46 technology platforms and collaborative culture, we invent products that help our Not only that, but we have made such significant progress on the 2025 goals that we’re raising challenges customers solve the issues they the bar. This includes our new are facing in many areas, including product goal as an example of health, safety, and energy. the aggressive targets we’ll be setting in the coming months as We are not stopping there. We part of our strategic focus on have established aggressive goals empowering Science for Circular, are our for 2025, ranging from investing in Climate, and Community. sustainable materials and energy Our new product goal is efficiency, to community-wide approaches to water management a commitment that every and helping our customers reduce challenges. their greenhouse gas emissions. We new product entering the have also set 2025 goals around building a diverse workforce and development process in educating individuals on worker and patient safety in health 2019 is required to uphold care and industrial settings. a Sustainability Value Commitment. This drives not only continued focus on social and environmental stewardship, but ideation on better ways to innovate for greater positive societal impact. 190 191 What we create Our customers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our customers Customers are at the 2025 Goal: Invest to develop more Our actions we’re reshaping the company, center of 3M decision making. how we're prioritizing businesses sustainable materials We have four strategic priorities to emphasize the greatest value that deliver value for our creators in our portfolio, and and products to help customers: portfolio management, how we're looking at potential our customers reach transformation, innovation, acquisitions, divestitures, and their environmental and people and culture. partnerships. It’s about accelerating goals. into the future, driving greater Our Creating competitive Building Sustainability into all new products In all, we work to understand our customers’ business models, and greater prioritization. commitment advantages for Where many companies view We recognize some of our greatest positive impact can be realized by what they have promised their customers, what our role is in the Transformation: Whether it’s technology, customers, and the topic of Sustainability in helping our customers improve value chain, and how we can help continuing a critical manufacturing, global capabilities, for 3M product development as a their environmental footprint. For them deliver on their promises. It is journey or brand, we are committed to challenge, at 3M we have taken that reason, an increased focus our Vision, as we aspire to advance connecting our fundamental At 3M, we talk about how many an aggressive approach, working on delivering more sustainable every company, enhance every In 2018, we made great progress strengths to customers. We of our products are specified or to identify and understand future materials and components home, and improve every life. in our transformation journey, engage them. We delve into their regulated. Specified: designed Sustainability needs, and to is core to our innovation and which leverages our strengths processes, their problems, and for the customer. Regulated: expand our portfolio of products Sustainability strategy. Portfolio in technology, manufacturing, their promises to their customers. meeting specific performance with Sustainability advantages. global capabilities, and brand to management: We bring our technology to them, and requirements. Working in 2025 Goal: Provide leveraging our 3M provide a more positive overall along with a deep domain expertise, both categories carries us through By embedding Sustainability into experience for our customers. and we deepen it further when multiple commerce channels, our R&D process, our brands, and training to five million Value Model Specific accomplishments: we work side by side with them. distribution models, direct models, the mindset of our suppliers and people globally on retail models, and, increasingly, customers, we’re able to move 3M’s worker and patient In 2012, we introduced a new • S uccessfully deployed ERP In the process, we not only meet e-commerce. Throughout, we growth to new levels and advance safety. framework for thinking about (enterprise resource planning) their expressed needs — we are maintain a customer-first focus, our commitment to improving our portfolio management, looking systems in Europe and U.S. often able to identify and address making sure we're in a position to business, our planet, and every We will continue to support across the entire 3M portfolio with unarticulated needs. In both cases, deliver value where they want it, life. Additional information can be empowerment and enrichment an eye toward relative strategic • S implified, standardized, and we create solutions for them when they want it, how they want it. found in Our Products and 3M’s for global health and safety issues and financial attractiveness. At redesigned business processes and, at the same time, innovative Sustainability Value Commitment. through our commitment to improve that same time, we consolidated growth platforms for 3M. the health and safety of people from 40 to 23 divisions in • Advanced streamlined, worldwide. To measure progress order to create more value and end-to-end engagement Additional details can be against this goal, we will track the relevance for the customer. with customers found in our innovation number of training experiences management section: here. delivered by our Health Care and Today, portfolio management • C reated value through Personal Safety Academies. continues to be a key to the way new service models 192 193 What we create Our customers 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Moving forward, we will Customer People and culture: collaborating and Education that raises everyone’s bar The same holds true for our insights work to enhance customer Personal Safety Division. In a rapidly service, increase value creation, creating locally evolving business and occupational leverage ERP capabilities, Proper use of health and safety health and safety environment, our streamline deployments, and Customer-inspired innovation When collaboration results in products is critical to infection education and training programs utilize data and analytics. meaningful innovation — solving prevention, personal safety, and can instruct workers on workplace real problems — it becomes overall health. Building on our safety hazards and health risks, Innovation: amazing and awe-inspiring. To existing customer education personal protection equipment get there, we believe it’s essential programs, 3M has created training (as regulated by the Occupational customer-inspired Customer needs to be close to our customers. libraries that are accessible where, Safety and Health Administration, Technology itself is not sufficient when, and how customers want or OSHA), and proper use and to create differentiated products That’s why 3M has 54 customer them: for on-demand education, maintenance of 3M products. and solutions. Our innovation Insights technical centers across the live webinars, in-person events, truly comes from the confluence globe, where our customers can and education resources. In 2018, total number of training gy of customer and market insights, n ai ise no lo experience firsthand the breadth instances was 89,900. This only om rt D pe technology, and our culture of of 3M technologies and how they We deliver educational content includes our eLearning platform ch ex Te collaboration and entrepreneurship. can benefit from them. That’s also to health care professionals at and a couple in-classroom events. We strive to invent things that are why we have labs in 36 countries, hospitals and clinics, professional Moving forward, we are working not only new, but useful. That is where our scientists work closely conferences, and via online to further expand our record why 3M scientists work directly with our customers to develop webinars — all around the system for in-classroom events. with customers to solve their solutions for their specific problems. world, through 3M℠ Health unique challenges. We take the Care Academy. This is not only Some 2018 training time to get to know them, to learn Some of the problems addressed important to helping customers accomplishments can be found here. how they live and work — and to in our technical centers and labs get the most out of our products, understand what we can do to are connected to regional and local it’s our commitment to helping improve their lives. Collaborating issues. Globally, for example, rapid professionals improve outcomes with customers assures us we population growth in urban areas for their patients and customers. are in tune with their needs. Our is creating challenges related to most successful products are energy efficiency, clean water, and infused with strategic customer environmental protection. Our local insights throughout the entire scientists leverage 3M technologies product development process. to develop relevant solutions that are unique to their region, often collaborating with local customers. Additional details can be found in our innovation management section. 194 195 What we create Our customers #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard Innovation taken to This commitment also includes As a large and diverse global products with a core purpose of science company with customers a higher level: our helping to solve an environmental spanning many industries and Sustainability Value and/or social problem, such as global markets, we have the Commitment improving air quality, reducing opportunity to make an even greenhouse gas emissions, and greater impact in Sustainability. In 2018, we took the biggest improving worker and patient safety As part of our strategic focus step yet in viewing innovation in health care and industrial settings. on empowering Science for through a Sustainability lens: Circular, Climate, and Community, We announced that beginning in 3M’s new product requirement we will work to design a world 2019 3M products entering the will have a global impact, starting where 9 billion people can new product commercialization with our operations in the 70 thrive by applying boundaryless, process will be required to countries where we operate collaborative science to reinvent include their Sustainability and in the products we sell in the products, processes, and impact and how it drives impact nearly every country. It will systems that improve every life. for the greater good. This is an also help our customers reach ambitious commitment, given their own Sustainability goals. We will continue to leverage our that 3M launches approximately Most important, it impacts 3M diversified technology portfolio to 1,000 new products each year. employees. When you work for create innovative solutions for our 3M, you are changing the world. customers and markets. We are The new requirement is part of evolving our technology platforms 3M’s commitment to Sustainability for the changing and anticipated in fulfilling its role as a purposeneeds of high-growth markets, and driven business, and builds on our we are augmenting our material legacy of Sustainability leadership science expertise with digital, among global companies. where appropriate, to create value for our customers and for 3M. Examples of a Sustainability Value Commitment in new 3M products In 2019, we will also apply the include materials reduction, new 3M Sustainability Value recyclability, energy and water Commitment to new product savings, responsible sourcing, commercialization, across the renewable materials, and/or reuse board, and across the globe. appropriate for the specific product. 196 197 What we create Innovation management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Innovation management Applying science to Product Safety, performance across their entire anticipated use or misuse, recycling, solve for Sustainability. life cycle, including product reuse, repurpose, and disposal. Quality, and reuse and repurpose, and to work The process must meet and Stewardship Principle with our suppliers and business maintain continuous compliance partners so that their operations with applicable national, regional, Our customers depend on 3M’s support these same objectives. and local regulations, and 3M products to advance, enhance, expectations. These business and improve their companies, Product Safety, processes must be incorporated Our Another reason for our success is innovation: There are no silos 3M has earned more than 113,000 patents over the years, a testament homes, and lives — and we have a responsibility to live up to those Compliance, and into New Product Introduction (NPI) and Management of commitment here. Our 46 technology platforms are shared and combined across to the strength of our innovation engine. Every year, on average, expectations. For this reason, we must strive to produce only the Stewardship Policy Change (MOC) procedures; and product safety, compliance, At 3M, asking “what if” is our way businesses and regions to invent 3M earns 3,000 patents. highest-quality products. Every 3M’s Product Safety, Compliance, and stewardship requirements of life. We are a company rooted in unique products for a variety of item we sell must meet rigorous and Stewardship Policy must be integrated into the scientific exploration and discovery. industries. No single business The policies and standards that quality standards and must be underscores our commitment development, commercialization, We believe that every problem owns any of these platforms. They guide the design, manufacturing, safe for its intended use. to commercializing and selling and sale of 3M products. has a solution. All our businesses are managed by the company marketing, and sale of 3M products products that are safe for their are connected by our fundamental and can be leveraged by any share a common foundation: As detailed in our Product Safety, intended uses, compliant with all In addition, we have established strengths — technology, of the businesses to serve their the 3M Code of Conduct. Quality, and Stewardship Principle, applicable Environmental, Health an internal standard to assure manufacturing, global capabilities, respective customers or markets. located under 3M’s Code of and Safety (EHS) regulations and uniform compliance globally for and brand — which allow us to The Code of Conduct is an Conduct – Be Fair, 3M employees 3M expectations, and developed the manufacturing, sale, testing, invent, build, and sell products Our “15% Culture” — instituted six overarching guide to the must know and follow all applicable with a goal to continuously and promotion of medical across our vast global network. decades ago — inspires creativity, appropriate decisions and actions laws, regulations, and 3M policies, improve the EHS performance devices, food or drink, food or risk-taking, and collaboration. It of 3M individuals and teams standards, and procedures for of products and corresponding drink supplements, food or drink R&D is our heartbeat. We continue gives 3M employees the freedom as they go about their work. It product safety, quality, and manufacturing processes. additives, drugs, and cosmetics for to invest in scientific research and to take risks and learn from defines our values and the stewardship and must report and use in or with humans or animals. product development in close our mistakes. That freedom is responsibilities 3M employees respond to concerns diligently. 3M Each 3M business group must partnership with our customers essential to scientific discovery. and 3M suppliers must meet. management is responsible for maintain processes for the and the marketplace. R&D fosters 3M employees have the freedom addressing reported concerns and effective global review of a constant stream of unique to spend 15 percent of their time Under this broad umbrella of assuring that 3M employees are product safety, compliance, and and cutting-edge products that on projects that interest them. values are principles that more properly trained in applicable laws stewardship requirements. This drive organic growth. In fact, in Out of that time come new ideas specifically outline what 3M and regulations and 3M policies, includes consideration of EHS 2018, we invested 1.8 billion that might eventually become believes is the ethical approach to standards, and procedures. aspects relevant throughout the (USD), or nearly 5.5 percent successful new 3M products. Learn various work situations, including life cycle of a product, including of our sales, back into R&D. more about our 15% Culture here. situations that involve innovation Further, we take it as our raw material selection, product management of 3M products. responsibility to produce products design, formulation, manufacturing, with superior environmental marketing, sale, intended and 198 199 What we create Innovation management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Chemicals use in 3M products and processes Hazard Alternatives to 3M’s Sustainability launches approximately 1,000 Management Policy requires prior corporate approval. communication animal testing Value Commitment new products each year, with a and composition significant fraction of its revenue 3M is a science-based company Advertising disclosure 3M is a major advocate for the use, Beginning in 2019, all new generated from products released committed to applying our wherever practicable, of alternative products entering the new product in the past five years. Beyond 3M’s scientific expertise to improving and Product test methods (non-animal) to help commercialization process will be own operations, a primary reason lives. Helping people live safe Representation Communicating the potential develop safe products. 3M is required to describe their product’s for the goal is to help customers and productive lives is important Principle hazards of 3M materials supports currently utilizing many of these Sustainability impact and how it achieve their Sustainability goals. to 3M — for our employees, our 3M’s core values and is an integral alternative methods, such as drives impact for the greater good. This new product goal creates even customers, and everyone living 3M’s reputation as a responsible part of keeping stakeholders computational toxicology and in more opportunities to collaborate on the planet. Chemicals are company extends to the products informed about 3M materials. The vitro testing using isolated tissues A Sustainability Value Commitment with customers on solutions that essential for producing 3M’s broad and services we offer and how vehicles for communicating these or cells. We are also investing in the in a new product is a clear improve lives around the world. range of products, and part of we represent them. 3M must hazards and product chemical internal and external development demonstration of how the product 3M’s role in helping people live communicate honestly and components include safety data of new methodologies that incorporates environmental and/or safely is effective and responsible accurately about 3M’s products sheets (SDS), product labels, replace animal testing. Where social factors to contribute to our chemical management. and services. Learn more on this product literature, instructions for animal testing is required, we aspirations laid out in our Strategic by visiting our Advertising and use, transportation classification follow our Animal Welfare in Sustainability Framework. Example In 2018, we adopted the new Product Representation Principle. documentation, and other Testing and Research Policy. of consideration including the Chemicals Management Policy, communications tools. Each following: reusability; recyclability; which replaces existing policies It’s our policy to represent business group must evaluate the Human Subject energy, waste, and water savings; and standards on chemicals our products truthfully, fairly, potential hazards of 3M materials and responsible sourcing and/or management. This commitment and accurately in all sales, and transmit, in local country Research Policy renewable materials appropriate reflects the evolving values of 3M advertising, packaging, and language(s), information about the Our Human Subject Research to the specific product throughout and our stakeholders. Under this promotional efforts. All product hazards to employees, contractors, Policy protects the rights, safety, a product’s life cycle. policy, to continuously improve the claims must be substantiated and customers; it must meet all and welfare of human subjects environmental, health, and safety and technically accurate as regulatory requirements and 3M who participate in 3M supported A Sustainability Value Commitment (EHS) attributes of our products, 3M specified by the Advertising and standards and guidelines; and it research. All supported research can also stem from a core purpose has identified specific chemicals Product Representation Policy. must promote informed decisions involving human subjects must be in which the product helps to solve whose use in products and 3M’s Environmental Marketing about the materials’ proper and conducted in accordance with all an environmental and/or social manufacturing processes is subject Claims Support Team assists safe handling, use, and disposal. applicable national, regional, and challenge — such as improving to approval by the Corporate businesses in the substantiation of local ethical and legal rules and air quality, reducing greenhouse EHS Committee. In 2018, 3M has environmental product claims and regulations, and must be conducted gas emissions, and improving targeted 31 specific chemicals on comprises laboratory scientists, in accordance with three principles, worker and patient safety in health which we are reducing our reliance. legal staﬀ, life cycle management as described in the Belmont Report: care and industrial settings. Our Managed Substance List goes professionals, and others with respect for person, justice, and beyond the 31 targeted substances. marketing and business expertise. beneficence (or, do no harm). The impact of 3M’s new product Any substance being considered for requirement is global in scale: 3M 200 201 What we create Innovation management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Global capabilities Key Our actions Global capabilities Sales & marketing The 3M periodic table will evolve to assure future-forward The challenges we must tackle Manufacturing & converting technologies aligned with our for a sustainable future don’t Lithuania Technical capabilities strong foundational expertise. This Switzerland Latvia always operate by clear rules Finland includes our commitment and Norway Estonia or methods, but we see them United States Sweden Poland expertise in making products with Netherlands Germany Austria Czech clearly. They are broad. They are Canada Republic less materials, improving ours and Ukraine interrelated. They are solvable. And Belgium Denmark Hungary others' environmental footprint, and Romania Kazakhstan we know science can help tackle UK emphasizing our use of science them. We at 3M have the unique Mexico Russia to create a more positive world. Ireland opportunity to apply our passion and collaborate enterprise-wide. Guatemala France China Unique and Dominican Japan differentiated value Great brands El Salvador Republic Italy Korea are based on an Jamaica Portugal Spain Taiwan Hong Kong The power of 3M is in the way enduring idea that Costa Rica Greece Thailand Vietnam we connect our fundamental drives their purpose. Panama Philippines strengths to customers. Those Morocco 3M strengths are our capabilities Trinidad & Gulf At 3M, we apply science to Tobago Turkey Malaysia and brand. They define us as an improve people’s everyday lives. Brazil Pakistan Indonesia enterprise and combine to build a Colombia Venezuela Eygpt Nigeria business greater than the sum of Sri But just as society’s problems Ecuador Lanka Australia its parts. The power of 3M arose Peru continue to evolve, so does our Uruguay Israel from our deep understanding of Saudi New Zealand science. We are relentlessly Arabia what it is that differentiates us in Chile South Africa India evolving and adapting our Singapore our performance, across every Kenya technology to continue to help Argentina business in our enterprise. It truly people by solving their problems reflects how we’re linked together of today and tomorrow. in our portfolio even though we might operate in multiple markets. Our 46 technology platforms, the It’s about our technology, but 3M periodic table of elements, Laboratory & application not just standalone science: It’s Sales in 200 countries Manufacturing & converting Sales & marketing showcase the building blocks Sales in 200 countries 35 countries inManufacturing & engineering in 50 countries Laboratory & application operations in Sales & marketingoperations technology supported by deep 69 countries of 3M. They are elements of converting in engineering i n 50 countries in 69 c  ountries intellectual property and combined 35 countries progress. Alone, they are each with multiple other technologies unique. Combined, we make to enable us to do unique things solutions for our customers. with and for our customers. 202 203 What we create Innovation management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M power is also about our adds value to every one of our ideas that fuel the 3M innovation Index, and they are compelling. • E  xplore: Identify the 3M’s fundamental manufacturing strength. We’re businesses across all our markets. pipeline. The collaborating takes Discover what we found out about market opportunity strengths differentiated and advantaged in place at an annual global event, the image of science, along with the marketplace through in-house Leveraging these fundamental spring symposiums, recognition revelations and insights from • Q  ualify: Identify superior product 3M plant and facility ownership strengths — technology, programs, and many chapter people around the world, here. concepts to meet customer needs that also leverages 3M intellectual manufacturing, global capabilities, events held throughout the property. A third of our intellectual and brand — is truly what year. Included among our Tech A process that’s built • D  eploy: Develop the Technology property sits in manufacturing, creates the power of 3M. Forum chapters are the Global much of it in trade secrets, enabling Product Stewardship, Green for innovation technical solution Ability to share and combine elements of 3M’s broad technology Leveraging strategic portfolio to produce unique, us to deliver higher-quality, betterChemistry, and Climate chapters. Meanwhile, our New Product differentiated products, translating performing, more competitive The strength and uniqueness of 3M Introduction (NPI) process products in the marketplace. partnerships Additional information on open is our ability to combine and evolve provides the robust framework to premium margins. innovation at 3M can be found multiple technologies from our 46 for developing products True global capabilities require more 3M is able to transform diverse in our customer section. platforms to serve the very different from idea to launch. than just presence in international ideas and creativity into superior and changing needs of our markets. Manufacturing markets. They require the skills technologies, business assets, and Discovering what Together, 3M’s NTI and NPI of our international organization innovative product platforms. Our scientists around the world processes provide a common Utilization of 3M manufacturing to execute our business models the world thinks of share and combine these framework for technology and footprint and technology, including and enable us to enter those One of many things that makes science technologies across all our product commercialization for all process trade secrets, leading to higher-performing products and markets successfully — to take 3M a singular company is our businesses to invent and global business. Information is lower unit costs. our fundamental strengths and commitment to collaboration. At 3M, science is important to manufacture cutting-edge required at every step, or gate, in applications almost anywhere There are no silos here. We us. It’s what fuels our Vision: products. These technology the process, along with deliverable in the world. We have sales in collaborate with each other. Across technology improving every platforms are owned by the tasks. Having consistent practices nearly all countries, with twobusinesses. Across technologies. company, products enhancing every company. Development teams throughout the company for thirds of our workforce and sales Across oceans and continents. home, and innovation improving within each of our businesses and technology and product creation Global capabilities professionals working outside every life. But we also believe it’s corporate research laboratories assists in risk analysis by providing Subsidiary front and back office the U.S. By employing integration Case in point: the 3M Tech important to understand what draw from these technologies a common language from which footprint that allows for the effective development, adaptation, and and collaboration across our Forum, a self-directed and selfthe world thinks of science — if to develop unique solutions for to share tools and best practices commercialization of products. businesses, geographies, and organized catalyst for the 10,000people outside our organization are their customers and markets. and manage project portfolios. scientific disciplines we effectively plus people in 3M’s technical unaware of it, if they are indifferent and efficiently bring new ideas community. Begun more than 60 to its presence around them, or New-to-the-world processes and products from the lab to the years ago, the Tech Forum gives if they see, feel, and appreciate are developed primarily in factory to customers’ homes 3M researchers the opportunity its impact. Since we couldn’t 3M’s Corporate R&D Process Brand and businesses everywhere. to compare notes with global find the answers elsewhere, we Laboratory, and the development Brand equity in the 3M brand and colleagues, collaborate around conducted our own research in of these new processes are in strategic brands that is shared across business groups. And finally, it’s our brand, 3M the company’s 46 technology 2018 to get them. The results captured in our New Technology Science. Applied to Life.™, that platforms, and develop new are in the 3M State of Science Introduction (NTI) framework: 204 205 What we create Innovation management 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Product innovation our corporate Management of regulatory compliance, and together for a week-long covering regulatory, policies and While it is not possible to complete Change (MOC) process. We Sustainability. They help assure product stewardship conference standards, toxicology, systems full LCAs for all 55,000-plus that takes the leverage these LCM processes our products meet or exceed with workshops, customer and business processes, and unique 3M products, evaluation long view to continuously improve the EHS requirements stemming from 3M presentations, external speakers, orientation to product responsibility. of these intermediates allows us performance of our products. policies, governmental regulations, executive panels, and training. In 2018, the Corporate Product to better understand the potential 3M works to produce products and from our customers. The main objectives included: Stewardship Department offered 21 environmental impacts of key with superior environmental Research & Development live programs and 46 on-demand components and processes. performance across their entire Our framework for product • A  dvancing “customer first” objectives sessions to the product stewardship life cycle. We also work with our Raw Materials Manufacturing stewardship provides structure and processes within the global network. The corporation also In 2018, 3M LCA teams in the U.S. Acquisition & Production suppliers and business partners and consistency for overseeing product stewardship organization sponsors a 700-page website and Europe renewed their process so that their operations support daily activities in a proactive, not dedicated to product stewardship certifications from The International these same objectives. These reactive, mode. We have a long• I nforming the redesign of the LCM and global regulatory requirements, EPD® System to demonstrate Disposal Distribution & efforts together help define, Recycling Transportation existing process for tracking process and systems to improve and we publish a monthly global that appropriate procedures are protect, and assure the longpotential and near-miss incidents customer response, standardize newsletter to keep the network in place to produce scientifically Protect Use term success of our company. & Reuse and a self-auditing program to processes, and gain productivity informed of recent and upcoming sound, technically defensible LCAs identify leading indicators instead regulatory and program changes. and EPDs (Environmental Product Life cycle management (LCM) is A product of waiting until non-compliance. • S  haring solutions from country to Declarations). Rather than conduct 3M’s approach to assuring that stewardship country for addressing product Life cycle independent third-party reviews EHS and associated regulatory 3M has been on the leading edge for each individual product LCA considerations are integrated framework that of product stewardship audits, stewardship challenge areas assessments (LCA), or EPD, the teams will continue to into the development and continues to advance beginning with self-assessments • R aising global competency where relevant and undergo an annual recertification commercialization of 3M products in international regions in levels through training and feasible process that evaluates conformance through 3M’s NPI process. During Responsibility for product 2007, and incorporating global workshops, with a focus on LCM of the underlying management NPI, our business teams provide stewardship at 3M is shared across on-site audits in 2014. These and regulatory advocacy In addition to the LCM program, system with the program rules LCM deliverables. These include, a broad spectrum of functions audits evaluate, among other which applies to all 3M and ISO standards. This global at a minimum, raw material positioned within businesses, elements, product hazard and risk • A  dvancing the role of product products, we also complete certification of the LCA process for composition; assessments in regions, and corporate staff groups. assessment, chemical control, life stewardship in Sustainability ISO 14040-compliant LCAs for multiple parts of our organization human health and environmental Together, individuals across this cycle management, and consumer select 3M products. At 3M, we is thought to be the first of its kind. toxicology, electrical and spectrum work to support 3M’s product safety. The goal of these 3M values the continued primarily complete cradle-tomechanical safety, and other core value of respect for our social audits is to assure that regions professional development of its gate LCAs, since the majority For our customer greenhouse gas disciplines, as appropriate; and physical environment. and business groups are meeting product stewardship professionals. of our products have use and reduction (GHG) 2025 goal, we conformance to regulatory and corporate standards, and to In addition to conducting the Global disposal life cycle stages that are realize we can make far greater customer EHS requirements; and Product responsibility liaisons share best practices globally. Product Stewardship Conference difficult to characterize. We also contributions by helping our hazard communication documents. (PRLs), or product stewards, and supporting attendance at a complete cradle-to-gate LCAs for customers reduce their GHG embedded within 3M businesses In May of 2018, over 150 3M wide variety of external classes a number of internally produced emissions through use of our Likewise, we evaluate LCM impacts and countries of operation, act product stewardship professionals and conferences, we offer an chemicals that are used in the products. To calculate these from product modifications through as champions of product EHS, from across the globe came internal education program manufacturing of 3M products. emission reductions, our process 206 207 What we create Innovation management #improvinglives Lo fo oki rw ng ard is based on life cycle thinking and external advocacy of packaging In 2019, 3M will launch a new We will finalize our packaging and the ISO 14064-2 standard Sustainability. For example, 3M website within 3M.com to Sustainability roadmap, firmly built for comparing emissions from the Canada Strategic Sourcing and provide customers with complete within the “Science for Circular” project scenario against a baseline Packaging Solutions continues ingredient information for over 600 aspiration, and progressively scenario. Additional details of these to serve as an advocacy model, consumer-formulated products. The roll out prioritized targets. Our efforts can be found in the climate hosting their 12th annual supplier website will include information roadmap will necessitate further and energy section of this report. and vendor Sustainability fair at on ingredient purpose and, if collaboration with key suppliers the 3M London, Ontario, location. applicable, ingredient inclusion and internal stakeholders to identify Life cycle approach in For the second year in a row, on chemical-of-concern lists. and explore sustainable packaging local high school students and opportunities and technologies, packaging design teachers were also invited. The We have a process that provides including migration from fossil-fuelIn 2018, we continued our longagenda also included community the robust framework for based plastic feedstocks toward standing commitment to efficient partners such as local municipal developing products from idea renewable plastic feedstock, and packaging design. Over the last five government, the local conservation to launch. Starting in 2018, and to increase the recycled content years, globally, we have reduced authority, and non-governmental continuing deployment through of our packaging materials. designed packaging weight by organizations showcasing their 2019, we are building on our more than 13,700 metric tons. Sustainability programs. existing framework for new product introduction through a Support for better packaging new system called 3M|Grow. As solutions starts early at 3M via part of this new framework, we’re engagement with our NPI and updating task and deliverables LCM processes. In an effort to help for the process to align with our 3M employees design packaging Sustainability Value Commitment. using a life cycle approach, a new model was deployed in 2018. Over 120 packaging designs were evaluated using a streamlined LCA. Three separate projects alone — returnable packaging, reusable packaging, and lighter-weight pallets — will reduce an estimated 7,700 metric tons of CO₂, reinforcing our commitment to climate health. An important part of our packaging Sustainability roadmap is internal 208 209 What we create Our products 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Our products Stepping up Sustainability Community) and through each 3M 3M2018 2018net netsales sales in 2019, and beyond. of our five business groups. Our actions In 2018, we delivered organic growth of more than three percent Our global products. A significant fraction of the company’s annual their own Sustainability goals. with growth across all business groups and geographic areas. $32.8B* commitment sales come from products created in the past five years. Most important, it impacts 3M employees. When you work for We also delivered record sales of $32.8 billion. At 3M, we bring all of our product 3M, you are changing the world. solutions to different markets Examples of a Sustainability Value through our five business groups — Commitment in new 3M products It’s another important step sharing technology, manufacturing, include recyclability, energy forward in our ambition to apply marketing, and other resources to and water savings, responsible science to improve every life, increase our speed and efficiency. sourcing, renewable materials, and through our three aspirations Consumer $4.80B appropriate reuse of a product. Also (Science for Circular, Science What’s more, as of December 5, included will be products whose for Climate, and Science for Electronic & $5.47B 2018, every 3M business group core purpose is helping to solve Energy shares another powerful bond. an environmental and/or social problem. For example: improving $6.02B Health Care On that day, at the National air quality, reducing greenhouse Climate Change Conference gas emissions, improving patients (COP24), we announced that outcomes, and enhancing worker Industrial $12.3B 100 percent of our new products safety in industrial settings. will be required to have a Safety & $6.83B Sustainability Value Commitment 3M’s new product requirement Graphics demonstrating how they drives will have a global impact, starting impact for the greater good. in the 70 countries where we *In additiontotoour *Inaddition ourfive fivebusiness businessgroups, $32.8B includes groups, $32.8Belimination of dual credit, includes elimination operate and in the products we andof corporate dual credit,and andunallocated corporate business and segments. This formal requirement, which sell in nearly every country. It will unallocated business segments. goes into effect in 2019, is also help our customers reach significant because it embeds Sustainability into the pipeline that produces 3M's diverse 210 211 What we create Our products 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Consumer Electronics & Energy 2018 sales: Bringing 3M while helping protect children 2018 sales: Advancing a Some Sustainability from potentially harmful effects examples to the hearts $4.80B $5.47B connected of air pollution. Learn more here and minds of • P  ost-it® Super Sticky Notes have world • L  ight-redirecting films, customers extra sticking power so your message tapes, and materials that enable can stay front and center. These Our markets Our business focus high-efficiency solar panels Our markets notes are now available in a fun cube Consumer $0.389B Our business focus format featuring 360 sheets. This Electronics $3.97B • W  ind protection tapes that Health Care product is made in a zero-waste-toAt 3M Electronics & Energy help improve turbine uptime Supplying an array of innovative landfill plant. In addition, to lessen Energy $1.49B we help our clients make the Construction $1.96B products that keep homes cleaner, our dependence on fossil fuels, this impossible possible. Our people • C  able accessories that enable and Home offices organized, and buildings product is made with a plant-based lead innovation through developing reliable power generation Improvement well-maintained, our Consumer adhesive (67 percent by weight), new applications and technologies Business Group is home to some of and the product is also recyclable that help customers solve their most Learn more on our Electronics Home Care $1.01B our most iconic brands, including challenging problems. We are on & Energy Business Group by Post-it®, Scotch®, Scotch-Brite™ • Our new Filtrete™ Room Air Purifiers the leading edge of building new visiting our 3M Investor Day Stationary and $1.38B products, Filtrete™, Nexcare™, help capture 99.97 percent of platforms in emerging, high-growth presentation and recording. Office Supplies and Command™. These products airborne particles such as dust and electronics market segments like simplify managing a home or a lint, mold spores, bacteria, and pet data centers, grid modernization, business, and make lives a little dander with a Filtrete™ True HEPA and automotive electrification. We easier and more efficient. filter.1 Several of these devices create solutions that power and have also earned ENERGY STAR® connect cities, homes, cars, and Some Sustainability certification. ENERGY STAR® people and provide real-time access examples certified room air purifiers are 40 to data, wherever it’s needed. percent more energy efficient than • A  ccording to the World Health standard models. Learn more here Organization (WHO), 93 percent of the world’s children under the Learn more on our Consumer age of 15 years breathe air that is Business Group by visiting so polluted that it puts their health our 3M Investor Day at risk. To address this issue, 3M presentation and recording. has launched our first children’s 1As small as 0.3 microns, from the air small respirator with a valve passing through the filter media. Initial efficiency value designed for ages seven to 12. This product combines low breathing resistance with comfort and design 212 213 What we create Our products 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Health Care Industrial 2018 sales: Helping Some Sustainability 2018 sales: Advancing Some Sustainability examples examples health care industry $6.02B professionals • 3  M™ Petriﬁlm™ Plates compared $12.3B performance • L ight weighting vehicles prevent with traditional agar test methods for fuel efficiency oﬀer users up to a 66 percent Our business focus Our markets Our markets Medical Solution $3.05B complications reduction in waste, use up to 76 percent less energy, up to 79 percent Adhesive $4.61B Using a transformed approach • Adopting reduced-solvent and solvent-free adhesives Oral Care $1.35B and improve less water, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions up to 75 percent and Tapes to customer engagement, our Industrial Business Group provides • C utting faster, which creates Health Information $0.837B patient  ive 3M Health Care • F Automotive and Aerospace $2.06B thousands of innovative solutions and products. You can find our significant ergonomic and productivity gains Drug Delivery $0.444B outcomes manufacturing sites have achieved zero-landfill-waste status Abrasives $1.80B products bonding and protecting surfaces in construction; improving Learn more on our Health Food Safety $0.332B Our business focus • W  e developed a partnership Automotive $1.64B the design and maintenance of land, air, and water transportation; and Care Business Group by visiting our 3M Investor Day with World Dental Federation Aftermarket purifying air and water for both presentation and recording. Our Health Care Business Group is on implemented Smiles Around residential and industrial uses. a global leader in medical and oral the World program in China to Advance Materials $1.24B care products, drug delivery systems, promote lifelong oral health health information systems, and food Separation $0.913B safety systems — supplying advanced Learn more on our Health and Purification solutions that help health care Care business group by professionals improve the quality and visiting our 3M Investor Day effectiveness of care for millions of presentation and recording. people while managing overall costs. 214 215 What we create Our products #improvinglives Safety & Graphics Lo fo oki rw ng ard 2018 sales: Advancing Some Sustainability Beyond financial results, in 2018 we continued to position 3M for longsafety, examples $6.83B term growth and value creation. enhancing This includes executing our four • Energy-saving window films priorities: portfolio management, environments, transformation, innovation, and • W  ater and chemical wastepeople and culture, as discussed Our markets Personal $3.68B improving reducing cleaning solutions in this report’s 3M Value Model and our customer sections. Safety lives • R  oofing granules that harness the power of the sun to Commercial $1.84B improve air quality Solutions Our business focus Learn more about our Health Transportation $0.95B From personal protective equipment Care Business Group by and Safety (PPE) that protects people at visiting our 3M Investor Day home and work, to traffic signs presentation and recording. Roofing Granules $0.353B and pavement markings that improve road safety, and exterior signage and interior graphics that enhance the impact of visual and design communication, our Safety & Graphics Business Group exists to make the world a more secure and more productive place to live and work. 216 217 About report Introduction 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives re Ab Report scope and boundaries 220 Indices to GRI and UNGC 226 po o Assurance statement 244 Metric tables 250 u rt t 218 219 About report Report scope and boundaries 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives About report, Title scope, and Subhead 2 boundaries Data collection, adjustments, and verification  inancial data: Financial information • F referenced in this report is collected and reported in accordance with the United States Securities and • R esponsible sourcing systems and data: The policies and management systems implementation in this area have been reviewed and Report schedule and period. Exchange Commission through verified by the departments The data provided in this report the Annual Report 2018 responsible for maintaining the through facts and figures is based internal reporting systems on activities during 3M’s fiscal • E  nvironmental, health, and safety year 2018. For some performance (EHS) data: The EHS data in this Sites acquired by 3M are integrated indicators, the previous year’s report is related to environment, into 3M programs and reporting Current issue: May 14, 2019 Organizational data are provided to allow for annual comparisons. safety performance, management systems, implementation, and systems via a prioritized functional integration schedule. Timeframe Next issue: Scheduled for May 2020 boundaries Report data collection regulatory compliance. Data collection systems are in place for integration varies depending on subject-matter reporting Previous issue: May 8, 2018 at applicable sites to track and requirements and site systems This report covers 3M’s owned Due to the size and geographical collect environmental, health and before being acquired; however, Before 2010, the Sustainability Report was a fully integrated manufacturing facilities and leased extent of our operations, it is safety data through corporateon average, integration ranges website. Therefore, copies before 2010 are not available. facilities worldwide, including joint at times difficult to obtain all wide EHS reporting systems between one and three years. ventures (if greater than 50 percent data points. Therefore, to the (e.g., Environmental Targets This report provides a summary of the activities in fiscal 3M ownership) and partially owned extent possible, limitations Database, Worldwide Incident Base year and other year 2018 (January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2018). subsidiaries (if greater than 50 percent and assumptions are stated as 3M ownership) where 3M has full information in the report. This Management System, etc.) adjustments operational control. Acquisitions are report's data has been reviewed • S  ocial data: The data related included in data sets once legally for accuracy and completeness, to employee metrics, metrics, 3M’s Annual Report 2018 and owned and fully integrated onto 3M including the reliability of the social practices, and community Investor Relations website systems. All data included in the systems used to obtain the data. programs has been derived document any changes to report is global data unless otherwise from various databases from financial data. Several of 3M’s specified. Any significant organization Unless noted below, corporate within the Human Resources environmental goals are normalized changes are identified in the Annual staff have also verified the and 3Mgives organizations. per net sales. 3M does not Report 2018 and 2019 Notice of implementation of policies and This data has been reviewed adjust sales data for inflation. Annual Meeting & Proxy statement. management systems through and verified by the departments audits and self-reporting systems. responsible for maintaining the 3M generally does not adjust its internal reporting systems base-year environmental metrics data to reflect changes in 3M’s organizational structure. As a result, 3M sets environmental targets that are normalized or indexed to 220 221 About report Report scope and boundaries 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives production (tons emitted or net this period included recycling. inventory is fully comparable • Adherence to the GRI Standards from business, government, labor, United Nations Global sales) to assure the environmental In 2011, 3M returned to a more with baseline year 2002. third-party advocacy groups, and Compact (UNGC) progress we report to the public is conventional definition of waste • I mplementation of internal academia. The GRI organization Communication on not unduly influenced by changes that considered recycling as neutral In addition, we identified an input policies and related management has developed a framework to our organizational structure. (contributing neither toward total change for our Scope 3 category systems as reported for Sustainability reporting. Progress (COP) However, in the case of our waste nor toward good output). 6, emissions from business travel. Following the GRI Sustainability greenhouse gas emissions data, Input data formerly used was no • Presentation of a complete and framework advances two important The UNGC is a strategic policy 3M follows the World Resource 3M’s 2025 Sustainability Goals longer available from one of our fair picture in the report as a whole objectives: transparency and the initiative for businesses that Institute (WRI) and World utilize 2015 as the base year. vendors. For calculation of these ability to compare results from are committed to aligning their Business Council for Sustainable Starting with this program, waste emissions, a new input was available Third-party verification: Bureau one organization to another. 3M operations and strategies with 10 Development (WBCSD) GHG disposed and waste by disposal covering reporting years 2016 to Veritas [“Assurance Provider”] has developed this report using universally accepted principles Protocol. Consequently, we readjust type do not include waste-to2018. This change in methodology provided independent thirdGRI Standards. The following GRI in the areas of human rights, our greenhouse gas emissions baseenergy. Total hazardous and was used to calculate values listed party assurance for this report Index outlines where specific GRI labor, environment, and antiyear data in the case of business total non-hazardous include in this year’s report and reviewed by covering activities January 1, reporting elements and indicators corruption. 3M committed to the acquisitions and divestitures. waste-to-energy. Bureau Veritas during our corporate 2018, to December 31, 2018. are addressed in the report or other UNGC principles in early 2014. assurance visit. Previously Bureau Veritas provided moderatereporting sources, including the This report includes an index of Whenever feasible, 3M adjusts For this year’s report, we identified reported Scope 3 category 6 level of assurance in accordance Annual Report 2018, 2019 Notice our COP implementing the 10 base-year and other years’ data if an opportunity in last year’s (2017 emissions should no longer be with AA100AS-2008, Type 2. of Annual Meeting & Proxy, and/ principles as well as alignment data collection methods change reporting year) process used to used for reporting comparison. Bureau Veritas’ assurance letter or other noted sources on 3M’s with the United Nations 2030 or data errors are identified. identify manufacturing facilities can be found in the report Investor Relations website. Sustainable Development Goals Any significant changes in the for a portion of our greenhouse Data verification under Assurance Statement. (SDGs) within the content of this measurement methods and/or gas emissions (GHG). In 2018, Our material aspects are identified 2019 Sustainability Report. data values applied to key environmental metrics from and moving forward, facility classification will better align to Internal verification: 3M has conducted an internal verification Global in the GRI Index and reflected in our 2025 goals, with focus Sustainability previous years are disclosed in the report. Significant changes our 2002 inventory. This change impacted calculation methodologies of the information provided in this report. The objectives for our principles on raw materials, water, climate and energy, health and safety, Accounting Standards are defined by this Sustainability Report as changes greater than 5 for energy and waste GHG estimations. Therefore, limiting assurance process included: and and education and development. 3M self-declares this report, has Board (SASB) percent of the original data point. direct comparability of Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3 category 5 • Accuracy and completeness of data guidelines been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: For our Sustainability reporting strategy, we utilize multiple tools Between 2005 and 2010, 3M between reporting year 2017 and • R  eliability of systems used to Global Reporting Comprehensive option. and frameworks to assure we adopted a holistic definition of 2018. For this reason, reporting measure and record data are objective, transparent, and waste to drive the company’s years 2017 and 2018 Scope 1 and Initiative globally relevant in our public waste reduction efforts toward 2 GHG emissions year-on-year • R  eliability of ratios compiled reporting process. This includes more sustainable solutions, such as comparison should be viewed from underlying data The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI, SASB, and the SDGs. pollution prevention. 3M’s waste as an estimate. The 2018 GHG is a network-based organization reduction goal and progress during that includes representatives 222 223 About report Report scope and boundaries 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives With corporate operations in 70 UNGC Principles and countries and sales in nearly all 2030 SDGs countries, our strategy is designed to be holistic. GRI was selected as Refer to the GRI Index table for the primary source referenced due cross-references of content in to the global reach of the standard. this report with the 10 Principles of the UNGC, and alignment For SASB, our diversity of with the 2030 SDGs. operations would not be represented by their current Contact 3M industry standard classifications; 3M is grouped as a primary SISC It is through collaboration and Sector: Resource Transformation, partnerships that 3M can accelerate primary SICS Industry: Containers Sustainability in our company & Packaging. Using 46 technology to improve every life. You can platforms, our integrated team contact 3M Sustainability at of scientists and researchers Sustainability@mmm.com. works with customers to create breakthroughs via our Consumer, Electronics & Energy, Industrial, Health Care, and Safety & Graphics business groups. In this year’s report, we detail our efforts on our 2018 materiality assessment. Before conducting this assessment, we reviewed and integrated SASB’s approach to materiality and materiality map to help prioritize the most important focus areas. 224 225 About report Indices to GRI and UNGC 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives GRI index General Standard Disclosure Disclosure number Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Page (.pdf) Connections to United Nations Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Initiatives* GRI 102: General disclosures, organization profile content index and UN Global 102-1 Name of the organization 3M Company Compact Communication 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Our products 210 on Progress and services Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-6 3M Company 102-3 Location of headquarters 3M Center St. Paul, Minnesota, 55144-1000, United States Operations in 70-plus countries Innovation management 198 102-4 Location of operations Names of countries, 3M.com Annual Report, 10-K, page 127 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report, 10-K, page 4 Our customers 192 Our products 210 102-6 Markets served 3M.com Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-6 Employee programs 124 Metric tables: historical metrics; social performance, employee 250 102-7 Scale of the organization and financial performance Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-6 Employee programs 124 Health and safety 136 UNGC Information on employees 102-8 Principle 6 and other workers Metric tables: social performance, employees 250 SDG 8 Annual Report, 10-K, page 4 102-9 Supply chain Suppliers 176 Significant changes to the Annual Report, 10-K, pages 73-76 organization and its supply 102-10 chain Suppliers 176 226 227 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Connections to Connections to Disclosure Page Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) number (.pdf) Initiatives* Initiatives* Global challenges 52 Michael F. Roman 4 Chair of the highest Chief Executive Officer Precautionary principle UNGC 102-23 SDG 16 102-11 Environmental management 142 governance body or approach Principle 7 Corporate governance 88 Innovation management 198 Nominating and selecting Corporate governance 88 Global challenges 52 102-24 the highest governance SDG 5, 16 102-12 External initiatives body Nominating and Governance Committee Charter Human rights 110 Corporate governance 88 102-13 Membership associations Global challenges 52 Corporate Code of Conduct 100 102-25 Conﬂicts of interest SDG 16 3M Company Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for GRI 102: General disclosures, strategy Members of the Board of Directors Role of highest governance Corporate governance 88 Statement from senior 102-26 body in setting purpose, 102-14 Message from our Chief Executive Officer 4 values, and strategy 3M Corporate Governance Guidelines decision-maker Message from our Chief Executive Officer 4 Collective knowledge of Key impacts, risks, and 102-27 Corporate governance 88 SDG 4 102-15 highest governance body opportunities Global challenges 52 Evaluating the highest Corporate governance 88 GRI 102: General disclosures, ethics and integrity 102-28 governance body’s performance Nominating and Governance Committee Charter Values, principles, Corporate Code of Conduct 100 Identifying and managing Corporate governance 88 102-16 standards, and norms SDG 16 102-29 economic, environmental, SDG 16 of behavior Compliance and Business Conduct at 3M and social impacts Global challenges 52 Corporate Code of Conduct 100 Corporate governance 88 Mechanisms for advice and Eﬀectiveness of risk 102-17 SDG 16 102-30 concerns about ethics management processes Report a concern or ask a question Enterprise risk 96 GRI 102: General disclosures, governance Review of economic, 102-31 environmental, and social Corporate governance 88 topics 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance 88 Highest governance 102-32 body’s role in sustainability Corporate governance 88 reporting 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate governance 88 Communicating critical 102-33 Corporate governance 88 concerns Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 Corporate governance 88 Confidentiality constraints, this information is considered environmental, and social business confidential; critical concerns would be taken into topics consideration during our enterprise risk management initiative: Nature and total number of Consulting stakeholders on 102-34 see enterprise risk for additional information on our mechanism critical concerns 102-21 economic, environmental, Global challenges 52 SDG 16 used to address and resolve critical issues. and social topics Annual Report, 10-K, pages 10-12 Corporate governance 88 Compensation Committee Charter Composition of the 3M Board of Directors 102-22 highest governance body SDG 5, 16 102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation 120 and its committees 3M Committee Composition 2019 Proxy Statement, pages 11-12, 26, 39-41, and 46-64 2019 Proxy Statement, page 14-19, 34-38 Compensation Committee Charter Process for determining 102-36 Compensation 120 remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement, pages 11-12, 26, 39-41, and 46-64 228 229 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Connections to Connections to Disclosure Page Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) number (.pdf) Initiatives* Initiatives* Compensation Committee Charter 102-51 Date of most recent report About report 220 Stakeholders’ involvement 102-37 Compensation 120 SDG 16 in remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement, pages 11-12, 26, 39-41, and 46-64 102-52 Reporting cycle About report 220 Annual total compensation 102-38 2019 Proxy Statement, page 82 ratio About report 220 Contact point for questions 102-53 regarding the report Not applicable, disclosure does not cover the specific impacts Sustainability@mmm.com that make the topic material. 3M has an established process to assure our commitment to fair and equitable pay. The Claims of reporting in Percentage increase in 102-54 accordance with the GRI About report 220 breakdown to calculate the median percentage increases does 102-39 annual total compensation Standard not accurately reflect our workforce levels and process at 3M ratio to assure equitable remuneration. Additional details on our process can be found in Compensation and Employee Programs; 102-55 GRI content index Indices to GRI and UNGC 226 Compensation Committee Charter GRI 102: General disclosures, stakeholder engagement 102-56 External assurance Assurance statement 244 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Global challenges 52 UNGC Topic specific standards, 200 economic Collective bargaining 102-41 Human rights 110 Principle 6 agreements SDG 8 Connections to Disclosure Page Identifying and Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations 102-42 Global challenges 52 number (.pdf) selecting stakeholders Initiatives* Approach to stakeholder GRI 201: Economic performance 102-43 Global challenges 52 engagement 103-1 to Management approach Annual Report, 10-K, pages 10-12 and 15-51 Key topics and 103-3 disclosures 102-44 Global challenges 52 concerns raised Annual Report, 10-K, pages 52-127 Direct economic value SDG 2, 5, 7, GRI 102: General disclosures, reporting practices 201-1 generated and distributed Metric tables, historical metrics, and financial performance 8, 9 250 Entities included in the Annual Report, 10-K, pages 4-10 and 74-79 102-45 consolidated ﬁnancial Financial implications and Climate and energy 160 statements About report 220 201-2 other risks and opportunities SDG 13 due to climate change Annual Report, 10-K, page 10-12 Global challenges 52 Deﬁning report content and 102-46 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan topic boundaries About report 220 201-3 obligations and other Annual Report, 10-K, pages 15-50 and 90 retirement plans 102-47 List of material topics Global challenges 52 Financial assistance 3M did not receive any significant financial assistance from any 201-4 received from government government in 2018. 102-48 Restatements of information About report 220 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 102-49 Changes in reporting About report 220 103-1 to Management approach Community 64 103-3 disclosures 102-50 Reporting period About report 220 230 231 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Connections to Connections to Disclosure Page Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) number (.pdf) Initiatives* Initiatives* Climate and energy 160 Infrastructure investments SDG 2, 5, 7, Energy consumption outside 203-1 Community 64 302-2 and services supported 9, 11 of the organization Metric tables: environmental performance, greenhouse gas 250 Climate and energy Signiﬁcant indirect SDG 1, 2, 3, 8, 160 203-2 Community 64 302-3 Energy intensity economic impacts 10, 17 Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, energy GRI 205: Anti-corruption Climate and energy 160 Reduction of energy 302-4 consumption Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, energy 103-1 to Management approach Corporate Code of Conduct 100 103-3 disclosures Climate and energy Reductions in energy 160 302-5 requirements of products Metric tables: environmental performance, greenhouse gas and services 250 Operations assessed for 205-1 Corporate Code of Conduct 100 SDG 16 risks related to corruption GRI 303: Water Communication and training 205-2 about anti-corruption Corporate Code of Conduct 100 SDG 16 103-1 to Management approach Water 154 policies and procedures 103-3 disclosures Conﬁrmed incidents of Water 154 205-3 Corporate Code of Conduct 100 SDG 16 corruption and actions taken 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Metric tables: environmental performance, water 250 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior Water sources signiﬁcantly Water 154 303-2 aﬀected by withdrawal of Corporate Code of Conduct 100 water Metric tables: environmental performance, water 250 103-1 to Management approach 103-3 disclosures Antitrust and Competition Principle 303-3 Water recycled and reused Metric tables: environmental performance, water 250 Legal actions for antiAntitrust and Competition Principle competitive behavior, 206-1 SDG 16 anti-trust, and monopoly Annual Report, 10-K, pages 109-121 GRI 305: Emissions practices Topic specific standards, 300 environmental 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach disclosures Climate and energy 160 Climate and energy 160 Connections to Disclosure Page Direct (Scope 1) GHG Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations 305-1 number (.pdf) emissions Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 Initiatives* environmental performance, greenhouse gas GRI 302: Energy Climate and energy 160 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 305-2 GHG emissions Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, energy, and greenhouse gas 103-1 to Management approach Climate and energy 160 103-3 disclosures Climate and energy 160 Other indirect (Scope 3) 305-3 GHG emissions Metric tables: environmental performance, energy, and 250 Climate and energy 160 greenhouse gas Energy consumption within 302-1 the organization Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, energy 232 233 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Connections to Connections to Disclosure Page Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) number (.pdf) Initiatives* Initiatives* Climate and energy 160 GRI 308: Supplier environmental 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, greenhouse gas Suppliers 176 103-1 to Management approach 103-3 disclosures Climate and energy 160 Supplier Responsibility Code Reduction of GHG 305-5 New suppliers that Suppliers 176 emissions Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, greenhouse gas 308-1 were screened using environmental criteria Supplier Responsibility Code Climate and energy 160 Emissions of ozoneNegative environmental Suppliers 176 305-6 308-2 impacts in the supply chain depleting substances (ODS) Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 environmental performance, air emissions and actions taken Supplier Responsibility Code Nitrogen oxides (NOx), Climate and energy 160 305-7 sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 Topic specific standards, 400 social emissions environmental performance, air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and waste Connections to Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) Environmental management 142 Initiatives* 103-1 to Management approach Raw materials 148 GRI 401: Employment 103-3 disclosures Water 154 103-1 to Management approach Employee programs 124 103-3 disclosures Environmental management 142 Waste by type and disposal Raw materials 148 Employee programs 124 306-2 method New employee hires and Metric tables: historical metrics, environmental footprint; 250 401-1 Confidentiality constraints, we can provide total turnover rate employee turnover environmental performance, waste under 6 percent, but not able to provide breakdown by age group, gender, and region. Environmental management 142 Beneﬁts provided to fullMetric tables: environmental footprint, environmental 250 time employees that are not 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills 401-2 Employee programs 124 management provided to temporary or part-time employees Annual Report, 10-K, pages 109-121 401-3 Parental leave Employee programs 124 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 103-1 to Management approach GRI 402: Labor, management relations Environmental management 142 103-3 disclosures 103-1 to Management approach Environmental management 142 Employee programs 124 103-3 disclosures Non-compliance with Metric tables: environmental footprint, environmental 250 307-1 environmental laws and Minimum notice periods management regulations 402-1 regarding operational Employee programs 124 changes Annual Report, 10-K, pages 109-121 234 235 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Connections to Connections to Disclosure Page Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) number (.pdf) Initiatives* Initiatives* Corporate governance 88 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety Corporate Officers 103-1 to Management approach Diversity of governance Health and safety 136 405-1 Board of Directors 103-3 disclosures bodies and employees Employee diversity and inclusion 72 Workers representation in Employee programs 124 formal joint management– 403-1 Health and safety 136 worker health and safety committees GRI 406: Non-discrimination Not applicable, disclosure does not cover the specific impacts that make the topic material. The 3M Safety and Human rights 110 Health Policy applies to 3M operations everywhere, including 103-1 to Management approach Types of injury and rate of new acquisitions. Hazards in 3M’s workplaces must be well 103-3 disclosures Respectful Workplace Principle injury, occupational diseases, understood and eﬀectively managed to protect 3M employees, 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, visitors, locations, and surrounding communities. and number of work-related In addition, in the spirit of continuous improvement, much GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining fatalities is being done to evaluate opportunities to raise our safety standards. For these reasons we track and disclose global lost time incident rate, high hazards, recordable incident rate, 3M Supplier Responsibility Code recordable incident rates by category, and fatalities. 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 110 Workers with high incidence 103-3 disclosures 403-3 or high risk of diseases Health and safety 136 Suppliers 176 related to their occupation Health and safety 3M Supplier Responsibility Code topics covered in formal 403-4 Health and safety 136 agreements with trade Operations and suppliers in Human rights 110 unions which the right to freedom 407-1 of association and collective Suppliers 176 GRI 404: Training and education bargaining may be at risk Supplier Responsibly Expectations 103-1 to Management approach 103-3 disclosures Employee programs 124 GRI 408: Child labor 3M Supplier Responsibility Code Average hours of training per 404-1 Employee programs 124 year per employee Human rights 110 103-1 to Management approach 103-3 disclosures Programs for upgrading Suppliers 176 404-2 employee skills and transition Employee programs 124 assistance program Supplier Responsibly Expectations Percentage of employees Operations and suppliers at Suppliers 176 receiving regular 408-1 significant risk for incident of 404-3 Employee programs 124 performance and career child labor 3M Supplier Responsibility Code development reviews GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 3M Supplier Responsibility Code Corporate governance 88 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 110 103-1 to Management approach Employee diversity and inclusion 72 103-3 disclosures 103-3 disclosures Suppliers 176 Employee programs 124 236 237 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Connections to Connections to Disclosure Page Disclosure Page Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer United Nations number (.pdf) number (.pdf) Initiatives* Initiatives* 3M Supplier Responsibility Code Communities 64 Operations and suppliers at Human rights 110 Raw materials 148 significant risk for incidents Operations with local 409-1 of forced or compulsory community engagement, Suppliers 176 413-1 Water 154 labor impact assessments, and development programs Supplier Responsibly Expectations Climate and energy 160 GRI 410: Security practices Suppliers 176 Code of Conduct 100 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 110 Enterprise risk 96 103-3 disclosures Human rights 110 Security personnel trained Operations with significant 410-1 in human rights policies or Human rights 110 actual and potential Environmental management 142 procedures 413-2 negative impacts on local communities Climate and energy 160 GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples Water 154 3M Supplier Responsibility Code Suppliers 176 103-1 to Management approach Human rights 110 103-3 disclosures Suppliers 176 GRI 414: Supplier social assessment Incidents of violations To the best of our knowledge, there were no incidents reported 411-1 involving rights of indigenous to Compliance and Business Conduct Department related to the 103-1 to Management approach peoples rights of indigenous people in 2018. Suppliers 176 103-3 disclosures GRI 412: Human rights assessment New suppliers that were 414-1 Suppliers 176 103-1 to Management approach screened using social criteria Human rights 110 103-3 disclosures Operations that have Negative social impacts in been subject to human 414-2 the supply chain and actions Suppliers 176 412-1 Human rights 110 taken rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 415: Public policy Employee training on human 412-2 Human rights 110 rights policies or procedures Corporate governance 88 103-1 to Management approach GRI 413: Local communities 103-3 disclosures Lobbying and Political Activities Communities 64 Corporate governance 88 Human rights 110 415-1 Political Contributions Lobbying and Political Activities Environmental management 142 Political Activities and Issue Advocacy 103-1 to Management approach Raw materials 148 103-3 disclosures GRI 416: Customer health and safety Water 154 Our customers 192 Climate and energy 160 103-1 to Management approach Innovation management 198 103-3 disclosures Suppliers 176 Product Safety, Quality and Stewardship Principle 238 239 About report Indices 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Disclosure number Description Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Page (.pdf) Connections to United Nations Initiatives* SASB index GRI 417: Marketing and labeling Our customers 192 103-1 to Management approach Innovation management 198 103-3 disclosures Product Safety, Quality and Stewardship Principle GRI 418: Customer privacy Data Privacy Principle 103-1 to Management approach 103-3 disclosures SASB index 3M Global Privacy Policy GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance Dimension General issue category Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Page (.pdf) 103-1 to Management approach Corporate Code of Conduct 100 103-3 disclosures Environment Climate and energy 160 GHG emissions Metric table, historical metrics; environmental performance, 250 Non-compliance with laws Significant legal actions for non-compliance with laws and greenhouse gas and energy 419-1 and regulations in the social regulations in the social and economic area would be discussed and economic area in our Annual Report, 10-K, pages 109-121 Climate and energy 160 Air quality Metric table, historical metrics; environmental performance, air 250 * United Nations Global Compact Principles * United Nations Sustainable Development Goals quality Climate and energy 160 Energy management Metric table, historical metrics; environmental performance, 250 greenhouse gas and energy Environmental management 142 Water and wastewater Water 154 management Metric table, historical metrics; environmental performance, water 250 Environmental management 142 Waste and hazardous Raw materials 154 materials management Metric table, historical metrics; environmental performance, waste 250 Environmental management 142 Raw materials 148 Water 154 Ecological impacts Climate and energy 160 Suppliers 176 Metric table, historical metrics; environmental performance 250 240 241 About report SASB index 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Dimension General issue category Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Page (.pdf) Dimension General issue category Cross-reference (hyperlinks) or direct answer Page (.pdf) Social capital Corporate Code of Conduct 100 Business model Product design and lifecycle Innovation management 198 and innovation management Suppliers 176 Human rights and community Enterprise risk 96 relations Human rights 110 Our customers 192 Ethics and compliance Business model resilience Innovation management 198 Corporate Code of Conduct 100 Our products 210 Enterprise risk 96 Customer privacy Suppliers 176 3M Global Privacy Policy Supply chain management Supplier Responsibility Code Annual Report, 10-K, page 11 Raw materials 148 Enterprise risk 96 Materials sourcing and Data security Suppliers 176 efficiency Annual Report, 10-K, page 11 Annual Report, 10-K, page 26 Access and affordability Our customers 192 Climate and energy 160 Physical impacts of climate Our customers 192 change Annual Report, 10-K, page 10 Product quality and safety Innovation management 198 Leadership and Corporate Code of Conduct 100 Our products 210 governance Business ethics Ethics and compliance Our customers 192 Corporate Code of Conduct 100 Customer welfare Innovation management 198 Competitive behavior Antitrust and Competition Principle Product Safety, Quality and Stewardship Principle Environmental management 142 Management of legal and Our customers 192 regulatory environmental Annual Report, 10-K, page 7, 12, 110-120 Innovation management 198 Selling products and Global challenges 52 product labeling Product Safety, Quality and Stewardship Principle Corporate governance 88 Advertising and Product Representation Policy Enterprise risk 96 Critical incident risk Human capital Corporate Code of Conduct 100 management Environmental management 142 Human rights 110 Health and safety 136 Suppliers 176 Labor practices Suppliers 176 Ethics and compliance Enterprise risk 96 Supplier Responsibility Code System risk management Annual Report, 10-K, page 10-12, 110-120 Health and safety 136 For additional details on SASB integration for this report, see the about report section. Employee health and safety Metric table, historical metrics; health and safety 250 Communities 64 Employee engagement, diversity and inclusion Employee diversity and inclusion 72 242 243 About report Assurance statement 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Assurance statement INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction and objectives of work Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (Bureau Veritas) was engaged by 3M Corporation (3M) to conduct an independent assurance of its 2019 3M Sustainability Report (the Report). This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below and within the boundaries specified in the Report. The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of 3M. The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to 3Mʼs stakeholders on the accuracy, reliability and objectivity of the information included in the Report as described in the scope of work. The assurance process also evaluated 3Mʼs management of sustainability in accordance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. The information that was assured and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of 3M. Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. Scope of work 3M requested Bureau Veritas to include in its independent assurance the following:  Data included in the Report for the calendar year 2018 reporting period as shown in the attached Summary of Assured Information;  Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze and review the data subject to the assurance process; and  Evaluation of the Report in accordance with the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008)1 Type 2 assurance. Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to:  Text or other written statements associated with the Report;  Activities outside the defined assurance period; and  Financial data and data reported that are not included in the Summary of Assured Information. Methodology Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities during the assurance process: 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of 3M (including managers and staff members at the corporate and site level); 2. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by 3M; 3. Audit of performance data presented in the Report including a detailed review of a sample of data; 4. Visits to manufacturing sites located in Cordova, IL; Cynthiana, KY; and Knoxville, IA; 5. Remote data reviews for manufacturing sites located in Brockville, ON, Canada; Shanghai, China; and Wroclaw, Poland; 6. Visit to 3M headquarters office located in Maplewood, Minnesota; and 1 Published by AccountAbility: The Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability 244 245 About report Assurance statement 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 7. Review of 3M data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and  Plants in water stressed areas have developed water plans and 3M is working to continue internal verification and review. to improve the plans through standardization and working with regional groups. The work was planned and carried out to provide a moderate level of assurance and we believe  With corporate staff support, plants are developing project plans that have quantified it provides a sound basis for our conclusions. expected results to meet overall reduction goals with respect to waste and water. This provides additional support to the planning for achieving goals.  3M continued to work within their supply chain, specifically with paper providers, to engage Our findings higher Tier suppliers to ensure sustainable practices are being followed. On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above:  Control of emissions of high global warming potential compounds from manufacturing  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the processes is continuing to evolve to reduce process-related GHG emissions. scope of our verification is not materially correct.  Community giving is aligned with core organizational values to improve lives with a focus on  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information is not a fair education, community and the environment, specifically supporting underserved and under representation of the actual environmental and health and safety data for calendar year resourced populations. 3M provides community support through various engagements in 2018. the community. Corporately, the 3M Foundation provides funding to targeted non-profit organizations in the U.S. and within their global footprint. 3M also makes in-kind donations.  It is our opinion that 3M has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data, including energy use, direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water consumption, waste quantities and Statement of independence, impartiality and competence disposition, injury and illness rate, lost day rate, severity rate and number of environmental violations. Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2018 is attached. independent assurance services, and an annual 2018 revenue of 4.8 Billion Euros. No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 3M, its Directors or Adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles Managers beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict Based on the work undertaken during this assurance process, we are of the opinion that 3M of interest. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to adheres to the Accountability Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. discussed below. Inclusivity The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years Based on discussions with 3M, their processes appear to be inclusive of stakeholders. In 2018, combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard 3M commissioned a third party provider to update their materiality assessment and used that methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports. assessment to identify and engage stakeholders. Some of the stakeholder groups that 3M has identified to include in their sustainability processes include 3M employees, customers, nongovernmental organizations, investors and the public. Attestation: Materiality 3M updated their materiality assessment in 2018. During the materiality assessment stakeholders indicated that 3M should take a leadership role. The Chief Technology Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer report annually to the Boardʼs Nominating and Governance Committee on their sustainability efforts. In addition, their Corporate EHS and Business John A. Rohde Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer Conduct Committee ensures that sustainability principles are embedded throughout the Senior Project Manager Program Manager company. Background information can be found in the 3M proxy statement: Sustainability and Climate Change Services Climate Change Services https://investors.3m.com/financials/sec-filings/sec-filingsdetails/default.aspx?FilingId=13322342 Responsiveness Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 3M receives questions regarding sustainability from customers, investors, non-governmental Denver, Colorado organizations and others through various channels. The company has guidance for responding to customer inquiries on sustainability issues and uses this guidance for responding to other April 10, 2019 groups as well. Responses to surveys are coordinated by the corporate sustainability group. Each business group also has sustainability leads who assist with responding to stakeholders. In addition, through the materiality assessment, 3M is building out a strategy for future sustainability efforts. Key Observations for 2018  Data systems at 3M allow for consolidation and review of environmental, safety, and energy data at the corporate level for reporting. Internal auditing assists with ensuring accurate data collection. 246 247 About report Assurance statement 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Summary of Assured Information Reporting Year 2018 3M Company Demographic Metrics Units Value Waste Metrics Units Value Energy Metrics Units Value Air Emissions Metrics Units Value Total Global Full‐time Equivalent % of Total Total Number 93,500 Zero Landfill 30.4% Total Energy Use (Absolute) MMBTUs 29,900,000 Absolute Scope 1 Emissions (Direct) Metric Tons CO2e 4,790,000 (Headcount) Manufacturing Sites Total Global Employees at Year‐End Waste Disposed: Landfill, Treatment and Absolute Scope 2 Location‐based Emissions Total Number 94,300 Metric Tons 151,000 Total Energy Use (Absolute) MWh 8,750,000 Metric Tons CO2e 1,860,000 (Headcount) Incineration (Absolute) (Indirect) Absolute Scope 2 Market‐based Emissions Total Number Part‐Time Employees Total Number 2,100 Waste by Disposal Type, Incineration Metric Tons 43,600 Total Fuel Oil #1, #2, #6 MMBTUs 1,110,000 Metric Tons CO2e 1,480,000 (Indirect) Absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 Market‐ Total Number Full‐Time Employees Total Number 92,200 Waste by Disposal Type, Landfilled Metric Tons 108,000 Total Jet Fuel MMBTUs 104,000 Metric Tons CO2e 6,270,000 based Emissions (Indirect) Percentage of Female Employees to Total % 35.4 Total Hazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons 43,400 Total Propane MMBTUs 194,000 Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions (Upstream) Metric Tons CO2e 9,630,000 Employees Percentage of Female Employees in % 30.3 Total Nonhazardous Waste (Absolute) Metric Tons 187,000 Total Gasoline and Diesel MMBTUs 182,000 Category 1 ‐ Purchased Goods and Services Metric Tons CO2e 6,840,000 Management Positions Environmental Management System Total Waste Diverted (Absolute) Metric Tons 312,000 Total Coal MMBTUs 0 Category 2 ‐ Capital Goods Metric Tons CO2e 369,000 Metrics Units Value Total Number of Significant Spills Category 3 ‐ Fuel and Energy Related Total Number 0 Waste‐to‐Energy Metric Tons 79,100 Total Natural Gas MMBTUs 16,200,000 Metric Tons CO2e 596,000 (Spills reported in 10K reporting) Activities Number of Significant Fines (Fine or penalty Category 4 ‐ Upstream Transportation and Total Number 0 Onsite Recycle & Reuse Metric Tons 63,300 Total Electricity Consumption MMBTUs 10,800,000 Metric Tons CO2e 1,170,000 >$10,000) Distribution Total Monetary Value of Significant Fines Million $USD 0 Offsite Reuse Metric Tons 32,900 Total Steam Consumption MMBTUs 1,260,000 Category 5 ‐ Waste Generated in Operations Metric Tons CO2e 271,000 Environmental Liability Accrued at Year End Million $USD 0 Offsite Recycle Metric Tons 137,000 Renewable Energy % Total Electricity Use 26.8 Category 6 ‐ Business Travel Metric Tons CO2e 61,600 Category 7 ‐ Employee Commuting Metric Tons CO2e 327,000 Health and Safety Metrics Units Value Water Metrics Units Value Per 100 3M employees Global Lost Time Incident Rate 0.29 Total Water Use (Absolute) Million Cubic Meters 45.8 Category 13 ‐ Downstream Leased Assets Metric Tons CO2e <1000 (200,000 work hours) Other Metrics Units Value Sites located in Water Stress/Scarce Areas; Per 100 3M employees Customer GHG Avoidance through 3M Million Metric Tons Total Volatile Organic Compound Emissions Global Recordable Incident Rate 1.1 water sources significantly affected by Total Number 25 14.9 Metric Tons 4,420 (200,000 work hours) Product Use CO2e (Absolute) withdrawal of water with water Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Employees Total Number 0 Supplier Responsibility Metrics Units Value Total Training Instances 2017 and 2018) 139,000 Work Related Fatalities ‐ 3M Contractors Total Number 1 Total Number of Suppliers Total Number 78,700 Cumulative Number Work Related Fatalities ‐ Total Number Total Number 1 Total Number of Supplier Reviews 6,350 since 2008 248 249 About report Metric tables 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Metric Social performance, employees 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric tables Metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units change, % change, % Global full-time Total 89,800 89,400 91,600 91,500 93,500 2.19 4.12 equivalent employees number Global employee Total 90,700 90,400 92,500 92,400 94,300 2.06 3.97 (headcount) number Five-year metric table Total number part-time employees Total number 2,560 2,520 2,390 2,330 2,100 -9.87 -18.0 Social performance employees Total number Total 88,200 87,900 90,100 90,000 92,200 2.44 4.54 full-time employees number Financial performance Percentage of female employees % 33.9 33.9 34.8 34.7 35.4 2.02 4.42 Community engagement to total employees Percentage of Environmental performance female employees in % 26.1 26.9 27.8 29.1 30.3 4.12 16.1 management positions --Environmental management system metrics --Greenhouse gas metrics --Air emissions metrics --Energy metrics Financial performance --Waste metrics --Water metrics 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric Metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units Health and safety metrics change, % change, % Supplier responsibility metrics Million Net sales 31,800 30,300 30,100 31,700 32,800 3.47 3.14 $USD Historical metric table Million Operating income1 6,980 7,030 7,690 7,210 -6.24 $USD Environmental Footprint Research, Million Health and Safety development and $USD 1,760 1,760 1,870 1,820 -2.67 related expenses1 Total operating Million 23,300 23,100 24,000 25,600 6.67 expenses1 $USD Net income Million 4,960 4,830 5,050 4,860 5,350 10.1 7.86 attributable to 3M $USD Actual Per share-basic 7.63 7.72 8.35 8.13 9.09 11.8 19.1 $USD 250 251 About report Metric tables 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Financial performance cont. Environmental performance 2017-2018 2014-2018 Environmental 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric Metric Metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year management RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units units change, % change, % system metric change, % change, % 0 0 0 0 0 Actual Total number of Total Per share-diluted 7.49 7.58 8.16 7.93 8.89 12.1 18.7 $USD significant spills number Significant spill: Spills included in the organization’s financial statement 1 0 0 2 0 Capital Million Number of Total 1,490 1,460 1,420 1,370 1,580 15.3 6.04 expenditures $USD significant fines number Significant fine: Fine or penalty over $10,000 Payments to Million Total monetary value of Million 2,390 2,700 2,870 3,020 3,520 16.6 47.3 0.113 0 0 0.0900 0.000 providers of capital $USD significant fines $USD For more information, see Provision for Million Environmental liability Million 2,030 1,980 2,000 2,680 1,640 -38.8 -19.2 0 0 0 0 0 our Annual Report, 10k, income taxes $USD accrued at year end $USD pages 109-121. 1Amounts for operating income; research, development, and related expenses; and total operating expenses were reclassified back to 2015 to reflect the adoption of an accounting standard (ASU No. 2017-07, Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost) effective January 1, 2018 on a retrospective basis. Amounts prior to 2015 have not been reclassified. Greenhouse gas metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units change, % change, % Absolute Scope 1 Metric tons 4,390,000 3,770,000 4,140,000 3,960,000 4,790,000 21.0 9.11 emissions (direct) CO₂e Absolute Scope 2 Metric tons Community engagement location-based emissions (indirect) CO₂e 2,240,000 1,860,000 1,840,000 1,880,000 1,860,000 -1.06 -17.0 Absolute Scope 2 marketMetric tons 2017-2018 2014-2018 1,780,000 1,650,000 1,480,000 -10.3 Metric based emissions (indirect) CO₂e Metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units change, % change, % Total Scope 1 and 2 Metric tons GHG emissions: 5,920,000 5,610,000 6,270,000 11.8 CO₂e Total global Million market-based accounting 81.3 72.8 67.3 73.5 66.3 -9.80 -18.5 giving $USD Metric tons Total GHG emissions per net (indexed to net sales, 208 186 199 184 203 10.3 -2.40 Total cash Million sales (MM 30.3 34.1 34.8 35.9 35.6 -0.836 17.5 location-based) donations $USD $USD) Customer GHG reduction Million Total in-kind Million through use of various 3M metric tons 13.4 13.0 14.9 14.6 51.0 38.4 32.5 37.6 30.7 -18.4 -39.8 donations $USD product platforms CO₂e Net GHG emissions based on the categories evaluated. Due to change in boundaries, Scope 3 upstream emissions should not be compared on a year-on-year basis. Baseline reporting year has not been established for our Scope 3 emissions. Additional changes occurred to calculation methods for Scope 1 and 2 limiting comparison between reporting year 2018 and other inventory years; see about report section for additional information. 252 253 About report Metric tables 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Environmental performance cont. Environmental performance cont. 2017-2018 2014-2018 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric Metric Greenhouse gas metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year Greenhouse gas metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units units change, % change, % change, % change, % These emissions are Scope 3, Category 8 Metric tons included in Scope 1 and 2, Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions reporting. (upstream, leased assets) CO₂e because they are all under Total Scope 3 Metric tons 3M operational control. 9,200,000 8,670,000 9,540,000 9,400,000 9,630,000 emissions (upstream) CO₂e Scope 3, Category 9 Metric tons (downstream transportation CO₂e and distribution) Total Scope 3 Metric tons Scope 3, Category 10 All downstream categories either do not apply or are de minimis. Metric tons Not evaluated; most of 3M’s products are intermediates with many potential end uses. According emissions (downstream) CO₂e (processing of sold CO₂e to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Calculation and Guidance, a company that produces intermediate products) products with many potential downstream applications, each with a potentially different GHG Scope 3, Category 1 emission profile, cannot reasonably estimate the downstream emissions associated with the various Metric tons Scope 3, Category 11 Metric tons (purchased goods and 6,830,000 6,200,000 7,120,000 6,570,000 6,840,000 end uses of the intermediate products. CO₂e Methodology updated to (use of sold products) CO₂e services) calculate values based on 3M spend using U.S. EPA Scope 3, Category 12 (end Scope 3, Category 2 Metric tons EEIO factors. Metric tons 499,000 452,000 423,000 436,000 369,000 of life treatment of sold (capital goods) CO₂e CO₂e products) Included Prior to 2015, 3M Scope 3, Category 3 in Scope 1 Scope 3, Category 13 Metric tons reported facilities leased (fuel and energy Calculated from 3M or Scope 2 <1,000 <1,000 <1,000 <1,000 Metric tons (downstream leased assets) CO₂e to third parties under related activities; not 551,000 621,000 607,000 631,000 596,000 primary data on energy emissions CO₂e Scope 1 and 2. including Scope 1 or consumption. reporting. Scope 2 emissions) Scope 3, Category 14 Metric tons No franchises under this 0 0 0 0 0 (franchises) CO₂e scope of boundary. Emissions disclosed in 2014 were miscategorized Scope 3, Category 4 Scope 3, Category 15 Metric tons No investments under this Metric tons as Category 9; data does 0 0 0 0 0 (upstream transportation 995,000 780,000 699,000 1,050,000 1,170,000 (investments) CO₂e scope of boundary. CO₂e not include emissions and distribution) from transportation of raw materials from suppliers. Metric tons Biogenic CO₂ emissions 3,080 CO₂e Calculated from 3M primary data on waste by The data reported is in accordance to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) facility size or number of Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. employees. Methodology Estimated Scope 3 data uncertainty is ±50% (WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, Scope 3, Category 5 (waste Metric tons Insufficient 287,000 299,000 323,000 271,000 for determining facility 2011). generated in operations) CO₂e data type changed resulting in change to past years’ Scope of boundary for the GHG metric is determined using the control approach to GHG emissions accounting as defined in the GHG Protocol results, see about report Corporate Reporting and Accounting Standard. Additional information can be found in the about report section. section for more details. 2017-2018 2014-2018 Calculated from 3M Air emissions metric Metric units RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year primary data on business change, % change, % Scope 3, Category 6 Metric tons Insufficient Insufficient 59,300 60,700 61,600 travel. Calculations have (business travel) CO₂e data data changed, see about report Total volatile organic section for details. compound emissions Metric tons 5,550 4,840 4,690 4,620 4,420 -4.33 -20.4 (absolute) Methodology updated to calculate values Total volatile organic Metric tons based on 3M employee compounds emissions per net sales 0.174 0.160 0.156 0.146 0.135 -7.53 -22.6 Scope 3, Category 7 Metric tons 326,000 325,000 332,000 332,000 327,000 headcount with U.S. EPA (indexed to net sales) (MM $USD) (employee commuting) CO₂e GHG emission factors. All historical values recalculated. 254 255 About report Metric tables 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Environmental performance cont. Environmental performance cont. 2017-2018 2014-2018 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric Energy metric RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year Waste metric Metric units RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year units change, % change, % change, % change, % Total energy use % of total MMBtu 29,100,000 28,400,000 29,000,000 29,600,000 29,900,000 (absolute) Zero landfill manufacturing 28.2 26.6 27.9 30.4 8.96 1.01 2.75 sites Total energy use MWh 8,850,000 8,320,000 8,490,000 8,670,000 8,750,000 Waste disposed: (absolute) landfill, treatment Metric tons 153,000 158,000 161,000 160,000 151,000 -5.63 -1.31 and incineration Total energy MMBTUs (absolute) (indexed to per net sales 913 937 962 935 911 -2.57 -0.219 net sales) (MM $USD) Waste disposed: Metric tons landfill, treatment and % of total per net sales 4.80 5.23 5.33 5.07 4.62 -8.88 -3.75 Renewable incineration (indexed electricity 0.50 7.60 17.9 26.8 49.7 (MM $USD) energy to net sales) use Waste by disposal Total fuel oil Metric tons 44,200 45,200 44,100 45,200 43,600 -3.54 -1.36 MMBtu 1,630,000 1,330,000 1,200,000 1,130,000 1,110,000 -1.77 -31.9 type, incineration #1, #2, #6 Waste by disposal Metric tons 109,000 112,000 116,000 115,000 108,000 -6.09 -0.917 type, landfilled Total jet fuel MMBtu 161,000 153,000 159,000 138,000 104,000 -24.6 -35.4 % data coverage total waste (absolute), Total propane MMBtu 192,000 170,000 190,000 177,000 194,000 9.60 1.04 normalized to sales % 98 97 98 98 99 1.02 1.02 value of production (SVOP) Total gasoline MMBtu 209,000 270,000 155,000 155,000 182,000 17.4 -12.9 Starting in 2016, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste and diesel below includes waste-to-energy. Total hazardous Total coal MMBtu 0 0 0 0 0 Metric tons 41,100 45,600 43,600 43,900 43,400 -1.14 5.60 waste (absolute) Total nonhazardous Total natural gas MMBTUs 15,900,000 14,700,000 15,400,000 15,700,000 16,200,000 3.18 1.89 Metric tons 164,000 172,000 180,000 188,000 187,000 -0.532 14.0 waste (absolute) Total waste diverted Total electricity Metric tons 287,000 297,000 284,000 307,000 312,000 1.63 8.71 MMBtu 11,100,000 10,600,000 10,700,000 11,100,000 10,800,000 -2.70 -2.70 (absolute) consumption Total steam Waste-to-energy Metric tons 51,900 60,100 63,100 71,600 79,100 10.5 52.4 MMBtu 1,010,000 1,130,000 1,180,000 1,220,000 1,260,000 3.28 24.8 consumption Onsite recycle Total heating Metric tons 69,500 65,500 56,700 60,400 63,300 4.80 -8.92 MMBtu 19,100,000 17,700,000 18,300,000 18,500,000 19,000,000 and reuse consumption 2.70 -0.524 Offsite reuse Metric tons 31,900 31,300 27,600 31,500 32,900 4.44 3.13 Total heating MWh 5,590,000 5,190,000 5,360,000 5,430,000 5,570,000 consumption Offsite recycle Metric tons 134,000 139,000 137,000 143,000 137,000 -4.20 2.24 Scope of boundary for the energy metric includes 3M locations larger than 30,000 square feet. Additional scope information can be found in the Per 3M’s Waste Management Program Standard, deep well injection is not acceptable waste management Deep well injection about report section. practice for use by any 3M location. Scope of boundary for the waste metric includes 3M manufacturing locations with total output over 4.54 metric tons per year (10,000 pounds). Additional scope information can be found in the about report section. 256 257 About report Metric tables 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives Environmental performance cont. Health and safety 2017-2018 2014-2018 2017-2018 2014-2018 Water metric Metric units RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year Metric Metric units RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year change, % change, % change, % change, % Per 100 3M Total water use Million cubic Global lost 42.5 42.2 44.8 46.0 45.8 -0.435 7.76 employees (absolute) meters time incident 0.355 0.321 0.304 0.341 0.292 -14.4 -17.7 (200,000 rate work hours) Million cubic Per 100 3M Total water use meters per Global 0.00134 0.00139 0.00149 0.00145 0.00140 -3.45 4.48 employees (indexed to net sales) net sales (MM recordable 1.45 1.22 1.20 1.16 1.10 -5.17 -24.1 (200,000 $USD) incident rate work hours) Scope of boundary for the water metric includes 3M manufacturing locations with total output over 4.54 metric tons per year (10,000 pounds). Work related Additional information can be found in the about report section. fatalities 3M Total number 0 0 1 0 0 employees Sites located in Work related water stress/scarce fatalities 3M Total number 0 0 0 1 1 areas; water sources contractors significantly affected Work related Total number 27 25 25 25 25 0.00 -7.41 by withdrawal of fatalities Total number 0 0 1 1 1 water with water total number conservation planning efforts Scope of boundary for water stressed/scarce areas includes 3M locations with annual water use equal to or greater than 1,000 cubic meters were in water-stressed areas defined by the extremely high baseline water stress value according to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water ToolTM. 3M uses this tool to screen site locations for water stress/scarce levels and prioritizes conservation plan development based on internal criteria. Supplier responsibility 2017-2018 2014-2018 Metric Metric units RY-2014 RY-2015 RY-2016 RY-2017 RY-2018 annual five-year change, % change, % Total number Total number 95,800 98,500 88,200 85,100 78,700 -7.52 -17.8 of suppliers Total number Cumulative of supplier number (since 3,880 4,570 5,120 5,790 6,350 9.67 63.7 reviews 2008) 258 259 About report Metric tables 3M 2019 Sustainability Report #improvinglives 3M historical metrics 3M historical metrics cont. Historical Historical Metric Metric units RY-2002 RY-2005 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2018 reporting Metric Metric units RY-2002 RY-2005 RY-2010 RY-2015 RY-2018 reporting change, % change, % Net sales Million $USD 16,300 26,700 29,600 30,300 32,800 101... Environmental footprint cont. Environmental footprint Total hazardous waste (absolute) Metric tons 47,700 42,300 45,600 43,400 -9.01 Absolute Scope 1 Metric Tons 16,800,000 10,100,000 4,280,000 3,770,000 4,790,000 -71.5 emissions (direct) CO₂e Total nonhazardous waste Metric tons 132,000 134,000 172,000 187,000 41.7 (absolute) Absolute Scope 2 Metric Tons location-based emissions 1,540,000 1,700,000 1,940,000 1,860,000 1,860,000 20.8 CO₂e (indirect) Million cubic Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Total water use (absolute) 49.0 43.0 42.2 45.8 -6.53. Metric Tons per meters greenhouse gas emissions Net Sales (MM 1,120 559 233 186 203 -81.9..... (indexed to net sales, location$USD) Million cubic based) Total water use meters per net 2012-2016 U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 based inventory accounting is not directly comparable to 2002-2011 WRI/IPCC TAR, AR4 based GHG 0.00231 0.00161 0.00139 0.00140 -39.4. (indexed to net sales) sales accounting. 2002 inventory recalculated according to U.S. EPA GHG-MRR/IPCC AR5 methodology (2.7% increase in absolute emissions over (MM $USD) original reported value). Total volatile organic Health and safety Metric tons 6,800 6,070 4,800 4,420 -35.0...... compound emissions (absolute) Per 100 Metric tons per Global lost time 3M employees Total volatile organic compounds 0.594 0.364 0.321 0.292 -50.8...... net sales (MM 0.321 0.228 0.158 0.135 -57.9...... incident rate (200,000 work emissions (indexed to net sales) $USD) hours) Per 100 Total energy use (absolute) MMBtu 27,900,000 26,800,000 28,400,000 29,900,000 Global recordable 3M employees 1.85 1.56 1.22 1.10 -40.4...... incident rate (200,000 work 7.17 hours) Total energy use (absolute) MWh 8,170,000 7,860,000 8,320,000 8,750,000 MMBtu per Total energy net sales (MM 1,320 1,010 937 911 -31.0 (indexed to net sales) $USD) Waste disposed: landfill, treatment Metric tons 145,000 136,000 158,000 151,000 4.14 and incineration (absolute) Waste disposed: landfill, treatment Metric tons per and incineration (indexed to net net sales (MM 6.83 5.09 5.21 4.62 -32.4...... sales) $USD) Starting in 2016, waste disposed and waste by disposal type does not include waste-to-energy. Total hazardous and total nonhazardous waste below includes waste-to-energy. 260 261 2019 Sustainability Report
