Lune Group Oy Ltd UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 Forewords and statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Lune Group Oy Ltd (Lunette) reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this second annual Communication on Progress (2018-2019), we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of these principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders. Sustainability and human rights lie at the core of Lunette’s business operations, today more than ever. A holistic approach to sustainability is a vital part of good business strategy. We are constantly striving to include these values in the company’s policies Contents and activities and are committed to improving our sustainability performance. In the recent years, Lunette has been taking its corporate responsibility towards a new level in our own operations and also through increased activity in developed and developing countries. We believe that despite being a small company we can achieve greater systemic change, FOREWORDS AND STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT .................................................................2 through raising discussions on menstrual health to the forefront. We want to fearlessly ABOUT LUNE GROUP OY LTD (LUNETTE).............................................................................................................5 raise difficult questions related to sexual and reproductive health and women’s empowerment, whether through our networks, speaking engagements in global events, LUNETTE’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY.....................................................................................................6 or on social media. We are also excited to report that we have in 2018-2019 been part Silicone and menstrual cup production....................................................................................... 8 of a successful national campaign in Finland, calling for greater accountability of the Product use: social impact........................................................................................................................ 8 private sector and campaigning for mandatory due diligence. Social responsibility: projects in developing countries and partnerships ..10 We have been proud to receive numerous awards as a company in 2018-2019, but also IMPLEMENTING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES....................................................................16 for our products and the sustainable values we tirelessly continue to promote. I am Human rights.......................................................................................................................................................16 convinced that we are on the right path. In terms of partnerships, results and impact Labour rights...................................................................................................................................................... 20 we have achieved a lot, yet undoubtedly, a lot remains to be done. A warm thanks to all of our partners, supporters and loyal customers. Thank you for our shared journey of Environment........................................................................................................................................................ 22 building a better world, together. Anti-corruption..................................................................................................................................................24 SOURCES.................................................................................................................................................................................25 Sincerely, HELI KURJANEN CEO & Founder, Lune Group Oy Ltd Contact: Heli Kurjanen, Email: info@lunette.fi This report covers the period of July 2017 until June 2018. 2 3 ABOUT Lune Group Oy Ltd (Lunette) Lunette is a company based in Juupajoki, Finland with a subsidiary in the US and established presence in the UK, Germany and Austria. We specialize in sales and promotion of Lunette Menstrual Cups manufactured in Finland. The yearly revenue continues on a growth path. The menstrual cups were, in 2018-2019, sold through a retailer network in almost 50 countries. Lunette was founded in 2005 and has become one of the leading menstrual cup producers in the world. The high quality of our main product continues to be an important factor in positioning ourselves successfully in a competitive global marketplace, largely dominated by non-sustainable disposable period care products. We have received the following Awards in 2018-2019: . . Women of the Year award by Business and Professional Women in Finland Winner of Ten Outstanding Persons (TOYP) in the category Business and . Economy . Shortlisted for Women of Europe in the category Women in Business . Best Sustainable Entrepreneurs by Sublime Magazine Honorable mention in Corporate Responsibility by Growth Leaders of Kauppalehti Further, the Lunette Menstrual Cup has received the following Awards: . . Life Organic Award in category Best Hygiene Product (Russia) Nomination for Best in Show Product at Indie Product Awards (USA) We believe these awards speak volumes of the organization’s entrepreneurial journey, and talent, as well as our values. In 2018-2019 we have continued fully committed to female empowerment and sustainability as part of our business model and spirit. 4 5 Poor menstrual health in many regions of the world relates to economic and LUNETTE’S APPROACH TO social rights, including right to health, water and sanitation, education and work. Numerous research reports show that it is to a large degree a neglected issue, both Sustainability in the UN system and by country governments, even other actors, much due to the related taboos and stigma still connected to menstrual health. The opportunity to manage one’s menstruation related inherently to the well-being of persons who menstruate and a precondition for realization of other rights. We have in 2018-2019 been pleased to received official approval for product registration in countries, such as Tanzania and South Korea, through rigorous tests of product and raw materials. Respect for the social, economic and governance aspects is fundamental to Lunette Registration opens new opportunities in yet new countries to raise awareness about as part of sustainable and responsible business conduct. Without sustainable and to break menstrual taboos. development of society, we cannot reach an enabling environment, which is crucial This is Lunette’s second Communication on Progress report. We take a proactive for a productive, competitive and efficient business. We believe that contributing to approach to social and environmental responsibility throughout the value chain, the UN Global Compact principles is an opportunity and a necessity. Our operations based on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. We assess our operations – focuses strongly on sexual and reproductive health and rights, and menstrual suppliers and partners – often with the support of external consultants and experts, health, which continues being a key area relevant especially to SDG Goals 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 in order to ensure that we avoid adverse human rights impact, while we aim to and 12. achieve measurable positive impact. Lunette’s vision is a dynamic business, beyond stereotypes and driven by innovation and an unlimited female entrepreneurial spirit. Lunette’s mission is to change attitudes about periods: nobody should feel ashamed of them, nobody should miss a chance because of them. Lunette aims to think beyond the limits, to discover the hidden potential in everybody who menstruates, to ensure no one is left behind, in line with the pursuit of the SDGs. We strive to dynamically monitor and drive improvement in the sustainability-sphere; both internally and with the Our operations and suppliers Product use suppliers and partners we work with. Our main product is the Lunette Menstrual Cup. Lunette Menstrual Cup is a SOCIAL: + bell-shaped object made of medical grade silicone, inserted in to the vagina to Social impact of operations; + + collect (instead of absorbing) menstrual blood. Menstrual cup is a waste-free + + innovation, which lasts for years thanks to the durability of the high-quality improving women and girl’s health silicone. The minimal amount of solid waste produced is a significant advantage rights and quality of life over disposable products. Only a small amount of water is required for cleaning the cup, which reduces the burden of menstrual health management on the water infrastructure. Our high quality Lunette Menstrual Cups are BPA and latex free, and ECONOMIC: safe to use. Lunette Menstrual Cup is registered with the Vegan Society and carries Influence on the broader economy; + + the Finnish Keyflag Emblem and Design from Finland certifications. Menstrual cups + + have become a mainstream product, an economic, ecological and safe menstrual economic impact on women and care option. girls ENVIRONMENTAL: + + Impact of operations, materials and + packaging; environmental impact of product use Our greatest impact relates to the use of our products, not only in western countries but also through Lunette Menstrual Cup is registered with the Vegan Society and carries the Finnish Keyflag Emblem and activities in developing countries. In terms of our own operations and suppliers, we strive to uphold Design from Finland certifications. strict standards and thoroughly monitor impact. 6 7 Silicone and menstrual found that approximately 91% of women in the menstrual cup group said they would continue to use the cup and recommend it to others. In a 1995 clinical study involving 51 women, 23 of the participants (45%) found menstrual cups to cup production be an acceptable way of managing menstrual flow. There’s evidence for increased preference among women for use of the menstrual cup. 2, 3 In a Lunette customer survey 88% of customers said that their quality of life during menstruation has improved while using a menstrual cup – this could both entail economic Lunette Menstrual Cups are made from medical grade silicone. Silicone, a polymer empowerment as well as aspects relating to personal comfort and flexibility, hence made with oxygen, is extracted from silica and passed through hydrocarbons issues critical to reaching one’s full potential. derived from fossil energy. Thus, production of silicone is not carbon neutral nor is Based on the first, large scientific review on sanitary products, published in the product biodegradable, although it has been established that it can be burned the Lancet Public Health journal in 2019, menstrual cups are a safe option for safely at the end of its lifespan. Medical grade silicone is tested for allergens and menstruation management and are being used internationally. 4 made as pure and inert as possible. A survey commissioned by Lunette in June 2019 showed that those born between The medical grade silicone for Lunette Menstrual Cups is sourced from a supplier 1995 and 2015, commonly known as Gen Z, are more open than other generations in the EU. Neglecting work safety measures in silicone fabrications may dispose when it comes to talking about periods. The study included 2,000 women located in workers to silica dust or toxic gases (e.g. methyl chloride) which may cause silicosis. the US, ages 18 to 38, and it found that the mindset is being shifted when it comes to reproductive health. Leading that movement were those between the ages of 18 The Lunette Cups are manufactured in Finland. Work safety regulations in Finland and 24, also known as Gen Z.Oout of respondents 53% reported that they are using are effective in preventing manufacturing related health and safety risks. Lunette or would consider using reusable period products. Survey results were published Cups are pressed only from medical grade silicone and in this process the work in the NY Post, Medium, World News, The India Times Post, MSN, Yahoo, AOL and safety risks are smaller when adequate protection and safety measures are taken. various other outlets around the world shared the news about the Lunette survey (in There are strict rulings for storing and labeling chemicals. total 53 placements in the media and 5,75 million impressions). Lunette places emphasis on environmental standards and development of environmentally friendly packaging. The packaging of the cups is fully plastic free Research has also been conducted on the acceptability of the cup in low-resource and therefore recyclable. settings. A qualitative study among school girls in rural Uganda concluded that most participants overcame initial challenges mastering the techniques for insertion and removal and adapted to menstrual cup use. In another qualitative study conducted among schoolgirls in rural Kenya girls preferred cups over Product use: social impact commercial pads or traditional materials. Reasons mentioned in favor of the cups were that it would not leak, drop and was comfortable after learning the right usage. The only reported advantage of pads over cups was the easiness to start usage. 5 Based on clinical testing quality menstrual cups (produced of tested medical grade The old and restrictive perceptions on menstruation and lack of access to safe silicone in controlled production facilities) are hygienic and safe to use. TSS caused period care products, discriminate women and girls and deprive their equal rights by menstrual cup use appears to be very rare to virtually non-existent. Rarely, the to study, work and participate in society. In some countries and communities, use of cup, especially if combined with gynecological concerns or infections, may menstruation is perceived as a taboo and, furthermore, women and girls can also set favorable conditions for an infection. This emphasizes the need of hygiene be excluded from various public activities during the period of impurity . There in the use and further studies on potential health problems that may increase the is often a lack of knowledge and educational materials on menstruation and risks related to the use of the cup or other sanitary protection. menstrual health management, period products are often too expensive or inaccessible. 1 Lunette has carried out numerous projects in hard-to-reach-areas to Menstrual cups are not absorbent, do not irritate the vaginal mucosal tissue, and so address these perceptions and empower girls and women. do not change the vaginal flora in any measurable amount. Research indicates that the cup has no impact on the vaginal flora, or on the presence of Staphylococcus Menstrual cups are becoming a mainstream product in the western markets. aureus, the bacterium that can cause TSS. A randomized controlled trial carried Research has been conducted on the usability and acceptability of the cups in out in 2011 measured urovaginal infection in a comparison of menstrual cup the western context. For example, a randomized controlled trial in 2011 in Canada and tampon use, and found hardly any difference. No differences in the growth investigated whether menstrual cups are a viable alternative to tampons and 8 9 of S. aureus, or health harms were identified among school girls provided with Finnpartnership programme (ODA-funding). Below short summaries of project menstrual cups compared to those using sanitary pads or continuing their usual activities (2017-2019), for more information please see full separate report on these practice in rural western Kenya. 6,7 activities. Silicone has been widely used in medical science and reactive impacts of solid silicone products have been marginal. High quality silicone with no fillers used in the KIBERA (KENYA) fabrications is highly inert. Medical grade silicone is latex free and non-allergenic. However, standard silicones have reported to release infectious chemicals in some In Kibera slums The Cup Foundation in cooperation with Lunette has distributed conditions. Lunette emphasizes that it is crucial to use high quality medical grade thousands of cups to girls following The Cup Foundation’s unique, holistic training silicone in the production of menstrual cups in order to minimize any health risks. methodology of a comprehensive training curricula which tackles challenges underprivileged girls and boys face while growing up, including menstrual health The use of menstrual cups requires good hygiene and access to water. Proper hand management. The Cup Foundation’s training is based on a model where the trainers washing and cup rinsing as well as sterilizing through boiling is essential for share their life stories and experiences and are available for answering questions hygienic use. Access to water, especially clean water, may be difficult in developing and giving support also after the trainings. Also, research shows that peer support countries, which Lunette has taken into consideration and is a firm advocate for MHM is also an essential driver for the acceptability of the menstrual cup and creates training and sustainable WASH-solutions. solidarity and a sense of empowerment for girls and adolescents. In terms of environmental impact, the use of cups significantly decreases waste when compared to disposable pads and tampons. This saves environment as well as As part of our normal operations, in 2018-2019 Lunette continued to partner with sewage and water purification systems. MONKI (H&M). For each sold limited edition pink MONKI x Lunette x The Cup menstrual cup one cup is donated to The Cup Foundation for their work among schools in Kibera slums in Kenya. Since the beginning of the project over 15.000 cups have been donated. Lunette visited the project site in June 2019. Social responsibility: MWANZA PILOT AND OTHER ACTVITIES (TANZANIA) projects in developing Implemented with Fida International, and local partners (Pentecostal church of Tanzania) Lunette is piloting a comprehensive menstrual health management package in Mwanza, Tanzania, where local boys and girls receive training on puberty, countries and partnerships reproductive health, on menstrual health and on the usage of menstrual cup. Fida has identified male and female trainers within the community who have started a training-of-trainers (ToT) programme. The ToT is done by The Cup Foundation mentioned above. The female ToTs have already received a cup and an introduction Lunette has a strong vision of empowering people who menstruate, globally, and training on the usage. After the ToT, the training and cup distribution is expected breaking menstruation-related taboos. We have in 2018-2019 continued numerous to be rolled out in 82 rural schools. Currently indicators are designed to measure projects. We are continuously committed to a rights-based approach in low resource impact on school attendance and empowerment of girls and results will be settings, through engaging women and girls and all stakeholders in the activities thoroughly analyzed. So far, Menstrual Ambassadors have been trained apart from we carry out. We aim to improve menstrual health management, but in a holistic in Tanzania also in the Democratic Republic of Kongo, Uganda and Kenya. manner, looking at advocacy efforts and providing adapted training as well as products, to ensure impact. The Lunette Menstrual Cup accompanied with awareness The registration of the Lunette Cup in Tanzania was a long process and has raising and training can be a powerful tool for positive transformation in the lives of significantly delayed the start of the project, however, this was a crucial step to women and girls. We see it as our responsibility to act also in hard-to-reach areas and ensure compliance with local safety regulations. The Tanzanian Food and Drug among the most vulnerable and marginalized, where possible. Authority processed the application for product registration for over a year. In Tanzania, the registration of the cup was likely influenced by the fact that the During 2018-2019, we continued engaging in both the humanitarian and development product was brand new in the country and had no ready-made standard. The delay contexts. While we have produced a separate report of these activities, below a few might also have been caused by the stigma around menstrual health in Tanzania. examples of activities during 2018-2019, funded partially through development cooperation appropriations, through the Finnish government and the existing 10 11 However, the challenges of registration created opportunities for networking, For each sold limited edition pink MONKI x Lunette x The Cup and various consultation and expert sessions were organized with the Tanzanian Menstrual Cup one cup is donated menstrual hygiene management Task Force (UN, other international organizations, to The Cup Foundation for the the private sector and universities) to provide authorities with information on work in Kibera slums in Kenya. various aspects of menstrual products, including safe and hygienic use. The Task Force will continue to work together to establish official quality standards for menstrual cups, and to increase public debate on economically and ecologically sustainable menstrual products and taxation issues. The project can be said to have had a positive impact on opening discussion and a market for menstrual cups and sustainable sanitary products overall. On the other hand, it may be that Lunette has established a foothold for cheap copies that flow into the African continent and have also begun to be produced in various East African countries. However, it is difficult to provide a comprehensive assessment of the possible positive and negative long-term effects. Lunette has held a consultant on the ground in Tanzania to ensure active implementation of activities. KENYAN RED CROSS PILOT (KENYA) Kenyan red cross female staff and volunteers received a cup and an introductory training on the usage of the cup in 2018. After this initial trial and evaluation, the cup was to be introduced as part of the Red Cross WASH-shops in rural and urban areas. The WASH-shops are based in the communities that offer a variety of sanitation-related products. The customers were to be reached through social marketing done mostly by Red Cross volunteers, and the customers are offered affordable prizes and flexible payment conditions. This project didn’t materialize due to organizational changes at the Kenyan Red Cross. COLLABORATION WITH THE HIGHER EDUCATION COMMUNITY We have also engaged with students – we are convinced that university campuses have become powerful spaces for driving change in terms of discussing sustainability and the stigma around menstruation. In 2019 partnered with KUU Project, a group of Finnish university students to create a workshop for students at the University of Nairobi in which sexual and reproductive health and rights and sustainable menstruation were discussed. The cups were supported by the general public (fundraising by KUU Project) and the event itself by Finnish Embassy in Nairobi. 12 13 ENGAGING WITH THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM A We have continued engagement with various UN agencies, including UNICEF, UN WOMEN and UNFPA as well as UNHCR, related to gender equality, menstrual hygiene and sexual and reproductive health and rights and the right to water and sanitation. For instance, during Nairobi Innovation Week in 2019 we engaged in a UNFPA-led panel on sexual and reproductive health and rights. OTHER PARTNERSHIPS In April 2019 Lunette took part in a roundtable discussion organized by the Foreign Ministry on the theme of how to reach Agenda 2030 goals through partnerships between sectors. Partnerships have always been key to Lunette, in terms of B advocacy and awareness raising. In 2018-2019 we have engaged, among others, with the following partners and initiatives to reach girls and women all over the globe in the pursuit of positive impact and use of leverage: . Sustainable Period Project (Australia & New Zealand) – target is to provide a training pack containing different sustainable period products and training . material to every school in Australia and New Zealand,. Taboo crushing t-shirts (global) i: These limited edition t-shirts are handmade in Finland and were made to challenge taboos and inspire conversation surrounding menstruation, while Lunette donates 25% of proceeds to the following organizations: Thirst projects (USA); Planned Parenthood (USA); Project Consent (USA); Young Women’s Trust (UK); Fawcett Society (UK); Women’s Environmental Network (UK); Hope ry (Finland); Fida International (Finland) and Terre des . Femmes (Germany) Lang’ata Women Maximum Security Prison (Kenya): Cups donated to prisoners . through KUU Project. Rise of Broke Women (USA): Cups donated to homeless women in New York . through KUU Project. ShadeShares (Kenya & Finland): collaboration with a sunglass company, part of proceedings donated to charities in Kenya and Finland to Hope ry. C A. SRHR and sustainable MHM workshop organized for students at the University of Nairobi by KUU Project together with Lunette. B. Lunette’s COO Sonja Karjalainen attending UNFPA-led panel discussion during Nairobi Innovation Week in June 2019 i More information: https://www.lunette.com/products/limited-editionC. Lunette limited edition t-shirts challenging taboos and inspiring conversation surrounding taboo-crushing-t-shirt?_pos=1&_sid=047e7c69e&_ss=r menstruation, while Lunette donates 25% of proceeds donated to NGOs 14 15 ACTIONS AND RESULTS Commitment: Lunette respects and sees as paramount the protection of all IMPLEMENTING THE internationally recognized human rights and is fully committed to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We are conscious of our own UN Global responsibilities as part of our own operations and towards our staff and consumers and any of the communities we are active in. While we carry out small scale due diligence assessments, internally and of our suppliers and partners, to prevent adverse human rights impact, but we are aware that much more needs to be done. Compact princibles As an SME our resources are very limited in this regard, and to date we have no staff dedicated to human rights issues. The assessment of human rights impacts is an ongoing process at Lunette. We monitor the realization of human rights in many ways, including audits of suppliers and certifications of risk raw materials. Ensuring the safety of products and outlets is part of our daily work. Our critical suppliers are expected to protect human rights, placing great importance to complying with human rights and fair business practices. They are further expected to follow the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Core Labor Standards and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Human rights With strong focus on improving sexual and reproductive health and rights nationally and globally, we have adopted and are following a human rights-based approach as part of all of our project interventions in developing countries, in line with the UN Guiding Principles. Among the most salient potential human rights PRINCIPLE 1 risks, we have identified issues in terms of the right to health, especially in junction with use of the cup in unhygienic settings. In addition to ensuring that we are mitigating risks, we focus our efforts on where we can have positive efforts and Business should support and respect have for instance engaged in significant advocacy efforts in terms of sexual and reproductive health and rights. We have also ensued partnerships that could be the protection of internaionally critical for us in light of ensuring that we achieve maximum positive impact in this regard, and have collaborated with governments, UN organizations, international proclaimed human rights NGOs, local NGOs, universities, private sector to increase our leverage where possible. Lunette has also engaged on various platforms advocating for the rights of women and girls, such as panel-attendance at the UN General Assembly high-level PRINCIPLE 2 breakfast discussing economic empowerment of women in 2017, World Water Week 2018 in Stockholm, the Case for Her and others. Joining the United Nations Global Compact initiative comprised another important step. By joining the UN Global Business should ensure that they are Compact we want to signal to other stakeholders that we take our commitment to human rights seriously. We have also joined the global WASH in Schools-network in not complicit in human rights abuses late 2017 and the Finnish Water Forum in 2017, to ensure that we are part of relevant networks and can meaningfully engage for maximum positive impact for people. Further, we have engaged on innovation platforms, such as OpenIdeo, to contribute to a global discussion on innovation and human centered design. 16 17 ACTIVITIES 2018-2019: . Advocating for sexual and reproductive health and rights such as through . Implementation of robust Quality Management System (QMS) (November 2018 . UNFPA-led panel discussion Nairobi Innovation Week (June 2019) T-shirt campaign aiming to challenge menstrual taboos and empower with part . May 2019) FDA’s (USA) routine inspection with good results about Lunette’s procedures to . of proceedings supporting civil society organisations (2018-2019). Training on SRHR and sustainable period hygiene was provided for university manage issues around health and safety of the product, including the robust undergraduate students in Kenya during Nairobi Innovation Week together complaint handling process, and knowledgeable customer service (Menstrual with KUU Project representative through the support of the Finnish Embassy in . Mentors) responding to any questions by consumers (June 2019). Annual audits for critical supplier and supplier self-evaluations on quality, Nairobi (June 2019). . sustainability and human right (2019) Joining the #Ykkösketjuun –campaign in 2018, advocating publically for mandatory human rights due diligence in Finland. Lunette spoke publically MONITORING PROGRESS 2019-2020: in favour of legislation as part of the campaign and attended round table discussions with MPs and MEPs about the subject.ii The new Finnish . We continue to place high value on the quality and safety of the materials government, elected in spring 2019, committed in its Government Programme used. We also continue with research initiatives, to continue monitoring issues . to making a review with the view to establishing mandatory human rights due diligence legislation nationally.iii . related to health and safety, and influencing the SRHR discourse globally. Using leverage with other Finnish companies speaking publically in favor Lunette’s representative attended training on the UN Guiding Principles on of mandatory due diligence and corporate accountability as part of the . Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) organized by Shift and the Finnish Government in Helsinki (March 2019) . #Ykkösketjuun campaign. Increased attention on development of internal due diligence processes. In Provision of access to labour for the most vulnerable, through continued focus terms of our suppliers, distributors and partnerships we will continue site-visits on disability programme supporting employment and employability of disabled and continue monitoring respect for human rights issues among the suppliers, persons, through our packaging operations and relevant partnership enabling through better documentation and improved audit processes. Annual audits . such efforts. Continued Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) as part of our projects . and internal audit ensure the implementation of policies. Continue to choose strategic partnerships for the activities we carry out and in developing countries, through support of consultants (3 consultants in events and networks we engage in, to accelerate positive human rights impact, . 2018-2019). including in developing contexts, such as Tanzania. Co-funding a research project in Tanzania on the relationship between the use . of the menstrual cup and women’s economic empowerment (as of June 2019). Lunette sponsored the Society for Menstrual Cycle Research covering aspects on research, public policy, healthcare, clinical applications and activism (USA, . June 2019) Through our partners we have provided training to vulnerable girls and women in developing countries, including on sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR Trainings 2018-2019, see section on projects in developing countries). ii #Ykkösketjuun* was a unique joint campaign by citizens, civil society organisations, companies and trade unions, coordinated by Finnwatch, an organisation promoting corporate accountability. The campaign was calling for a Finnish law on mandatory human rights due diligence. The law, based on the UN Guiding principles on business and human rights, would oblige companies to map their human rights impacts and to prevent possible negative impacts. iii News extract: https://finnwatch.org/fi/uutiset/628-finnwatch-riemuitsee-hallitusohjelmasta:suomeen-saeaedetaeaen-yritysvastuulaki 18 19 ACTIONS AND RESULTS Commitment: As an SME Lunette employs most of its staff directly in Finland, while few are employed elsewhere (mainly USA). Lunette commits to the elimination Labour rights of any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation inside and outside the company, the same standards are expected of our suppliers. Lunette proclaims responsibility for equal employment opportunity. The company is also committed to employee welfare and sustainable employment. We strive to provide an interesting, attractive, and involving workplace for all employees. Our employees PRINCIPLE 3 will be at liberty to progress in their job and develop. We focus on a staff policy with emphasis a healthy working environment, which is safe and offers opportunity to thrive. We want to ensure the right of workers to join trade unions and do not Uphold the freedom of association tolerate discrimination and harassment. We want to ensure all workers have access to a safe, healthy working environment. We are ensuring and recording that and the effective recognition of the all employees, as well as contracted temporary staff, involved in various projects are paid a competitive wage, and avoid excessive overtime hours. Finally, we offer right to collective bargaining; working conditions that comply with the law, relevant ILO standards and the standards of the UN Global Compact. PRINCIPLE 4 ACTIVITIES 2018-2019: . Lunette fully respects labour rights and has committed to a non-discrimination Support the elimination of all forms policy, and continues to follow these principles in all its operations. These principles were also employed when staff were contracted in Kenya (Feb-Jun of forced and compulsory labour; . 2019) Monitoring and improving our own operations , including through staff . satisfaction sessions Implementing projects that use the rights of girls and women as a point of PRINCIPLE 5 reference, and stress the right to livelihood, particularly in rural areas in least Support the effective abolition of . developed countries. (See section on projects, 2018-2019). Advocating for the right to decent work and economic empowerment for women in developing country contexts, through various platforms, events and fora, including World Water Week with AfriPads (Stockholm August 2018) and Women child labour; Deliver (Canada June 2019). MONITORING PROGRESS 2019-2020: PRINCIPLE 6 . . We will continue developing our internal policies and measure staff satisfaction. We will continue improve occupational health and wellbeing for our staff and Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. . measure impact and satisfaction levels through an ongoing survey. We will continue and deepen collaboration with a selected packaging center to ensure fair and meaningful employment opportunities for vulnerable . populations, including people with disabilities. Continue developing possibility for flexibility in terms and conditions of employment conditions (such as working hours, location) 20 21 monitoring of and optimising the positive impact of our business operations and considering options for minimizing harmful environmental impact. Lunette is taking the importance of climate action seriously and is aiming to reduce travel Environment wherever possible. ACTIVITIES 2018-2019: PRINCIPLE 7 . The packaging of our menstrual cup is 100% recyclable with environmentallyfriendly window made of wood pulp / cellulose. The Lunette Menstrual Cup, Feelbetter Cup Cleanser and Cupwipes are registered with The Vegan Society. The Cupwipes decompose within 6 weeks in a compost environment. We have Support a precautionary approach to continued to assess our packaging to use the most environmentally friendly environmental challenges; . materials available. Carried out environmental audit of critical supplier, with a view to look to . assess and reduce negative impacts on the environment (finalized in 2018). Developed training materials, to enhance awareness of the environmental PRINCIPLE 8 . benefits of the menstrual cup (2018-2019) Member of the Finnish Water Forum, to ensure we are more actively part of an environmentally aware business community, advocating for environmentally Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; . friendly solutions (since 2018) Advocating for sustainable menstrual health management at global events such as World Water Week 2018, and engaged on the ground in East Africa to raise awareness about environmental benefits of sustainable MHM solutions (consultant in Kenya, Tanzania, 2019) as well as in social media (various PRINCIPLE 9 . campaigns). Minimizing travel and flights in view of seeking climate friendly solutions as a company. Encourage the development and MONITORING PROGRESS 2019-2020: diffusion of environmentally friendly . As part of our ongoing sustainability efforts, we’ll begin replacing the cup technologies. . pouches with more environmentally-friendly ones made out of recycled plastic. We will continue monitoring the environmental and climate performance in our own operations and that of our suppliers, as well as gather more systematically . data on the environmental benefits of the menstrual cup. We also commit to raise awareness about the environmental benefits of cup use over disposable and other reusable menstrual health management solutions, especially through increased efforts in social media and wide-reaching ACTIONS AND RESULTS Commitment: Lunette’s core product, the Lunette Menstrual Cup, reduces the . channels. We will take part in Store of Hope’s (producing sustainable clothing) campaign to increase sustainable menstrual product availability in Nepal. In addition, we carbon footprint of menstrual health management to a minimum, as a sustainable will support various events with the objective to increasing awareness about option of menstrual health management. We encourage sustainable processes sustainable and environmentally friendly consumption solutions. and consistently discuss environmental challenges with other stakeholders. We focus on saving energy and reducing consumption of materials by aiming to ensure 22 23 . . MONITORING PROGRESS: . Continue developing a public anti-corruption commitment Written expectation of anti-corruption commitments of contractors Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Sources 1 African Population and Health Research Center (APHRC). Attitudes Towards and Acceptability of Menstrual Cups as a Method for Managing Menstruation: Experiences of Women and Schoolgirls in Nairobi, Kenya. Policy Brief No. 21. Nairobi: APHRC; November 2010 2 Howard C, Rose CL, Trouton K, et al. (2011) FLOW (finding lasting options for women): multicentre randomized controlled trial comparing tampons with menstrual cups. Can Fam Physician 2011;57:e208–15. 3 Mason, Linda & Laserson, Kayla & Oruko, Kelvin & Nyothach, Elizabeth & Alexander, Kelly & Odhiambo, Frank & Eleveld, Alie & Isiye, Emily & Ngere, Isaac & Omoto, Jackton & Mohammed, Aisha & Vulule, John & ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS Phillips-Howard, Penelope. (2015). Adolescent schoolgirls’ experiences of menstrual cups and pads in rural western Kenya: A qualitative study. Waterlines. 34. Commitment: When it comes to our own business practices, we oppose any form of 4 Anna van Eijk, Garazi Zulaika, Madeline Lenchner, Linda Mason, Muthusama Sivakami and Elizabeth corruption, including blackmail and bribery. We conduct our commercial activities Nyothach (2019) “Menstrual cup use, leakage, acceptability, safety and availability: a systematic review and in accordance with international, national and local laws and regulations relevant to meta-analysis” Lancet Public Health our business. Lunette believe that transparency and efforts for anti-corruption is the only way forward for a better economy and better societies. 5 MARIA HYTTEL, CAMILLA FALDT THOMSEN, BIANCA LUFF, HALVOR STORRUSTEN, VIOLA NILAH NYAKATO, and MARIANNE TELLIER, (2017) Drivers and challenges to use of menstrual cups among schoolgirls in rural Uganda: a qualitative study , WATERLINES ACTIVITIES: 6 Juma et all*, (2017) Examining the safety of menstrual cups among rural primary school girls in western . Lunette strives for transparency in our commercial decisions and practices. Kenya, BMJ open 7 Phillips-Howard, et al (2016) Menstrual cups and sanitary pads to reduce school attrition, and sexually We expect that our employees and any distributors abide by the law and transmitted and reproductive tract infections: a cluster randomised controlled feasibility study in rural . corresponding national legislation in the countries in which we operate. As part of all our registration procedures we have taken steps to ensure no Western Kenya. BMJ Open. . corrupt practices take place during any part of the process (2018-2019). As part of our efforts in developing contexts we are cooperating with NGOs and partners (Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda) and indirectly have sought to strengthen capacity on good governance (2018-2019). 24 25 26
