Sustainability Report 2018 NKT A/S | Vibeholms Allé 20, DK-2605 Brøndby | Company Reg: 6272 5214 | nkt.com Contents 05 Letter of commitment 06 Description of business model 08 Sustainable Development Goals 2018 10 Ethics and compliance 12 Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair competition 15 Environment, energy and climate 18 Human and labour rights 21 Vendors and business partners 23 Target overview UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption. NKT is signatory to the UN Global Compact and this report provides Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. LETTER OF COMMITMENT “At NKT, we are proud to play an active role in the global transition towards renewable energy sources as our power cable solutions are the backbone of the power grids bringing renewable power to life.” Letter of commitment The global demand for energy is changing, with a We are committed to supporting the global transition constantly growing focus on powering the world with towards renewable energy based on rules for renewable energy. At NKT, we are proud to play an responsible and ethical behaviour defined in our active role in the global transition towards renewable Business Code of Conduct. Furthermore, our energy sources as our power cable solutions are ambition is to conduct our business in accordance the backbone of the power grids that are bringing with the relevant United Nations Sustainable renewable power to life. Development Goals (SDGs) that express the most important global challenges. In 2018, we finalized the power cable systems for several major offshore wind projects, contributing to Our continuing commitment to the UN Global significant reductions in CO² emissions. Furthermore, Compact strengthens our focus on responsible and we continued to strengthen our safety culture and to ethical operation while maintaining our business pledge build responsible business processes in line with the of bringing power to life sustainably. The principles principles of the UN Global Compact. We continue of the UN Global Compact are the foundation for to believe that a diverse culture driven by engaged expanding the awareness of sustainability throughout employees is a key enabler, and promote diversity our organization and among external stakeholders. and equality across the organization. Roland M. Andersen Interim CEO and CFO 04 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 05 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS MODEL DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS MODEL Description of business model NKT brings power to life by designing, manufacturing and marketing power cables for low-, mediumand high-voltage solutions. We operate globally with a stronghold in Europe and occupy a leading position in the offshore wind industry. NKT operates in three main business lines: HighThis is reflected in our current strategy plan, voltage cable solutions, lowand medium-voltage EXCELLENCE 2020, which is our roadmap for cables, as well as cable accessories and service success and has three key targets: Customer operations. We are also a key player in niche markets satisfaction >50% (Net Promoter Score), Employee such as telecom power cables. With view to focusing Engagement Index >80 and Return on Capital on our core business of power cables, services and Employed >13%. accessories, our activities relating to catenary cables for the railway industry were divested in 2018 with We operate nine manufacturing sites in Europe financial close 1 February 2019. supplying customers all over the world. With strong positions in several markets across our portfolio we have a clear ambition to continuously improve and become the best power cable company in the eyes of our customers and our people. NKT has strong market positions across the portfolio High-voltage Lowand medium-voltage Service and accessories 9 Manufacturing sites ~3,400 Solutions Applications Service & Accessories This business line includes highThis business line offers This business line focuses on voltage power cable solutions. customers a broad range of asset management services for NKT provides a broad range of lowand medium-voltage power onshore and offshore power solutions available for onshore cables. NKT markets high cables. In addition, a full portfolio Employees and offshore purposes and can quality products that conform of power cable accessories is supply both AC and DC power to regulatory requirements for offered across mediumand highcables. With its cable-laying flame-retardant material and has voltage categories. 1,435m vessel, NKT Victoria, NKT can developed ergonomic solutions. offer customers end-to-end Telecom power cables are also turnkey solutions including full developed and marketed. installation services. Revenue, EUR 06 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 07 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2018 Sustainable Development Goals 2018 The UN Sustainable Very high Impact High Impact Development Goals (SDGs) define the greatest sustainability challenges globally and provide guidelines for the necessary actions. At NKT, we are committed to 7. Affordable and clean energy 9. Industry, innovation 13. Climate action 8. Decent work and 12. Responsible consumption running our business in NKT designs, manufactures and and infrastructure As a front-end partner and cable solutions economic growth and production a way that contributes to installs power cables that constitute the NKT is actively supporting the provider for the global power grids, NKT Providing a safe working environment NKT continuously focuses on minimizing a number of the targets. backbone of the global power grid. We development of the infrastructure needed is supporting the transition to renewable for all employees is a NKT priority. the environmental impact of its activities link countries through interconnector to bring power to industries, cities and energy. Maintaining and building the Safety is one of our core values, and through reduced consumption of energy The goals and underlying systems, and we have extensive societies all over the world. We provide infrastructure needed to integrate and we strive continuously to strengthen our and natural resources. We strive to targets with the most experience in connecting offshore wind the cable technology and expertise distribute renewable energy to the power safety culture at all company levels. We maintain high material utilization, and we significant impact for parks to the onshore power grid, thus needed to exchange energy across grids is paramount for mitigating climate participate in industry initiatives, operate operate one of the very few specialist NKT are set out below. integrating renewable energy into the borders, and at a global level we have change, decreasing global carbon within international standards, respect and recycling plants for power cables, global energy mix. The integration of installed city cables for grid operators emissions, and reaching energy targets comply with local labour laws, and support which ensures re-use of materials and More information on how affordable and clean energy is essential providing the infrastructure supporting a nationally and internationally. In the freedom of association. All our employees sustainable disposal of non-recycling we work to support the for mitigating climate change by reducing modern lifestyle. performance of these activities we strive are engaged on contracts which adhere components. Furthermore, we design SDGs is provided across carbon emissions and supports many of to do business ethically, responsibly and to local laws and regulations. Furthermore, our products with focus on sustainability this report and in the the legislative goals of renewable energy sustainably. health and safety compliance is embedded and recycling. All our production sites both at national and international level. in our qualification process for vendors and are certified according to ISO 14001, target overview on business partners to ensure that we work the international standard that specifies page 23. only with companies which have a safe requirements for effective environmental working environment. management. Moderate Impact 5. Gender equity 14. Life below water 15. Life on land 16. Peace, Justice process for vendors and business NKT believes that a diverse organization NKT has extensive experience operating NKT plans and manages its onshore and strong institutions partners, and we are an active member of provides the best foundation for in the offshore industry and strives to operations with focus on preserving the NKT is committed to responsible several organizations working to ensure developing the competencies needed to protect aquatic biodiversity and wildlife environment and minimizing impact on business practices and refrains from sustainable and fair conditions in the generate the company’s targeted financial when installing and laying cables. We nature and wildlife. We have processes all forms of bribery, fraud or corruption. industry. We have a compliance program results. We are committed to providing safeguard the seabed during trenching in place to monitor our environmental This is described in our Business Code in place, which also operates a corporate equal opportunity to our employees, and cable burial, maintain a safe footprint and mitigate the risks of of Conduct, which establishes the whistle-blower hotline, where both and we will not tolerate discrimination distance from wildlife during offshore environmental incidents. fundamental principles and rules of employees and external stakeholders or harassment based on race, religion, operations and have experience from behaviour for all NKT employees. Antican report any misconduct or concerns gender or other factors. several operations in high-risk marine bribery and principles of fair competition anonymously. environments. similarly form part of our assessment 08 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 09 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Ethics and compliance A global mindset and responsible business conduct are key to NKT and we are committed to promote ethical behaviour across the company. NKT operates in an increasingly complex regulatory Data privacy Related SDGs and global environment in which ensuring compliance During the past year we have made significant is a fundamental challenge. We are continuously progress in our efforts to ensure data privacy improving our approach to compliance, adding compliance under the General Data Protection GDPR to the areas of responsibility. Regulation (GDPR). A strong baseline is in place with a new data privacy policy and procedures, and online We are compliant with applicable laws, regulations e-learning for all employees. All high-risk areas have and international standards, we strive to meet undergone assessment and action plans have been stakeholder expectations, and we are constantly formulated to address these risks. Several technical building a strong compliance mindset throughout and organizational measures have been implemented our organization. in the company, including a new IT system in HR and supporting IT processes. Business Code of Conduct The NKT Business Code of Conduct is essential to Responsible tax our compliance approach. It defines the fundamental NKT is a responsible taxpayer and we base our principles and rules governing the behaviour of all our tax reporting on responsibility, openness and employees in relation to vendors, business partners transparency in all aspects of tax related reporting and the public. The Business Code of Conduct and compliance, wherever the company and its defines how we do business across our organization subsidiaries operate. We are committed to work and includes policies covering aspects such as with relevant stakeholders to drive transparency business integrity, anti-corruption, environment, and the development of efficient tax systems energy and climate, fair competition, human and aim to follow recommendations of Good and labour rights, information security, product Governance on tax affairs in the countries in which compliance and quality, compliance management, the subsidiaries of NKT A/S are located. NKT A/S and reporting of misconduct. does not operate in tax havens and any future operations in tax havens will be of purely commercial Governance reasons. Our commitment to responsible tax is In 2018 a new Ethics & Compliance Committee was particularly supporting SDG target #16.6 focusing established. Headed by the Compliance Officer and on the development of effective, accountable and with participation from the CEO, CIO, CHRO, General transparent institutions at all levels. Counsel, a Business Line representative, and Risk Management & Compliance. The committee meets Goals and actions 2018 Outcome Status SDGs quarterly and is responsible for developing and implementing our Ethics & Compliance strategy Develop programme to ensure GDPR Data privacy policy developed and planned for 2019. compliance company-wide training completed √ 16.10 Future plans, goals and actions Target SDGs Strengthen our ethics and compliance Develop and implement Ethics & 16.6 approach Compliance strategy 10 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION, ANTI-BRIBERY AND FAIR COMPETITION ANTI-CORRUPTION, ANTI-BRIBERY AND FAIR COMPETITION Anti-corruption, anti-bribery and fair competition NKT refrains from and opposes all forms of bribery and corruption and abides by the rules of fair competition. We have a clear policy covering these areas which is implemented and communicated company-wide through our Business Code of Conduct. In the Business Code of Conduct we clearly state that Appeal filed against fine Related SDGs when doing business, no employee may directly or for anti-trust behaviour indirectly offer, give or take money or anything else of In July 2018 the European Court of Justice confirmed value to obtain an improper advantage. Furthermore, the imposition of a fine of EUR 4m on NKT following we explicitly distance ourselves from participation in the investigation conducted by the European unfair trading or illegal anti-trust activities. Commission into alleged price-fixing on high-voltage power cable projects. Regardless of the outcome of Key risks the appeal filed, reinforcing our commitment to fair Our principal exposure in regard to corruption and competition by updating and implementing specific bribery relates to interaction with external vendors, guidelines on anti-trust behaviour will be a strategic suppliers and business partners in connection with priority for NKT in 2019². Throughout 2018, we tenders and business agreements. We strive to have prepared the reinforcement of our anti-trust minimize this exposure both internally and externally. guidelines and are ready to launch and implement in 2019. Anti-corruption is an integral part of our Business Code of Conduct training provided to employees. It also forms part of our business contracts and our Business Code of Conduct for External Vendors & Business Partners, with which we expect full compliance from the parties involved. Goals and actions 2018 Outcome Status SDGs As part of our Business Code of Conduct, NKT Develop and implement an extended Anti-corruption programme for vendors operates a whistle-blower hotline that can be used anti-corruption programme targeting and business partners developed and √ 16.5 by both employees and external stakeholders to high-risk business areas/employees implemented report unethical behaviour. In 2018, all such reports received were acted upon in accordance with Update and implement specific guidelines on anti-trust behaviour Target is deferred to 2019 ÷ 16.5 established procedures. Future goals and actions Targets SDGs Update and implement specific guidelines on Ensure relevant employees are adequately anti-trust behaviour trained 16.5 Update, implement and internally communicate specific guidelines on anti-trust behaviour 2 Find more information about the case in Note 8.4 in the Annual Report 2018. 12 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 13 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE Environment, energy and climate As a key player in the global transition towards renewable energy NKT is committed to minimizing its environmental impact through sustainable business practices and operations. NKT is committed to developing a long-term During 2018, our activities were impacted by Related SDGs sustainable business by continuously reducing its several occurrences of extreme weather conditions environmental footprint. Our products are designed, that influenced our ability to transport goods and manufactured and installed with careful consideration execute orders for our customers. In Germany, we for the environment, utilization of natural resources were significantly impacted by exceptionally low and energy consumption. We expect all employees water levels in the Rhein, which for a time made it to comply with the principles in our Quality, Health, impossible to ship goods from our manufacturing site Safety and Environment (QHSE) Policy and to act in Cologne. In Sweden, our operations were affected with respect for the environment as stated in our by a very cold winter with a lot of snow followed by Business Code of Conduct. the extremely hot summer driving a higher need of cooling in our manufacturing processes and premises. The hot and dry weather also prevented Key risks and restricted the possibilities of power cable installation in Sweden preventing us from executing Our principal environmental exposure relates to orders. the handling and use of chemicals, consumption of energy arising from manufacture of cables and Environmental Management Systems accessories, and consumption of fuel for cable All NKT manufacturing sites operate under an installations and transport of goods. ISO14001-certified environmental management system. In 2018, system certification was renewed To mitigate this exposure, we have established after a third-party audit confirmed continued a clear-cut QHSE policy as well as processes compliance. To abide by local laws and regulations, for ensuring compliance with internal guidelines our manufacturing sites also passed annual thirdand external regulations. In 2018 we initiated the party audits that complement our internal monitoring implementation of a company-wide incident reporting of regulatory changes locally. system, TIA, covering incidents within health, safety and environment. The TIA system will strengthen our reporting process, ensure the necessary Energy efficiency transparency for efficient action, strengthen decisionmaking and provide improved documentation for 2018 saw an increase in energy efficiency measured future mitigation and prevention. We expect the in kWh/tonne cables produced. This was due to system to be fully implemented in 2019. increased cable output, implementation of various initiatives inclduing upgraded lighting and improved To continuously track and minimize our manufacturing processes as well as implemented environmental footprint we operate with a clear actions based on improved reporting and KPI framework that includes monthly follow-up measurements. The new energy efficiency indicators procedures for analysis of data. for our high-voltage cable production sites referred to in last year’s report have still to be established. 14 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 15 ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY AND CLIMATE In the course of 2018 we completed a series of activities, we see 2018 as a baseline year for our initiatives designed to enhance energy efficiency energy and water consumption. across the company. These included new lighting, optimized manufacturing processes and improved In 2019, our primarily focus is to reinforce and align material recycling. our corporate reporting processes for environmental incidents and to streamline our reporting and Compared to last year, we have seen our water measurement processes company-wide. The consumption in 2018 increase. This was due to purpose is to strengthen transparency and deliver the integration of the manufacturing sites included the documentation needed to drive further actions in the acquisition of ABB HV Cables in 2017 and to reduce environmental impact. In 2018, we have the exceptionally hot European summer which established an Environmental Council to strengthen necessitated extra usage for cooling. The water knowledge sharing and ensure that we leverage best consumption profile is under evaluation with a view practices across the organization to stimulate further to future reduction. energy efficiency and minimize environmental footprint. As stated in the Introduction to this report, the CO₂ emissions results for 2018 ³ include data for the sites being part In 2018, the direct CO² emissions from our fuel of the acquisition of ABB HV Cables. This makes it difficult to compare energy and water usage with previous years. As expected, our total energy usage, including operation of the cable laying vessel NKT Victoria, and gas usage amounted to 14,344 tonnes. The indirect CO² emissions from NKT Recycling Centre consumption increased due to the integration of two usage of purchased electricity and district heating, new manufacturing sites and the operations of our corporate travel and outsourced transport of goods NKT operates one of the only facilities in the world specialized in the recycling cable-laying vessel NKT Victoria. Despite being the amounted to 66,352 tonnes making the total amount of scrap from the power cable industry. Each year, this plant processes large most energy-efficient ship of its type in the market, 80,696 tonnes. The calculations are made using the quantities of cable scrap originating both from our own production sites and from NKT Victoria naturally has an impact in fuel terms. 2010 – 2016 emission factors from the International customers. The quantities are steadily increasing, reflecting society’s growing With the impact of the integration of the acquired Energy Agency. focus on the re-use of scarce resources. Located in Stenlille, Denmark, the NKT Recycling Centre plays a key part in our ambition to limit environmental footprint. Recycled cable scrap, tonnes Goals and actions 2018 Outcome Status SDGs 2016 2017 2018 Improve energy efficiency in kWh/tonne by 2% 512 kWh/tonne compared to 2017 (target 581 kWh/tonne) √ 7.3 Reduce water consumption by 2% compared to 2017 (target 86,334 m³) 106,428 m³ ÷ 6.4 Total weight of processed cable Recycled PEX 2,012 514 Increase material utilization by 0.2%-points compared to 2017 (target 97.2%) 96.9% ÷ 12.5 2,365 652 2,439 676 Future plans, goals and actions Targets SDGs Total weight of cable received from customers Recycled PVC Improve measurement processes for Align and update processes 12.6 energy consumption company-wide 118 101 Improve existing water measurement Align and update processes 175 130 12.6 processes company-wide 160 135 Increase material utilization compared ≥96.9% 12.5 with 2018 (96.9%) Recycled copper Received halogen-free retardants Strengthen focus on energy efficiency Develop Group Energy 12.6 Efficiency Programme 754 44 Strengthen focus on reporting of environmental Implement process for Environmental 1.205 40 12.6 incidents Impact Accidents 1,176 58 Strengthen focus on evaluation of Implement company-wide process for 12.6 environmental factors Environmental Aspect Evaluation Recycled aluminium 461 539 575 3 A full reporting year of energy data runs from October till October. 16 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 17 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Human and labour rights A healthy, safe, secure and diverse working environment is fundamental to the continued growth of NKT, and we consider our people key to successful company relations. As stated in our Business Code of Conduct, NKT is Safety at the heart Related SDGs committed to delivering a working environment based of our corporate culture on respect, employee engagement and safety. To With the implementation of our company-wide honour this policy, appropriate systems and processes TIA system, we are strengthening our reporting, have been introduced with specific targets in the analysis and data collection on a global scale, above key areas, including leadership development. ensuring increased transparency. The system is designed for reporting accidents, incidents and risk Key risks observations within health, safety and environment. Our principal exposure in the area of human and The implementation will enable us to better design labour rights relates to threats to employee safety and focus our improvements and mitigations. To in the form of occupational injuries and accidents. improve our processes, monitor our progress To mitigate this exposure we have clear processes and build a strong corporate safety culture, with and policies in place. Safety is a key priority and the overall ambition of eliminating accidents, we we are continuously monitoring and improving also operate in accordance with OHSAS 18001, a standards across our organization. We have also management system standard for occupational health established an improved procurement process for and safety. However, we are currently working on a vendors and business partners to strengthen our global implementation of the new Health & Safety supplier assessment in areas such as human rights Management standard ISO 45001 and expect the and diversity. Exposure to forced and child labour upgrade to be finalized and certified companywide is not considered material as we mainly operate in during 2021. low-risk countries. A key element in risk prevention is our whistle-blower hotline, which is open to both In 2018, we have seen positive results from the focus employees and external partners. on strengthening our safety culture. Over the year Diversity and equality inclusion in our leadership training and made sure more than 1,620 unsafe situations were recorded NKT is committed to promote more equal gender that all internal and external recruiters include a Human and labour rights and eliminated, and our Lost Time Severity Rate 4 representation in the workplace. In 2018, we updated diverse set of candidates when recruiting. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, NKT decreased by 9% on 2017. We also registered a 30% our policy on diversity and equality to underline our is committed to conforming to all aspects of the reduction in our Lost Time Accident Rate 5. commitment to providing equal opportunity to all The senior leadership level at NKT is defined as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect employees and our refusal to tolerate discrimination Extended Leadership Team, including members of and abide by local labour law, we support freedom To initiate and drive employee engagement, develop or harassment of any kind. the executive Group Leadership Team, and consists 6 of association, and all our employees have contracts risk awareness and build a safety-focused mindset of a total of 58 persons comprising eight nationalities. complying with local laws and regulations. we expect to be approved for the global Safety We strive to promote diversity, and we firmly Culture Ladder programme in 2019. This will provide believe that a diverse organization provides the The age distribution is fairly even with the majority in At our factories we are currently implementing systems, a framework to create safer working conditions and best foundation for developing the competencies the 40–55 age group. In the Extended Leadership processes and procedures that conform to SA 8000, encourage safety awareness with the overall goal to needed to deliver the targeted financial performance. Team 17% of leaders are female which is an the international standard on social accountability and reduce the number of unsafe situations and safety Included in our diversity policy are specific actions improvement from last year. In the Group Leadership fair treatment of workers across industries. We expect incidents. that support our work to ensure a more balanced Team female members count for 29%. the implementation to be concluded in 2019. gender composition at senior leadership level. We have amongst other things included diversity and 4 Lost Time Severity Rate describes the average number of lost work days experienced on the Lost Time Accidents that occurred during 2018. 5 Lost Time Accident Rate is a standardized way to measure and compare accident frequency in organizations. 6 As of 31 Decemeber 2018. 18 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 19 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS Engaged, committed employees NKT considers a diverse culture driven by engaged employees to be a key enabler, and employee Reporting according to UK Modern Slavery Act Vendors and business partners engagement is a central part of our strategy, Our Human & Labour Rights policy clearly states EXCELLENCE 2020. that we reject any form of forced labour and do not condone the hiring of child labour. At NKT, Each year, an employee engagement survey is employees have employment contracts, they are conducted to track progress towards our strategic educated in our Business Code of Conduct including target of an Employee Engagement Index above our Human & Labour Rights policy, and they are At NKT, we expect and require our major business partners 80. In 2018, we observed a slight decrease in the committed to continuously identifying and eliminating to fully comply with all applicable laws, regulations and index compared to 2017 and leaders at all levels potential violations. international requirements, as well as our Global Policy for are to establish actions to address and turn this Third Party Compliance and our Business Code of Conduct development. NKT business partners are expected to comply with the principles of our Global Third Party Compliance for Vendors & Business Partners. We believe that strong employee engagement is Policy and our Code of Conduct for Vendors & closely linked to high-quality leadership. In 2019, Business Partners, in which our Human & Labour focus will be on anchoring our investments in Rights Policy for Suppliers is also an integral part. leadership development and on continued training In 2018 we strengthened our supplier qualification of all new leaders. process to ensure transparency of compliance with both these instruments. As we are constantly seeking to improve Going forward, all new vendors who are part of Related SDGs transparency in our vendor network, we have sourcing projects and have a baseline spend greater concluded the implementation of a cloud-based than EUR 50,000 will also follow the procedure. procurement system with global reach that covers Vendors who do not meet the above thresholds all our suppliers and vendors. The system will will be subject to ad-hoc compliance checks to Goals and actions 2018 Outcome Status SDGs strengthen transparency in the vendor value chain, ensure fulfilment with the requirements established Increase Employee Engagement Index for 2018 (> 63) 61 ÷ 8.5 enabling us to monitor compliance with sustainability in the above Global Policy and the Business Code and legal requirements in areas such as human of Conduct. All shortlisted vendors will undergo All relevant leaders in the targeted group to complete The expected leaders have the Leadership Pipeline programme completed the programme √ 8.5 rights and anti-corruption. Furthermore, it will a mandatory qualification procedure in the form ensure overall compliance with the Global Policy of an assessment questionnaire covering our Start a Leadership Programme dedicated to front-end Programme launched and the Business Code of Conduct in the vendor key requirement areas. Suppliers, vendors and leaders at our manufacturing sites √ 8.5 value chain. This global facility significantly reduces business partners will undergo a re-registration and Create leadership programme for leaders of Programme launched the risk of interaction with vendors not complying qualification process every second year. decentralized teams √ 8.5 with established policies, rules and regulations. Ensure full use of the People Performance Implemented company-wide Furthermore, we have embarked on a process of Activities relating to our assessment, qualification Management system √ 8.5 identifying high risk vendors and suppliers and and evaluation process include self-assessment conducting due diligence on the parties concerned. questionnaires, interviews, desktop reviews, audits Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours > 3,200 1,620 ÷ 8.8 and/or other relevant measures. Vendor qualification Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate compared with 0.53 2017 (0.76) √ 8.8 As part of our procurement process, we now operate New procurement policy vendor registration and qualification procedures In 2018, we implemented a new Procurement Policy Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity Rate 20 compared with 2017 (22) √ 8.8 to ensure that business partners are assessed with clear internal procedures to be followed by all against expectations set out in our Global Policy for employees. The policy sets out explicit guidelines Third Party Compliance and our Business Code of and rules for internal procurement of goods and Future plans, goals and actions Targets SDGs Conduct for Vendors and Business Partners. The services. As part of the policy, we will operate from requirements of the qualification procedure cover 2019 with a list of selected vendors pre-approved Increase Employee Engagement Index for 2019 > 61 8.5 areas that include health and safety, financial health, and qualified by Procurement to safeguard us Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours ≥ 1,620 8.8 legal compliance and acceptance of the above against interacting with vendors and suppliers not Global Policy and Business Code of Conduct. compliant with our requirements. The policy has Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate compared with 2018 ≤ 0.53 8.8 been communicated company-wide through various Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity Rate ≤ 20 In 2019, we expect all existing suppliers, vendors channels and training has been conducted. 8.8 compared with 2018 and business partners with an annual spend above Strengthen safety reporting with updated framework Redefine the reporting of safety EUR 100,000 to complete the registration procedure related incidents and create new 8.8 as they account for approx. 95% of the annual spend baseline for implementation in 2020 of NKT. Improve reporting process for HSE incidents and risks Full implementation of integrated 8.8 reporting system Strengthen focus on social accountability Complete two SA 8000 audits 8.5 20 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 21 VENDORS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS TARGET OVERVIEW WITH SDG’S Target overview Goals and actions 2018 Outcome Status SDGs Ethics and Develop programme to ensure GDPR Data privacy policy developed and companycompliance compliance wide training completed √ 16.10 Anti-corruption, Develop and implement an extended Anti-corruption programme for vendors anti-bribery and anti-corruption programme targeting and business partners developed and √ 16.5 fair competition high-risk business areas/employees implemented Update and implement specific guidelines on anti-trust behaviour Target is deferred to 2019 ÷ 16.5 Environment, Improve energy efficiency in kWh/tonne by 2% 512 kWh/tonne energy and compared with 2017 (target 581 kWh/tonne) √ 7.3 climate Reduce water consumption by 2% compared with 2017 (target 86,334 m³) 106,428 m³ ÷ 6.4 Increase material utilization by 0.2%-points compared with 2017 (target 97.2%) 96.9% ÷ 12.5 Human and labour rights Increase Employee Engagement Index for 2018 (> 63) 61 ÷ 8.5 All relevant leaders in the targeted group to The expected leaders have completed complete the Leadership Pipeline programme the programme √ 8.5 Goals and actions 2018 Outcome Status SDGs Start a Leadership Programme dedicated to Programme launched front-end leaders at our manufacturing sites √ 8.5 Maintain focus on improvement of F  ull implementation of new cloud-based transparency and vendor compliance procurement system Create leadership programme for leaders of Programme launched √ 16.6 decentralized teams √ 8.5  new vendors to undergo registration All procedure Ensure full use of the People Performance Implemented company-wide Management system √ 8.5 Minimize the risk of direct or indirect Review and update our third-party compliance participation in corruption processes in relation to anti-corruption √ 16.5 Reduce the number of unsafe situations and behaviours > 3,200 1,620 ÷ 8.8 Future plans, goals and actions Targets SDGs Reduce the Lost Time Accident Rate 0.53 compared with 2017 (0.76) √ 8.8 Strengthen transparency and vendor Complete registration procedure for all Reduce the Lost Time Accident Severity Rate 20 compliance existing vendors with an annual spend of > EUR 100,000 compared with 2017 (22) √ 8.8 16.6 Register all new vendors according to the procedure Vendors and Maintain focus on improvement of Full implementation of new cloud-based Complete qualification procedure for all business transparency and vendor compliance procurement system vendors in the following categories: partners All new vendors to undergo registration √ 16.6  Production, Materials and Accessories procedure 16.6  Components  Installation Minimize the risk of direct or indirect Review and update our third-party compliance  Investments participation in corruption processes in relation to anti-corruption √ 16.5 22 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 23 NKT A/S Vibeholms Allé 20 DK-2605 Brøndby Denmark Company Reg: 6272 5214 T: +45 43 48 20 00 info@nkt.com nkt.com
