AGL Energy Limited T 02 9921 2999 Level 24, 200 George St F 02 9921 2552 Sydney NSW 2000 agl.com.au Locked Bag 3013 ABN: 74 115 061 375 Australia Square NSW 1215 United Nations Global Compact: CEO Statement of Support I am pleased to affirm my support for the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact covering the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since becoming a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2016, AGL is proud to be one of over 9,500 business signatories to the UNGC across 160 countries, including over 150 actively participating organisations in Australia. Brett Redman Managing Director & CEO, AGL Energy Limited 8 August 2019 2019 Communication on Progress Below, you will find our 2019 UNGC Content Index, designed to provide our stakeholders with an overview of how we are meeting or implementing the UNGC principles through links to relevant sections of AGL’s 2019 reporting suite. Area Principle Response or link to 2019 Reporting Suite Human 1 Businesses should Behaviour of AGL's directors, employees and Rights support and respect the contractors is guided by the AGL Values and the AGL protection of Code of Conduct. internationally AGL operates in Australia. While AGL undertakes proclaimed human rights some activities in some overseas jurisdictions it has 2 Make sure that they are no assets, customers nor direct employees outside of not complicit in human Australia. rights abuses AGL's Annual Report and Data Centre covers many issues that relate to human rights, including: • Governance summary • Employee health and safety • Employee experiences and behaviours Labour 3 Businesses should AGL upholds the freedom of association and the right uphold the freedom of to collective bargaining. As at end of FY19, more than association and the 47% of AGL's workforce was covered by collective effective recognition of bargaining agreements. the right to collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all AGL operates in Australia only in accordance with the forms of forced and labour laws of Australia and AGL’s Code of Conduct. compulsory labour 5 The effective abolition of child labour AGL's Supplier Code of Conduct, which applies to our suppliers, prohibits any form of child, forced or involuntary labour, and requires our suppliers to abide with all international standards and domestic regulations relating to the employment of children. 6 The elimination of The People scorecard within AGL's Annual Report discrimination in respect describes our approach to diversity and inclusion, of employment and and the removal of discrimination, and how these occupation attributes are promoted and embedded throughout our business. Further information on our approach to diversity and inclusion is also available on our website. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to promote an inclusive workplace free of discrimination, harassment, bullying and other unlawful behaviour on discriminatory grounds. Environment 7 Businesses should AGL's Environment Policy sets out our corporate support a precautionary environmental vision, of protecting the environment approach to and minimising our environmental footprint in the environmental challenges areas where we operate. Our precautionary approach to climate change is reflected in the AGL Greenhouse Gas Policy and expanded on within the Environment scorecard in our FY19 Annual Report, which, together with the supplementary FY19 Carbon Scenario Analysis Report, is prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) voluntary disclosure framework. 8 Undertake initiatives to AGL is committed to playing a leading role in promote greater developing a pathway to a modern, decarbonised environmental generation sector through investment in new responsibility renewable energy and near-zero emission technologies, as well as energy storage solutions. 9 Encourage the development and Our Annual Report covers issues that relate to diffusion of environmentally responsible initiatives and environmentally friendly technologies. These can be found in the Environment technologies and Infrastructure scorecards. 2 Anti10 Businesses should work AGL has embedded risk-based anti-bribery and corruption against corruption in all corruption controls throughout our processes and its forms, including policies, including within AGL’s Anti-Bribery, extortion and bribery Corruption and Fraud Policy and AGL’s Code of Conduct. We also have a comprehensive Anti-Money Laundering / Counter-Terrorism Financing Compliance Program and an Australian Financial Services Licence Compliance Program within our wholesale markets (energy trading) areas. In this regard we conduct regular risk assessments to determine the adequacy of the controls that are in place. 3
