CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION Dear Readers, Tipico is driven by the values of Trust, Progress important driver of our values. Thus, with the help and Passion, which are displayed in all our actions. of employees from all business entities, we manaThrough our corporate values, we are convinced ged to convey even more “Spannung” with our prothat economic success goes hand in hand with duct offer, while making it safer at the same time. responsible and trustworthy business practices. Therefore, I am very happy to present our first nonIn 2018, we have extended our group-wide corpofinancial report, which discloses extensive informarate responsibility management in order to align tion on our efforts to be a trusted and responsible strategies and expand focus areas. As part of this corporate citizen. This report serves as a baseline process, Tipico introduced new roles and responsiand direction for future operations It increases bilities within the company, increased stakeholder transparency and helps all stakeholders undersdialogue on corporate responsibility topics and tand our values and commitment. started working on a group-wide strategy, setting up new measurements and KPIs. As it is always I would also like to use this opportunity to express possible to achieve even more through good colmy immense gratitude to all our employees who laborations, I am further proud to mention that play the most important part by bringing our vawe are part of the UN Global Compact, the world’s lues to life and supporting Tipico to continuously largest sustainability initiative. We are committed improve our performance. We trust all employees to its principles and will keep working towards our to follow the highest ethical standards and I am common goals. grateful that during the last year, many of us got actively involved in shaping our company through I hope you will enjoy reading this report, culture project workstreams. In this setting, many initiatives, with the goal of optimizing day to day processes, improving our communication between Joachim Baca the entities, reducing negative Impact or extending Chief Executive Officer, Tipico business knowledge and teamwork, became an CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 01 With more than 50 % market share, we are the number one in Germany. How did we get there? Which products and services do we offer? Discover how we increase “Spannung” and Who We Are. How do we live up to be a responsible company? Find out about our standards and which topics we focus on in the Corporate Responsibility section. EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET 12 Our employees are a key factor for our success and show high engagement in cultural values. How do we live our values? What does diversity mean for us as One Tipico? How we foster Employee Engagement? In this section you further get to know how we let our employees shape our culture and maximize their personal and professional skills. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: IN SAFE HANDS 22 Around 80 % of German adults have used a gambling offer. How do we run our business to increase Customer Satisfaction? How are we fostering Clean Sports via sports integrity partnerships? How are we using technology to increase our Player Protection and make sure our offer attracts Adults only? In this section we offer all the answers concerning our Product Responsibility. RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH 31 Business integrity is required for sustainable success. How is our Governance structure set up? How do we dynamically adapt to a market in which change is the only constant? How do we prevent of Money Laundering? How do we keep our data safe? In our description of our approach you learn about Business Ethics and how we protect our business and our customers from criminal activity. OUR COMMUNITIES: BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS 38 In 2018, more than 260,000 € were donated in the field of healthcare, prevention research and social development as part of our community involvement. What do Our Communities look like and how do we support them? In Community Involvement, you will find further information about the amounts donated to charitable causes and hours spent with community work. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE 42 Following the motto “less is more”, we are focussing on reducing Our Environmental Impact. How are we reducing negative impact? And how do we manage to save 70,000 plastic bottles per year? Information on CO2 emissions resulting from our Business Travels are further described in this section. SUPPLY CHAIN: KNOW YOUR BUSINESS PARTNERS 49 97 % of our business partners come from EU member states. How do we thereby positively support human rights matters? And how do we make sure to get a precise picture of all our business partners? Find out more in Our Supply. WE NEVER SETTLE FOR SECOND 53 APPENDIX 54 IMPRINT AND CONTACT 62 2 INTRODUCTION WHO WE ARE: THE TIPICO GROUP As a reliable partner for sport, we are committed to From a single betting shop to the market leader: We integrity and the highest standards of data securiare the home for sports betting in Germany. ty, protection of minors and vulnerable players. Our success story begins in a small betting shop in Our company can look back with pride on an inKarlsruhe. What started as a tiny business of three credible year in 2018, which culminated in the FIFA students quickly evolved into a flourishing comWorld Cup in Russia. During the World Cup, we repany with a strong digital-driven business model. gistered many new records and were able to keep Soon, we became one of the leading European the gratifyingly high level of customer activity stabetting providers with online and land-based opeble even after the tournament ended. rations. Since 2004, the company’s headquarters have been in St. Julians, Malta. We do not only hold In 2018, we increased our market share in Germalicenses for sports betting and online casino, but ny to over 50 %, making us one of the largest proalso employ 235 people from 30 nations on the Meviders in the digital gaming business on an interditerranean island, being one of the most popular national level. This was confirmed by the leading employers there. We are licensed by the Malta Gaindustry magazine eGaming Review, which ranked ming Authority (MGA) to conduct betting businesus among the Top 10 of the most influential online ses and operate casino offers. gambling providers. In addition to financial perforFurthermore, we operate branches in Germany, mance, this evaluation focused on corporate straAustria, Croatia, Colombia and Gibraltar. Currently, tegy and its impact, the geographical scope of the almost 700 people work for the Tipico Group. Inclubusiness and the general influence on the industry. ding our own retail shops, that number increases to Digital revenues now account for more than 60 % 1300 employees. In total, more than 6,000 people of total revenues – and that number is rising. In work for our entire Group and the associated franaddition to our position as a digital pioneer, we chise network, which consists of over 1,200 retail can build on our successful multi-channel strashops. We stand for sports entertainment products tegy with a strong retail presence in Germany and our customers bets are in safe hands with us. and Austria. 3 OUR COMPANY VALUES We TRUST that every member of our organization does the right thing to contribute to the overall success of the business. We take the trust placed in us by our customers or other stakeholders as an incentive to continuously maintain a safe environment, integrity and trusted relationships. PROGRESS describes our constant quest for improvement. We put this endeavour into action through training and further education of our employees as well as constant innovation and further development of our services. Due to our PASSION for sports, we enjoy our work. This also connects us closely to our customers, because we share another common dedication: We never settle for second. 4 INTRODUCTION OUR BOARD Our board does not only share the passion for sports but also possesses many years of experience in the gaming industry: Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Joachim Baca, Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Marlon van der Goes and Chief Regulatory Officer (CRO) Karin Klein form part of the management board since 2016. Stefan Eck joined the board as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in 2017. Stefan Eck Karin Klein Marlon van der Goes Joachim Baca 5 OUR DIGITAL PRODUCT IN NUMBERS We have the #1 sports betting app in the German App Store We own more than 50 % of market share in the German sports betting market On average, we handle 5 million bets per day SPORTS COVERAGE SPORTS COVERAGE OVERALL EVENTS BY TURNOVER 2% 1% 2% 1% 15% 6% Soccer Soccer 4% Tennis 7% Basketball Tennis 5% Basketball 45% Ice-Hockey Volleyball 6% Volleyball Ice-Hockey Handball Handball Remaining 12% Remaining 81% 13% World Cup 2018 57 million bets (50/Sec) Number of Offered Sports Overall 30+ Average of Offered Sport Events per Day in 2018 Overall 760 Unique Active Online User up to 250,000 on a football match day TOP 3 FOOTBALL COMPETITIONS 2018 TOP 3 COMPETITIONS 2018 OTHER SPORTS BY TURNOVER BY TURNOVER 6 INTRODUCTION OUR RETAIL NETWORK We are the home for sports betting. Our large network consists of our own, as well as franchise shops throughout Germany and Austria. In 2018, we increased the network of shops operated by own Group companies to over 150 in both countries (grey dots). Together with the extensive franchise network (white dots we offer our services in more than 1,200 outlets. GERMANY GERMANY NEW SHOPS IN 2018 SHOPS TOTAL 2018 AUSTRIA AUSTRIA NEW SHOPS IN 2018 SHOPS TOTAL Tipico Franchise 7 OUR PARTNERS We are valued as a reliable partner in the sports world: In Germany, as the official partner of the Bundesliga and 2nd Bundesliga, football club FC Bayern Munich as well as the basketball team FC Bayern Basketball. In Austria, we are the title sponsor of the Tipico Bundesliga. 8 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY: FOSTERING RESPONSIBILITY THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY BOARD Consultation and monitoring Direct reporting on CR topics implementation of guidelines INTERNAL GROUP CR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS MANAGEMENT STAKEHOLDERS Dialog with Dialog with internal stakeholders external stakeholders Consultation and support for Direct reporting on CR topics implementing local CR initatives LOCAL CR Active support of employee AMBASSADORS driven initative and involvement of internal stakeholder Fostering responsibility in all aspects of the company is not only the goal of our Corporate Responsibility (CR) team, but also firmly established in our corporate values. Therefore, our CR team, accountable for management of CR topics and implementation of a group-wide CR strategy, directly reports to the CRO who is a member of the Tipico board. On top of monthly reporting to the board and shareholders, regular meetings are held in order to discuss prospective CR challenges, opportunities and Impact, present proposals and to receive strategic guidance. Thus, an active commitment of the board and all business units to CR can be guaranteed. 87 % OF EMPLOYEES BELIEVE IT IS IMPORTANT TO WORK FOR A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 81 % OF EMPLOYEES BELIEVE TIPICO IS A RESPONSIBLE & TRUSTWORTHY OPERATOR Further, internal and external stakeholders are consulted in order to capture an extensive view on CR issues. Employees and customers are consulted via annual surveys and business partners are interviewed regularly. All employees are invited to participate in a regular workstream on environmental and social topics, to develop own initiatives and to share knowledge in the Tipico intranet. 9 In all our entities, local staff members have volunteered to act as CR ambassadors. They have better insight into their local communities and are therefore well-positioned to identify potential economic, environmental and social Impact in their specific location. These ambassadors help our central CR to connect with local communities, raise awareness in their regions, as well as support approved employee-driven charitable activities and practical execution of local volunteering projects. Through this framework, we can assure that all environmental, social and governance (ESG) Impact of our Group entities are taken into consideration and coordinated clearly within the Tipico Group. DEFINING OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Internal stakeholders such as employees and external stakeholders such as customers, regulators, suppliers, partners, shareholders and society trust in our performance and sustainable business practices. Through strategic prioritisation of CR topics, we live up to these expectations. In accordance with the Global Reporting Standards (GRI), material topics are all those that lead to direct or indirect social economic or environmental Impact and are therefore relevant to stakeholders of a business or society. We drew up findings of stakeholder surveys conducted in all locations of operation involving internal and external views. Based on a stratified sample, 112 internal stakeholders were consulted to assess the relevance of different aspects of CRs. This consultation also included estimates for the current performances in these areas. The analysis was supplemented by external viewpoints gained through nine dialogue sessions with a wide range of stakeholders which ranked the topics concerning relevance for us. These external positions were used to balance internal opinions to reach a more holistic perspective. MATERIALITY + RELEVANCE EXTERNAL + RELEVANCE INTERNAL Compliance Consumer Business Training and Diversity and Protection Ethics Development Equal Opportunities Community Human Supply Environmental Involvement Rights Chain Impact 10 INTRODUCTION Results illustrate the relevance of a range of topics, as perceived by internal and external stakeholders. Areas with higher relevance are covered in more detail, especially with regards to operationalisation, measurement and reporting on the relevant indicators. As a result of our materiality analysis, this report will focus on the following topics: compliance, consumer protection, business ethics, training and development, diversity and equal opportunity. The report is supplemented by essential requirements under the GRI, namely concerning involvement in local communities, environmental Impact and supply chain. MATERIAL ISSUES GRI TIPICO CR REPORT Trainings and Diversity and Equal Employees: Our Greatest Asset Development Opportunities Consumer Protection Product Responsability: In Safe Hands Compliance Business Ethics Responsible Business Operations: Our Approach Community Involvement Community Involvement: Beyond Business Operations Environmental Impact Our Environmental Impact: Less is More Human Rights Supply Chain Supply Chain: Know Your Business Partner WE ARE SIGNATORY TO THE UN GLOBAL bal Compact is the world’s largest corporate COMPACT sustainability initiative. It enables companies to Ethical business practices, combined with colalign strategies and operations with universal laboration and innovation, can bring powerful principles of human rights, labour, environment changes in markets and societies. Therefore, and anti-corruption, and takes actions in these in 2018, we became a member of the UN Gloareasall with the knowledge and experience of bal Compact. The UN Global Compact is signed the United Nations. In the course of this particiby companies that promote certain social and pation, we signed a statement in which we comenvironmental standards in their economic acmit to comply with the ten principles of the UN tivities. These standards are set out in the ten Global Compact as one of the first participants principles of the Global Compact. The UN Glowithin our sector. IN THIS REPORT, TIPICO TAKES MATERIAL ISSUES UNDER THE GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT CORE AREAS INTO CONSIDERATION. 11 10 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2018: • applying fair labour practices while respecting • 82 % of our employees participated in the empapplicable labour laws loyee satisfaction survey; 81 % believe Tipico is a • providing development opportunities, which are responsible and trustworthy operator 10 aligned with individual and organizational needs • we started the alignment of core HR processes and focus on growing knowledge, skills, interperto support “One Tipico” sonal communication and leadership • we started the migration of all employees to a • encouraging the lifelong education of empsingle HR information system to allow improved loyees, through appropriate training budgets data flows distributed across locations • we commenced culture workstreams • supporting regular feedback sessions between • we launched and rolled out our Tipico Leaderemployees, managers and peer groups ship Standards • providing the necessary tools and resources to • we promoted diversity by becoming a member enable employees to execute their accountabiliof the Diversity Charta ties • supporting the health of employees by providing benefits such as health days or supporting sports activities 12 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET ONE TIPICO: ONE BRAND, ONE IDENTITY One Tipico: Our corporate identity is based on this principle, because highly motivated, committed and innovative employees are the basis of our success story. With a wide range of expertise, qualifications, as well as years of experience in the field, we form a team that combines the passion for sports and strong identification with our Tipico brand. As the most important resource of the company and thus as a key factor for success, employees are the core of Tipico. That is why we offer not only a unique international working environment with pronounced corporate values, but also an extensive range of training courses and promotion of sports activities and health benefits. This allows each employee to succeed and gives us a head start to find the best talent. OUR DIVERSE WORKFORCE As part of this identity, we believe that a free, fair, non-prejudiced and ethnically-vibrant employee base helps bring together many voices, multiple talent pools, and a plethora of capabilities – creating a unique roadmap for our success and growth. NATIONALITIES OF TIPICO EMPLOYEES Argentinian Romanian Irish Croatian Bosnian Spanish Kazakh Dutch Bulgarian Tunishian Maltese German Colombian United Kingdom Pakistani Indian Czech Austrian Russian Israeli Egyptian Brazlian Sudanese Libyan Greek Canadian Turkish Mexican Iranian Costa Rican United States Polish Italien Danish Belarussian Slovakian Macedonian French British Indian Ocean T. Swiss Netherlands Hungarian Chinese Ukrainian 13 Our strategy leading to such diverse teams is a simple, uncompromising meritocracy without any prejudice: always hire the best candidates. By focusing on qualifications, values and motivations, we have absolute clarity on the values that new employees add to the company. Through this, our Group naturally becomes even more diverse. Our international team consists of employees from around 40 different nations, and we benefit from the expertise and unique perspective of each and every one of them. On senior levels (executives, directors and head of departments) the blend of nationalities is also diversified, with approximately 40 % coming from the local communities in which we operate. In 2018, no incidents of discrimination were reported. In 2018, we signed the Diversity Charta, a corporate employees with special needs and track gender initiative to promote diversity in companies and inand age relations of employees. Nevertheless, still stitutions under the auspice of the German Federal more men than women show interest in our indusChancellor Dr. Angela Merkel. The charter aims at try. This becomes apparent when considering data promoting recognition, appreciation, inclusion and of our customer base, with is predominantly male diversity in the work and everyday life in Germany. (90 %). The ratio is similar in our Group. Around As one of the first companies in the gambling in78 % of employees are male, as well as 88 % of dustry, we became part of this initiative. our leadership positions. However, we attempt to Even though internationality is a strength, other advertise vacant positions to attract a broad and dimensions of diversity are of equal importance diverse group of candidates – beyond those who to us. Therefore, we try to minimize barriers for know and love sports betting. #FLAGFORDIVERSITY “The Tipico Group employs more than 700 people from more than 40 countries. The diversity that results from differences offers us a tremendous opportunity. Each employee has his or her own talents and abilities to help Tipico succeed” #FlaggefürVielfalt – Joachim Baca, CEO 14 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET GENDER RELATIONS GENDER RELATIONS GENDER RELATIONS Gender Gender Relations Gender Relations Relations Gender Relations Gender Relations INin in Core CORE Business Core Business in BUSINESS Core Areas Areas Business AREAS Areas OF VISITORS Gender ON Gender Relations Relations CAREER WEBSITE OF of Newly NEWLY Newly of Hired HIRED People Hired PEOPLE in Core People Core Business Business in N Areas Areas of Visitors of Visitors on Career on Website Career Website CORE BUSINESS AREAS 22 2222 28 28 31,5 31,5 78 78 68,5 68,5 72 72 78 Male Male Female Female Female Male Male Female Female Male Female Female Male Male As we strive towards a more diverse workforce, it is our goal to attract a higher percentage of women as well. The Tipico career website attracts around 31 % of female visitors. Consequently, minimizing the differences between percentage of interested women and actual workforce is a crucial target. With a focus on this during 2018, the company made a significant step towards this, with 28 % of all new hires being female. EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUPS NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS IN MALTA IN PERCENTAGES BY HALF-YEAR 80 2700 2600 60 2500 2400 40 2300 2200 20 2100 0 2000 18-27 28-37 38-47 48-57 58-67 H2, 2017 H1, 2018 H2, 2018 In terms of age, we have a relatively young workHIRING NEW TALENT force with an average of 33.6 years. The actual A key focus in 2018 was to improve our job attracworkforce thereby mirrors the people interested tion channels and to look at new and more effectiin jobs at Tipico. The majority of prospective emve ways of finding talents. Of all applications receiployees are between 25 and 34 years of age. This ved in 2018, 47 % came from our own careers site again reflects the customers base. closely followed by free aggregators and employee referrals. The average time to hire was around 39 days. Group-wide we received in excess of 14,500 15 AVERAGE NUMBERS OF EMPLOYEES job applications. Along with the steadily growing IN CORE BUSINESS AREAS 1 market presence and increased product offers, our team is continuously growing. The average 700 number of employees in core business areas 687 grew by more than 12 % between 2017 and 2018. 656 Around 93 % are employed indefinitely. 95 % of all 600 606 591 our employees in core locations are working full 500 time. These numbers change, when including our retail businesses, with only around 60 % working 400 full time. This can be explained by a high number of students and workers in the retail business. 300 200 100 H1, 2017 H2, 2017 H1, 2018 H2, 2018 EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITHIN THE TIPICO GROUP The annual fluctuation rate of employees between 2017 and 2018 remained stable at around 18 %, with lower monthly rates towards the end of the year. Because our goal is to maintain the best talent, attractive career development opportunities for our employees are essential. For instance, in Malta 34 employees (12 %) got promoted or advanced internally to higher positions. This applies especially to the customer support team, which is often seen as a steppingstone to understand the company and progress from there on. Having the outside perspective as a starting point enables us to focus on our customers and their experience throughout a Tipico career. During 2018, 46 % of customer service agents moved to new roles. EMPLOYEE WELLBEING ANNUAL SICK LEAVE OF TIPICO The health and safety of our employees is very imCOMPARED TO NATIONAL AVERAGES2 portant to us. Even though our workplace is not IN PERCENTAGES considered a high-risk environment, we still offer our employees benefits such as gym members120 % hips, healthand sports days and subsidies for private health insurance. These offers together with 100 % flexible work times pay off. Across the Group, the average of sick days is below five days per year. All 80 % locations were public data is available are consi72 % derably below their respective national averages 60 % (Germany 2017; Croatia and Malta 2014 ), with Germany at an average of 7.7, Malta at an average of 40 % 47 % 2.2 days, Croatia at an average of 2.9, Colombia at 34 % an average of 2.5 and Gibraltar at an average of 20 % 2.75 sick days per year. 0% Croatia Germany Malta 1Core business areas are calculated without on-site retail businesses. 2Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/13441/umfrage/entwicklung-der-jaehrlichen-anzahl-krankheitsbedingter-fehlta ge-je-arbeitnehmer/ 3World Health Organization (2018) Retrieved from: https://gateway.euro.who.int/en/indicators/hfa_411-2700-absenteeism-from-work-due-to-illness-days-peremployee-per-year/ 16 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET Some locations additionally have health and safety representatives, safety officers or employee representatives. For instance, in Malta an employee representative is elected every third year. In larger offices employees are additionally encouraged to complete trainings as first aiders and fire wardens every second year. They also benefit from free mental health services and preventative advice on mental health symptoms via a partner organization which promotes mental well-being (i.e. stress reduction) at the workplace. Employees may contact the foundation at any time for an appointment, without the need for approval by or disclosure to their line manager. BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES throughout Tipico, safeguards fairness and further Our employees are working hard and therefore reduces the risk of discrimination in pay amongst earn a competitive salary. Employees are not coemployees. vered by collective bargaining agreements. NeverWhile parental leave and minimum notice periods theless, in order to contrast salaries of employees are for the most part handled based on national against the industry standard, we obtain external laws, we offer our employees a range of additional assurance based on extensive data bases of combenefits. As for the salary structure, in 2018 work parable positions. The minimum wage in all core commenced on defining a clear global strategy on business entities is at least 50 % above appropriate total reward and to harmonize benefits between local minimum wages. Mini jobbers in retail shops Tipico Group entities. The goal of this harmonizastill receive 7 % above minimum wage. tion project is to enhance the global “One Tipico” With the goal of increasing transparency and instrategy, to identify and address gaps, deliver imtroducing an alignment in the salary structure of proved alignment and to offer all employees valuathe whole Group, we started a job levelling project ble benefits alongside their salary. Besides German in 2018. In a multi-stage process under external entities, benefits are provided to all employees consultation, all positions are reviewed. The level without differentiation between fulland part time of expertise, qualifications and experience requijobs, student workers or interns. An example of sired as well as responsibilities for Tipico and team te-specific and global benefits can be found below: members are taken into consideration. Roles are levelled, mapped and benchmarked so that counThe minimum wage in all core business entities is at least 50 % above appropriate tryand industry-specific benchmark salaries can local minimum wages. be outlined for each category. This aligns salaries GYM MEMBERSHIP (GLOBAL) KINDERGARTEN (HEADQUARTER) As sports is the base of our business model, we To simplify the working routine for workers with offer gym memberships or rewards for sport refamilies, we offer a kindergarten type childcare lated activities and wellbeing in most entities. As service for children of employees in our headthe health of employees is of high importance to quarter. us, we further offer health insurances when needed. We have site-specific recreational activities such as foosball and table tennis to offer sporting activities during breaks. 17 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT: STAFF SHAPING CULTURE At Tipico, we believe that the best way to contural values. Areas with the best improvements tinue success is by taking care of employees’ were the following: needs and giving them opportunities to grow by getting involved. Therefore, we regularly ask for AREA 2017 2018 feedback in the form of employee engagement surveys, offer developmental workstreams on My manager gives me enough 68 % 80 % various topics and proactively enlist employee autonomy to perform my job perspectives to continue delivery of relevant and effectively inspiring employee initiatives. 82 % of employees participated in the engageI feel part of my team 76 % 79 % ment survey, showing high engagement in culIn 2018, we continued to gather feedback from employees via our engagement survey, specifically focusing on our culture and interpersonal relationships. 82 % of employees participated, showing high engagement in cultural values. 81 % of these consider us a responsible and trustworthy operator. 74 % would recommend Tipico as a great place to work and 73 % are proud to work for the company. Inhouse workshops were organised for each department to create a set of action plans, further improving engagement of our employees and guiding the progress. One of the focus areas identified was the improvement of collaboration across the organisation. As a result of this feedback, our leadership team now communicates more frequently about its organisational strategy and group-wide progress. In Malta, an elected employee representative further guarantees that viewpoints and opinions of employees are always taken into consideration. OUR CULTURE WORKGROUPS Our culture program was first launched in 2017 with the intention of creating a new culture within the company, mirroring the feedback received from our own employees. 24 focus groups and roughly 30 interviews, adding to a total of over 250 participants, gave employees from all locations a chance to express their views. By now, 50 employees from all levels are actively driving working groups of our culture program on a voluntary basis to share and explore their ideas for further improvements. Besides the culture workgroups in 2018, we expanded the possibilities for employee driven initiatives, emphasizing social and environmental topics. We focus on sporting activities for good causes such as charity races. Global activities such as the breast cancer awareness day and a workstream for similar topics were implemented across Tipico locations. Furthermore, location-specific CR activities comprised charitable auctions or the CR Day in Malta. The latter was implemented in cooperation with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in order to get involved in local communities. 18 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Knowledge, qualifications and the commitment of employees is a differentiator amongst the competition for talent. As part of our culture, we demand that employees push and challenge themselves to improve their professional and personal skills. We offer a variety of online, face-to-face and integrated trainings in order to reach and appeal to as many employees as possible. The opportunities are endless. Around our main locations, employees receive on average more than 3.8 hours of dedicated training per year alongside the many (and expanding) informal learning opportunities provided by the collaboration and expert employees. GET TO KNOW OUR BUSINESS MANDATORY TRAININGS Learning about how Tipico functions as an orgaAn important aspect of training within the comnisation and how departments collaborate on pany is not only to help employees extend their projects and initiatives is a vital part of developskills but to make sure everyone understands the ment. The Induction Program is a global proprinciples of integrity and follows regulations, gram that focuses on educating new employees standards and applicable best practices. We theabout the Tipico Group, the products and how refore provide extensive mandatory training to Tipico functions as a business. It involves a deall employees. Office and shop employees are tailed overview about how departments collatrained regularly to treat data confidentially, to borate across the Group and allows employees be aware of information security processes and to self-reflect how they can contribute to the to minimize the risk of money laundering to its company’s goals. Monthly business updates and fullest extent. We ensure that customer-facing quarterly sessions deepen the understanding of employees are trained on responsible gaming the business by all employees. (RG) topics and that all shop employees receive regular accredited training specific to their roles. progress on all compliance trainings is tracked Introduction to Introduction to Bookmaking Gaming accurately. Introduction to Introduction to Anti-Money GDPR HR Acquisition & CRM Laundering Introduction to Introduction to Responsible Information Agile & Scrum Digital Gaming Security 19 UPSKILLING COURSES PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT OF TOOLS BUSINESS EXPERTISE Tipico employees use learning One of the personal developDuring the past four years, we opportunities to share knowment tools is the Tipico Talent offered the most ambitious and ledge, overcome challenges, Program, which was launched inquisitive employees the opprogress themselves and their with the intention of enabling portunity to participate in the teams, build trust and share high-potential employees to One Tipico Xchange Program. passions. The majority of emgrow further and develop their This allows employees to traployees further receive regular interpersonal skills, as well as vel to other entities in order to performance reviews, helping expanding their understanding increase collaboration. Particithem identify focus areas. of the business. It supports all pants have a chance to partake With the development of techmanagers within Tipico and in on-the-job learning, or to atnical, language, people and helps build a strong understantend informative meetings with managerial skills, Tipico ensuding of methods and strategies colleagues from other teams. res efficiency when working to lead and manage teams and The program is well integrated on projects and initiatives in individuals successfully. Partiwithin the culture. In 2018, 36 a collaborative manner. Traicipants employees applied and 16 got ning and development initiause their strengths, creativity the chance to participate. tives vary from one entity to and problem-solving skills Tipico Talks is another initiatithe next in order to address in groups to complete tasks. ve for short get-togethers with unique cultures. Nevertheless, Throughout the program, the the intention of listening to Tipico is constantly working on participants organise regular volunteers who choose to prealigning opportunities across peer coaching sessions to gatsent a topic of their choice. This the Group to provide more uniher feedback and to support allows employees to practice fied learning experiences for all and guide each other. their presentation-, and public employees. Building a strong and aligned speaking skills whilst teaching leadership culture within Tipithe audience about current or co and bringing the company’s upcoming projects or innovaleadership standards to life, tive movements. The events are goals of the Leadership Deare open for anyone to join and velopment Program. learn more about the industry and about Tipico departments. Professional skills and knowledge Computing Feedback xChange skills tools Program Language Talent Assesment Cross-team courses Matrix Exchange Soft Personal Development Tipico skills Plan Talks 20 EMPLOYEES: OUR GREATEST ASSET LEARNING COMMUNITY In order to develop new learning opportunities, which fit our employee’s needs, we formed the Learning Community workstream, which focusses primarily on creating opportunities within the company to encourage fellow employees to advance their skills and excel at their roles. The group has emerged from a shared passion for continuous learning and focuses its efforts on encouraging others to embrace innovative and creative thinking as part of their development. In Croatia for instance, English lessons are offered to employees as part of the culture program to assist them with improving their language skills, thus enabling them to improve communication with colleagues in other areas of the business. “Good Morning Malta” and the “4 o’clock tea” are further initiatives which have been developed by engaged employees, shaping our culture. TARGETS 2019: • migration of all employee data to a unitary HR system infrastructure, to provide support for all locations and teams, improving the efficacy of employees, managers and leaders • uniform approach for “One Tipico” harmonisation of policies, benefits and employee terms and conditions to achieve equality and fairness for employees • finalisation of a reward strategy and principles • completion of job levelling and establishing improved benefits, perks and discounts for employees • commence the creation of a Future Managers program by the end of 2019 for launch in 2020 • increase the focus on hiring high quality talent at speed. • promote our Employer Value Proposition to ensure that our brand is synonymous with career development, learning and progress. • Promote attractive opportunities for women 21 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: IN SAFE HANDS WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2018: • creating the safest gambling environment – be it • 76 % of online and 81 % of our retail customers online or in the shops were greatly satisfied with our products and • protecting minors and vulnerable players effectively services • improving the player protection concept that go• 97 % of our customers can be considered modeverns our approach beyond regulatory requirerate gamblers, based on behavioural monitoring ments continuously • we implemented a stringent document verifica• maintaining the best international practices for tion: more than 500,000 documents have been responsible advertising checked and approved • supporting research conducted by leading • more than 2,000 tests within our retail network researchers in the field of addiction prevention were carried out • supporting counselling providers in our core • more than 150 RG training sessions resulting in markets more than 12,300 person-hours were completed • following the highest standards for responsible • we maintained six major partnerships with focus gaming (RG) as directed in the Tipico RG Policy on sports integrity • revenue from problem gamblers and minors decreased to less than 2 % 22 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: IN SAFE HANDS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION: PROVIDING A SAFE AND EXCITING EXPERIENCE Trust and safety are deciding factors for consumer choice. Therefore, Tipico is dedicated to offer customers safe and trustworthy products. The forces of an open, regulated market are drivers for consumer protection. Only by providing high-quality products, exciting the customer, while at the same time satisfying all safety concerns, we can gain the trust and loyalty of consumers. We therefore believe a responsible betting offer is essential to stay market leader in Germany and thus accept the challenge to provide the safest possible gaming environment. INTEGRITY AND FAIRNESS SAFETY OF FUNDS AND PAYMENTS As a licensed operator, we stand for fairness and inThe safety of customer funds is pivotal to us. Custotegrity. Due to our gambling licence, we are subject mer funds are always kept in segregated accounts, to regulatory supervision and audit. Technical comseparated from company funds. ponents of services, such as the random number This process ensures the safety of customer funds generator, are tested and certified independently. and is regularly audited on behalf of licensing autAdditionally, we support the integrity of sports by horities. Similarly, the process of outgoing paycooperating with sports associations and participaments is precisely monitored to assure fast and ting in early warning systems for match fixing. correct outpayments of winnings. DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY CUSTOMER FEEDBACK Secure and state-of-the-art encryption technoloImprovement is only possible by being receptive to gies are used to transmit data between the custofeedback from customers. Should a customer have mer and internal operations. We therefore have an a dissatisfying experience with the service, we ofSSL certificate, an encryption protocol for secure fer a transparent complaint process that can ultidata transmission. Additionally, technical protecmately lead to a mediation conducted by a neutral tion for the sensitive data of customers is provided. arbitration board if necessary. All complaints are With the Information Security Management Sysreplied to within two weeks. In 2018, we further intem (ISMS), which is certified by TÜV Rhineland, troduced the possibility of filing disputes on the EU we ensure that the technical security of computer ODR Platform. As an independent, accredited arbisystems is reviewed and adapted as needed on an tration body, eCOGRA is responsible for these comannual basis. This shows that we treat the sensitive plaints. As part of this agreement, Tipico promises data responsibly and offer comprehensive protecto always adhere to the recommendations made tion in accordance with the international ISO 27001 by eCOGRA. Furthermore, customers are given the standard. opportunity to contact the online gaming support of the Malta Gaming Authority (MGA). 23 Overall, our customers are very happy with our offers and services.4 Among online customers, 76 % 76 % of online customers and are greatly satisfied with Tipico, with that number even higher in retail at 81 %. Therefore, trustwort81 % of retail customers are greatly hiness is one of the predominant attributes assatisfied with our products and services sociated with the company. 65 % of online customers and 61 % of retail customers consider us an especially trustworthy gambling operator. and responsible gaming (RG). Overall, customers were pleased with the service, with 64 % of custoIn 2018, only 0.96 % of all internal customer service mer service contacts rated as satisfying. Externally, contacts were classified as cases related to gamwe received 14 complaints via the MGA. All could be bling problems. These were forwarded to a team resolved in mutual agreement with the customer specifically qualified in matters of player protection without the help of further parties. INTERNAL RESOURCES Our endeavours to provide the safest betting environment are driven strategically by the Corporate Responsibility department (2 Full Time Equivalent (FTE)), which reports to the chief regulatory officer (CRO). Operationally, they are supported by the RG team (5 FTE) and the respective RG managers in the Tipico Shop Agencies (2 FTE). Shop controls and mystery shopping exercises are conducted by the quality team (3 FTE). HEAD OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILTY 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBLE GAMING RESPONSIBLE TEAMLEAD QUALITY RESPONSIBILITY MANAGER (TSA) GAMING MANAGER AND TRAINING MANAGER 2 1 1 1 RESPONSIBLE QUALITY TEAM GAMING TEAM 2 4 COLLABORATION AND EXTERNAL RESOURCES External resources help us reach our RG goals. They include the TU Dresden’s “Spielerambulanz” and “Spielsuchthilfe”, a multi-lingual online counselling provider “Gambling Therapy” (e.g. to be able to support migrants), as well as the association “Glücksfall e.V.”. We are working together with leading German research institutions, the Chair of Addiction Research at the TU Dresden, and the University of Lucerne, with the goal of continually improving player protection. Our approach, however, does not end with our online offers and our own shops. All franchisees of Tipico are required to adhere to the same high standards. 4Tipico Brand Tracking Germany Wave 5 November/December 2018 24 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: IN SAFE HANDS FOR CLEAN SPORTS: OUR COMMITMENT TO SPORTS INTEGRITY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Manipulation of sporting events does not only tarnish the reputation of sports. By distorting the outcome of bets, it also strongly Impact the business model of betting operators and creates an unfair disadvantage for legitimate customers. Consequently, the goals of sports associations, consumer protection and betting operators are well aligned in combatting this form of crime. Aggregated data from betting operators can often be a most valuable source of data to track down potential incidents. Therefore, we support sports federations by participating in several early warning systems. A specially dedicated department painstakingly investigates any indication of potential criminal activities by working closely together with relevant authorities and security organisations. We support the Early Warning System (EWS) provided by the international football association FIFA. This independently informs associations and event organisers as soon as conspicuous betting behaviour is detected. Even though football is our main target area, we focus on all offered types of sports. Tipico collaborates with Sportradar’s integrity department, Betgenius and the International Olympics Committee. In addition, we work together with the Tennis Integrity Unit of the International Tennis Federation. All of these focus on sports integrity. 25 ADULTS ONLY: WE PROTECT MINORS Both online and in our retail stores, we prohibit minors from participating in any gambling activities. Our product targets adults who participate in sports betting as entertainment only. Responsibility is taken very seriously and identity and age checks (online as well as in our shops) are carried out. All online accounts, as well as Tipico customer cards for the retail business, rely on age and identity verification based on database checks (e.g. Schufa) and checks of ID documents. The focus on the protection of minors also applies to our marketing. As part of Tipico’s advertising policy, we avoid any advertising that could have a specific appeal to people under the age of 18. In 2018: ONLINE: RETAIL: • we conducted more than 130,000 ID verifi• we conducted more than 380,000 ID verifications due to our strict regulations, 2,220 cations minors were caught, trying to access the • 70,000 additional age checks were conducproduct offer, and expelled accordingly ted with customers entering the premises • 10,758 minors were caught, trying to access premises, and expelled accordingly 26 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: IN SAFE HANDS PLAYER PROTECTION: WE PROMOTE SAFE GAMBLING We accept the challenge of assuring an exciting gambling experience. However, this also includes the responsibility to detect and protect vulnerable customers. Security and player protection are integral parts of the product promise. That is why we have established guidelines in a binding player protection concept and outlined these on a player protection page for customers. TIPICO RESPONSIBILITY INFORMED DECISION SUPPORTING CONTROL PROTECTION Responsible Brand Reality Checks Self-Exclusion Information Feedback Imposed Exclusion Awareness Limits Cooperation with Counselling Providers 90% 8% 2% UNIVERSAL PREVENTION SELECTIVE PREVENTION INDICATED PREVENTION CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY Not all customers are the same. While most only GAMBLING IN GERMANY require detailed information in order to play safely, others need more attention from the company. Therefore, our player protection aims at individualisation in order to give every customer the level of protection they need. Based on prevalence surveys, it is expected that Around 80 % of the German adult popula~1 % of the general adult population suffers from tion has gambled. 1 % suffer from gambling gambling-related problems. We therefore recogrelated problems. nize that responsible gambling is always a sha90 % of customers need universal preventired responsibility between the provider and its on e.g. information, awareness and responcustomers. We support customers by providing sible advertising. agreements on financial and time limits, assuring 8 % of customers need selective prevention that they cannot exceed the agreed limits, even if e.g. reality checks. they try to. 2 % of customers need indicated prevention such as self-exclusion, imposed exclusion or cooperation with counselling providers. 27 FINANCIAL IMPACT OF PROBLEM GAMBLERS AND MINORS A consistent approach towards the protection of minors and vulnerable players is only possible if we manage to minimize any dependencies on revenues derived out of these problem areas. Therefore, we track turnover that had been generated by potential problem gamblers before they were detected and excluded from our offers. FINANCIAL IMPACT OF PROBLEM In 2018, we were able to reduce the contribution GAMBLERS of problem gamblers to our turnover dramatically. IN PERCENTAGES This is due to improvements to the RG functionalities on our platform and the introduction of algorithms for early detection of potential problem 4,50 % gamblers. This allows us to identify risk behaviours early and assign adequate protective measures to those players. 3,00 % As a basis to help customers make responsible decisions, we provide comprehensive information on relevant topics such as game information, probabi1,50 % lity of winning and risk awareness on the company’s own RG website. More than 25,000 people visited the page in 2018, 65 % from German speaking countries. Thereby simplicity is key in order to reach 0,00 % 2017 2018 all customers. In 2018, 73 % of customers rated our player protection materials as easy to understand. Additionally, thanks to the transparent account overview, our customers can view all relevant information on their bets as well as incoming and outgoing payments at any time. LIMITS OFFERED As part of our prevention methods, we offer the possibility to set limits. Limits are an agreement between a customer and us to restrict their gambling involvement (time and money) to a certain budget. They are binding and all bets that would exceed these limits are rejected. The increase or revocation of limits is only possible after a mandatory waiting period of seven days, whereas a reduction of a limit to a more restrictive level is processed with immediate effect. In 2018 we offered possibilities to set the following limits: 7% • payment limits • loss limit OF ACTIVE • time limit CUSTOMERS • limits for maximum betting amounts HAVE SET • limits for the gaming offer LIMITS 28 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY: IN SAFE HANDS USAGE OF LIMITS At Tipico, the usage of limits has stayed consisIN PERCENTAGES OF CUSTOMERS tent over the last three years, which goes along with prevalence studies stating that around 8 % 10,00 % of gamblers might require limits as additional safeguards. 8,00 % 7,62 % 7,25 % 6,96 % On top of that, we offer exclusion agreements, where customers can request to be excluded 6,00 % from our offers voluntarily. As part of an exclusion, a customer will no longer be able to place 4,00 % bets with us online or in any Tipico shop. Exclusion also leads to an exemption from all marketing. 2,00 % As an additional protection, an exclusion agreement is irrevocable for a minimum period of one 0,00 % year. Where legally possible, we synchronize ex2016 2017 2018 clusions with databases provided by authorities (e.g. OASIS in Germany). Per month, an average of 0.11 % of our active customers requested an indefinite self-exclusion in 2018. USAGE OF EXCLUSION AGREEMENTS The necessity for self-exclusion has been decreaPER EMPLOYEE sing over the course of 2018, with improvements to IN PERCENTAGES OF CUSTOMERS our player protection functionalities and processes being a key factor. Our player protection service is rounded off by 0,20 % support for questions and concerns regarding responsible betting. Customer service, the RG team, 0,15 % 0,15 % as well as external partners and linked counselling providers are available to help. 0,11 % 0,10 % 0,00 % Austria* Colombia Croatia EARLY DETECTION SYSTEM In order to tailor the player protection to each customer’s individual needs, we introduced an early-detection process on the online betting platform during 2018. Online gambling is account based. Every gambling transaction is linked to an account which again is linked to an ID verified customer. Therefore, behavioural data can be monitored and used for early-detection of gambling-related problems. 29 In case risk behaviours are noticed, RG messages are sent to give the customer feedback: • Level 1 Increased RG information • Level 2 Interrupting the flow of gambling with RG messages • Level 3 Investigation by the RG team If risk behaviour persists, the customer is confronted and a dialogue is initiated. As part of this dialogue, mitigating measures (limits, breaks, exclusions,) are agreed upon with the customer. If no agreement is reached, we impose adequate mitigations for the protection of the customer (e.g. imposed limits or imposed exclusion). RG TRAINING In order to implement a stringent player protection strategy, knowledge and awareness among employees is crucial. Therefore, our employees are trained in RG topics. In 2018 we implemented: • 30 RG training sessions for around 350 back-office employees • 127 extensive RG workshops for shop employees (> 12,000 hours) • 95 % of customer-facing employees for the online services completed advanced RG trainings MONITORING AND QUALITY CONTROL Online, all player protection functionalities are largely scalable. Once evaluated for their effectiveness, we rely on them to remain effective at least in the short and medium term. This differs in the retail offer, where the protection of the customers hinges on the ability and compliance of each single employee. Therefore, constant supervision is necessary. Our internal quality team is constantly travelling from shop to shop to foster strict adherence to regulatory requirements and internal policies. In addition to that, we work with external contractors to conduct mystery shopping exercises. In 2018, we conducted in the Retail network: • 870 quality audits • 300 mystery shopping visits on minor protection conducted by Tipico quality team • 900 mystery shopping visits on minor protection, player protection and Anti Money Laundering (AML) conducted by external partners. TARGETS 2019 • further reduce the financial impact of problem gambling • apply innovations piloted in the online business to retail • further strengthen quality controls and mystery shopping 30 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2018: • continuously improving performance and mee• 99 % of employees successfully completed the ting all applicable laws mandatory General Data Protection Regulation • working against corruption in all its forms, inclu(GDPR) and Anti Money Laundering (AML) traiding extortion and bribery nings • establishing and continuously improving the fra• we improved processes to ensure they are in line mework for the prevention of money laundering with the new general data protection regulation • respecting the privacy of customers and use mo• we introduced new roles such as internal audit, dern and secure data protection technologies data governance manager, data protection offi• reviewing policies and business practices conticer and corporate responsibility (CR) manager nually to encourage engagement with business • our compliance management framework and partners and to promote development AML framework were externally audited • operating in a way that safeguards against unfair business practices • supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • following highest standards as directed in the Tipico Ethics Codex 31 GOVERNANCE: VITAL TO ACCOUNTABILITY therefore delegates authority for many business Long term success can only be generated by reprocesses. That way, we achieve the greatest posspecting business integrity and focusing on complisible operational ability to act and ensure that the ance and business ethics. Therefore, these issues management can focus on the most important are the basis for all our undertakings and known decisions. By using the expertise on all levels, the and respected by all employees. company can progressively and quickly adapt to a We have flat hierarchies and consequently the mamarket in which change is the only constant. Thenagement should not and does not strive to microrefore, we established a Delegation of Authority, manage every single decision. Rather, our company which governs responsibilities and allowances. builds on the competencies of all employees and THREE LINES OF DEFENCE At Tipico, the first line of defence is provided by staff and operational management. They have ownership, responsibility and accountability for directly evaluating, controlling and mitigating risks. Internal governance is further supported by departments with controlling functions such as Compliance. These departments have a risk minimizing role, in which they support the identification of risks and the implementation of effective risk management tools. Our Group Internal Audit and Risk Management team takes responsibility for the third line of defence. BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT EXTERNAL AUDIT REGULATOR 1ST LINE OF DEFENCE 2ND LINE OF DEFENCE 3RD LINE OF DEFENCE FINANCIAL CONTROLS INTERNAL MANAGEMENT GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT CONTROL CONTROLS SECURITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES QUALITY COMPLIANCE LEGAL GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT re provides independent oversight on the efficienIn order to provide recommendations and to ency and effectiveness of governance and internal hance internal controls, an Internal Audit & Risk controls. The team further supports the company Department has been established. Objectively on achieving the strategic objectives and sustaiindependent and not involved in operational denable long-term growth by assisting management cisions are main principles of our internal audit in identifying and actively managing their existing and risk management team. These principles are and emerging key risks. fundamental to transparent processes. It therefo32 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT staff expanded. The compliance department manaThe trust of our customers is the main reason we can ges licensing, compliance, anti-money laundering, call ourselves the market leader in sports betting. At responsible gambling and communication with rethe same time, an important goal is to be a trusted gulatory authorities. It further analyses regulatory partner for regulatory authorities. Our offers and risks and consults all business areas concerning the services are based on licenses, issued by the Malta implementation of regulatory requirements, proGaming Authority. We actively advocate for the imviding relevant Group guidelines and training conplementation of these permissions, which are assotents. Employees can additionally direct their comciated with strict criteria, in other federal states as pliance-related questions and issues to the team. well as in other EU states. Further, we are a member Within the last years, we have developed a complianof the German Sports Betting Association (DSWV), ce management framework based on tools already which was founded in 2014 by leading German and in use for agile software development processes. The European betting providers. Its primary concern is to compliance management system is an integrated constructively advocate for the further development system comprised of written documents, functions, of the German sports betting regulations, which parprocesses, controls and tools that help the organiticularly include the aspects of player and youth prozation comply with legal requirements and minimize tection as well as addiction prevention. A list of all violations of law. It was built to be as transparent as associations can be found in Appendix 3. possible over the organization‘s compliance efforts. As a business framework unit, our compliance deIt allows us to measure or track compliance projects, partment is located in the headquarters of the Tipicontrols and deadlines with the opportunity to adco Group. In the reporting year, new structures were dress the risks relevant to the organization, while created within our compliance organization and its also meeting multiple requirements. INVOLVEMENT OF EMPLOYEES Whenever people work together, the structure and guidelines underlying this cooperation play a key part in success. For this reason, we have developed a set of corporate guidelines, which conform with international laws, ethics standards and our values. They meet the needs of an internationally operating company. Our Tipico Corporate Practice serves as a guide in the daily work. Among others, it includes the following topics: 33 BUSINESS ETHICS: OUR ETHICS CODE SERan appropriate solution for the employee and TipiVES AS A FOUNDATION FOR OUR APPROACH co. To avoid conflicts of interest, any direct or indiA core principle is that all members of the Tipico rect use of own gaming and betting offers except Group act with integrity and thereby positively refon designated employee accounts is forbidden for lect our values. Our Tipico Ethics Code intends to all our employees. Further, company facilities may provide guidance to all employees with respect to only be used in a manner that suits our values. For their responsibilities at the company, with the parthe same reason we do not make any financial conticular target of creating awareness about anti-cortributions to politicians, political organisations or ruption and anti-bribery laws in order to enable all political parties. employees to recognize potential issues and deal To foster ethical business behaviour, we practiwith them appropriately. se the approach that every employee should reWe do not tolerate any form of corruption. Therefoport any perceived concerns, risks, or misconduct re, we actively work with stakeholders to avoid any without having to fear sanctions. As part of our situations that could be construed as such. EmpWhistleblowing Policy, we have therefore instituted loyees and consultants are not allowed to use their an external, independent ombudsman as a conposition at Tipico to request or accept anything of tact for whistle-blowers. In 2018, four reports were value or the promise thereof beyond the scope of registered across the Tipico Group via the whistlemoderate and appropriate gifts. Every employee blower system of which one could be substantiareceiving gifts and hospitality exceeding the value ted. of cumulatively 150 € within a year is required to However, our ethical business practices were not declare all these to the central register of the comonly visible internally. In 2018, we did not receive pliance department. any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for Same applies to conflicts of interest. All potentinon-compliance as described in the following GRI al cases must be reported in order to allow for a requirements: transparent discussion of the involved risks and for GRI DESCRIPTION GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health & safety Impact of products & services GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 34 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH KEEPING OUR DATA SAFE policy section where customers can exercise their As the number of our customers is increasing steadata subject rights: dily, it is of high importance to continuously improve our data security. Further, on May 25, 2018, the In 2018, our DPO Office received 24 observations. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) becaTwo cases of potential data breaches were reporme applicable across the EU, aimed at protecting ted to the Information and Data Protection Compersonal data held by businesses and other orgamissioner (IDPC). After a thorough investigation of nizations. the potential impact on our customers data, both We therefore initiated a project which started mid breaches were closed without requirement for furof 2017 in order to be well-prepared to cope with ther action. We have acted upon accordingly as the new challenges that the GDPR brings to all our defined in the data breach notification procedure business areas. A multi-disciplinary approach has and solved and mitigated all of them in a timely been taken to embed awareness and compliance and satisfactory manner. No complaints received in the organisation with collaborated effort througfrom outside parties or regulatory bodies could be hout the business. substantiated by the organization. To ensure continuous effort towards our customer In order to inject data protection into the DNA of privacy compliance, a data protection officer (DPO) our company and enable a data protection aware has been appointed and a DPO Office has been esand compliant culture, we introduced an extensive tablished. A privacy governance structure was set mandatory GDPR e-learning training. In 2018, 99% up to ensure alignment with all business sections. of all employees completed the online training, Data processing agreements were also implemensupplemented by deepening personal trainings for ted, in order to guarantee customer data protecemployees interacting directly with our customers. tion when working with third parties. Various technical and organizational measures were taken by POTENTIAL DATA 2018 Tipico to protect personal information of our custoBREACHES REPORTED mers from unauthorized access and/or alteration. In addition, high standards are revived by licenses Observations reported to DPO 24 and certification, including the certification for the (Internal) international standard for information security management systems ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (certified by Incidents reported to IDPC 2 TÜV Rheinland CERT). (Supervisor Authority) by DPO In order to comply with the enhanced data subject rights, we have set up a data subject access request Within 72h (Target 100%) 100 % process along with an updated transparent privacy 35 PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING (AML) In recent years, the topic of money laundering has gained increasing attention. As a sportsbook provider, we are confronted daily with monetary transactions by customers. This is associated with a special responsibility. In 2018, our internal AML organisation was strengthened, and teams expanded in order to drive AML compliance. Thus, the following target model was designed with 22.85 Full-Time Equivalents (FTE) in total working to actively prevent money laundering. HEAD OF AML MLRO 1 MLRO* SENIOR RETAIL AML COMPLIANCE AML AND KYC SENIOR ANALYST TSA B, E & S SERVICE MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER TSL 0.35 3 1 DMLRO 1 1 RETAIL RISK AML AND KYC KYC VERIFICATIONS ANALYSTS & SPECIALIST TEAM TEAM 5.5 3+1 2 CONTRACTORS 2+2 Relevant parts of the retail operations are further monitored on a daily basis by an external partner, the Kerberos Compliance-Managementsysteme GmbH, a regulatory compliance tech company with strong expertise in the field of money laundering prevention. Our entire Group follows an AML policy, which creates awareness and explains what to do in case of suspicion of criminal activities. Our Tipico Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) further designed an appropriate process for action, which must be followed by employees. AML TRAININGS In 2018, 748 AML trainings were carried out IN CORE BUSINESS ENTITIES (covering 99 % of employees in core business entities), supplemented by further trainings 800 for retail shops. Furthermore, the AML frame700 work was constructed, implemented and audited successfully. An external auditor asses600 sed the suitability of its relevant parts. 500 400 300 200 100 0 2016 2017 2018 36 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: OUR APPROACH SUSPICIOUS TRANSACTIONS Relevant parts of the retail operations are further INVESTIGATED monitored on a daily basis by an external partner, the Kerberos Compliance-Managementsysteme 400 GmbH, a regulatory compliance tech company with strong expertise in the field of money laundering 350 prevention. 300 Our entire Group follows an AML policy, which creates awareness and explains what to do in case of 250 suspicion of criminal activities. Our Tipico Group 200 Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) further 150 designed an appropriate process for action, which must be followed by employees. 100 50 0 2016 2017 2018 SARs Investigated SARs reported to authorities Further, all customer identification, simplified due diligence (SDD), customer due diligence (CDD), enhanced due diligence (EDD) and own risk management processes are under continuous review in order to comply with all legislations. For instance, about 850,000 PEP (politically exposed person) and more than 500,000 CDD tests were carried out in 2018. TARGETS 2019: • further strengthen prevention of money laundering • further embedding the data protection culture in the organisation by focusing on accountability • improve data protection related processes to increase maturity • optimization of cybercrime and data breach notification 37 OUR COMMUNITIES: BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2018: • expressing our values by charitable giving and • we extended our corporate social responsibility corporate projects (CSR) activities across locations and carried out • supporting active involvement in the communivarious events for a good cause ties through volunteering initiatives • more than 1,000 hours of community work were • supporting employee driven activities carried out by employees in Malta • focussing on close cooperation with selected • 15 options for participation in sportive activities partners to guarantee long term success for the good cause were offered across locations • more than 260,000 € were donated in the field of healthcare, prevention research and social development 38 OUR COMMUNITIES: BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS OUR COMMUNITIES: CONTRIBUTION THROUGH We contribute to the local economy not only by EMPLOYMENT AND TAXES providing products, but also through employment, A stable regulatory environment, including expetaxes and social community involvement. As a learienced regulators like the MGA, are key to running ding provider of sports betting in the German mara successful sports betting company. Malta is ofket, we observe our duties and pay sports betting fering both, as the first EU Member State to enact taxes in Germany as well as tax on our online cacomprehensive legislation in this field from 2004 sino offers. We further pay sports betting taxes in onwards. Malta is thereby seen as one of the foreAustria and Malta. most tested jurisdictions in the world, following a consistent approach to regulation, while keeping requirements on a high standard. Over the years, WORKPLACES OFFERED BY TIPICO IN 2018: it has developed itself into a hub of gaming excellence, providing an extensive network for gaming Germany > 240 workplaces; companies. For this reason, our headquarter is lo> 900 including own retail shops cated in Malta, while main markets remain in GerMalta > 250 workplaces many. With a market share of over 50% in Germany, Croatia > 141 workplaces the offer has a high availability around the country. Colombia > 24 workplaces As a result, the number of provided workplaces in Austria > 16 including own retail shops these two countries are the highest. As we are well Gibraltar > 5 workplaces integrated in all locations of operations, we support all local communities with a special focus on Germany and Malta. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT: WE ARE COMby organizing sports auctions, internal tournaMITTED TO OUR COMMUNITIES ments or events for charitable giving our vaAt Tipico, we see social commitment as the basis lues become visible by corporate actions for the for a healthy business environment and a consgood cause. Besides charitable giving, we focus tructive cooperation with all stakeholders. That primarily on supporting active involvement in is why we combine our ferventness for sports the communities through volunteering days and with the passion for social development. Either employee driven initiatives. That way, progress is ensured by implementing everyone’s skills to play a vital part. To guarantee long term success, we focus on close collaborations with selected partners. We follow strict internal guidelines and emphasise the support of projects that suit our values and meet own sustainability requirements. Thus, Tipico creates win-win situations and adds value to the whole community. Every project, organisation and association that has been supported pursues charitable purposes. Additionally, the type and scope of support that the company offers is regulated internally by the ethics code. 39 As customer health and safety is of the highest priority to us, in 2018, more than 120,000 € was donated within main markets in Germany and Austria for player counselling programs, as well as around 100,000 € for research purposes to prevent gambling addiction. In addition, we donated more than 40,000 € in charitable projects within Malta. SPORTS FOR THE GOOD CAUSE AUCTIONS FOR THE GOOD CAUSE We are not only a partner of the German FootWhether auctions of unique sports paraphernaball Bundesliga and FC Bayern Munich; our paslia such as jerseys or scarves, or balls signed by sion shines through in the voluntary work and football stars – the proceeds from these events responsible actions within society. That is why, always benefit charitable projects in the area of beyond its sponsoring commitments, Tipico sports and health. also fosters sports events and charity camIn 2018, Tipico collaborated with the following paigns of its partner associations, non-profit partners: organisations, and sports foundations. In 2018 these included: Charity Walks & Medellin Marathon, Sport auction Sporthilfe Runs -Germany Colombia Tipico Austria MCCF Run, Own Sportsday with donations United Charity Internal Malta for the good cause, Malta (start of collaboration) auctions Schlossparklauf Karlsruhe, “The feedback from colleagues was great! We Germany are pleased that so many people took part in the auction. All in all, we were able to provide Inspire Malta with over 1,700 €.” For each Tipico employee participating in a Senior Manager Corporate IT, about the support charity race, 30 € were donated. of his colleagues. 40 OUR COMMUNITIES: BEYOND BUSINESS OPERATIONS VOLUNTARY ENGAGEMENT EMPLOYEE DRIVEN INITIATIVES In our company culture, we share the belief that Supporting employee driven initiatives is seen ability progresses through active involvement. as a way to offer incentives for employees to Therefore, employees are given opportunities get engaged in charitable activities and to to get engaged. In 2018, we organized an extenalign closely with the Tipico corporate culture. sive CSR Day in Malta. Around 140 employees Employees may request materials needed for participated, resulting in more than 1,000 hours planning their own initiatives or Tipico doubles of community work. donations collected by employees. Projects Over the last three years, we have planted more range from ventures initiated and independthan 1,700 trees on Malta, which is a sustainable ently organised by employees to departmensupport for the island’s flora. tal and company events. At the CSR Days, Tipico employees: Employee driven initiatives supported in 2018: Collected around 1 ton of waste Painted more than Increased potential World Cup 20 benches of a charity shop charity Game Planted more than Cleared 3 Charitable Shoe boxes 100 trees public parcs get together for people in need Organized an event with Supported Internal Breast cancer elderly people animal care center charity auctions awareness day TARGETS 2019: • release of a CR policy in order to support an integrated and group-wide unified approach towards community involvement • extend voluntary engagement of employees by offering advanced possibilities • extend support towards employee driven initiatives and charity races • increase integration of further business entities 41 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2018: • measuring our environmental performance by • we collected information on environmental use of Global Reporting Initiative standards Impact • evaluating environmental Impact of facilities • we reduced our emissions by moving to more and operations with a focus on implementing a efficient data centres continuous improvement process • we started and reached first milestones in the • using natural resources efficiently to minimize workstream focussing on environmental issues waste • using innovations and technologies to minimize atmospheric emissions • promoting awareness regarding environmental guidelines for employees and the public 42 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE OUR IMPACT: FROM ELECTRICITY TO WASTE tions and business decision-making processes. MANAGEMENT As a digital company, the focus lies on emissions reEven though environmental topics are not considesulting from the usage of data centres and business red a main risk for us as a provider of digital sertravels of employees. Further, environmental Imvices, we recognise our impact and therefore focus pact from consumption of water, energy, and mateon reducing negative effects. We support a precaurials in company offices are constantly tracked with tionary approach and integrate environmental rethe goal of minimizing waste. In 2018, we did not sponsibilities and considerations into daily operaidentify any non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations rather a voluntary workstream met regularly in order to develop new projects and increase performance. CO2e In 2018, we collected information about CO2 equivalents (CO2e) traced back to business activities for the first time. These included directly produced CO2-emissions caused by company vehicles (Scope 1), Scope 2 emissions due to consumption of electScope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3 ricity and Scope 3 emissions due to business travel (including flights, cabs and trains). ELECTRICITY Consumption of electricity was tracked around our locations, resulting in around 362 metric tonnes of CO2e. Understandably, the consumption varied not only by the size and location of the entity, but by the number of employees as well. EMISSIONS FROM ELECTRICITY EMISSIONS FROM ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYEE IN TONNES CO2E IN KWH 300 3000 2386 234 200 2000 1167 87 100 1000 234 87 747 758 33 0 0 Austria* Colombia Croatia Germany* Gibraltar Malta Austria* Colombia Croatia Germany* Gibraltar Malta 5 Calculation partly based on values of previous years; Values only include core business areas 43 For comparison reasons, the amount of CO2e is calELECTRICITYMIX OF TIPICO RETAIL SHOPS culated with the standards of the Greenhouse Gas IN PERCENTAGES Protocol (GHG), which implies country specific energy mixes. In order to minimize Impact, we are strong100 ly committed towards using renewable sourced electricity to attain a more favourable energy mix. 80 While the average of renewable sourced electricity in the gross electricity mix within the EU (2016) was around 30 %, the majority of Tipico business entities 60 sources electricity from providers offering 100 % renewable sources. Therefore, the CO2e based on our 40 specific electricity mix is expected to be below calculated amounts. 20 The same applies to our retail shops. Majority of shops operated by the Tipico Shop Agency North and 0 East are sourcing electricity from 100 % renewable Renewable Other Electricity sources. Based on supplier information, this leads to the reduction of more than 1,000 tonnes CO2 emissions compared to conventional electricity mixes. DATA CENTRES sequently, energy consumption is expected to be In 2018, the energy consumption by external data much lower at times of reduced demand. centres that could be traced back to our usage was As the amount of carbon emissions is not only aftracked for the first time. We managed to receive fected by the sheer number of servers running, and information from around 75 % of data centres that the efficiency of theses servers, but also by the poare handling our operations. Yet, as the picture is wer mix used, we chose a provider that follows own not complete, we will work on improving data comrequirements on high percentages of renewable pleteness before publishing final results. energies in the electricity mix. In accordance with Another big step was moving our data servers to AWS statements, the provider used on average the Amazon Cloud (AWS). This led to a high level 50 % of renewable energies. AWS states that “On of scalability. In a framework of dedicated servers average, AWS customers use 77 % fewer servers, for our digital services, the number of servers must 84 % less power, and utilize a 28 % cleaner power be adjusted to the highest demand (e.g. around mix, for a total reduction in carbon emissions of big sports events). During times of lower demand, 88 % from using the AWS Cloud instead of operaunused servers become redundant, while still ting their own data centers. running. With the move towards AWS, capacity is dynamically scaled to the actual workload. ConWATER Our main focus does not lie on the manufacturing industry. Thus, the water consumption of the company is comparably low. As we are renting the office spaces, data availability depends on the landlords and the regulatory environments. Therefore, not all data for 2018 could be collected at this time. Nevertheless, tracking for consumption by all entities is set up and data is recorded in order to notify irregularities. Water is usually sourced by local municipalities and except for one entity, no reused or recycled water is used in our facilities. 6 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/161266/umfrage/stromerzeugung-aus-erneuerbaren-energien-in-der-eu-27-seit-1998/ 7 AWS (2015) Retrieved from: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/cloud-computing-server-utilization-the-environment/ 44 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE WASTE MANAGEMENT Efficient waste management in terms of separation and possibilities for recycling are a fundamental requirement within our Group. Most of our entities have extensive possibilities already in place. However, for our entity in Gibraltar with five employees, the rented office space and office environment does not enable the desired degree of waste separation. MALTA GIBRALTAR GERMANY COLOMBIA AUSTRIA CROATIA Besides waste management in offices, suppliers of issue and are actively starting to change towards IT materials have been contacted in order to impleenvironmentally friendly office spaces. Just looking ment recycling possibilities for IT related products. at the headquarter, we were able to reduce the Furthermore, packing materials such as for our new amount of around 70,000 plastic bottles per year, terminals in retails shops are purchased from supresulting in the reduction of one-time plastic of pliers using high percentages of recycled materials. around 1,900 kg, which equals the annual packaIn order to minimize resources and costs and thus ging waste of around 60 EU citizens (2016) . stay efficient, we further track the consumption of During CSR activities, we got further involved in consumable items such as paper. cleaning up three national parcs, planting trees in In 2018, a new workstream dedicated towards two locations and collecting about one ton of waspromoting and setting up initiatives for an envite during a clean-up session of Maltese beaches. ronmentally conscious company was started. As a first project, all employees were equipped with reusable bpa-free Tipico bottles with the goal of reIncreasing amount of waste ranked as one of ducing environmental Impact and minimizing onethe top environmental Impact within the EU. way plastic consumption. This is especially relevant Reduction of around 70,000 one-time plastic in countries such as Malta, were the recycling rate is bottles/year relatively low compared to other European count= 1,900 kg of packaging waste ries . With the new product, the one-way plastic = annual plastic packaging waste of around bottles are being replaced at our entities. Our emp60 EU inhabitants loyees are thereby drawing attention to this global 8 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/901192/umfrage/recyclingquote-von-kunststoffverpackungen-in-eu-laendern/ 9 Statista (2018) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/786353/umfrage/plastikverpackungsabfall-in-ausgewaehlten-eu-laendern-je-einwohner/ 45 BUSINESS TRAVEL: REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT As an international company, business travel is one of our biggest environmental Impact. Our business travel includes the car parks used by the Aircraft Road teams consulting retail shops (GHG Protocol Sco49% 45% pe 1) and emissions as a result of individual travel Road Aircraft of employees by publicly 49%available sources such 45% as taxis, trains and airplanes (GHG Protocol Scope Road 3). Information about all business-related trips of our Group were collected and resulted in 733.849 Rail Rail metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent and 65.097 metric 6% Aircraft tonnes emissions from biofuel. This equalsRail an emis6% sion intensity of 1.189 metric tonnes per employee in core business entities . GHG EMISSIONS – ROAD GHG EMISSIONS ROAD ROAD IN METRIC TONNES CO2E GHG EMISSIONS – ROAD IN METRIC TONNES CO Travel by road makes up a large part of our overall IN METRIC TONNES CO2E200 2E 150 business travel. This is especially due to the high 200 200 100 number of Tipico shops within Germany and Aus150 50 tria, which are inspected and consulted by internal 100 0 quality and retail services teams on a regular basis. 50 169 Cab Retail Retail Shop 150 0 Services Services Agency Cab Retail Retail Shop (Austria) (Germany) North Services Services Agency 100 (Austria) (Germany) 102 North AIRPLANE – TRAVELLED 50 DISTANCE PER MONTH IN KM AIRPLANE – TRAVELLED 16 DISTANCE PER MONTH IN KM 83 0 600000 Cab Retail Retail Shop Services Services Agency400000 600000 (Austria) (Germany) North200000 400000 0 February 200000 January February March April May 0 March June July April August May Septemb… June October July November August December Septemb… October November DecemberJanuary 8 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/901192/umfrage/recyclingquote-von-kunststoffverpackungen-in-eu-laendern/ 9 Statista (2018) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/786353/umfrage/plastikverpackungsabfall-in-ausgewaehlten-eu-laendern-je-einwohner/ 46 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: LESS IS MORE AIRPLANE Due to the international business environment and Group entities in six different countries, travel by airplane makes up the largest part of individual business travel, with around 49 % of all business travel resulting in approximately 391 metric tonnes of CO2e. In total, our employees were travelling around 4 million kilometres by plane, which equals approximately 100 times around the world. AIRPLANE TRAVELLED DISTANCE PER MONTH IN KM 600000 400000 200000 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December 8 Statista (2019) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/901192/umfrage/recyclingquote-von-kunststoffverpackungen-in-eu-laendern/ 9 Statista (2018) Retrieved from: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/786353/umfrage/plastikverpackungsabfall-in-ausgewaehlten-eu-laendern-je-einwohner/ 47 RAIL In accordance with the GHG protocol, around 6 % of our emissions, equalling around 47 metric tonnes of CO2e, result from rail traffic. Yet, the majority of travel by train was carried out in Germany, with a Around 1,600 long distance travels by train high share of renewable energy in the power mix. Thus, emission factors are expected to be below calculated numbers. In accordance with the GerWith an average distance of around man Federal Environmental Agency “Umweltbundesamt”, the emissions by rail based on our indivi262 kilometres dual rail mix are expected to be only approximately 15 metric tonnes. REDUCING IMPACT Communication is key. Therefore, business travel is More than 7,227 meetings relevant in order to work together closely and get were scheduled via virtual meeting rooms the best results possible. Nevertheless, wherever achievable, we are counting on alternative systems Up to 47 meetings per day in order to minimize consumption of time and CO2e. Thus, we are offering our employees various channels for communication. As shown in the table, virWith up to 59 dialled in tual online meetings are used very frequently. computers/conference rooms On average 6.8 dialled in computers/conference rooms (higher number of individual participants) TARGETS 2019: • extend tracking of data about environmental Impact • increase data accuracy concerning business travel by implementing a new tracking system • increase awareness of environmental Impact with the company • produce a stable high share of renewable electricity in the electricity mix • extend benchmarking on environmental effects 11Umweltbundesamt (2018) Retrieved from: https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/themen/verkehr-laerm/emissionsdaten#verkehrsmittelvergleich_personenverkehr 48 SUPPLY CHAIN: KNOW YOUR BUSINESS PARTNERS WE ARE COMMITTED TO: IN 2018: • monitoring our supply chain in order to reduce • we introduced new policies and processes to inrisks and minimize negative effects crease transparency and streamline the purcha• informing business partners about responsible sing process for the protection and preservation business practices of our company’s interests • focussing on trustful, long lasting and sustaina• around 97 % of our suppliers were operating ble business relationships from EU Member states • we introduced our Tipico Supplier Code of Conduct and extended processes to know our business partners 49 OUR SUPPLY As an international company, we are interacting with people, companies and organizations outside the Tipico Group in all business areas. Our supply chain is less affected by direct procurements such as raw materials and goods for production but rather shaped by indirect spendings on services, supporting the day to day business such as marketing, gaming, IT and affiliation services. Nevertheless, safe collaborations with suppliers following the same high standards as Tipico are important in order to guarantee the efficient flow of the business. We therefore expect suppliers to acknowledge our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on the standards of the UN Global values and thereby promotes ethical, social, environmental and economic progress. THE SELECTION PROCESS which makes it possible to immediately identify Whether it’s customers, partners, franchise partsuspicious results and take relevant actions. Enners, or suppliers we are implementing guidelines hanced due diligence (EDD) is subsequently triggeand checks to guarantee safe relationships. These red in case any suspicious result is met during the do not only include customer identity verification checks, always in accordance and agreed with the processes, but also due diligence on the franchise Money Laundering Officer (MLRO). partners and vendors. Even charitable organizatiWe further implemented a contract signing process ons are asked for transparent information to guapolicy to ensure a structured, efficient and transrantee that trust is never misused. “Know your busiparent process for contract signing requests. The ness partners” processes and procedures reduce target is to ensure that through a structured workthe risk in facilitating business with inappropriate flow, every contract, order, commercial and service business partners, especially from an anti-money acquired, which passes through these stages, is laundering perspective. By verifying our partners appropriately reviewed, documented and correctly and understanding their business, we increase our allocated to the applicable business unit. The poliability to pinpoint any potential risks. As a first apcy therefore describes the main rules and measuproach to supplier verification, a risk assessment is res to fulfil the requirements for a contract to be completed. This includes specific parameters such signed. This includes legal, tax, finance, AML, data as jurisdiction, type of service, number of empprotection and compliance checks or requests of loyees or monetary value of contracts, to name a additional information. few. Based on the risk assessment results, specific As for areas dealing with personal information, we due diligence checks are carried out. As a part of follow a strict procurement data retention policy these checks, we screen individuals and organizatargeting all Group employees that are collecting tions through an established compliance checking and processing personal data of affiliates, vendors engine such as World Check by Thomson Reuters, and suppliers. 50 SUPPLY CHAIN: KNOW YOUR BUSINESS PARTNERS GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLIERS GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION GEO Supporting local suppliers does not only help us OF SUPPLIER develop professional partnerships and ensure reBASED ON CONTRACT PARTNER liable supply. By doing so, we also indirectly support the whole community. Thus, local sourcing is a strategy to support a stable local economy and 44 maintain relations with the community. We practice a commonly used definition of what local means to the company. Only suppliers based in the same 53 country as the receiving entity are defined as local. We track the geographical distribution of our sup77 pliers for our headquarter in Malta and the supporting entities in Malta and Gibraltar. The majority of 3 our business partners are local, with around 53 %. Supplemented by around 44 % coming from surSum of EU Sum of Non-EU Sum of Local Sum rounding European countries, only around 3 % are partners outside the EU. This guarantees better communication, short distribution ways and compliance of European standards. ON GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION Compared to the number of contract partners, OF SUPPLIER spending on local suppliers is comparably low BASED ON SPENDING (19 %). Yet, the amount spent outside the local community but still within the EU (77 %) makes up for the majority. With a focus on central Eu19 ropean countries, we simultaneously minimize the risk of violation of human rights. At the same time, we can keep environmental impact from 4 shipping at a low level. 77 of Local Sum of Local Sum of Non-EU Sum of EU 12 International Labour Organization (2019): Work for a brighter future – Global Commission on the Future of Work 13 The Global Slavery Index (2019) Retrieved from: https://www.globalslaveryindex.org/2018/findings/regional-analysis/europe-and-central-asia/ 51 PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS We have a zero-tolerance approach towards all forms of modern slavery and therefore expect all our suppliers to follow the same approach. Slavery, forcedand child labour and human trafficking are violations of fundamental human rights by exploiting persons for the benefit of others. Yet, in 2016, still around 300 million workers worldwide lived in extreme poverty while millions of children, men and women are still victims of modern slavery and insufficient working conditions, which lead to major work-related health issues. Even though migration policies have been tightened within Europe, rendering migrants and vulnerable groups to higher risks, central European countries have comparatively low risks of modern slavery. Governments in Europe show great determination to minimize human rights violations. Thus, focussing on suppliers from European countries is a first step towards reducing these risks. All employees are further encouraged to report suspicions on any form of crime. TARGETS 2019: • upgrade of procurement function • extend centralised process for supply management and contract signing • increase transparency of contract obligations and spending, which increases efficiency and monitoring and control over expenses 52 WE NEVER SETTLE FOR SECOND WE NEVER SETTLE FOR SECOND As One Tipico, we are commited to corporate responsibility. Our team is continuously working on improving our Impact on the local community and the society at large. We keep setting ourselves higher targets. With this report, we strive to increase transparency and hope to present you some interesting insights into our business. We are excited to present you further updates about our strategy in the future. 53 APPENDIX APPENDIX 1: BACKGROUND ON SUSTAINAThe reporting of CO2 -emissions is influenced by BILITY REPORTING the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting Content and Scope and Reporting Standard by the World Resource We are proud to present the first nonfinancial reInstitute (WRI) and the World Business Council for port for the Tipico Group covering the reporting Sustainable Development (WBCSD) as well as by year 2018. The report is published as a stand-alone the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Emissions by report and will be renewed on an annual base. The electricity consumption are calculated with the use report focuses on topics impacting Tipico stakeof the GHG Protocol tool for stationary combusholders to the greatest extent. The goal is to transtion. Emissions resulting from business travel are parently address these topics and outline a path to calculated with the GHG Protocol tool for mobile continuous progress, assuring the trust of all stakecombustion. holders. Financial statements are published annually in a The standards of the Global Reporting Initiative separate report. The consolidated financial state(GRI) were used as the framework for structuring ments include information about the Tipico Group the content of the report. Tipico systematically Limited and its subsidiaries. The statements are used the GRI standards to conduct a former mateprepared in accordance with International Finanriality analysis, in order to define the key reporting cial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. aspects and guide further standard disclosures. Financial statements are further independently auThe report additionally includes the GRI content dited and confirmed by the PWC. index. As Tipico is committed to the ten principles We strive for transparency. However, due to the heof the UN Global Compact, communication on the terogeneity of different entities and the introducfour main areas, namely Human Rights, Labor, Ention of new tracking systems, not all information vironment and Corruption Prevention, will be incould be collected in this first report. Therefore, cluded in this report. Any further progress will be chapters contain information about the scope and disclosed in the future. covered Group entities. 54 APPENDIX APPENDIX 2: GRI CONTENT INDEX REFERENCE REQUIREMENTS PAGE NUMBER GRI 101 Introduction 1 GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 1 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 ff. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 3; 7; 39 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 62 GRI 102-6 Markets served 39; 26 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Confidentially GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 12 GRI 102-9 Supply Chain 49 ff. GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply 7 chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 42 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 11; 14 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 59 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 GRI 102-15 Key Impact, risks, and opportunities Chapter specific GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 4; 13; 18 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 34 GRI 102-18 Governance structure 32 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 32 GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 9 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 9 GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 5 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 9 GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 9 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social Impact 9 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 9 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 9 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 9 GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 34 GRI 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 34 GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 17 GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 17 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 10 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 17 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 50 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9; 10 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10 55 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See financial report GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 10 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 10 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Not Applicable due to first report GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Not Applicable due to first report GRI 102-50 Reporting period 54 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 62 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 54 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 62 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards As it is the first report, not all information are available GRI 102-55 GRI content index 55 GRI 102-56 External assurance 10 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Topic specific GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Topic specific GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 14 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 38 ff. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 38 ff. GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic Impact 51 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 34 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 34 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 34 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 34 GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 34 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 45 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 43; 44 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 43; 44 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 43 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 48 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 44 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 44 GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 44 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 44 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 43 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (for example sourced energy) 43 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 43 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 46 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 44; 48 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 34 56 APPENDIX GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 49 ff. GRI 308-2 Negative environmental Impact in the supply chain and actions taken 49 ff. GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 16 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 17 or part-time employees GRI 401-3 Parental leave 17 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 17 GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 17 safety committees GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 16; 17 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 16; 17 GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not Applicable GRI 404-1 Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have underta19 ken during the reporting period GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 19 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develop20 ment reviews GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 13 ff. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Confidentially GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 14 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of 51 association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents 51 GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of 51 forced or compulsory labor GRI 410-1 Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the Not Applicable organization’s GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not Applicable GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 51 GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Not Applicable GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 50 clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 39 development programs GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Impact on local 39 communities GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 50 GRI 414-2 Negative social Impact in the supply chain and actions taken 50 GRI 415-1 Political contributions 34 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Impact of product and service categories 22 ff. GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety Impact of 34 products and services GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 26 GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information 34 and labelling 57 GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 34 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 35 losses of customer data GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 34 Further MateConsumer Protection was defined as a material topic. Therefore, it is covered 22 ff. rial Topic: in this report, even though no specific GRI requirement exists 58 APPENDIX APPENDIX 3: MEMBERSHWIP IN ASSOCIATIONS DEUTSCHES NORMUNGS INSTITUT (DIN) DEUTSCHER SPORTWETTENVERBAND (working group member since 2018) (DSWV) The German Institute for Standardization (DIN) is (board member since 2014) the German national organization for standardizaThe German Sports Betting Association (DSWV) is tion and a German ISO member body. DIN is a Gerthe association of leading German and European man Registered Association (e.V.) headquartered in sports betting providers. It’s committed to a moBerlin. There are currently around 30,000 DIN standern and competition-oriented regulation of sports dards, covering nearly every field of technology. betting in Germany. This includes clear, legally secure rules for providers and consumers. Equally important to DSWV are effective measures to protect players and the integrity of sporting competition. DÜSSELDORFER KREIS (DK) EUROPEAN GAMING AND BETTING ASSOCIA(member since 2017) TION (EGBA) The Düsseldorfer circle (DK) is an initiative of re(working group member since 2017) sponsible individuals from gambling operators, The European Gaming and Betting Association addiction assistance and science, who develop (EGBA) is a Brussels-based industry body represensuggestions for a strictly consumer-protectionting the leading online gaming and betting operaoriented gambling regulation for Germany in open tors, established, licensed and regulated within the discourse. The initiative defines itself thereby as EU. The EGBA works together with national authoria forum for qualified technical exchange and the ties, EU authorities and other stakeholders towards common development of new concepts of consua well-regulated and attractive offer for EU citizens. mer protection. The Association promotes the creation of a safe and reliable European digital environment for online gambling. A well-functioning digital environment requires regulation that provides a high level of consumer protection and considers the reality of the digital economy and consumer demand. It must also ensure that the regulated offer is attractive enough to appeal to the maximum number of players to channel them away from unregulated offers. 59 IGAMING EXECUTIVES NETWORK ASSOCIATION ÖSTERREICHISCHER SPORTWETTENVERBAND (IGEN) (OSWV) (board member since 2018) (member since 2016; board Member since 2018) The iGaming Executives Network Association The Austrian Bookmakers Association (OSWV) aims (iGEN) is an association of Malta’s leading iGaming to safeguard the professional interests of bookmacompanies operating in the European and interkers and totalizers in accordance with its statutes. national markets, which was set up in 2018. The Additionally, the association creates the basis for main issues addressed are specific to the iGaming its members to be able to carry out their activities industry, such as staff shortages with specific comin a secure, legal and economic environment. petences as well as problems in the banking secThe OBMV does not pursue its own economic intertor. General country specific challenges are further ests; it is politically and denominationally neutral. addressed. For instance, Malta’s rental prices have gone up dramatically in recent years. These topics will be addressed in further collaboration with the Maltese government and the public sector, as well as other stakeholders such as Gaming Malta, the Bankers’ Association, the Real Estate Association and other key organisations in this field. THE MALTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE WIRTSCHAFTSRAT CDU (member since 2017) (member since 2008) The Malta Chamber of Commerce, Enterprise and InThe economic council of the Christian Democradustry is the independent voice of the private sector tic Union (CDU) registered association is a country in Malta. Its principal mission is to actively represent wide organized entrepreneurial professional ascompanies from all economic sectors and ensure sociation with approximately 12,000 members. It that entrepreneurs enjoy the best competitive envioffers its members a platform to shape economic ronment and regulatory conditions possible for the and social policy in the sense of Ludwig Erhard‘s soconduct of business. cial market economy. The economic council repreThe Chamber constantly champions the need for sents the interests of the entrepreneurial economy competitiveness, enhancing measures with the pervis-à-vis politics, administration and the public. tinent authorities in Malta as well as in Brussels. UN GLOBAL COMPACT (participant since 2018) The United Nations Global Compact is a non-binding initiative with the goal of encouraging businesses to work together towards reaching sustainable and responsible business practices. It thereby acts as the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. The UN Global Compact enables companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and takes actions in these areas. Businesses are asked to report on their progress in these areas on a regular basis. 60 APPENDIX APPENDIX 4: LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ABBREVIATION FULL TERM AML Anti-Money Laundering CCO Chief Commercial Officer CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Financial Officer CRO Chief Regulatory Officer CMS Compliance Management System CR Corporate Responsibility CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CDD Customer Due Diligence CDU Christian Democratic Union DIN Deutsches Normungs Institut DK Düsseldorfer Kreis DSWV Deutsche Sportwettenverband EWS Early Warning System eCOGRA eCommerce Online Gaming Regulation and Assurance EDD Enhanced Due Diligence EGBA European Gaming and Betting Association ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance GRI Global Reporting Initiative GHG Greenhouse Gas Protocol IDPC Information and Data Protection Commissioner iGEN iGaming Executives Network Association ISMS Information Security Management System MGA Malta Gaming Authority NGO Non-Governmental Organizations OASIS Onlineabfrage Spielerstatus OSWV Österreichischer Sportwettenverband RG Responsible Gaming SDD Simplified Due Diligence WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resource Institute 61 IMPRINT AND CONTACT OWNER AND PUBLISHER: Tipico Group Limited Portomaso Business Tower St. Julian’s STJ 4011 Malta Web: www.Tipico-Group.com Tipico Group Limited is a limited liability company under Maltese law Registration number: C75334 from the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA) All information in this report is prepared with the utmost care and help of various individuals from Tipico and its partners. Information is rechecked and presented to the best of our knowledge. Nevertheless, we cannot assume liability for the correctness and the completeness of all information. For better readability, numbers used in this report are rounded and might therefore differ slightly. This report includes forward-looking statements based on current information. These do not solely rely on historical facts but on expectations and plans for the future. Unexpected circumstances might therefore lead to deviations from these expectations. For this reason, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Even though expectations might change in the light of new information or altered circumstances, Tipico undertakes no obligation to update any of these statements publicly. The corporate responsibility team would be pleased to receive feedback or suggestions. Please contact: Luisa Schuemann corporate.responsibility@tipico.com Publication date: 22.10.2019 CONCEPTIONAL SUPPORT, DESIGN AND REALIZATION: Blao GmbH & Co. KG Die Thronverfolger Vogelsanger Straße 348 Marienstraße 10 50827 Cologne 49074 Osnabrück E-Mail: info@blao-content-studios.com E-Mail: info@thronverfolger.de PHOTOS: Tipico Group Page 31: Image Copyright cunaplus, 2019. Used under license from Shutterstock.com Page 22: Image Copyright wavebreakmedia, 2019. Used under license from Shutterstock.com Page 52: Image Copyright imago images / ActionPictures This report is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. Reproduction of any kind, whether reprinting, photocopy, microfilm, or recording in data processing systems, only with the permission of Tipico Co. Ltd. 62
