Co-developing for a sustainable future Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Introduction to AAK..................................................................................................... 2–5 Statement by CEO Johan Westman........................................................................... 6–7 Sustainable growth at AAK......................................................................................... 8–9 UN Global Compact commitments............................................................................. 10–11 Contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals................................................ 12–13 Global sustainability achievements 2018................................................................... 14–15 Our Customers........................................................................................................... 16–23 Our Suppliers............................................................................................................. 24–39 Our Planet.................................................................................................................. 40–51 Our People................................................................................................................. 52–57 Our Neighbours.......................................................................................................... 58–62 Our Suppliers, p. 24 Our Planet, p. 40 Sustainability approach.............................................................................................. 63–66 Global CSR organization............................................................................................ 67 Global sustainability ambitions 2019+........................................................................ 68–69 Global Reporting Initiative Standards Index............................................................... 70–74 Our Neighbours, p. 58 1 First choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions Sustainable growth Scope At AAK, sustainability is part of our DNA. Hand in hand This report covers the AAK Group including production with financial growth, social and environmental responsites, administrative offices, sales offices, customer sibility is key to our continued development and future innovation centers, and sourcing operations. Environsuccess. This is what we mean by “sustainable growth”. mental data is restricted to the production sites only. We believe that building sustainability into our Total environmental data is presented including our everyday activities helps us achieve our vision of being newest production sites in Brazil, China, India and the first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. USA (California). However, to keep the environmental AAK’s model for sustainable growth – House of performance comparable, the performance of the AAK Sustainability – covers five focus areas: Our Customers, scope 2016 sites is presented excluding our four new Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, and Our sites. They are included in the new baseline. Neighbours. Throughout the report, AAK colleagues share stories about some of our many sustainability initiatives. The Global team effort report aims at providing a clear picture of how we The annual preparation of our Sustainability Report is at AAK work with sustainability – our drive towards a global team effort involving staff from various funcsustainable growth. tions at all sites. This report is inspired by GRI (Global The report is available in English and Swedish Reporting Initiative) standard. and can be downloaded as a PDF at www.aak.com. In line with this, our Sustainability Report is an To obtain a printed copy, please contact Corporate achievement that also includes statements, initiatives, Communications at comm@aak.com. projects and views from the entire organization. In addition, it documents – for both stakeholders and ourselves – that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is firmly anchored within our organization. 2 AAK in 60 seconds We develop and provide value-adding vegetable oil Operational key figures solutions in close collaboration with our customers, (SEK million unless otherwise stated) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 enabling them to achieve long-lasting business results. Volumes, thousand tons 1,703 1,833 1,966 2,129 2,239 We do so through our in-depth expertise in oils & fats within food applications, working with a wide range of Net sales 17,814 20,114 22,057 26,436 27,592 raw materials and broad process capabilities. Through our unique co-development approach, we Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)* 1,242 1,411 1,615 1,786 1,956 bring together our customers’ skills and know-how with our capabilities and mindset. By doing so, we Operating profit 1,262 1,409 1,615 1,786 1,956 solve customer-specific needs across many industries – ­Chocolate & Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Special Operating profit per kilo, SEK 0.74 0.77 0.82 0.84 0.87 Nutrition, ­Foodservice, Personal Care, and more. Cash flow from operating activities 692 1,736 1,213 1,099 1,090 AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 years of experience within oils & fats. We have Earnings per share, SEK** 3.53 3.70 3.95 4.71 5.21 our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, more than 20 production facilities and customization plants, and sales Equity per share, SEK** 23.09 26.13 29.65 30.21 35.11 offices in more than 25 countries. Our more than 3,600 employees are dedicated to providing innovative valueDividend per share, SEK** 1.13 1.29 1.46 1.63 1.85 *** adding solutions to our customers. Return on Capital Employed, R12m, % 16.0 15.7 15.8 15.6 15.8 We are AAK – The Co-Development Company *Adjusted for non-recurring items and acquisition costs **Share data recalculated in accordance with the decided share split (6:1) by the Annual General Meeting on May 30, 2018 ***In accordance with the Board of Directors’ proposal 3 AAK in the world A global perspective An essential ingredient AAK provides tailored vegetable oil solutions to the Fat is often misunderstood as a food ingredient. global food, confectionery and cosmetics industries. Contrary to popular belief, it is essential for us to Leading businesses worldwide rely on our expertise, maintain a healthy body. We need fat for energy, to experience and innovation to deliver lasting value in absorb vitamins, produce hormones and to provide us markets shaped by shifting consumer trends. with important fatty acids that our bodies are unable to After more than a century in the business, we deliver synthesize. the highest quality made from natural and renewable Over many decades, AAK has developed an unparalraw materials. Our products are derived from a wide leled depth of experience and know-how regarding the range of raw materials, such as coconuts, palm fruits properties, benefits and attributes of fats. This allows and kernels, rapeseed, shea kernels, soy beans and us to create highly specialized solutions for customers sunflower seeds, which are responsibly sourced from that support their production process and enhance the all over the world. AAK connects to a broad range of quality and value of their end-products. customers in markets worldwide through our global network of production sites, sales offices and network Co-development creates value of agents and distributors. One of AAK’s greatest strengths is our unique coWe utilize and add value to the natural properties development approach. This was born from our strong of vegetable oils and fats and then work closely with relationships with customers, where we bring the most customers across the value chain to create solutions value by working in close collaboration to deliver the tailored to their product development goals. most effective outcome at every stage. This methodology enables us to work as an efficient team from idea to launch, drawing upon the right expertise at the right time to create solutions with better ideation, faster development times and more effective implementation. 4 4 Production sites Customization sites Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer Innovation Centres 5 President and CEO: Sustainable growth – fundamental to AAK Continued progress on sustainability within our sites are certified in accordance with at least one, As for sustainable sourcing of palm oil, we continue sourcing operations, a solid environmental efficiency often several, internationally recognized food safety our strong engagement with our suppliers to drive and performance, and workplace safety improvements standards. ensure sustainability in the supply chain. The upgrade at our production sites – these are some of AAK’s Having successfully implemented our Code of of the RSPO standard to include, among other things, sustainability highlights during 2018 that we proudly Conduct with all employees and our Supplier Code of a halt to deforestation was an important step forward. share with you in this annual sustainability report. Conduct with our raw material suppliers, we are now The changed geographic footprint of our volumes making great progress with our Code of Conduct for represents an opportunity for us to contribute to driving Sustainable growth is fundamental to AAK’s business Agents and Distributors as well. change in newer and more fast-growing markets with and a key objective of our strategy. For us, sustainable During the year, we have also continued to develop less of a tradition for prioritizing sustainability. This is growth is about our responsibility towards our key our e-learning courses. This is an effective way to done through strong engagement with suppliers and stakeholders – global and local customers, investors, engage and train our colleagues within various sustainactively supporting local RSPO activities. However, it suppliers, employees, and the communities in which we ability areas, enabling them to be an even better partner also represents a challenge for us to keep up our palm operate. to our customers. sustainability standard already evident in more estabAll of our policies and codes connected to our sustainlished markets. ability work are based on the United Nations Global Our Suppliers Increased transparency is a key tool for AAK in Compact (UNGC) and furthermore aligned with our Sustainable sourcing of raw materials is another top managing this challenge: on our website we now customers’ requirements and values. We also play an priority, and also important to our customers. Here we publish our universe of mills list as well as a grievance active role in contributing to delivering on the 17 SDGs have made important progress during the year. For addendum. It is important for our key stakeholders and (Sustainable Development Goals). example, we now have smallholder projects within our ourselves to openly communicate about and discuss our To make continuous progress within sustainability, we shea, palm, coconut and soy supply chains which all continuous improvement journey. have ambitions within five focus areas: Our Customers, contribute to improved livelihoods for these farmers. Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, and Our NeighIn Burkina Faso and Ghana, we have seen a Our Planet bours. During 2018, we have made important progress continued increase in the number of women engaged We have seen a solid environmental efficiency perforwithin each of these areas. in our direct shea sourcing program Kolo Nafaso. This mance during 2018 with improvements for most of our means direct engagement with more than 134,000 Key Performance Indicators. However, there have been Our Customers women. We have also conducted a survey, covering challenges in certain areas, particularly related to harsh Our 2018 global customer survey verified that our almost 1,000 of these women. The survey verified that weather conditions. customers appreciate us as a partner on sustainability the women find our support very valuable and it has For example, the East Coast of the United States, which, of course, is very important to us. One crucial given us useful input on how we can further improve our where we have two production sites, suffered signifiarea to both AAK and our customers is food safety. collaboration in the future. cantly colder weather than usual, and the region where We are therefore very proud that all of our production our production site in Karlshamn, Sweden is located 6 experienced extremely warm weather during 2018. local enterprises. But it takes more than that to truly These incidents led to an increased consumption of become a part of the local communities. Therefore, we energy and other resources. To be better prepared have been active in these communities for a long time for the future, we will perform a climate change risk through sponsorships or through direct participation in assessment at all our production sites before 2020. projects and activities. We have welcomed four new sites into our reporting – In 2018, AAK engaged in a variety of local activities two greenfields and two acquisitions. This has changed and we will continue to secure integration with the local our baseline for environmental efficiency measures. communities going forward. From our site in Colombia, acquired in 2014, we know that by sharing best practices globally we can make a Recognized sustainability work real step change in a relatively short period of time. Our Our dedicated efforts to continuously improve our site in Colombia has improved by between 28 and 68 sustainability work have not gone unnoticed. percent on all environmental efficiency measures over In early 2019, Corporate Knights Inc. released its the last three years. 15th annual Global 100 list of the most sustainable corporations in the world. It ranked AAK as number 75. Our People Corporate Knights, a Canadian based company specialOur Global Safety Program, aimed at achieving a ized in media and investment research, had analyzed zero-accident culture and a risk-free workplace envithe sustainability performance of 7,500 companies. ronment at AAK, has been off to a good start. Lost We are of course very honored by this acknowledgeTime Injury Rate (LTIR), defined as the number of work ment, which has been achieved thanks to our very injuries that result in one or more days of sick leave per dedicated and responsible AAK employees around 200,000 working hours, improved by 25 percent across the world. The recognition shows that we are on the our production sites. One third of our production sites right path with our determined and extensive sustainadid not have any Lost Time Injuries at all during 2018. bility work. At our sourcing operations in West Africa, where Whether resulting in awards or not, we will continue conditions are very different, LTIR has unfortunately to drive our improvement work towards ambitions within increased compared to the year before. Safety and first our focus areas, we will continue to incorporate new aid training are ongoing in the region to reduce those AAK sites into our sustainability approach, and we will, figures. above all, continue to grow our business in a sustainDuring 2019, our Global Safety Team will continue to able and responsible way. execute and improve our Global Safety Program. Our Neighbours Johan Westman, President and CEO As a global company, we contribute to the development of the many local communities in which we operate by creating jobs, paying taxes and doing business with 7 7 Sustainable growth in AAK Sustainable growth is the key objective of our UNGC principles and SDGs Five sustainability focus areas strategy and essential to our vision of being the The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a solid platform We have defined five sustainability focus areas – the first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. and a broad concept based on ten universal principles “pillars” – that are important to our business: Our For us, sustainable growth is about our responsibiwithin Human and Labor Rights, Environment and Customers, Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, and lity towards all of our key stakeholders – the local Anti-corruption. It enjoys participation by all of the major Our Neighbours. They provide an overview and guide communities where we operate, our customers, our players in global business and CSR, including the us in setting objectives and focus our resources. employees, our investors, and our suppliers. Our GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), ETI (Ethical Trading model for sustainable growth guides our sustainaInitiative), ICC (International Chamber of Commerce) Sustainability ambitions and GRI bility work. The model has been slightly modified and OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and To maintain momentum and drive improvement, we over the years and is today known as AAK’s House Development). AAK has been a member of the UNGC define ambitions within each of the five focus areas. of Sustainability. Furthermore, the substance of the since 2003. Achievements and future ambitions are publicly availmodel’s individual elements has been continuously In 2015, all member states of the United Nations able in our Sustainability Report. Further, based on the developed. adopted 17 goals – the Sustainable Development Goals Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the GRI Standard (SDGs) – setting out to end poverty, protect the planet, guidelines we globally monitor indicators of importance and ensure prosperity for all. Each goal has specific to our stakeholders and ourselves. To identify indicators targets to be achieved by 2030. As a global company of importance we use the materiality analysis methodAAK AAK recognizes that businesses have to play an imporology outlined in the GRI Standard. Sustainable Growth tant role in that process and we have therefore included the SDGs in our model. We are developing further ways Global CSR team Global CSR Team to support the process and monitor and report on our The engine behind a lot of our sustainability activities is Ambitions and GRI progress. our decentralized global CSR team, established in 2007. It consists of local CSR teams possessing competenPolicies and codes cies covering our sustainability scope. The Global CSR AAK’s sustainability policies and codes are based on Manager reports to the CMO (Chief Marketing Officer) Our Customers Our Suppliers Our Planet Our People Our Neighbours Monitoring Sharing & & Dialogue Partnerships the UNGC as well as on our own principles and are who is a member of AAK’s Executive Committee. implemented globally for all AAK business activities. The policies and codes are aligned with many of our Sharing and partnerships customers’ requirements and values, which strengthens Sharing our knowledge, ambitions and achievements Policies & Codes our strategic alignment. AAK’s policies and codes are with our stakeholders is a fundamental part of our UNGC principles & SDGs available at our website. approach. In our annual Sustainability Report we share global information based on the GRI framework supported by a variety of local projects and initiatives 8 illustrating how our sustainability work comes alive. Further, we regularly report progress on the implementation of our Responsible Sourcing Policy or our responsible sourcing programs in AAK’s progress reports on sustainable palm and shea. Reports and policies are publicly available at AAK’s website. The UN Global Compact encourages companies to engage in partnerships to tackle global challenges more effectively. AAK embraces the view that in partnerships you combine competencies and are likely to accomplish more than you could do on your own. Partnering with other businesses, NGOs and governmental agencies are ways to accomplish more. For example, AAK is participating in or partnering with RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil), GSA (Global Shea Alliance) and Proforest. Monitoring and dialogue Our sustainability approach is not static, but adjusted to input from stakeholders such as customers, investors, NGOs and employees. We monitor new and upcoming legislation, follow trends in our communities, and ­bench­mark our sustainability practices against those of retailers, customers and competitors. AAK sustainable growth Our overall objective is to grow AAK sustainably and progress within sustainability as a whole. Watch this short animated video that explains our House of Sustainability https://player.vimeo.com/video/251287460 9 9 UN Global Compact commitments The United Nations Global Compact is an initiatiPrinciples Examples of AAK commitments ve for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, Human Rights Businesses should support and AAK Code of Conduct is understood, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With more respect the protection of internatio­ accepted and signed by all AAK than 9,900 company members in 160 countries, the nally proclaimed human rights; and employees (page 19). UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary Make sure that they are not complicit AAK Supplier Code of Conduct is an corporate sustainability initiative. AAK has been a in human rights abuses. integral part of the approval system member since 2003. for suppliers and our direct suppliers have approved and signed it (page 25). Furthermore, AAK has implemented a Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw materials that applies to all actors in the supply chain back to the origin of the raw material (page 25). Labor Businesses should uphold freedom AAK Code of Conduct regulates of association and the effective interaction with both our customers recognition of the right to collective and suppliers (page 19). bargaining; Labor rights are addressed in AAK’s The elimination of all forms of Sustainability Policy (page 57). forced and compulsory labor; AAK monitors labor rights issues The effective abolition of child globally (page 57). labor; and Modern slavery issues are addressed The elimination of discrimination in AAK’s statement on Modern Slavery in respect of employment and Act (page 25). occupation. 10 Principles Examples of AAK commitments Environment Businesses should support a precauLocal resource efficiency projects tionary approach to environmental completed at all production sites challenges; (pages 41–51). Undertake initiatives to promote The AAK scope 2016 sites decreased greater environmental responsibility; their energy consumption by 1.3 Encourage the development and percent during 2018 (page 42), diffusion of environmentally-friendly reduced their water consumption by technologies. 0.2 percent per processed unit (page 46), and reduced total CO2 emissions per processed unit with 0.9 percent (page 44). Anti-corruption Businesses should work against Anti-corruption is addressed in AAK corruption in all its forms, including Code of Conduct, the Supplier Code extortion and bribery. of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw materials and the Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors. Two mandatory e-learning modules addressing anti-corruption have been passed by all employees at risk of encountering corruption (page 57). 11 11 Contributions to High contribution Medium contribution Low contribution Target 1.2: Reduce poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions the Sustainable AAK contribution: Smallholder inclusion in our supply chains for shea, palm, coconut and soy offers access to global markets (pages 30, 33, 35). Target 1.4: Equal right to economic resources, access to land, natural resources and banking Development AAK contribution: AAK continues to offer an increasing number of micro credits and bank accounts through our program Kolo Nafaso in West Africa (page 29). Goals Target 2.3: Increase productivity and income for smallholders Target 2.4: Ensure sustainable agricultural practices AAK contribution: AAK continues to educate the smallholders in West Africa, Malaysia, Indonesia and Mexico in good agricultural practices which improve their income (pages 30, 33, 35; please also see our palm and shea progress reports). In September 2015, the United Nations adopted the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) relevant for all Target 3.2: End preventable deaths of new-borns and children under 5 years of age countries. AAK has a clear agenda on sustainability and AAK contribution: AAK produces customer co-developed oils and fats solutions for special nutrition products we have welcomed the SDGs. We see the SDGs as an and continuously contributes to the research of optimizing these products. integrated part of our sustainability work and they are incorporated in our model, AAK House of Sustainability. AAK plays an active role in supporting the delivery of Target 7.3: Improvement in energy efficiency the SDGs. AAK contribution: Continuous improvement in our energy efficiency (pages 40–51). We have identified 10 SDGs that are most relevant for our business conduct. As a global producer of value-adding vegetable oils and fats solutions we have Target 8.4: Decouple economic growth with destroying the environment AAK contribution: AAK’s Responsible Sourcing of Vegetable Oil Policy and Sustainable Palm Oil Policy require identified our global supply chains as an opportunity no deforestation or development of peatland (pages 27, 31–33). as well as a responsibility to do our part to achieve the SDGs. Therefore, we are monitoring our contriTarget 8.6: Reduce the share of youth (pages 15–24) not in education, training or employment bution towards achieving the SDGs and their specific AAK contribution: AAK is investing in a global trainee program to give young people the best possible start to their careers. sub-targets. We have further ranked the 10 SDGs according to Target 8.8: Protect labor rights and ensure stable working environments the possibility for AAK to make an impact. All the listed AAK contribution: AAK has been a member of the UNGC since 2003 and AAK’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct address labor rights and working environment (pages 10–11, 17, 19, 25). SGDs are of direct importance to AAK, but the ones scoring higher are the focus of AAK’s sustainability and Target 8.10: Encourage and expand access to banking responsible sourcing strategy. AAK contribution: AAK is opening bank accounts for the women group members of Kolo Nafaso (see our latest shea progress report as well as page 29). 12 Target 9.1: Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure Target 9.3: Increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises to value chains and markets AAK contribution: AAK provides transport for smallholders connecting them to global markets within the shea and coconut supply chains (pages 29, 35). Target 12.3: Reduce food waste AAK contribution: With innovative vegetable oils and fats solutions and through our customer co-development approach, AAK focuses on, among other things, developing solutions that increase products’ shelf life and reduce packaging through improved transportation solutions. Target 12.5: Reduce waste AAK contribution: AAK’s target is that in 2018 less than 1.5 percent of the waste was disposed as landfill/deposit (pages 48–49). Target 12.6: Integrate sustainability in reporting cycle AAK contribution: AAK has published sustainability reports annually since 2009 and palm oil and shea progress reports twice a year since 2014 and 2018 respectively. Target 15.2: Stop deforestation. Reforest AAK contribution: AAK’s Responsible Sourcing of Vegetable Oils Policy and Sustainable Palm Oil Policy require amongst others no destruction of forested areas and High Conservation Value areas (pages 27, 31). Target 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms AAK contribution: AAK provides mandatory e-learning courses for all employees at increased risk of encountering corruption (page 57). Target 17.16: Global multi-stakeholder partnerships AAK contribution: AAK is engaged in several global partnerships including UNGC, RSPO, Global Shea Alliance, and Proforest (pages 10–11, 25, 31–33). 13 13 Global Our Customers Ambitions 2018+ Achievements 2018 sustainability Be a strong and knowledgeable partner on Our global customer survey verified that we are an appreciated partner on sustainability. achievements sustainability for our Many sustainability webinars and e-learning modules have been customers ­completed to strengthen the knowledge of AAK’s employees. 2018 Full implementation of our Code of Conduct for 97 percent, which is 15 percentage points higher than last year. Agents and Distributors We are proud to present AAK’s global sustain­ Ambitions 2018+ Our Suppliers Achievements 2018 ability achievements in brief. The achievements are commented on in more detail in the five sections to which they apply: Our Customers, Further strengthen our direct cooperation with Many shea supplier engagement workshops were held. A survey was Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, and Our the shea-collecting conducted in Burkina Faso and Ghana covering almost 1,000 women Neighbours. ­women as well as with giving us input on how we can further improve our collaboration. other shea suppliers Fully sustainable palm In the US and Europe almost 100 percent of our suppliers signed up to oil meeting AAK’s the AAK Code of Conduct and the AAK Sustainable Palm Oil Policy. policy requirements Progress in Latin America and Asia has been more by 2020 challenging than anticipated and will be a priority for 2019. Continuously improve AAK has smallholder projects within the shea, palm and coconut livelihoods of smallholders supply chains which all contribute to improved livelihoods. 14 Ambitions 2018+ Our Planet Achievements 2018 Less than 1.5 percent Based on our 2016 scope, 1.5 percent of the waste was sent to landfill, of waste disposed as in line with our ambition set in 2015. landfill/deposit by 2018 Net CO2 emissions increased by 0.74 percent for the AAK scope Reduce net CO2 emis2016 sites. The main reasons are that the US East Coast suffered sions per processed colder temperatures than usual in ­January–February requiring raw material unit more energy than usual. Ambitions 2018+ Our People Achievements 2018 Working towards Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR): a zero-injuries workplace AAK production sites: LTIR at 0.6 – 25 percent improvement. Continuously improve the competencies and Significant training efforts globally and across functions. engagement of our Both face to face and e-learnings. people Ambitions 2018+ Our Neighbours Achievements 2018 All sites engage in relevant local projects All sites were engaged in relevant activities with the local communities. and activities 15 15 Our Customers Our customers come first Our business is nothing without our customers. They form the backbone of our vision and the driver behind our goals. Each solution we co-develop is geared to solve a specific customer challenge and to deliver lasting business value that builds and protects their brand. In this respect, any interaction with customers is fueled by a genuine desire to help, to share our expertise, to support the development of strong brands and to achieve results based on sound business ethics and the highest standards of excellence. Contributes to: Over the years, AAK has established long-standing Oils and fats from AAK perform valuable functions in Key achievements relationships with customers built on mutual respect and customers’ products. They may ensure the right meltFood safety certified a detailed understanding of customer needs. Knowing down property, carry flavor, supply essential fatty acids, Percent of production sites your customers means knowing your markets, and that provide structure, and much more. In each case, AAK’s 100 gives AAK a head start when responding to market understanding of customers’ requirements is crucial 80 100 100 100 100 100 trends. From time to time, AAK has even set new trends when developing the right solution. In cooperation with 60 through the development of leading-edge solutions. our customers’ key people, AAK’s experts test applica40 tions, co-develop product and supply chain solutions and explore new production methods. 20 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sedex* members and passed SMETA audit Percent of production sites Our Customers achievements 100 80 AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors E-learning courses 82 76 60 69 69 After successfully implementing our Code of Conduct Our e-learning module on responsible shea was 60 40 with all employees, and our Supplier Code of Conduct launched during the fourth quarter of 2016 with the with our raw material suppliers, we began implementing ambition that all relevant employees should have 20 our Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors in passed it at the end of 2018. By the end of 2018, 87 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014. In 2018, we achieved 97 percent implementation percent of relevant employees had passed the course. * Sedex is a global membership organization to manage which is a 15 percentage points increase compared We launched our e-learning module on sustainability ­performance around labor rights, health & safety, environment and business ethics and SMETA is the corresponding audit. to the year before. The implementation percentage for in AAK during the third quarter of 2017 with the ambition 2018 also includes agents and distributors related to our that all relevant employees should have passed it by RSPO supply chain certification Percent of production sites processing palm oil joint venture in India. December 31, 2018. By the end of the year, 83 percent 100 of the target group had passed the course. 100 100 100 80 We continuously update the target group for the 90 92 e-learning courses and add people throughout the year 60 to make sure all relevant employees are given access to 40 the training material. 20 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 17 AAK receives highest possible ­sustainability rating by EcoVadis In 2018, EcoVadis awarded AAK a GOLD rating for our work within sustainability. EcoVadis is a collaborative platform enabling companies to monitor the sustainable performance of their suppliers. AAK was assessed on Environment, Labor practices, Fair business practices, and Sustainable procurement, and our performance score placed us among the top 5 percent of all companies assessed. This was the second year in a row that AAK received a GOLD rating from EcoVadis. AAK among the 100 most s­ ustainable corporations in the world In January 2019, Corporate Knights Inc. released its Sustainability is part of AAK’s DNA, and to continuously 15th annual Global 100 list of the most sustainable develop our systematic and focused sustainability work corporations in the world, ranking AAK as number 75. is critical – for our business, for our different stakeThe publication of the ranking took place in Davos, holders, for our planet. This great acknowledgement, Switzerland, in connection with the World Economic only made possible by global and cross-functional team Forum. work, shows that we are on the right path. Corporate Knights, a Canadian based company specialized in media and investment research, analyzed Mads Feer the sustainability performance of 7,500 companies. The Global CSR Manager ranking is based on key performance indicators (KPIs) within resource management, employee management, financial management, clean revenue, and supplier performance. For full rankings and methodology details, please refer to http://www.corporateknights.com/reports/ global-100/ 18 Contributes to: A matter of trust The AAK Group vision is to be the customers’ first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. To achieve this vision, it is important to show customers Third-party certification of that AAK is a responsible, trustworthy supplier that AAK production sites would never compromise their brands. AAK Code of Conduct 100 percent of AAK sites are certified to one When it comes to meeting customers’ needs and or more internationally recognized food safety expectations, trust is just as important as products. standards (FSSC 22000/ISO 22000/BRC) AAK customers must be able to rely on AAK as a safe supplier, and particularly upon the company’s commit100 percent of sites handling palm oil have RSPO Supply Chain Certification ment to working in an ethically sound manner. The AAK Code of Conduct, which is understood, 76 percent of sites are members of Sedex and accepted and signed by all AAK staff, regulates interhave passed the ethical audit SMETA action with both customers and suppliers. The Code is 65 percent of sites are quality management based on the same standards as the supplier codes that certified according to ISO 9001 customers expect AAK to comply with, encompassing ILO conventions, human rights, OECD guidelines, and 41 percent of sites are environmentally the UN Global Compact. The AAK Code of Conduct is certified according to ISO 14001 AAK’s guarantee to customers that the company acts responsibly, right across the organization. In addition, various production sites are also certified according to other standards such as Food safety national energy standards, the KRAV organic Food safety is another area of high customer priority. standard, feed safety, health and safety, Halal To satisfy the requirements of customers as well as and Kosher production. national and international legislation, AAK’s production sites are certified in accordance with recognized food safety standards and subject to regular audit by third parties. AAK’s quality control functions ensure and document that each and every delivery lives up to specifications and all food safety requirements. 19 Valued product information Sharing knowledge with our customers for our customers In interaction with customers, knowledge sharing for the customer. Both the AAK ACADEMY™ and The minimum requirement for product information is of great importance. AAK is focused on customer our customer magazine Insight are useful tools for is usually stipulated by legislation and stated in the co-development where one important part is to run sharing knowledge and to give the latest information standard contracts used in our business. Requiretrials at our Customer Innovation Centers. This is available. ments for further information depend on the type done in order to offer the best possible solution of delivery. For example, they vary according to whether the product is standard or highly refined, and whether an ingredient or a final consumer product. AAK’s product information sheets sometimes have different names in different countries, but in general, three types of information are available: Insight Product Information Sheet/Product Specification specifies the physical and chemical properties of the Henning Villadsen, Business Development Director What has been done to revitalize the magazine? products and is often part of a contract. at AAK, about Insight: We are embracing digital formats to create a more emotionally engaging experience, for example adding Material Safety Data Sheet relates to safety issues, When was the magazine started? video-embedded features to bring our online version often concerning transport. This is a legal requireIt was launched three and a half years ago with the first to life. In addition, we are also bringing the end ment for chemicals, but not for food. However, most issue published in 2015. ­consumer’s voice more clearly to the forefront, to customers demand this information. show how our solutions deliver results to the very What purpose does it have and who is it for? end of the value chain. Quality & Product Safety Sheet contains additional The magazine helps customers and investors to information related to the product such as allergens, learn more about AAK. It tells our unique stories from Why should you read it? GMOs, residues, country of origin, raw materials a variety of interesting perspectives, which in turn Insight is essential reading for those who want to learn and additives, typical fatty acid composition, etc. highlights our global capabilities with real-life examples how AAK can make a difference to their business, and of how we have created customer value. who need to stay updated with the latest movements For some products, a Certificate of Analysis accomwithin the food and beverages market. Look out for panies the delivery. The certificate is produced by upcoming editions that focus on the commercial advanthe relevant AAK laboratory and confirms complitages of our co-development approach. ance with agreed product specifications. 20 AAK ACADEMY™ – the knowledge center for lipid technology Li Na Wong, Marketing Manager AAK Southeast Asia, on AAK ACADEMY™: What is the AAK ACADEMY™? What do customers get out of it? The AAK ACADEMY™ is an important part of AAK Each AAK ACADEMY™ course leaves attendees with a that organizes application-focused courses specific far greater understanding of the application of valueto customer needs. Usually held at our premises, but adding vegetable oil solutions and how to realize their sometimes at a customer’s own facility or on neutral impact across the value chain to give a better consumer ground, these courses take a holistic approach towards experience. Through our AAK C ­ o-Development days, ideation, development, and production success. we also faciliate the ideation of possible sweet spots and solutions by presenting new concepts and market How does it work? trends as inspiration. We keep the courses flexible to suit customers, segments or markets, but typically they have a formal What did you achieve during 2018? set-up with a mixture of attendees from different compaWe held several courses in Myanmar, Bangladesh, and nies. We focus on helping people to understand market Pakistan, focused on Chocolate & Confectionery and trends and improve their product development in key Bakery. These were a great success, largely because areas, for example healthiness, sustainability, costfew suppliers in these regions are as willing to share efficiency, and new concept creation. We also organize their knowledge and expertise. customer-specific academies to engage key personnel from different divisions, such as R&D, QA, production and marketing. 21 21 AAK UK Creating a new recipe for success Against new regulations by the UK government to extensive research was an important part of the project. combat rising levels of diabetes and obesity, a UK Fortunately, AAK UK had already conducted internal cake manufacturer turned to AAK to help create a studies into the type of fat used in a product that could new recipe with less sugar and no increase in cost. affect sweetness perception in baked goods. The need to reduce sugar in our diet has become a The perfect solution major health issue in the UK. Sugar is considered AAK UK created a co-development program to minimize a major cause of type 2 diabetes and obesity, which cost and increase the functionality of the sugar altercosts the UK National Health Service over £1 billion native ingredients. The solution involved replacing the a year. butter with butter alternatives that had the same melt In response, Public Health England published profile, flavor, color and emulsifying properties, were guidelines to the food industry in 2017 to reduce sugar lower in saturated fat and cost, and also required less levels by 20 percent by 2020 in several food categories, sugar alternatives to achieve the same sweetness. including biscuits and cakes. However, this is not an easy thing to accomplish due to the cost and technical Outstanding results implications involved. Furthermore, sugar substitutes, The launch of the newly formulated cake recipe was such as high-intensity sweeteners, polyols, stevia or a huge success and outsold the original recipe by inulin, all have their own cost and formulation issues. 100 percent and earned an award for “successful new innovation from a retailer”. Following this, a second Perfectly positioned to help retailer introduced the same technology into their range Nevertheless, a major UK retailer challenged a large UK of in-store cafe cakes and experienced an uplift in sales cake manufacturer to develop a line of healthier cakes of 40 percent. with reduced sugar and no increase in cost. To make Innovation and collaboration are at the core of this possible, the cake manufacturer turned to AAK UK what makes AAK different. These results show how for help. our unique co-development approach is invaluable in This level of sugar reduction had never been helping customers to overcome challenges and achieve attempted before on a major private label cake line so their business goals. 22 Customer survey – We listen, we care, we act! In 2018, AAK conducted a global customer survey to has provided us with key insights as to what we should In early 2020, we will re-engage with our customers assess whether we live up to our promise of being our do to further improve our abilities to deliver upon our with a follow-up survey to assess whether and to what customers’ first choice for value-adding vegetable oil customers’ expectations. A concrete action plan has extent we as a company have improved our customers’ solutions, and to create lasting value for our customers. been put into place across business areas, regions, experience with AAK. More than 2,000 contacts were invited to participate segments, customer company groups and customers. in the survey. The response rate was high and the input The partner for the right sustainable solution At AAK, we put customers first and that is why “Our The key topics were our responsible sourcing practices identifying champions in the organization to support Customers” is the first pillar in our model for sustainable for our many raw materials, and the different solutions them, and providing the right materials and tools to help growth. Through our unique co-development approach, that we provide. As a multi-oil company, we have been them identify or develop the best solutions. Our many we are very close to our customers’ businesses, and approached for solutions beyond palm oil, especially for Customer Innovation Centers globally have also played therefore we have a singular understanding of our the European market. From a sustainability perspective a key role in ensuring that the solutions are right both customers’ needs and what role we can play to meet it has proven important that we fully understand the from a sustainability point of view and with regards to them. needs and focus areas so we can guide our customers the right functionalities for our customers’ applications. In 2018, we saw an even bigger increase in the to the right solution, regardless if it’s palm or non-palm demand for highly sustainable solutions. An increasing based. Anne Mette Olesen part of the dialogue with our customers was therefore Our aim is to support our customers in safeguarding Chief Marketing Officer focused on developing the right solutions with the right their brands and in making the best possible sustainsustainability standards for their specific needs. This ability choices. Therefore, we have put a lot of effort was especially the case for the global consumer goods into ensuring that our Sales Managers and Customer companies as well as our European and North American Innovation Managers can be good sparring partners for customers. our customers. This has been done through training, 23 Our Suppliers Responsible sourcing for trust in our supply chains The vegetable oil solutions we create depend as much on their sustainability as their quality. It is crucial, therefore, that we only engage with producers of raw materials whom we can trust to farm responsibly and treat their workers with respect. At AAK, we take our commitment to responsible sourcing extremely seriously and have implemented a Code of Conduct for suppliers of raw materials that, alongside other policies and supplier support programs, ensures the highest standards and practices are always upheld within our supply chains. Contributes to: Progressing on responsible sourcing In 2018, we have made good progress within responwithin palm oil, coconut and soy. Within palm oil we Key achievements sible sourcing of our supply chains. A key achievement have further progressed on our engagement with our Shea direct engagement on women’s is that we have further increased our direct engagesuppliers to drive the sustainability standard. Addigroups level ment with shea-collecting women in West Africa to tionally, we have together with Proforest conducted Number of women enrolled in Burkina Faso and Ghana 134,261. To further strengthen our engagement with the important supply chain risk assessments for our key 150,000 women’s we have also opened 2,616 bank accounts raw materials shea, palm and coconut. These will serve in total for the women groups. Besides shea we have as foundations for our progress towards even more 100,000 131,607 134,261 also continued our strong smallholder engagement sustainable supply chains in 2019 and beyond. 119,527 94,473 36,579 50,000 14,304 2,250 4,300 7,613 54,919 0 AAK Supplier Code of Conduct AAK Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Introduced in 2009, the AAK Supplier Code of Conduct AAK supports the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act has been implemented with direct raw material 2015 and its objective to eradicate forced labor and Number of bank accounts AAK has suppliers. human trafficking in companies and their supply chains. opened for the women’s groups During 2018, AAK adopted its Code of Conduct The core of the act is a requirement for companies to 3,000 for Suppliers of Raw materials stipulating additional publish an annual statement in which they explain the 2,500 requirements for individual raw materials. The Code steps they have taken to prevent and combat human 2,000 2,616 is an integral part of the approval system of new raw rights abuse such as slavery and trafficking in their 1,500 2,147 1,789 material suppliers and compliance with the Code is a supply chain – and in their own entities. The Act is 1,000 prerequisite for final approval. applicable to companies doing business in the UK and 500 961 In West Africa, the Code has been implemented in consequently includes AAK. 0 2015 2015 2015 2015 a different way due to various linguistic and cultural Since January 2017, AAK has published its Statement challenges. Because ethical requirements in business on the Modern Slavery Act describing the various relations are not a widespread tradition in the region, initiatives implemented over the years originally derived Supply chain risk assessments done more meetings and explanations are required to achieve from our membership and commitment to the principles by Proforest in 2018 the necessary understanding. of the United Nations Global Compact. The AAK supplier codes are available at our website. The AAK Statement on the Modern Slavery Act can be found at AAK’s website under Sustainable growth / Statements. Shea Palm Coconut 25 We source raw materials from all over the world: We obtain our raw materials from rapeseed, palm, soya beans, shea kernels, sunflower, coconuts, and many other sources. Drawing on our extensive knowledge, and more than a century of experience, we utilize the properties of vegetable oils to add value to customer products within our target industries. Rapeseed/Canola oil Palm oil Northern and Central Europe, Asia and Central and Canada, United States, South America Australia, and China Palm kernel oil Coconut oil Soya bean oil Sunflower oil Shea kernels Corn oil Olive oil Asia and South America Indonesia, the Philippines United States and Eastern Europe, Mexico West Africa America and Eastern and Southern Europe and India South America and Argentina Southern Europe 26 Contributes to: Responsible sourcing of vegetable oils In 2017, AAK launched a policy for responsible sourcing customer’s brands. Wherever needed, a specific policy of vegetable oils. This policy applies to the procurement will be developed, as AAK has done for the palm oil of all raw materials and sets the minimum requirements supply chain. for our supply chains in order to protect our own and our AAK’s objective is to ensure AAK is committed to zero Focus on: Freedom of association, AAK will only source raw Smallholder inclusion in traceability in our raw material tolerance for corruption in forced labor, child labor and young materials from growers with raw material supply chains supply chains, sufficient to ensure all its forms workers, discrimination, working the necessary land rights is a key objective for AAK that we achieve transparency of hours, wages and benefits, working raw material origins environment and workplace violence Traceability Legal Compliance Anti-corruption Human Rights Labor Rights Housing Land Rights Environment Smallholder and Tenure Suppliers shall operate in Suppliers shall support and Actors in our supply Suppliers shall strive to compliance with applicable respect the protection of chain offering housing to minimize the environmental national and local legal internationally proclaimed employees shall ensure impact of their activities requirements human rights and ensure adequate housing through responsible that they are not complicit in management human rights abuse 27 Contributes to: Responsible sourcing of shea Shea as raw material coastal areas. In 2018, AAK’s supply chain in Benin and The shea tree is a wild tree growing in the shea belt, its production site in Aarhus, Denmark passed the ISCC across Africa south of the Sahara. Shea is a very (International Sustainability & Carbon Certification) audit sustainable crop. The trees on which shea kernels grow and received certification for the third time. require no use of fertilizers or pesticides. Traditionally, The traditional supply chain for shea is long and it is women who collect and process shea kernels. Part complex, with many middlemen between AAK and the of the shea crop is sold, providing an important source women in the bush. Many of these middlemen have a of income. The women not only spend money earned logistics function moving kernels from the rural areas to alleviate poverty and hunger, they also invest in to the bigger towns. It’s a well-functioning supply chain, their children’s education and other income-generating providing an income to millions of people in West Africa. activities. As market leader in the shea industry, AAK has taken responsibility and engaged directly with the AAK as market leader women producers of shea kernels in our direct sourcing AAK has more than 60 years of experience sourcing program called Kolo Nafaso. shea kernels from West Africa. Working in close coopAAK publishes a shea sustainability progress report eration with shea traders and women’s groups, AAK twice a year, including a dashboard that tracks progress has built a solid and durable sourcing set-up across the on both our traditional and women’s groups supply shea production areas as well as logistical hubs in the chains. 28 28 Shea dashboard TRADITIONAL SUPPLY CHAIN KOLO NAFASO (women’s groups) Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier engagement Direct engagement on women’s groups level Supplier code of conduct % of suppliers having signed the supplier code of conduct – Q3 2018 Number of women enrolled in Burkina Faso and Ghana 2,250 4,300 7,613 14,304 36,579 54,919 94,473 119,527 131,607 134,261 150k 100% 96% 100% 96% 100% 100k Burkina Faso Ghana Benin Ivory coast Mali 50k 0k 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 West Africa 100% * The shea kernels from the women’s groups program (Kolo Nafaso) are fully traceable to women’s groups level and kept separated from the ones from the traditional Employee statistics traceable and segregated* supply chain all the way from sourcing to end product. Number of permanent AAK % of employees having signed employees in West Africa the AAK Code of Conduct 77 95 132 245 285 300 Supplier code of conduct 100% 250 200 AAK engagement level 150 Number of bank accounts AAK has opened for the women’s groups 100 2015 961 % of employees trained 50 2016 1,789 in first aid 2017 2,147 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Training 2018 2,616 Bank accounts 16% 85% Number of village visits by AAK extension officers 2016/17 11,664 increase between 2017 and 2018 2017/18 13,365 % of target group trained Number of kilometers driven by AAK extension officers 2016/17 728,443 2017/18 1,377,688 Training 100% 96% 96% 95% Number of rocket stoves built 2016 306 2017 1,320 Anti-corruption Competition law CSR Shea Q3 2018 1,836 Number of rocket stoves built 29 29 Kolo Nafaso – direct feedback from the women AAK regularly conducts surveys to receive feedback These girls do go to school and therefore we do not from the shea-collecting women we directly work consider this child labor. with. In 2018, we conducted surveys in Burkina Faso Another important fact to check for AAK is if the and Ghana. Almost 1,000 women responded to our money from the sold shea goes to the women, or if their questionnaire. husbands, who own the land, are taking the money. Our survey shows that 94 percent of the money goes to the To conduct such a big survey we need to mobilize women which then will benefit the whole family. many resources. But for us, it is very important to The women invest in different small businesses such reach out to the women and receive feedback so that as producing and selling foodstuffs, soaps, clothes, we can improve our way of working. It is also a good which then generate a positive impact on the livelihoods opportunity for AAK to better understand the practices of the households. and challenges around shea collection and post-harvest practices. The survey was also a good mean to do our due diligence on human rights, for example, by making sure there is no child labor in our supply chain. 70% Marked calendar 30% Money 78 percent of the women say that their children of the money of of the money of ­participate in collecting shea. the pre-financing the pre-financing 99.7 percent say it doesn’t prevent them from going is invested for is spent to ensure future returns food security and to school. basic needs Two women from Ghana explained that a few mornings a year, during the peak of the shea picking season, they would take their daughters out of school and bring them to collect shea to contribute to the family’s income. Then they would go back to the village and cook lunch for their daughters before sending them to school in the 98% Coin with 1 92%Smiley state that selling of the women are afternoon. shea kernels is a satisfied with the good way to make way AAK works money with the group 30 30 Contributes to: Palm – progressing towards full sustainability Sustainable sourcing of palm oil remains a crucial With the new RSPO standards approved in November activity in our responsible sourcing journey and our 2018, we move into a new phase. The bar has raised engagement with suppliers. again to meet the needs of its members reflecting The scale of the crop globally as well as the multiple amongst others, the zero deforestation commitments. challenges ranking from environmental to social in the Very important elements in AAK’s Sustainable Palm different regions ask for a consistent and structural Oil Policy are to work with the RSPO, to work with its approach and collaboration across the supply chain. direct and indirect suppliers as well as to ensure the smallholders to remain part of its supply base. Increased transparency Traceability As part of our continuous improvement journey we have % 78 95 97 99 98 97 98 96 97 96 published our universe of mills list and a grievance 100 addendum at our website. The grievance addendum 80 60 To mill lists the companies that we have recorded a grievance 40 against. This list will be updated and published on a 20 more regular basis and highlights grievances in AAK’s 0 Aug Feb Aug Feb Aug Feb Aug Feb Aug Feb 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 supply base as well as those linked to group or parent % companies. We believe that with this initiative we better Traceability to mill ­remains relatively high 100 19 22 26 28 27 35 28 meet increased transparency needs of our customers, including all palm oil and palm related products. 80 60 their customers and other stakeholders. Traceability to plantations decreased due to incre40 To ased volumes in markets plantation that do not buy RSPO 20 segregated palm oil yet. 0 2014 2015 2016 Aug Feb Aug Feb 2016 2018 2018 2019 31 31 Supplier engagement % Volumes covered by 85 86 92 96 97 99 94 100 signed Supplier Code of Conduct: 80 60 Supplier Supplier code of conduct 40 Code of Conduct 20 0 Improving practices on the ground through supplier engagement 2014 2015 2016 Aug Feb Aug Feb 2016 2018 2018 2019 AAK works with its partner Proforest to identify priority Several mills were found to have made considerable % 79 88 88 90 86 100 suppliers, and then works with them to improve pracimprovements. Highlights include: Suppliers informed about AAK’s Palm 80 tices in environmental management, labor and other Oil Policy 60 Signed AAK’s Palm Palm Oil social issues. The installation of effective greenhouse gas (GHG) Oil Policy 40 Policy management and monitoring systems; Has aligned Policy (verified by Proforest) 20 3 8 8 9 8 0 Our approach to engagement includes: Development of policies on peat management, 2014 2015 2016 Aug Feb Aug Feb 2016 2018 2018 2019 workers’ rights and health and safety, and/or Higher priority suppliers invited to workshops facilitated by Proforest. Conducting outreach workshops with mills, where we increased awareness of these policies among help them to understand our Sustainable Palm Oil workers; Policy and requirements to ensure compliance; Development of clear grievance procedures for Cumulative number 120 4 0 0 7 0 0 12 40 0 20 82 0 23 104 7 of on-site audits Technical training, where we train mill employees on workers; 100 80 Mill specific aspects of our requirements, such as labor; Improvements in workers’ accommodation. Cumulative number of mills that attended 60 engagement Detailed site assessments where the mill is visited, a Proforest/AAK workshop 40 20 gaps are identified, and action plans are created to However, other mills were found to be struggling to Number of follow-up 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 visits improve practices. implement necessary changes due to operational changes, and these mills will receive further visits in In 2018, AAK focused on revisiting mills where site early 2019 to ensure that improvements are made. assessments had been conducted in previous years. In 2019, AAK will continue to engage with mills to drive Our partner Proforest revisited seven mills to follow implementation and transformation on the ground. RSPO status up on how they were doing on their timebound action We see a lower volume % 75 88 92 87 90 94 84 plans. due to volume growth in regions where RSPO 100 80 Volumes needs to gain momentum 60 from RSPO members 40 20 Alongside the follow-up visits in October 2018, AAK and Proforest conducted training in ­Peninsular 0 2014 2015 2016 Aug Feb Aug Feb Malaysia on human rights and workers’ rights. A total of 42 participants (comprising mainly senior/middle 2016 2018 2018 2019 ­management or technical staff) from 22 mills were present. Relatively stable share of % 100 27 29 33 33 29 RSPO certified sourced volumes compared to 80 previous year, despite 2 1 0 0 60 2 volume increase 6 9 12 14 CSPO 6 40 19 21 23 21 15 demand Book&Claim Mass Balance 20 Segregated 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 32 Smallholder engagement In November 2015, the Sabah state in Malaysia announced its intention to achieve 100 percent RSPO certification across the entire state by 2025. AAK financially supports Forever Sabah which works with the smallholders to realize the government’s ambitions. In 2018, the baseline study of 20 villages in four pilot districts has been conducted. Land tenure has been identified as one of the key gaps in achieving RSPO certification. Without land tenure smallholders have no access to running water because they need to prove legal ownership. Land tenure smallholders is also needed to get a loan from the bank in order to invest in the smallholdings. To drive progress and on-the-ground transformation land tenure is an essential need. Together with Forever Sabah, AAK is supporting these smallholders to achieve legal ownership; one of the key focus areas for 2019. In 2018, AAK has initiated another smallholder project, in collaboration with the NGO Solidaridad, in Mexico. 33 Contributes to: Coconut – progressing on responsible sourcing Coconut as a raw material important source of income growing on soil with limited AAK has been sourcing coconuts from India and Sri fertility, but also that they take on a huge importance in Lanka since the 1930s. Nowadays, Indonesia, the protecting the sandy shorelines from erosion from the Philippines, and India are the three biggest coconut sea with their elaborate root system. producers with 70 percent of the global production. We Coconut-growing countries in Asia-Pacific rely on the source our coconut oil from the Philippines, Indonesia sale of coconut products as export income. The majority and partly from India. of coconuts are produced by smallholder farmers. Coconuts are classified into two types based on the stature of the trees: tall palms and dwarf palms. Responsible sourcing of coconut oil Coconuts are harvested in bunches every 45–60 In 2018, AAK has identified coconut oil as one of the days. Coconut oil is made from the dried meat of the key raw materials for responsible sourcing together coconut (copra). with shea and palm oil. For coconut oil the major risks Coconut trees are often found along the shorelines in the supply chains still had to be identified and no of the tropics since they can tolerate saline and sandy industry-wide sustainability standard exists. Therefore, soils, while other plants do not thrive under these AAK has teamed up with Proforest to conduct a risk conditions. This not only means that coconuts form an assessment for our coconut supply chains. Key findings of the coconut risk assessment: 1) Due to coastal growing areas, different islands and numerous middlemen involved, we concluded that traceability is the first concern when it comes to coconut supply chains. In AAK we do not see traceability as an achievement itself, but as a tool to understand the supply base and the different risks and issues related to it. 2) Furthermore, we found that coconut farmers are often poor and copra does not generate good prices for the farmers. 3) Lastly, we learned that about 90 percent of the coconut trees worldwide are reaching the end of their productive life cycle. Farmers are unlikely to invest in their coconut trees because they are not perceived as high-income crops. Available resources are rather invested elsewhere. In AAK we see the rejuvenation of trees as a collective challenge for the global coconut industry and we need to act now. 34 The main finding was that the traditional coconut supply Progressing on responsible sourcing of coconut oil Vegan coconut oil chain is long and complex because the growing areas As stated in our Policy for Responsible Sourcing of are far away from the mills that extract the oil from the Vegetable Oils, in AAK, we actively include smallholders AAK is the co-development company, closely dried coconuts (copra). Middlemen connect the farmers in our supply chains. In order to simplify the supply working together with our customers and also with the mills and deliver important logistical services. chain for the farmers and to ensure traceability we have closely monitoring trends in the markets. Coconut oil We have identified three main areas that need attention started a direct sourcing project in Indonesia. Here our is a preferred ingredient for many plant-based appliin the coconut supply chains. partner mill collects the copra directly from the village cations like vegan ice cream or cheese. However, in Based on Proforest’s recommendations from the level, as a means to ensure that a bigger share of the 2018, together with one customer, AAK discovered supply chain risk assessment we have developed a value goes to the farmers. We will continue to work with that the vegan community was highly concerned that coconut supply chain risk mitigation plan. The plan this project in 2019 and develop it even further. monkeys could have been involved in the harvesting will be tested on a pilot scale in 2019 and brought to of coconuts. full scale in 2020. The three key pillars for our risk It is a common practice, mainly in Thailand and mitigation plan are: Malaysia, that pig-tailed macaques are trained to pick coconuts from the trees. This means that Supplier engagement Smallholder impact Market uptake coconut oil coming from a supply chain where monkeys are involved in the harvesting process cannot be classified as vegan anymore by the standards of The Vegan Society. AAK has been working closely together with our Traditional coconut supply chain AAK's direct sourcing supply chain suppliers in 2018 to develop a supply chain that can verify that no monkeys have been involved in the harvesting process. Therefore, we are now able to provide products that can achieve The Vegan Society’s trademark on end products. Individual Middlemen providing Coconut AAK Group of AAK and mill directly picking AAK initiated smallholder logistical services oil mill smallholder up copra from farmers the direct farmers connecting the farmers farmers and providing training sourcing project to the mill and equipment 35 Rapeseed – an important raw material for AAK Rapeseed as raw material The oil content of rapeseed is 40–45 percent which Today, rapeseed oil is one of the most important vegecorresponds to approximately 0.8 MT/ha and is table oils used in food as well as biodiesel. extracted either by pressing alone or by pre-pressing Rapeseed has become the oil plant of Northern and solvent extraction. Europe. Outside Europe, the dominant producers are With high oleic acid content, rapeseed oil has the Canada, China and Australia. Rapeseed is an annual lowest saturated fat content of all vegetable oils and is crop planted either in autumn (winter varieties) or in high in monounsaturated fatty acids. It also contains spring (summer varieties). The winter varieties have the essential fatty acids linoleic acid (omega-6) and a longer vegetation period and give a better yield, but alpha-linolenic acid (omega-3), as well as vitamin E can only be grown in areas with mild winter climate. (tocopherol) and vitamin K. In Europe, winter varieties are dominating, whereas in Its nutritional and functional properties mean that Canada only summer rapeseed is grown. The harvest rapeseed oil is ideal for use as a cooking oil or ingreperiod in the Northern Hemisphere for the winter dient. Food applications range from mayonnaise and varieties starts in late July, and in late August or early salad dressings to baby food. In margarines and bakery September for the summer varieties. products, rapeseed oil ensures the right consistency and an improved nutritional profile. The importance of rapeseed for AAK For high-temperature processes, high oleic acid-vaRapeseed is a very important raw material for AAK rieties of rapeseed are significantly more suitable. The and is one of a few raw materials that AAK is crushing in advantages are a low saturated fat content together with its own facilities. good thermal and storage stability. AAK can offer oils from traditional seeds and a range of speciality varieties. Much of the rapeseed used in Rapeseed sustainability AAK’s products is grown in Sweden, where farms have From an agricultural sustainability perspective rapeseed increased their output in recent years. Through close is a very suitable crop to include in crop rotations with, cooperation with the farmers, AAK is able to maintain for example, wheat and corn. When including rapeseed control of the entire value chain, from the production of in crop rotation cycles it improves drainage and soil raw material to finished products. The rapeseed meal water retention, soil structure and resilience, as well that remains after oil extraction is used as animal feed. as future nutrient availability. The plants furthermore 36 36 provide up to eleven months of ground cover to restrict the harmful effects of wind and water erosion on soils over the vulnerable winter months. It can also provide valuable late summer protection against moisture loss. Rapeseed has additionally shown to have an overall positive effect on crop health and therefore causes a decrease in risks and costs on farm level. From a broader environmental resilience perspective rapeseed can be beneficial for farmland wildlife. Its thick and relatively long-term overhead canopy with stiff stems provides an ideal environment for a wide range of bird species and populations of invertebrates. However, large-scale farming of rapeseed can also pose a challenge for insects, since food is available in large quantities during a small period of time and scarce for a large period of the year. Buffer strips along the fields with wild flowers and shrubs are therefore highly recommended in order to increase insect biodiversity. In AAK we are using Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) to analyze the impact of our rapeseed supply chains globally, but also in comparison to other oil crops. This way we get full insight into the climate impact of our supply chains and can work towards minimizing it and offer the best solutions to our customers. 37 37 Contributes to: Soy – a versatile raw material Soy as raw material Sustainable soy The boom of soybean utilization for industrial purposes According to the International Sustainability Unit, TFA, started in the 1940s, and has since then grown expoCDP and Climate Focus, soy is the second largest nentially. The main producing countries are the US, contributor, after beef, to global deforestation. It is not Brazil, Argentina, India, and China, and the biggest primarily produced for food, but the soy meal goes consumers are China, the US, Argentina, and Brazil. into the feed industry, and the oil is used for consumer Soybean is a summer crop and its full cycle ranges goods products or biofuels. from 90 to 120 days. Crop rotation is usually made The country in focus when speaking about deforestwith winter crops such as corn, barley, wheat, and ation linked to soy production is Brazil. After making black beans. Yields can vary but on average 1 hectare significant progress in environmental protection produces about 3,000 kg of soybeans and 0.4 MT of oil. alarming statistics have been published by Reuters, measuring the deforestation in Brazil between July 2017 Importance for AAK and July 2018. A record high for the past decade was The soybean oil is one of the most versatile commodmeasured with a 13.7 percent increase compared to the ities with a large number of applications besides food. previous year. This is a worrying development and calls The main one is as the source of SME (soy methyl companies like AAK to action. esters), or biodiesel, but it is also used as raw material We have set the target in our Policy for Responsible in feedstuff, pharma, paint, personal care, lubricants, sourcing of Vegetable Oils, to only source raw materials plastics, resins, etc. that have been produced without High Carbon Stock From an AAK perspective, soybean oil is rich in deforestation, conversion of High Conservation Value polyunsaturated fatty acids. It is mainly used in baking areas, and development on peatland soils. Therefore, in fats, mayonnaise, frying oils, salad and cooking oils, 2018 we have mapped our supply chains and identified as an ingredient in margarine and wihtin our segment the traceability levels and risks of deforestation. 91 Special Nutrition. percent is free from risks of deforestation. In 2019, From a volume perspective, soy is a rather small we will further work on improving this score. commodity for AAK, but because of the sustainability risks in the supply chain, especially deforestation, it has been included to the list of key raw materials for responsible sourcing in 2018. 91% Free from deforestation risks 38 38 Smallholder engagement in soy As part of our responsible sourcing approach AAK AAK Kamani’s role in the project is to engage in Kamani, our joint venture in India, has committed to the community-based purchasing of soy as well as actively include smallholders into our supply chains. groundnut through the SMART model. This creates a This is one of the cornerstones of our Policy for more direct supply chain, increases traceability and ­Responsible Sourcing of Vegetable Oils. ensures improved control over quality and food safety At the end of 2018, AAK Kamani signed a Memorequirements. On the other hand, the system empowers randum of Understanding (MoU) in the SMART project smallholder farmers to directly engage with buyers and in Maharashtra, India. This stands for State of Maharto become part of contract farming agreements. The ashtra Agribusiness and Rural Transformation and is a system also strengthens the local infrastructure that productive partnership for Climate Resilient Agriculture enables long-term capacity building for smallholders. headed by the World Bank and the Government of AAK Kamani has started the partnership with the Maharashtra. Government of Maharashtra and the farmer producer companies in 2018 in order to increase the engagement The key objectives of the project are: during the planting season starting in April/May 2019. We are looking forward to deepening this partnership Supporting value addition in the post-harvest and seeing the results during the harvesting season in segment of agricultural value chains; November 2019. Developing a mechanism for productive alliances involving various stakeholders in agricultural supply chains; Improving the current policy and regulatory framework in the agribusiness sector; Developing marketing and credit linkages with community-based organizations (CBOs) like farmer producer companies, cluster-level federations and farmer groups; Improving the efficiency in agricultural supply chains through private sector partnerships that can be scaled up through project interventions. 39 39 Our Planet Reducing our environmental impact is our responsibility AAK takes the responsibility that comes with being a speciality and semi-speciality vegetable oils and fats processing company. We are constantly striving to improve our production and to reduce the impact we have on the environment to maintain the balance. On our journey towards becoming a full speciality company we are sometimes experiencing challenges as extra production steps are added and therefore the impact becomes larger. But we are accepting this challenge and are working hard to become the best we can be. Contributes to: Environmental efficiency Overall on the AAK scope 2016 production sites, we The data including the four newest AAK sites in Brazil, Key achievements have seen a good environmental efficiency performance China, India and USA (California) represents a new Energy consumption in 2018. Most Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) baseline from which we will track performance in the Per unit processed material have improved as we will outline later in this section. coming years. Gj 3.0 However, a few KPIs have been challenging due to 2.5 unusual weather patterns in some areas of the world as 2.52 2.0 2.37 2.33 2.25 we will explain. 2.20 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 More frequent extreme weather Total direct CO2 emissions Per unit processed material According to the 2019 Global Risk Report published by Based on these events, we have decided to have MT World Economic Forum, extreme weather events rank climate change risk assessment conducted by an 160 as the most likely and impactful global risk within the external partner for all our production sites before 120 137 next ten years. 2020. We have during 2018 already started with some 129 127 121 120 Also, at some of our production sites extreme weather production sites. 80 events have been experienced in 2018. On the East One of the sites that has been risk assessed was 40 Coast of the US, January and February were colder Karlshamn in Sweden. The outcome is for example than usual. This resulted in an increased energy need in that coastal flooding was a very high risk for the site. All 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 our production, mainly for heating the pipes to keep the other risks assessed were scored between very low to oil liquid. medium. Water consumption At the same time, the hot summer of 2018 in Sweden Site Karlshamn has a flood emergency plan in place Per unit processed material has warmed the sea water significantly so that it could describing all processes that should be followed in case m3 1.60 not be used as cooling water. Therefore, we had to use of increase of the water above a certain level. municipal water for cooling purposes to be able to keep Furthermore, in 2018 we conducted a full water risk 1.20 1.30 producing. This resulted in a higher water consumption assessment of all our production sites. You can read 1.23 1.20 1.19 1.19 0.80 than usual. We have initiated a project to avoid that from more on this topic on page 47. happening in the future. 0.40 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 41 Contributes to: Energy Direct energy consumption 2018 – per energy Driven by the inclusion of four new sites and larger processed volumes in 2018, AAK’s production sites had a combined direct energy consumption of 5,013,000 Gj, 4% Biofuel an increase of 14.2 percent compared to 2017. Direct 10% Coal energy consumption from renewable resources consti16% Fuel oil tutes 23 percent which unfortunately is a step backwards 19% Biomass from 27 percent last year due to new production sites 51% Gas having less renewable resources. New baseline During the same period, and for the same reasons Energy consumption electricity and steam purchases (indirect energy Per unit processed material consumption) increased by 15.3 percent to 1,025,000 Gj. 3.0 The proportion of green electricity constitutes 34 percent. 2.5 So, total energy consumption reached 6,038,000 Gj, an 2.52 2.0 2.37 2.33 2.25 2.35 increase of 14.4 percent. 2.20 1.5 1.0 Energy efficiency 0.5 Total energy consumption per processed unit decreased 0.0 with 1.3 percent on the AAK scope 2016 production sites. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 New baseline Progress has however been challenged by two factors: Purchased electricity and steam 2018 1. A strategic decision to increase the production of highly refined products which require more energy to process. 2. An extra cold winter on the East Coast of the US requiring more energy in the production. The new baseline including the four new production sites is 4.3 percent higher than in 2017. We have ongoing energy efficiency projects on all 34% Renewable production sites and expect to keep progressing in the 66% Non-renewable coming years. New baseline 42 42 AAK Karlshamn, Sweden Shining a light on sustainability Environmental protection continues to be a top priority The solar cells are feeding into the local grid. From time across the AAK Group and a focus area that is taken of commissioning to year-end, we produced slightly less very seriously by our team in Sweden. than 10,000 kWh, which is fully in line with expectations For many years, AAK Karlshamn has been using as Sweden typically has fewer sunlight hours during wooden pellets for steam generation. While this has autumn. been an effective and sustainable solution, we have explored alternative options that can help to reduce One step closer to sustainability waste and harmful emissions even further. The best The solar cells installation project has been extremely option was to install 350 m2 of photovoltaic cells, with successful and brings us closer to AAK’s ambition of plans in place for more. minimizing its environmental impact. We were also proud to work in cooperation with the Swedish governHarnessing nature’s energy ment to ensure everything was completed properly and Managed from start to finish by a team from our engiaccording to local regulatory guidelines. neering department, the new solar panels were installed With environmental protection remaining a key issue on the roof of the main office building, and successfully for AAK throughout 2019 and beyond, we aim to expand commissioned in September 2018. With an estimated the number of solar panels we have and contribute even yearly production of 58,000 kWh (which is equivalent further towards being a truly sustainable business. to five family bungalows), the initiative is already bearing fruit. 43 43 Contributes to: Air Total direct CO2 emissions Per unit processed material MT 160 In 2018, AAK generated 339,000 MT of carbon dioxide 120 137 129 127 132 at its production sites, an increase of 19 percent 121 120 80 compared to 2017 driven by the inclusion of four new sites and larger processed volumes. 40 Carbon emissions per processed unit decreased with 0 0.9 percent on the AAK scope 2016 production sites. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 New baseline The new baseline including the four new production sites is 8.7 percent higher. The increase is mainly due Source of direct CO2 emissions to our production site in India which uses coal as energy % source. 100 35 percent of direct carbon dioxide emissions 80 stemmed from renewable resources on the AAK scope 60 2016 production sites while the new baseline including the new sites is 28 percent. 40 39 Due to the Group’s use of fuels, its production sites 20 36 37 35 35 28 emitted 192 MT NOₓ (nitrogen oxide) and 27 MT SOₓ 0 (sulphur oxide). The significant decreases were due to 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 a shift of fuel oil quality. There were 246 MT VOC Non-renewable Renewable ­(Volatile Organic Compounds) primarily emitted from New baseline sites that run extraction and solvent fractionation processes. VOC decreased by 6.2 percent between Total direct emissions 2017 and 2018. MT 350 With our portfolio of CO2 reducing projects, we will 300 continue to focus on reducing our CO2 emissions in the 250 coming years. 200 150 100 50 0 NOx SOx VOC 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 New baseline 44 44 Hull, United Kingdom New deodorizer cuts CO2 costs and brings flexibility Investment in new deodorizer technology at our site The installation of the new deodorizer also allows the in Hull is being rewarded with many benefits, inclusite to stay ahead of changing legislation and has ding more efficient production and a carbon emisresulted in a carbon emissions reduction of 1,200 MT. sions reduction of almost 10 percent. Taking into account corrections for the baseload for general heating, this represents a reduction of almost As well as the savings in energy and costs, investing 10 percent. At a time when EU carbon emissions in new equipment enables AAK to keep ahead of ­allowances (the required amount to pay to offset changing legislation while delivering greater flexibility emissions) continue to rise, this also means significant in the products we develop. At AAK’s site in Hull, UK, cuts in running costs. the installation of the new deodorizer in early 2018 was part of a strategic move away from commoditization of A win-win result products and towards specialization. The new technology not only uses less energy by operThe previous deodorizer was designed for ating more efficiently, but also helps to support customer ­commodity-scale production and the technology had co-development initiatives more effectively. The AAK also become dated. The new deodorizer enables the Hull team now has more flexibility and improved site to make frequent changes between different compoperformance to help customers meet ever-evolving and nents and ingredients, so it can focus on producing unpredictable challenges. shorter runs of a wider range of products. Better for customers and the environment AAK Hull can now provide customers with a more responsive and agile service to help them meet an array of food industry challenges. For example, if a biscuit manufacturer needs several special trial products to support a move towards vegan diets, sugar or fat reduction, or a new product launch, the technology has the flexibility to make those products for them in small batches. 45 45 Contributes to: Water Water consumption Per unit processed material m3 1.60 Even though most AAK products do not contain water when leaving the sites, vegetable oil processing 1.20 1.30 requires large amounts of water, mainly for cooling and 1.23 1.20 1,19 1.19 1.18 0.80 steam production. 0.40 Water consumption 0.00 Combined, the Group’s production sites use approx2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 imately 31,000,000 m³ of surface water. This water, New baseline which is used for cooling, has no contact with products or pollutants and is returned to the source without any Water discharge change in quality. The discharged water may, however, Per unit processed material m3 be slightly warmer than when entering the Group’s 0.90 system. Ground water and municipal water used in processing 0.80 0.83 totalled 3,000,000 m³ which is 9 percent more than in 0.80 2017 driven by the inclusion of four new sites and larger 0.70 0.75 processed volumes. 0,72 0.71 0.68 Water consumption per processed unit decreased 0.60 with 0.2 percent on the AAK scope 2016 production 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 sites. The improvement was small partly due to a New baseline summer with warmer temperatures in Sweden resulting in too high temperature of the the sea water that couldn’t be used for cooling purposes. Municipal water amounted to a 2 percent decrease for the AAK scope had to be taken into use so that production could keep 2016 production sites. The new baseline including the running. four new production sites is 4.5 percent lower than in The new baseline including the four new production 2017. sites is 1 percent lower than in 2017. Discharged processing water from AAK sites is treated at own or municipal water treatment sites and is Water discharge subject to strict control by local authorities. Processing water discharge in 2018 increased by 2.2 AAK has several projects ongoing to keep consuming percent. However, calculated per processed material less water in the future. 46 46 Water risk assessment AAK has started a journey to adapt our production to potential risks from climate change. The first step in this journey is a risk assessment of our production portfolio. AAK has chosen to focus on water risk first because of an increased number of extreme weather events reported globally linked to water as well as the potentially destructive power of water. The World Resources Institute has made available the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (Aqueduct). It is a comprehensive and publicly available global database and interactive mapping tool that provides information on water-related risks worldwide. Twelve global indicators are being used to assess the water related risks for specific geographic locations and to give an overall water risk score between 1 and 5 (1 being the lowest low risk low risk to medium risk possible risk and 5 being extremely high risk). medium to high risk AAK has used the Aqueduct tool to create a global high risk water risk map of all our production sites. None of our extremely high risk sites is exposed to extremely high or high risk. The highest scoring production sites in AAK’s portfolio score medium to high risk. A global meeting was held to introduce this tool to the production sites. Each site has received a detailed analysis of their overall score in order to be able to develop a water risk mitigation plan relevant to their specific situation in 2019. 47 Contributes to: Waste During 2018, AAK’s production sites generated Waste intensity Waste to landfill 128,000 MT of waste. This is an increase of 6.6 percent Per unit processed material compared to 2017 and is driven by the inclusion of new MT % sites and larger processed volumes. Of the total amount 70 5 of waste 99.4 percent was non-hazardous. 60 4 50 In waste disposal, there is a clear, very determined 3 40 effort toward reducing waste going to landfill. In 2015, 30 2 AAK set a waste ambition for 2018, targeting that 20 less than 1.5 percent of the waste in AAK should be 10 1 disposed at landfill. Looking at comparable conditions to 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 when the ambition was set AAK reached the objective New baseline New baseline Including used bleaching earth and 1.5 percent of the waste was disposed at landfill in 2018. However, changes in the US legislation regarding the classification and handling of used bleaching earth has meant that 1.5 percentage points extra waste had 2018 waste disposal 2018 waste disposal – new baseline to be sent to landfill. The new baseline including the four new production sites adds 1.8 percentage points of waste to landfill. In total during 2018, 6,190 MT of waste was disposed at landfill, equal to 4.8 percent of the total amount of waste. A large proportion of the waste is shea meal, which is the residual product when oil is extracted from shea 1% Reuse 1% Reuse 3% Landfill 5% Landfill kernels. Shea meal has no nutritional value and is used 14% Recycle 15% Recycle as biomass in power plants. 82% Recover 79% Recover Waste reduction will remain a key focus area. This Including used bleaching earth includes strengthening our practices at our new sites. 48 AAK Brazil Achieves zero waste AAK had a global objective for 2018 to achieve less Here’s how it works: than 1.5 percent of its waste being sent to landfill. Making a vital contribution to this goal, AAK B ­ razil COPROCESSING became a zero waste company in September 2018 through an innovative new initiative known as 1 2 3 ”Coprocessing”. Since 2016, AAK Brazil has endeavored to reduce AAK generates waste Transporting the waste The waste is analyzed to the blend unit and processed the amount of waste it sends to the municipal landfill. However, over the last year, the site went much further – instead of simply reducing the waste, it found a way to WASTE dispose of it completely. As a result, AAK Brazil officially 6 Waste in energy became a zero waste company in September 2018, transforming BLEND setting a standard for all AAK sites to follow. Waste into blend transformation 5 Making waste useful 4 Until recently, even following various initiatives to reduce Final disposal waste waste, AAK Brazil still shipped on average 3 MT a certificate The blend is used as fuel in the kiln to make cement Transport blend to the month of waste to landfill. It was discovered that this cement industry could be completely reversed thanks to a new process known as Coprocessing. An example to follow Coprocessing is a technology that “blends” compa­ AAK Brazil has set an excellent example of what can be tible waste into a product that can be incinerated to fuel achieved. Today, approximately 97 percent of its waste cement kilns. This replaces fossil fuels and other raw is sent for recycling, reuse and composting, with the materials typically needed for the cement manufacturing other 3 percent being sent for Coprocessing. As a global process and reduces the amount of harmful emissions organization, AAK is constantly looking for better ways it creates. Not only does this have clearly beneficial to reduce its environmental footprint by generating less advantages for our environment, but it provides signifilandfill waste – and Coprocessing is proving to be one cant cost savings for cement producers. of the most effective. 49 AAK Colombia Improving quality and reducing emissions AAK Colombia has been finding better ways to meaAn impressive result per day. This represents an impressive saving of about sure and improve the performance of its refinery. In Fixing this issue by making the gas supply more 50 kg of CO2 every month. doing so, it has also been able to enhance product constant would not only reduce gas consumption, However, for us this isn’t good enough! We are now quality and – crucially – reduce GHG emissions. but also reduce the amount of GHG emissions (by looking to achieve an even steadier process. This can improving fuel efficiency and the stability of the burning be made possible by the replacement of our burner for At AAK Colombia, we understand “refinement”. While on process). We took action and the results can be seen in one that controls the process in a modulating manner. one hand this relates directly to the industrial process the graph below. If all goes to plan, we hope to additionally improve the we manage, it also refers to our ongoing commitment We achieved a reduction to 9 m3 natural gas/MT process by a minimum of 10 percent. for improvement on the other. In particular, over the product and an average gas consumption of 1,400 m3 last year we started to examine the performance of our boiler. In doing so we began to find small issues that, although only minor, we knew could be addressed to 50 kg of CO2 give a higher quality production outcome. saved/month Finding the trend Gas supply with significant flow variations Gas supply with more stable and efficient flow Working closely with our Maintenance department, we High flame High flame discovered an unusual trend with the gas supply to our boiler. As shown here, the gas supply was oscillating with too much time in high flame and too many troughs down Low flame to zero. We knew that this temperature fluctuation would Low flame affect product quality. Furthermore, the subsequent production inefficiency would also be represented in our KPI indicator (around 13 m3 natural gas/ton product) Zero Zero and in our daily gas consumption, which had risen above normal levels of 2,000 m3. 50 Onboarding new sites – Colombia sets the example When AAK acquires new production sites, it often takes a few years before they align to the sustainability Energy consumption Total direct CO2 emissions standards that AAK stands for. In 2014, AAK purchased Per unit processed material Per unit processed material Gj MT FANAGRA in Colombia. During the Global CSR 8 250 ­Mana­ger’s first visit, there was much room for improve-28% 200 -30% 6 ment to be seen. The waste management, the water 150 treatment, and water consumption were not done in an 4 optimal way. There were many good opportunities for 100 implementing energy efficiency projects. 2 50 The first years, the sustainability data did not look 0 0 very good, but thanks to the support from Mexican 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 colleagues who have been in AAK for many years, good practices were implemented and the positive change Water consumption Waste Per unit processed material Per unit processed material was initiated. The great efforts of the AAK Colombia m3 MT team, in close collaboration with AAK Mexico, has 3.0 60 resulted in great improvements which are shown in the 2.5 50 graphs. 2.0 40 Energy consumption per processed unit decreased 1.5 30 -54% -68% 28 percent between 2015 and 2018 and total direct 1.0 20 CO2 emissions decreased by 30 percent over the same 0.5 10 period. 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water consumption per processed unit decreased by 68 percent between 2015 and 2018. The tonnage of waste generated per processed unit decreased by 55 percent over the same period. These are amazing improvements done over a few years! 51 Our People Building innovation and value from within AAK’s most important resources are our employees. No matter what their position, location or level of expertise, every person across our global organization is highly valued. We are a diverse company that relies upon many different roles and abilities to help our customers succeed, so we go to great lengths to attract and retain the best talent in the business. We also focus on helping people to develop their skills and further their career, in order to build a stronger business for the future and that is based on enthusiasm, commitment and innovation. Safety is key Any work-related injury is clearly unacceptable and increased from 10.4 to 16.5, unfortunately indicating Key achievements AAK constantly strives to be a zero-injuries workplace. that the incidents have been more severe in 2018. Lost Time Injury Rate, production sites Since 2009, we have aligned definitions and measured At our sourcing sites in West Africa, conditions and Including new sites injuries across the AAK Group. We have defined Lost challenges are very different. For example, the AAK 2.5 Time Injury Rate (LTIR) as the number of work injuries employees drive many kilometers on motorbikes on 2.0 that result in one or more days of sick leave per 200,000 unpaved roads, which increases the risk of accidents. 1.5 working hours. LTIR increased from 1.2 to 2.9, and Lost Day Rate In 2017, AAK had a setback on LTIR and we increased from 24.3 to 54.1. Safety and first aid training 1.0 decided to launch a Global Safety Program, which is ongoing in West Africa to reduce those figures. 0.5 was done in 2018. As a result, LTIR at our production Our Global Safety Program is expected to continue 0.0 sites decreased from 0.8 to 0.6, which is a 25 percent the good progress in 2019, which you can read more 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 improvement. One third of our production sites did not about on page 56. have any Lost Time Injuries during 2018. Lost Day Rate Lost Day Rate, production sites Including new sites 40 30 20 10 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 53 The AAK workforce in numbers As of December 31, 2018, AAK had a total of 3,594 employees within the scope of this report. Employees* by age, % Employee* category by age, % Employees* by age, % The average age of employees in Europe is signifi­ % % cantly higher than in the rest of the world due to a 100 100 more mature organization. Twenty-two percent of 80 80 AAK’s permanent employees are female. This is a 60 60 lower percentage than in many other businesses and is 40 40 explained by the fact that working in the production sites typically attracts more men than women. At managerial 20 20 16% <30 level, 22 percent of employees are female. 0 0 31% 30–39 Seventy-four percent of AAK’s employees are perma23% 40–49 Management Salaried Hourly paid Americas Europe Asia West Africa nently employed, while 4 percent are on a temporary 30% >49 <30 30–39 40–49 >49 <30 30–39 40–49 >49 contract. The remaining 22 percent comprise trainees, agency staff and at-will employees. The latter is a doctrine of American law that refers to an employment Employment contract type, % Employee* category by gender, % Employees* by gender, % relationship which can be broken by either party with no % % liability. Three percent of our employees work part-time. 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 1% Apprentice 20 20 4% Temporary 0 0 8% Agency staff Management Salaried Hourly paid Americas Europe Asia West 13% At-will Africa 74% Permanent Females Males Females Males Including new sites * Permanent and at-will employees 54 The AAK Way People project Investing in people is our future We strive to be an attractive employer with a The next survey will be conducted in 2019. We have high-performance organization, built on strongly also improved our process for learning and developaligned values with an increasing number of ment and added several online training courses. people carrying AAK forward. 3) AAK Leadership – during 2017 and 2018, we The AAK Way People project is at the heart of AAK’s delivered four days of leadership training for more ambitions towards people engagement and development. than 350 managers and key employees worldwide, Since it was started in 2017, it has given rise to a broad focusing on our leadership competencies and variety of initiatives and programs that have been pivotal company values. to its success. Not only has this delivered very positive results internally and helped to promote an AAK “family” 4) Organization for future growth – by identifying the culture across our worldwide sites and offices, but it is specific competencies we need for future growth, contributing significantly towards the value we create for we can make sure we either retain employees with customers. these skills, or attract the right new talent into our business. A more unified business The strategy focuses on four key areas that aim to An employer of choice create a unified business committed to delivering We recognize that people are our greatest resource, excellence and growth: which is why we endeavor to attract, train and retain the best minds in the business. To this end, we have also 1) Revitalize our company values – our culture guides introduced a policy, process and templates for workforce discretionary behavior and makes sure that we planning. The purpose of workforce planning is to behave, internally as well as externally, in the way secure management capacity and key competencies we promise our customers. We all make hundreds for future growth by looking at future organizational of decisions every day, and our company values are demands, succession planning and potential review. there to guide us. By implementing what AAK stands for through the attitude and development of our employees, we can 2) Engaged and skilled people – to measure people elevate our business by strengthening loyalty, fostering engagement we conduct an employee engagement innovation and delivering a more passionate, tailored survey every two years. service. 55 55 AAK Global Safety Program Working towards zero lost-time injuries At AAK, safety continues to be an integral part of our 1) Key safety practices that outlined our global business strategy. For this reason, a decision was approach to reach zero lost-time injuries; made in 2018 to relaunch the Global Safety Team 2) An AAK global safety model, with clear ambitions ­initiative, formed by HSE Managers from all AAK and objectives; sites and led in this occasion by AAK Mexico. 3) A new KPI structure with additional KPIs and a follow-up scheme for implementation. The Global Safety Team comprises a group of professionals who represent more than 100 years of safety A safer place to work experience and who know their local strengths and During 2018, AAK saw a LTI global reduction of 25 weaknesses in terms of safety. The team’s overall percent versus 2017. This accomplishment supports objective is to achieve zero lost-time injuries across our ambition to achieve “a zero-accident culture where the Group and to this end, it has developed a strategic all risks are managed in AAK”. For us, “safety first” is program for continuous improvement which aligns the more than just a motto; it is a mindset for all employees Group’s global safety efforts. to work towards, in order to protect our people and our facilities. Creating key safety parameters and goals Looking to the future, we will continue to execute and In April 2018, a Global Safety Team kick-off conference improve our Global Safety Program to help make AAK was held, giving everyone the opportunity to share their “the safest place to work”. local initiatives and discuss ways to develop a strong Global Safety Program. A key outcome was to learn that we all share common safety issues and that the program should therefore have a global vision that is flexible to adapt to local needs. Working seamlessly together at the conference, the team formulated the following agreements: 56 56 Contributes to: Anti-corruption AAK has signed the UN Global Compact committing this topic. To that end, e-learning modules addressing the company to establish anti-corruption measures. anti-corruption topics are ongoing. The modules have Anti-corruption is addressed in our Code of Conduct, a length of approximately 15 minutes and end with a the Supplier Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for multiple-choice test. For employees at increased risk of Suppliers of Raw materials and the Code of Conduct for encountering corruption, these modules are mandatory Agents and Distributors. and must be passed. In 2018, we had one case of corruption at one of our During 2018, West Africa was identified as a production sites. It involved a conflict of interest and the geographical area with high risk of corruption. We person was dismissed. therefore will conduct a suitable anti-corruption training Corruption still remains a common risk throughout in French and English for all employees in West Africa the world for all companies, and a decision was made during 2019. to internally promote awareness and knowledge of Labor rights Labor rights issues are governed by AAK’s CSR Policy, area of the CSR Policy. The ratio of basic salary for men which applies to all Group sites. Among other things, relative to women is not reported, since interpretation the policy states AAK’s view on child labor and young of the data would not give a true picture. On average, workers, on forced labor, and on freedom of association AAK pays more in salary to male employees than to and the right to collective bargaining. Forty-seven female employees, not because the basic salary for percent of AAK’s employees are covered by collective male employees is higher, but because male employees bargaining agreements. In 2018, there were no strikes generally have jobs with a higher salary. For the same at AAK. job, the salary for male and female employees is the Giving staff equal and fair treatment is another focus same. 57 57 Our Neighbours Making a difference to our community As a global business, AAK has an impact on a large number of people in a large number of ways. That’s why we take great responsibility towards local, regional, national and international communities that are affected by our actions. Each of our sites have developed different initiatives that help to support our neighbours and enable us to engage more proactively and positively with other organizations, such as local authorities and regulatory bodies. Our commitment to these causes is driven by our employees who take pride in working for a company that makes a noticeable difference. 58 Local community involvement As a global company, AAK contributes to the developor leaving an area. During 2018, no operations that ment of the local communities in which it operates by required a special community impact assessment were creating jobs, paying taxes and doing business with established or terminated. local enterprises. However, it takes more than this to The impact of existing operations is continuously truly become part of the community in which the Group monitored through dialogue, open house events, hosting operates. visitors, participation in local events and councils, giving Community engagement is based on diverse thinking, presentations and participating in interviews. Media which leads to initiatives ranging from giving employees monitoring also provides a picture of local attitudes time off to engage in local activities and donating towards AAK. products and raw materials to providing used equipment Overall, AAK’s community involvement helps secure a and giving direct financial support. social license to operate, which is essential for AAK as AAK is very much aware of the impact the company both a company and a player in local business life. has on the community when entering, operating in Our Neighbours achievements AAK has long been an active member of the communicommunities where we operate and to contribute where ties in which it operates through sponsorship, or through it makes sense. In 2018, AAK engaged in a variety of direct participation in projects and activities. We see local activities, some examples are presented in this it as our responsibility and part of our social license section. AAK will continue to secure integration with its to operate to maintain a good relationship with the local communities in the future. 59 59 AAK Kamani, India Giving children a better chance in life In 2006, the Mutually Beneficial Activities (MBA) Raising awareness for parents Foundation created an Early Intervention Clinic and The clinic and training unit have proved invaluable Prevocational Training Unit in Powai, India. The aim and many children have shown great improvements was to help children with disabilities from disadvanin mobility, communication and other skills. However, taged backgrounds whose families cannot afford to in the region there is a general lack of awareness pay for therapy. Due to its proximity to our site and about the benefits that this kind of support can provide. the positive impact it brings to the community, AAK Because of this, a new facility was set up in Sangarsh Kamani is proud to support an additional facility, Nagar in 2016 to educate parents about their children’s built in 2016, that focuses on educating the parents. difficulties and the difference this kind of therapy can make to their lives. The Powai facility provides much needed therapy, The Sangarsh Nagar area comprises of more than developmental assistance and even medical interven250 buildings built for lower-income families under tion for children who would otherwise simply not have the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme. With low levels of access to this kind of care. Over the last year, AAK education amongst adults, it can be difficult to convince Kamani has been helping to support this much needed parents from the area about the benefits that early initiative, which has been a lifeline for many families in intervention therapy can offer. However, once they see the area. the positive results in their children’s development, The Early Childhood Intervention Clinic focuses on everything changes. children aged 2–11 years. Individual action plans are made for each child depending on their special needs, Supporting a brighter future which are strictly followed with the help of occupational, Today, there are 27 children who are being taken care physio, speech therapists and special educators. of at the facility. Working with these children at an early Regular progress reviews are held with parents, so that age helps them to achieve the best possible level of any course amendments can be affected immediately. development, so they can integrate into the community The Prevocational Training Unit is for disabled and improve their lives. At AAK Kamani, we will continue children aged 12–17 years, where they are taught many to support this wonderful institution and help disadvanday-to-day skills such as clock reading, money usage, taged children to achieve even more for their future. and shopping, which are essential for vocational skills training when they reach 18 years of age. Those who can be educated are also coached in the NIOS syllabus to write the tenth-class exams. 60 60 AAK Uruguay Enriching children’s lives in Uruguay For many years, AAK Uruguay has been supporting subsided, we were all ready to start cooking. Mr. Ruete a local school that is situated in a low-income area gave an excellent speech about the importance of close to our production site. Every year, we think of washing your hands and vegetables thoroughly and new ways in which we can work together to enrich each student made their own vegetable stuffed bread. the children’s lives and help make the school a more We finished the session by giving each child several engaging and fun place to learn and grow. gifts to take home, including an apron and a recipe book. At AAK Uruguay, we understand that importance of giving our time and energy to the local community. One A space to learn and play of our most important projects is to support the public Additionally, during 2018 we began refurbishing a classprimary school located near the AAK factory. room that had fallen into a very poor condition. When During 2018, we continued to work with the schoolcompleted, the room will be a huge improvement for the children in the vegetable garden, where we helped to school, as the children do not otherwise have a leisure teach them how vegetables can contribute to a delicious space for cold or rainy days. Working alongside the and healthy diet. On one occasion, we were very school’s management team, we are preparing the room fortunate to be joined by renowned Uruguayan chef, to offer a wide variety of activities, including books, table Diego Ruete, who is well known for teaching children games and a projector. the benefits of good gardening and cooking skills. Empowering a new generation Learning through fun As we plan ahead for 2019, we aim to educate the With a very interesting and engaging approach, children through a “reduce, reuse and recycle” program. Mr. Ruete first explained to the children how to use We are currently working with environmental specialists vegetables in three different recipes, including his to make sure this is implemented in the most effective famous “flying tortilla”. Once the fun and laughter had way, so the children can take the knowledge home and use it outside the school as well. The good work continues! 61 AAK as a global citizen Examples of memberships that safeguard the interests of the industry The impact of business goes beyond local commuNational associations nities. At a global level, AAK does its best to become The Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds Trade/NOFOTA involved in areas where the Group can make a The Association of Dutch Oil Processing Industries/Vernof difference – by utilizing our sphere of influence. The Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils/MVO AAK is naturally a member of various national and The Confederation of Danish Industry/DI international organizations that aim to improve the The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed Processors/ADOP industry by, among other things, setting common Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites y Mantecas Comestibles/ANIAME standards and aligning analytical methods, and, Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana/COPARMEX in general, by safeguarding the interests of the Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán/AIEMAC vegetable oils and fats industry. Through these The Swedish Food Federation/LI organizations, AAK interacts openly with authorities The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation/P&K and aims to influence the legislation that governs our The Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association/SCOPA business. The National Edible Oil Distributors Association/NEODA The Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers/ABIM The Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce/SACC The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils/ISEO The American Fats and Oils Association/AFOA The National Confectioners Association/NCA The Uruguayan Chamber of Industries/CIU The National Federation of Palm Oil Growers/FEDEPALMA The Vanaspati Manufacturers Association/VMA The Solvent Extractors Association/SEA The Protein Foods and Nutrition Development Association of India/PFNDAI The Association of Food Scientists and Technologists of India/AFSTI International associations The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry/FEDIOL The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association/FOSFA FoodDrinkEurope The European Oleochemicals and Allied Products Group/APAG The National Institute of Oilseed Products/NIOP 62 Sustainability approach Engaging with stakeholders For AAK, sustainable growth is about responsibility AAK regularly receives questionnaires, supplier codes toward all key stakeholders – the local communities of conduct and suchlike from our customers and where AAK operates, customers, employees, investors, investors, which we respond to in accordance with our and suppliers. policies. This type of input, combined with sustainability AAK’s model for sustainable growth is a dynamic one, reports, materiality analyses, etc., serves as an imporcontinuously enhanced by new knowledge, changes tant guide to priorities on our stakeholders’ agendas, in the external environment and engagement with key and supports our continuous, proactive efforts to mainstakeholders for their input. tain an up-to-date perception of what may be expected Input from key stakeholders comes from ongoing from us in the future. At the same time, we use matedialogue, at both local and corporate levels, about their riality analysis as a tool to identify the most important expectations of the AAK Group now and in the future. focus areas for our sustainability work internally. This What do they expect from AAK as a good neighbour, a way “Monitoring & Dialogue” tells us where to focus our preferred supplier, an attractive workplace, a profitable resources. investment and a valued customer? Their input guides us to where, and at what level, AAK should set its next objectives to drive future progress in this area. AAK An example of input from shareholders is their Sustainable Growth emphasis that sustainable sourcing is a key element when reviewing new investment options, since this Global CSR Team affects the risk profile of their portfolio. This input has Ambitions and GRI reconfirmed strong focus within this area, and has supported and guided AAK to maintain a high ambition level. Our Customers Our Suppliers Our Planet Our People Our Neighbours Monitoring Sharing & & Dialogue Partnerships Policies & Codes UNGC principles & SDGs 63 63 Investor Relations Shareholders During 2018, a capital market day was held in Sweden, AAK endeavors to generate an attractive return on and a large number of meetings were held with analysts investments for its shareholders. The largest shareand investors on site in Copenhagen, London and holder is Melker Schörling AB, which indirectly owns Stockholm. more than 31 percent of AAK. In total, approximately AAK strives to facilitate current and potential share68 percent of AAK’s shareholders are Swedish. More holder assessments of our performance through the information about AAK’s ownership structure is available transparent communication of our financial results, and at www.aak.com. our work to enhance environmental and social sustainability. During the year, we engaged in dialogues with Dialogue with shareholders a number of socially responsible investment analysts AAK’s aim is for the shares to be valued on the basis and investors. Some investors have a particularly strong of relevant, accurate and up-to-date information. This focus on sustainability and seek greater insights into requires a clear strategy for financial communication, how companies manage sustainability and corporate reliable information and regular contact with financial responsibility issues, particularly with regard to long market stakeholders. and short-term risks affecting the business. AAK meets Contact with the financial markets takes place via with such investors regularly, and provides information presentations in conjunction with quarterly reports and on our strategy and approach, risk management and meetings with analysts, investors and journalists at anti-corruption programs, among other issues. capital market days, seminars and visits to AAK’s sites. The intention is that the Group’s annual Sustainability Report is the most appropriate and efficient channel Shareholder activities for providing information about AAK’s sustainability Capital market days practices. For this reason, the aim is to answer the most Road shows common questions in this report. However, a construcMeetings with institutional investors tive dialogue on risks, opportunities and strategies Meetings with equity analysts related to sustainability is valued. Local meetings with the Swedish Shareholders’ Association Annual General Meeting 64 64 Maintaining momentum Sustainability inclusion of new sites An important aspect of the AAK Group’s sustainability with the participation of all CSR team leaders. When AAK builds or acquires new production sites a work is maintaining global momentum. To ensure this, To make sustainability even more visible within grace period of one full year worth of production is given the Global CSR Manager is in regular contact with all the organization, an internal sustainability award is before they are being introduced to and integrated into sites. Twice a year, consultation meetings with the CSR presented each year to the AAK site or business area the global CSR system. team leaders from each site are held where progress that has demonstrated outstanding sustainability After the first full year of production the site manageand challenges of the sustainability work is discussed. performances. In 2018, the production site in Zaandijk, ment is asked to appoint a CSR team leader and set Furthermore, the Global CSR Manager visits the the Netherlands received an award for their overall very up a CSR team. The team should have competencies production sites frequently. strong sustainability track record including improving within human resources, health, safety and environTo promote the continued sharing of information, best energy and water use efficiency per unit processed ment, finance, sourcing, operations, and sales. practices and progress on sustainability ambitions on a product. Once the new CSR team has been established it more regular basis, monthly virtual conferences are held receives a first introduction to CSR in AAK and the company’s “House of Sustainability”. Furthermore, the team leader will be invited to monthly global virtual conferences where, among other things, best practices Increasing sustainability awareness are shared. The next step is the inclusion of the site into our annual The introduction of dashboards is sharpening attention Another successful initiative is our CSR Toolbox, a global data collection. To that end the team is introduced on progress made. These comprise a one-page presglobal one access-point to sustainability material to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and in particular entation of data and graphics showing GRI indicators established at our intranet and available to all AAK the definitions that have been established within the AAK with high priority or under significant development. A employees. The CSR Toolbox comprises materials such Group. The spreadsheets that need to be completed global dashboard has been created for AAK’s Executive as policies and codes, presentations, training material, immediately after the end of the year will be thoroughly Committee to follow global developments, while local reports, videos and Q&As. reviewed with focus on the individual indicators. dashboards illustrate and benchmark developments at Furthermore, the short e-learning modules, introThese data together with other sites’ data lay the individual production sites. duced in 2014 and targeting specific topics have been foundation for our annual Sustainability Report in which The global implementation of our AAK Code of embraced by our global organization and proven to be the importance of the validity of the data is emphasized. Conduct is another promoter for the integration of an effective way to ensure sustainability is embedded For some new sites this is not far from the way they sustainability in our business. The Code is fully implewith our employees globally. We have a strong focus are already working. For others it is a completely new mented with all employees having read, understood, on being proactive and consequently, existing and new approach. Whatever the case, new sites are warmly accepted and signed the Code. Further systems have e-learning modules that need to be passed by defined welcomed and receive all the support required, from the been established to ensure that our Code is part of the target groups are constantly being reviewed, developed headquarters as well as from other sites, to integrate introduction package for new employees. and launched. into the global CSR system in the best possible way. 65 AAK Zhangjiagang, China Teamwork streamlines the GRI process After an onboarding period, the Zhangjiagang plant was Proactivity through training and support asked to join all our other sites in contributing to the Fortunately, these concerns were quickly put to rest. Global Reporting Initiative, an international independent On one hand, the Global Reporting Initiative has been standards organization that monitors impact on issues designed to be streamlined to alleviate any additional such as climate change, human rights and corruption. pressure on a company’s reporting process, and on the While some thought the reporting process would be other, Mads Jules Feer, Global CSR Manager of AAK, complex, the experience was universally positive and was on site to help manage the proceedings. efficient. Mads was able to give face-to-face training to Zhangjiagang is located in China’s Jiangsu province, everyone involved and used a special “card game” to and is one of the many ports along the famous Yangtze facilitate the group discussions. This enabled particriver. Workers at the new AAK site were initially appreipants to easily understand the key areas needed to hensive when invited to get involved with the Global focus on and how to get them completed. In addition, Reporting Initiative and people were concerned it might the senior management in AAK China gave its full be complicated or time-consuming to complete. support and encouragement to the team, which gave an even greater incentive to do the best possible job. 66 66 Global CSR organization Decentralized approach Management CEO and Executive Committee We believe in the importance of anchoring our CSR efforts in the organization and in incorporating a Production sustainability mindset into our everyday working life. Global CSR Manager To that end, we have set up a decentralized global Sourcing CSR organization responsible for CSR-related initiatives, progress, communication, and reporting. Global CSR organization with local roots The Global CSR Manager reports to the CMO (Chief CSR teams CSR team CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams Marketing Officer) who is a member of AAK’s Exe­­ Asia Europe SoLA* NoLA** US West Africa cutive Committee. The CMO’s responsibilities include CSR, corporate strategy, and business development AAK Kamani, Montevideo, Morelia, Port Newark, CSR teams Benin and marketing. At Board level, the Audit Committee is Khopoli, SE Karlshamn Dalby UY MX NJ IN responsible for monitoring the follow-up and reporting Jundiaí, Villavicencio, Louisville, Ghana of CSR topics, codes and policies. Zhangjiagang, CSR team BR CO KY CN Aarhus Since the global CSR organization was established DK Hillside, Burkina in early 2007, its objective has been to ensure breadth NJ Faso and diversity in the local teams, which are fundaCSR teams Hull Runcorn Richmond, UK Mali mental to our sustainability work. The teams possess CA competencies in human resources, health, safety and CSR team Ivory Coast environment, finance, sourcing, operations, and sales. Zaandijk, NL At our production sites, the teams consist of five to ten people led by a CSR team leader. The teams at Contacts CSR team our sourcing operations in West Africa have a different Merksem, Anna Frey-Wulff, Global CSR Manager composition, and may draw on competencies from the BE Email: anna.frey-wulff@aak.com major sites. Anne Mette Olesen, Chief Marketing Officer * SoLA represents Southern Latin America and includes Uruguay and Brazil. Or e-mail: sustainability@aak.com ** NoLA represents Northern Latin America and includes Mexico and Colombia. 67 Global Ambitions 2019+ Our Customers sustainability Be a leading and knowledgeable partner on sustainability for our customers ambitions 2019+ Ongoing: Continuously co-develop sustainable solutions AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors signed by all agents and distributors Intro to Anti-corruption and Competition Law Compliance e-learning modules passed by all relevant employees AAK’s ambitions for 2019+ are here presented in brief. The ambitions are commented on in more detail in the five focus areas to which they apply: Our Customers, Our Suppliers, Our Planet, Our People, and Our Neighbours. Ambitions 2019+ Our Suppliers 2020: Progressing on sustainability of each of our key raw materials 2020: All sourced palm oil meeting AAK’s policy requirements 2019: Develop and launch e-learning on Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials Ongoing: Continuously increase our impact on smallholders’ livelihoods covering shea, palm and coconut AAK Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Raw Materials signed by all raw material suppliers AAK Palm Oil Policy and Actions and Responsible sourcing of Shea in AAK e-learning modules passed by all relevant employees 68 Ambitions 2019+ Our Planet 2030: Reduce GHG emissions per processed unit raw material by 22 percent (baseline 2012)* 2020: Climate change risk assessment of all production sites Ongoing: Less than 1.5 percent of waste disposed at landfill Ambitions 2019+ Our People Working towards an injury free workplace Ongoing: AAK Code of Conduct signed by all employees Improve the competencies and engagement of our people Ambitions 2019+ Our Neighbours All sites engaged in relevant local community projects and activities *) Including scope 1 and 2. Target is scientific based on the Paris agreement that suggests a 1.23% GHG reduction per year 69 69 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) AAK Sustainable Growth Global CSR Team Ambitions and GRI GRI is a network-based organization that pioneers the and social performance. The framework also addresses world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framethe United Nations Global Compact principles and the Our Customers Our Suppliers Our Planet Our People Our Neighbours Monitoring Sharing & & Dialogue Partnerships work. The reporting framework sets out the principles OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. and performance indicators that organizations can use Policies & Codes to measure and report their economic, environmental, See www.globalreporting.org for more information. UNGC principles & SDGs Global Reporting Initiative Standards Index The GRI table is based on GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 including the Food Processing sector supplement. DiscloGRI Standard sure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 101: Foundation 2016 – This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization p. 78 General Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Annual Report 2018: pp. 18–28 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 78 102-4 Location of operations p. 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 2018: pp. 48–49 102-6 Markets served Annual Report 2018: pp. 18–28 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Report 2018: pp. 3–4, 52–55, 81–82, 93 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 54 102-9 Supply chain pp. 28, 31, 34–35, 36, 38 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Annual Report 2018: p. 37 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach pp. 25, 27, 57 102-12 External initiatives pp. 10–13, 19 102-13 Membership of associations p. 62 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pp. 6–7 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report 2018: pp. 34–35, 9–43 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior pp. 8–9, 19 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics pp. 9, 62 Whistle blower system part of AAK Code of Conduct 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report 2018: pp. 107–116 102-19 Delegating authority Annual Report 2018: pp. 108–111 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Annual Report 2018: pp. 29–31 Sustainability report 2018: p. 23 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Annual Report 2018: p. 109 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual Report 2018: pp. 44–46, 108–111 70 Fully reported Partly reported DiscloGRI Standard sure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 102: 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report 2018: pp. 44–46 General Disclosures 2016 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual Report 2018: p. 108 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report 2018: pp. 109–110 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Annual Report 2018: pp. 107–115 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Annual Report 2018: pp. 29–31 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual Report 2018: pp. 108–110, 113–114 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Board of Directors 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Annual Report 2018: pp. 108–110 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2018: pp. 84, 111 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report 2018: pp. 111–112 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Annual Report 2018: pp. 108, 112 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging few selective stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 57 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 64 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp. 20–21, 30, 33, 35, 39, 63–64 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Supply chain sustainability 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual report 2018: pp. 39–43, 64–66, 71 Sustainability report 2018: p. 2 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries pp. 8–9, 63, 74–75 102-47 List of material topics p. 63 102-48 Restatements of information p. 76 102-49 Changes in reporting pp. 2, 74 102-50 Reporting period 01.01.2018–31.12.2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 01.01.2017–31.12.2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 67 102-54 Claims of reporting inspired by the GRI Standards p. 70 102-55 GRI content index pp. 70–73 102-56 External assurance p. 76 GRI Content Index – material topics DiscloTopic sure Disclosure description Page number and comments Standard: Economic Series 2016 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Community donations: SEK 1,263,177 Economic Performance 201-3 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report 2018: pp. 85–86 201-4 Financial assistance received from government SEK 49,393,000 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Annual Report 2018: p. 5 Indirect economic impacts FP 1 % of purchased volume from suppliers compli-ant with company's sourcing policy pp. 23, 26–27, 31–32 FP 2 % of purchased volume verified to be in accor-dance with responsible standards, p. 33 by standard GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 57 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken In 2018, we had one case of corruption at one of our production sites. It involved a conflict of interest and the person was dismissed. p. 57 GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No incidents in 2018 Anti-competitive behavior 71 DiscloGRI Standard sure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 300 Standard: Environmental Series 2016 GRI 301: 301-1 Material used by weight or volume Processed raw materials: 2,571,000 MT Materials Packaging materials: 67,000 MT Processing aids: 41,000 MT Additives: 6,900 MT GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 42 Energy 302-3 Energy intensity pp. 41–42 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption pp. 41–42 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services pp. 41–42 GRI 303: 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource pp. 46–47 Water and Effluents 303-3 Water withdrawal No significant impact, p. 47 303-4 Water discharge p. 46 Total discharge: 1,765,000 m3 303-5 Water consumption pp. 46–47 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Hull, UK and Port Newark, US sites adjacent to Biodiversity areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas protected areas. No significant impact on production 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity No significant impact identified 304-3 Habitats protected or restored pp. 28, 31–32 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct greenhouse emissions p. 44 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 42 305-4 Greenhouse gas emission intensity p. 44 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 44 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 4,332 kg 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions p. 44 GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination p. 46 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 48 306-3 Significant spills Three minor spills of vegetable oil: one in Karlshamn, SE and two in Hillside, US. One spill of light fuel oil in Aarhus, DK and one spill of ammonia in Hillside, US required notification of the relevant environmental agencies. The spill in Hillside further required an environmental project to offset a fine. The details are currently still being defined. GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations The spill in Hillside requires an environmental project to offset a fine. Environmental compliance GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria pp. 25, 27, 29, 31–33, 38 Supplier environmental assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken pp. 31–33 72 Fully reported Partly reported DiscloGRI Standard sure Disclosure description Page number and comments GRI 400 Standard: Social series 2016 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 54 Employment GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes In line with national legislation and local agreements Labor/Management relations GRI 403: 403-9 Work-related injuries pp. 53, 56 Occupational health and safety 403-10 Work-related ill health Two cases of occupational diseases have been recorded in 2018. One fatality was registered in Ghana. One of AAK’s drivers lost control of a truck. The incident was investigated, and safety training was given to all of AAK’s ­drivers to prevent such an accident from happening in the future. FP3 % of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and or lock-outs by country p. 57 GRI 404: 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Personal Development Plans (PDP) implemented globally Training and education 404-3 Percent of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Personal Development Plans (PDP) implemented globally by gender and by employee category GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Annual Report 2018: p. 54 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p. 57 GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 57 Non-discrimination No incidents in 2018 GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective p. 23 Freedom of association and collecbargaining may be at risk No incidents in 2018 tive bargaining GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor p. 25 Child labor No incidents in 2018 GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor p. 25 Forced or No incidents in 2018 compulsory labor GRI 411: 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous people pp. 29, 31–33, 35, 39 Rights of indigenous people No incidents in 2018 GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Impact assessment pp. 19 Human rights assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures AAK Code of Conduct signed by all employees. No specific HR training 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or None in 2018 that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development pp. 59–61 Local communities programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities p. 59 No incidents in 2018 GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria pp. 25, 32 Supplier social assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken pp. 29, 31–33, 35, 39 GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories No incidents in 2018 Customer health and safety FP 4 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent p. 19 third party according to internationally recognized food safety management standards GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling p. 19 Marketing and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No non-compliance incidents 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No non-compliance incidents GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No non-compliance incidents Socioeconomic compliance 73 Reporting criteria Scope and materiality is to identify economic, social and environmental issues In general, the data in this report covers our activities This is the tenth AAK Sustainability Report. The first important to the business success of the local sites. from January 1 to December 31, 2018. Updated was published in October 2010 and our aim is still to To facilitate the process, 30 cards with one specific information for some 2019 events is included, since continue reporting on an annual basis. Due to Swedish CSR issue on each are created. All CSR teams have to they are considered to be of material importance to our legislation, future reports will be published together with discuss whether the different CSR issues are imporstakeholders. the AAK Annual Report in the second quarter. tant to the site or not. Those without importance are Environmental data (GRI abbreviation: EN) relate to Since commencing structured reporting in 2008, removed from the stack of cards. The CSR teams then the fifteen AAK production sites that were fully operwe have been inspired by Global Reporting Initiative’s have to pick ten cards with CSR issues most important ational in 2018 including the AAK products produced (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, now following to their business. Finally, they have to rank these ten by our toll production partner Cousa in Montevideo, the current GRI Standards version. We have used cards according to importance. Uruguay. Other core data also include purchasing sites GRI standard disclosures and sector disclosures for By means of a simple scoring system, data from and sales offices. In 2018, we have introduced two new food processing with special focus on core indicators. all the sites are then compiled into the x-axis of the energy sources, steam at our production site in China Indicator numbers and titles in the GRI index are in materiality matrix. The second dimension of the and coal at our production site in India. Furthermore, accordance with the GRI Standards version. matrix, the y-axis, is established based on stakeholder site Karlshamn in Sweden is now selling solar electricity Because GRI is an all-encompassing format, it is requirements and priorities. The materiality matrix then to the grid. not relevant for us to report on all criteria. In 2010, helps AAK to prioritize its resources and identify gaps we initiated an internal process to identify the issues between AAK and stakeholder priorities. We find it a Data and calculations relevant to our business and our stakeholders. This very useful tool in identifying important focus areas. Our We release a GRI Report internally in the first quarter of involved discussions with staff at all sites and feedback ambition is always to focus on reporting the information every year. The report is based on information received from other stakeholder groups. In 2013, we began using requested by stakeholders, or that of internal value. from all sites, and contains both local and compiled the materiality analysis tool to map our own priorities This Sustainability Report is a supplement to the global data. A section showing trends from the previous against our stakeholder priorities. Since 2016, we have AAK Annual Report 2018 and, therefore, only contains years is also included. Data and information from the been conducting materiality analysis workshops with a summary of financial performance figures and GRI Report form the basis of our Sustainability Report, the local CSR teams at all AAK sites. The exercise is references to the AAK Annual Report. Both reports are which is published externally. coached by the global CSR Manager and the objective available at AAK’s website. 74 The majority of data in the Sustainability Report are drawn from measurements. Air emissions data are based on direct measurements, calculations based on specific data or calculations based on default values. Information concerning purchased electricity from renewable resources is based on national grid information, if not purchased as green electricity. Information about employees, including numbers, gender, composition, etc., is calculated per December 31, 2018 and based on payroll information. Some minor data errors have been identified since the 2018 Sustainability Report was launched. These data have been adjusted in the present report. From our experience of the reporting process, we expect corrections will also be necessary in future reports. Nevertheless, we believe that the trends and overall picture given are a true reflection of our activities. 75 75 The auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report To the annual general meeting of the shareholders in Opinion AAK AB (publ.), corporate identity number 556669-2850 A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Assignment and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Malmö, April 10th, 2019 statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 and that it has PricewaterhouseCoopers AB been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt The scope of the audit Authorized Public Accountant Our examination has been conducted in accordance with Auditor-in-charge FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means Linda Corneliusson that our examination of the statutory sustainability report Authorized Public Accountant is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. 76 Production sites Customization sites Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer Innovation Centres We are AAK AAK is a leading provider of value-adding vegetable oils & fats. Our expertise in lipid technology within foods and special nutrition applications, our wide range of raw materials and our broad process capabilities enable us to develop innovative and value-adding solutions across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Special Nutrition, Foodservice, Personal Care, and more. Explore more at AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 years of experience within oils & fats. Our unique cowww.aak.com development approach brings our customers’ skills and know-how together with our own capabilities and mindset for lasting results. Listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and with our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, AAK has more than 20 different production sites, sales offices in more than 25 countries and more than 3,600 employees. We are AAK – The Co-Development Company. Published by AAK AB (publ.). Produced by AAK Corporate Communications and AAK Corporate Social Respsonsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: Thomas Hergaard, www.benfoto.se, Charlotte Kropholler, Simon Siantidis, AAK, Shutterstock. Print: Exakta.
