COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS In Support of The United Nations Global Compact July 2019 – July 2020 By Pak Oasis Industries Pvt. Ltd. CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SUPPORT From The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Pak Oasis Industries (Pvt.) Ltd. I hereby confirm that Pak Oasis Industries Pvt. Ltd extends its full support to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact Initiative of the United Nation in the fields of Anti-Corruption, The Environment, Human Rights and Labor. It is our profound belief that the actions we yield and the endeavors we strive for, lend progress in a cumulative effect to Business policy, Employee rights, Operational practices and the Corporate Culture of the Organization through the overarching aim of the Global Compacts' principles. It is in the highest interest of the efforts of the United Nations and secondarily that of the well-being of employees, corporate leaders and the society at large that the information contained herein for the purpose of the Global compact is disseminated to all working members, professional associates, and the public through all communication means available at the time. I reaffirm that Pak Oasis confirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. Pak Oasis expresses its continued intent to support and advance those principles within its sphere of influence. This communication on progress outlines how Pak Oasis has been applying the ten principles of the Global Compact, as well as its plans for the future. Pak Oasis strives to be a better company at whole, sharing the concerns of the society and dedicating its capabilities, resources and people to creating a sustainable future. Best Wishes, Irshad Hussain CEO, Pak Oasis Industries (Pvt.) Ltd. 1 COMPANY PROFILE Founded in 2005 and now with over 3500 employees and boasts over 2000 projects specializing in Solar and Water Desalination, Pak Oasis as an entity is regarded among the very best in Pakistan that connects innovation and sustainability to help address many of the world's most challenging problems such as the need for clean water, renewable energy generation and increasing agricultural productivity. Pak Oasis has developed a portfolio that includes water purification and alternative energy sources with solar power generation. Our ongoing services and operations include (amongst many others):  RO, Nano and Ultra Filtration Treatment Plants  Effluent and Sewage Treatment Plants  Solar RO Plants  Solar Tubewell  PV paneling in a range of appropriate sizes Pak Oasis promotes and seeks to build collaborations with entities who share in the same vision through operation and maintenance service partnerships. COMPANY CONTACT DETAILS  Address 33-C, Ittehad Lane 1, Karachi, Pakistan  Contact Person Irshad Hussain, Chief Executive Officer  Telephone Number 0092 21 3534 9741  Email jayaprakash.pa@pakoasis.org  Date of Incorporation 9 June 2005  Employee Count 3500  Industry Water and Engineering 2 WHAT THE COMPANY DOES The recent advancement in technology and information systems lead Pak Oasis to incorporate key success factors in the execution of its construction projects, that have resulted in highly efficient results and improved cost effectiveness, all while being able to keep core processes (manufacturing, engineering etc.) environment friendly. Due to scarcity of clean drinking water in remote areas of Pakistan, Pak Oasis has taken the initiative of providing environmental friendly and cost effective solutions to the general public. This is promised by incorporating industry-leading membrane filtration technology which ensures that all our water is safely purified, in accordance with both the respective national and international regulations. EMPLOYEE VALUE The Protection of all employees’ health, well-being and maintenance of their safe work conditions is of principal significance to Pak Oasis. It is focused on developing a work environment that mitigates danger and risk of harm to the occupational integrity of its employees. OPERATIONAL EMPHASIS Pak Oasis has strived to develop work flow designs that ensure plant operations are monitored to the highest degree of safety as well as efficiency, while minimizing impact on adjacent populations. 3 PAK OASIS DECLARATION ON: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS ON: HUMAN RIGHTS Water sustains Life. Water is critical for survival. Access to clean water is probably one, if not the most basic human right every individual should be entitled to. Pak Oasis has always worked towards expanding the means necessary to allow each and every individual the right to access pure drinking water, irrespective of any human societal parameter. Irrespective of all other contingencies, Pak Oasis transparently pledges to its Corporate Social Responsibility of working to provide clean water to each individual within its scope of influence. Water in and of itself is the life sustaining component in its internal and external utilization for maintaining homogenous and balanced nutritional and hygienic state of living. Pak Oasis ensures and currently maintains an ethically conscious and professionally sound environment that is insulated and free from any form of harassment, discrimination, disenfranchisement and discouragement of individuals that may belong to any race, religion, creed, color, orientation, gender, marital status, identity, origin, ancestry, genetically predisposition, citizenship, age or disability (medical or physical) wherein applicable by law to be employed to work, veteran and/or any other characteristic that is acceptable by local as well as international law. 4 IMPLEMENTATION ON: HUMAN RIGHTS Pak Oasis transparently accepts and propagates the universal right of each and every individual human being and his or her entitlement to established human rights applicable to them. It also promises to uphold and value such right in any given context. Pak Oasis considers the needs of marginalized communities. These communities have been unfortunately overlooked by social welfare and governmental institutions. To effect a change in their living condition, the first factor to consider is the reality that their source of clean drinking water is compromised. Building upon its overall pledge to uphold human rights, Pak Oasis has provided (without charge) complete functional plants for social institutions such as jails, worship places, schools and local community centers in villages where the utility of clean drinking water is not available. Pak Oasis has also taken the initiative to provide treatment plants to children’s educational institutions and to minority communities. When Children are insured protection from water borne diseases and pathogenic agents through access to clean water, they are able to maintain regularity in school and to progress in their selfdevelopment. It is pertinent to note that as every human being has the right to religious freedom, maintaining that right is contingent upon the necessity of maintaining health and hygiene so that the individual is able to practice their faith in a socially as well as medical compliant manner. 5 Our solar panels also reduce dependency of many smaller communities on fuel powered generators which helps them to refocus and invest their energy, effort and resources for more constructive pursuits. It also reduces pollution through harmful fumes and other waste byproducts in the inhabited area. One of the primary methods of maintaining health and hygiene for the purpose of either educational resource utilization or that of religious/social commitment and communion is the access to and consumption/utilization of clean water. Hence providing clean drinking water caters to the fulfillment of all three human rights aspects that are crucial for a civil and progressively developing society. Providing the necessary plants these social and correctional institutions, to filter and treat the water for consumption alleviates the cases of water borne infections and digestive ailments that could have been caused by contaminated water. The overall effect of this endeavor is that these institutions in turn can focus on their primary aims of providing either education, remediation, religious service or community development without having to compromise on their time and effort in obtaining clean drinking water; resource and time that is then well spent in building the society at large in their own unique and individual capacities. MEASURABLE OUTCOME ON: HUMAN RIGHTS The HRCP, a social rights movement organization that is recognized in Pakistan and the world over, has acknowledged the efforts that Pak Oasis has made in supplying clean drinking water to citizens living in the lowest income groups. Apart from this, Pak Oasis is always an active participant in the Annual International Corporate Social Responsibility Summit, and ours work is recognized in its event whenever they take place. This recognition in turn goes to prove that Pak Oasis is actively pursuing its commitment to Human Rights. Pak Oasis maintains its resolve to protect and implement Basic Human Rights within the existing organizational structure. Pak Oasis promotes and strive to influence these same values on all our professional associations to maintain this same standards when interacting with our organization and within their own organizational processes. 6 PAK OASIS DECLARATION OF ACCEPTANCE FOCUS ON LABOR ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS ON: LABOR An Adept Human resource management system and departmental staff corroborated by an equally efficient and receptive client relations staff ensures that the needs, rights and responsibilities of the Pak Oasis staff is in line with the current International labor and human resources practices, reflected in the manner in which employees interact and present their company with the general public. An effective Human resource and client relations staff instills a sense of entitlement, accountability and cooperation within staff members, to facilitate the company in eventually maintaining the right condition, mindset and environment in line with Global Compact’s Initiatives. Pak Oasis is currently making efforts to incorporate a sizable portion of female representation in the existing workforce. This does present its own challenges owning to the fact that the nature and field of operation for required tasks are located in places that may not provide the appropriate working conditions to ensure complete comfort and flexibility for females to participate. However within management, administration, Human resource and other indoor work profiles, Pak Oasis has endeavored to gradually double female representation in the next few years. 7 IMPLEMENTATION ON: LABOR Pak Oasis has never and will never resort to mandatory labor or coercion in obtaining the same. Pak Oasis accepts the local as well as international norms of labor practices. It maintains the minimum age limit applicable for employment and condemns child labor in all forms. Pak Oasis maintains an open, ethical, professional and conducive environment for all employees to perform their responsibilities without fear of apprehension, discrimination, persecution, stereotyping, profiling or racism. Pak Oasis promotes the ideal of the dignity of labor and respect for the workspace where all employees can communicate and operate with cooperation, understanding and respect for one another. Pak Oasis openly commits to maintaining each and every employed individual’s entitlement to the most basic of human rights coupled with dignity, respect and the pursuit of selffulfillment. Pak Oasis is responsible for maintaining and currently providing a safe, hygienic and secure environment for its employees to carry out their daily activities and responsibilities. Pak Oasis fully condemns any form or manifestation of abuse in established human rights nor is involved, engaged or complicit in any such offense of the violation of the principle or application of human rights. Pak Oasis is fully aware of and in possession of the required resources that would enable it to implement the necessary activity needed for efficient operation. 8 Pak Oasis provides complete freedom of choice for existing and prospective employees to be a part of, join, create or refuse to be represented by labor unions and other external employee representation groups. Pak Oasis completely recognizes and respects the applicable labor laws and maintains the privilege of each and every employee and worker to exercise their rights. Pak Oasis maintains a well-defined and transparent contract with each employed member of the organization. The contract codifies and entails the complete description of responsibilities, terms of employment and rights. All Pak Oasis employees have the freedom to choose between continued employment with the organization subject to extension of employment through contract and that of leaving the organization without fear of intimidation or negative repercussion. It is of paramount significance that Pak Oasis ensures unbiased, indiscriminate and ethical interaction between staff members. Staff members are expected to maintain respect, etiquettes and professionalism at all times, without resorting to discrimination and profiling of any kind towards any individual within the organization. Any instance, event or scenario of profiling or discrimination reported or detected within the organization provides ground for mediation on the matter and disciplinary action is taken in the event that the said scenario or instance relegates the image of the organization and the morale of its employees. 9 MEASURABLE OUTCOME ON: LABOR Third party companies have been employed to supervise the implementation of Labor rights of employees. Primary responsibilities include the regulation/ disbursement of employee benefits and the timely transfer of salaries and pensions to existing staff members of Pak Oasis. All employees have been enrolled for medical coverages and bank accounts have been made for each employee to ensure that remuneration is transferred in a safe and secure environment that can be easily accessed by the employees. Pak Oasis maintains a “hierarchy blind policy” which ensures that any staff member can approach the CEO and higher management to discuss any idea, grievance, idea, innovation or suggestion, subject to the availability of the CEO or individual concerned. No organizational politics or bureaucratic red tape is tolerated in Pak Oasis as it proves to be counterproductive to the operational efficiency and overall benefit of the company. Hence a staff member from any department or any chain of command is able to communicate his or her matter with the CEO in the rare event that their concern is not managed satisfactory by the immediate supervising staff member. Pak Oasis is ISO 9001: 2008 certified and has actively maintained its quality management system protocols in all operational departments and aspects of operation. This is further substantiated by continuous in-house as well as external training and professional development of its staff that is supported by the organization. Pak Oasis ensures timely disbursement of salary payments are confirmed through an automated and independently maintained system of disbursement, as supervised by the third party companies that are responsible for maintaining labor rights in conjunction with the organization. All non-management staff are completely insured against workplace hazard and medical liability. They are also guaranteed Employee Old Age Benefits for pension to be provided at the age of retirement, officially defined at the age of 60. 10 PAK OASIS DECLARATION ON: THE ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS ON: THE ENVIRONMENT Pak Oasis faithfully maintains its support for the protection of the environment through manageable procedures in daily operation that prevent any negative impact. Pak Oasis employees are required to operate within their workspaces while maintaining these procedures for the protection of the environment. Memorandums of understanding have been maintained for the last five years with the Pakistan Council on Renewal Energy Technologies to produce and assemble solar panels, which would promote small and medium enterprises and local organizational bodies responsible for its manufacture. It also improves and increase energy supplies from solar powered sources at water plants. The plant is designed to maintain complete sustainability on solar power. Pak Oasis has been successful in converting the energy source of over 35% of its water plants to solar power. This has been possible through memorandums with leading pump manufacturers such as Grundfos that allows solar water pumps to be produced locally in Pakistan. Not only are the manufacturing and installation costs of such pumps greatly reduced, but the dependence on diesel power is greatly reduced. This in turn greatly improves the environmental profile of the villages where they are installed as well as the renewal energy of the country at large. Pak Oasis has also reduced the dependence of villages and their associated communities on Tubewell that are still operated through conventional diesel pumps. 11 IMPLEMENTATION ON: THE ENVIRONMENT Numerous protocols are in place to track and reduce pollution, while preserving a green and clear work setting. Pak Oasis has achieved notable certifications for health, safety and environment systems which it has periodically maintained to remain current and effective. Pak Oasis has a Corporate Social Responsibility committee that regularly defines and discusses the necessary environmental laws governing operational protocols and international regulations maintained within the local context. Employees are notified of any alteration, addition or upgradation to the preexisting environmental protect protocols in place. Pak Oasis promotes environmentally friendly work practices and holds regular in house seminars to promote and maintain the continued implementation for environmental awareness through organizational efficiency. External associates, suppliers and end users are invites to in-house conferences on promotion of environmental friendly operational protocols implemented within Pak Oasis as a framework for application outside of the organization. Certificates of appreciation are awarded to employees and clients to maintain motivation for environmentally friendly and efficient performance. 12 MEASURABLE OUTCOME ON: THE ENVIRONMENT Pak Oasis values environmentally sustainable practices and emphasizes by organizational culture, practice and promotion, the importance of a healthy environment, both within the organization and with associated companies and partners. Pak Oasis promotes collaboration with associates, clients and all parties concerned that share in the similar motive to maintain the safety and sustainability of the environment. For the last five years, Pak Oasis has been operating its solar powered Ultrafiltration plant and Reverse Osmosis Water Desalination plant on solar power. The organization has also created an applicable format that cumulatively addresses parameters such as water usage, purification and preservation through its solar powered plants. The purified water has been utilized for irrigation of agricultural land and developing fertile soil in arid environments that counteract the consequences of desertification. As a measure of environmentally friendly operations and sustainable practices, Pak Oasis constantly maintains its ISO 14001: 2004 certification. The certification from an internationally recognized entity ensures that the organization is conscious of the highest levels of environmental sensitivity, sensibility and sustainability and considers environmental impact to be of paramount importance. It also displays Pak Oasis’ interest and intent on continuously reducing its environmental footprint. To this effect, Pak Oasis has been bestowed recognition from the National Forum on Environmental and Health through its numerous awards that signifies the priority Pak Oasis places on efforts to maintain environmental sustainability and protection. 13 PAK OASIS DECLARATION ON: ANTI CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS ON: ANTI CORRUPTION Pak Oasis promotes transparency in business operations and procedures and actively supports anti-corruption practices. It also prohibits and punishes corruption in any form. Pak Oasis does not promote any political or sectarian affiliation that would promote or condone corruptible or questionable practices. Pak Oasis maintains the same emphasis of non-compliance to corruption on all employees and on dealings of the organization with external associates. Pak Oasis does not allow the exchange of gifts and items of values that can be cashed in or products that possess redeemable value. Any item, remuneration, gift of nominal value that is accepted by any member of staff is prohibited. Instances of such receipts are promptly reported to the Human resource department. Any item that is used as a mean of bribery or collusion within the context of organizational integrity is forbidden and engagement in such practice constitutes immediate grounds for dismissal from active service, pending the necessary review from the designated review panel. 14 IMPLEMENTATION ON: ANTI CORRUPTION Pak Oasis supports public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Pak Oasis condemns corruption in every sector and aspect of its structure and operation. The organization prohibits the utilization of unethical practices including instances of extortion, coercion and bribery. Pak Oasis implements stringent measures to effectively eliminate such practices. Pak Oasis prohibits Gambling at work at any given time, whether it may be on active duty hours, or during designated/scheduled periods of rest. For clarification purposes, gambling is referred to any activity that involves leveraging any item of monetary value against an event that has an undetermined result. Pak Oasis commits to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations and undertakes to make a clear statement of this commitment to its employees, partners, and clients and to the public. 15 MEASURABLE OUTCOME ON: ANTI CORRUPTION If there is a violation in the conduct code for compliance in organizational transparency, the breach is evaluated through a formal report that is then assessed by the Compliance In charge. Financial aspects are evaluated by the pertinent Audit Committee. Regulatory authorities are then notified by these concerned departments. Following this, an evaluation of the situation and the conditions in place at the instance of the breach is taken into consideration by an investigation team constituted by an independent company or within neutral departmental staff within the organization. After this procedure has been carried out, a review is issued that will contain recommendations for alterations or rectification of the documented breach. These recommendations are then evaluated for uselessness and a communications report is circulated to all staff members as information. This ensures that employees are aware of the nature of the breach, the manner in which it was investigated, measures taken to address and rectify it, and finally steps that can be taken to avoid the repetition of such instances. Corruption, in any form will never be tolerated at Pak Oasis. 16
