Annual Sustainability Report 2018 Summary 03 Introduction 39 Energy transition 41 Environmental management 05 2018 Highlights 44 Knowledge 06 Messages and conservation 06 Message from the 48 Costa Norte Project Chairman of the Board 49 Metocean Project 07 Message from the CEO 50 JAPI Project 52 Marem Project 53 Private social investment 09 Our purpose 15 Governance and risk management 54 About the report 20 Ethics and compliance 56 Supplement to GRI disclosures 22 Our team 59 GRI content index 24 Our assets 27 Atlanta Field How to use this document Introduction 30 Manati Field Menu Arrows 31 Exploration Easily access the Navigate through each 33 Value generation chapters from the menu page by clicking the arrows on the left margin on the left margin 36 Safety in operations Home Click on this icon to return Print Use this button to the Summary to print the PDF 38 Culture of safety Introduction Enauta Participações S.A.* was created with the purpose of being a trailblazer in the energy area, an essential resource in the evolution of humanity. Development of technologies that make daily life easier and facilitate production of medications, the functioning of cities and even exploration of the universe are only possible if we can use reliable and safe sources of energy. With energy and looking to the future, we at Enauta work with a commitment to ethics, transparency and the safety of every activity Introduction we do. Our technical knowledge, experience and capacity for execution contribute to making our Company outstanding in the oil 2018 Highlights sector. Sharing our results with stakeholders makes us grow stronger Messages and drives continuance of this journey. Our purpose The Annual Sustainability Report is one of the ways we describe the challenges that we have overcome and the achievements Our assets we attained to our stakeholders. In this edition, we cover the period of January 1 to December 31, 2018, a notable year for the Safety in achievements that took our company to a new level in the oil and operations gas sector. The biggest of these was the start-up on production in Energy the Atlanta Field, showing the concrete results of our work transition as an ultradeep water operator. Knowledge and conservation *The change to the name of the Company, which was previously QGEP Participações S.A., was approved in an Extraordinary Shareholders Meetings on April 18, 2019. About the report Start-up on the Early Production System in the Atlanta Field represents a milestone in our history Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-1 | 102-6 | 102-50 | 102-52 3 Introduction 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy The goal of the Report is to show how our business is sustainable transition and consistently generates value. To do this, we follow the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an organization recognized Knowledge and internationally for establishing criteria and indicators to help to identify conservation and communicate the economic, social and environmental impacts and opportunities of production activities. About the report Questions and The publication also shows the alignment between our management model and the Global Compact and Sustainable Development comments on our Goals (SDGs). Both of these initiatives are coordinated by the United Annual Sustainability Report Nations (UN) and contribute to expand our engagement in the global movement towards a more sustainable relationship between are received by e-mail at society and the environment. enauta@enauta.com.br Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-53 4 2018 Highlights US$ 73 Awards and recognition million invested in the Company We were recognized as the best Brazilian company in the oil and R$ 10.7 gas sector by the Valor 1000 Annual Catalog, million published by the Valor Econômico newspaper invested in Research & Introduction 1.46 R$ 797 Development projects 2018 Highlights Our Parcerias e million million 121 Conhecimento em Prol do Messages Mar Brasileiro program, barrels in revenue joining projects focused Our purpose of oil produced employees on socio-environmental in the Atlanta Field development and Our assets R$ 425 Evolution of generation of scientific knowledge, was Safety in million the asset portfolio highlighted at the SDGs 5.13 operations in Brazil – The Role of the in net earnings Acquisition of a Private Sector event, held Energy by the UN in New York transition million 30% stake in the SEAL-M-430 and R$ 400 barrels of oil SEAL-M-573 blocks, in the Knowledge and equivalent (boe) Finalist in the Abrasca Sergipe-Alagoas Basin conservation produced in the (Associação Brasileira Manati Field million Initiation of the process das Companhias Abertas) About the report in dividends paid of returning the Award for Best Annual during the year Camarão Norte Discovery Report (for report 6.59 (BCAM-40), in the covering 2017) and Camamu-Almada Basin Honorable Mention in the Strategy and Investments million barrels of oil equivalent (boe) 41% growth Return of the PEPB-M-896 and PEPB-M-894 blocks, in the Pernambuco-Paraíba category, which allowed us to participate in the awards ceremony for the produced in total in EBITDAX Basin first time Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-7 | 102-10 5 Message from the Chairman of the Board The industry in which we operate holds a variety of major In this sense, production in the Atlanta Field, which started in 2018, operational challenges and uncertainties in relation to represents a milestone in our history. The techniques and technologies discoveries; yet we possess an immense capacity to generate used to drill wells and for extraction, elevation and processing of heavy wealth for the country and drive scientific research and and highly viscous oil are innovative and had never been employed technological development. jointly in a single project before. Although occasional problems with pumps have hindered the Early Production System’s performance, our Since we began operations, our investments have been Company’s established position as an operator in ultradeep waters is a accompanied by studies and projects that mitigate risks and significant accomplishment for the industry in Brazil. Introduction promote protection of the Brazilian coastline in accordance with engagement and respect for local communities. Managing risks Gas production performance at the Manati Field has remained within 2018 Highlights and driving positive impacts, blazing new trails in energy in Brazil, expected standards. The first asset of our portfolio to enter operation, Messages is at the core of everything we do. this Field continues to be relevant for its ability to generate value for Enauta and for providing a reliable source of energy to supply demand Our purpose Solid corporate governance is fundamental to the success that and drive the economy in the Northeast region of Brazil. we have systematically achieved in our business. With shares Our assets traded on the Novo Mercado, a segment containing the companies In 2018, our portfolio was fortified with the acquisition of a stake in two with the best practices, and with policies strengthening ethics new blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin, one of the most promising Safety in and transparency in our management, we are a Company that regions in Brazil for our activities. In these areas, we work in partnership operations is recognized and admired by the players in the oil and gas with major global companies and are confident that we will further Energy market, in Brazil and abroad. Evidence of this can be found in expand our opportunities to grow in a balanced manner in the long term. transition our recognition in 2018 and for the second time in row as the best company in the sector by the Anuário Valor 1000, a national In early 2019, we announced our new brand to society at large: Enauta. Knowledge and reference for financial industry analysts and investors. This name represents our spirit of blazing trails and developing energy, conservation wherever it is. Over the last 20 years, our pioneering spirit and courage In addition to assuring ethical conduct and business compliance, have guaranteed major achievements for us as well as the experience About the report our governance structure is also aimed at supporting Enauta in needed to make challenging projects a reality. We understand that generating sustainable value, with positive results in the short energy production lies in transforming the world and we are prepared to and long term. Our knowledge of the sector and the experience of continue to play a leading role in this area. our management provide the assurance needed for management teams to be able to develop their work in finding the best Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão solutions and attaining an excellent cost/benefit relationship. Chairman of the Board of Directors Annual sustainability report 2018 6 Message from the CEO After a year of major achievements, especially start-up on in the Northeast region, particularly in the last quarter production in the Atlanta Field, in the first quarter of 2019 of 2018, was driven by a lack of rain, which impacted we announced our new brand. With vast experience in the hydroelectric power generation and required activation exploration and production industry and with a team of highly of thermoelectric plants. qualified employees, Enauta was born ready to continue exploring the Brazilian seas and discovering the energy that The conjunction of a positive scenario for our operation with contributes to developing our society. efficient financial management resulted in record net earnings for our Company in 2018 of R$ 425 million and a position of Introduction Our capacity to fulfill this goal was proven in 2018, when the close to R$ 1.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents. This solid FPSO Petrojarl I arrived in Brazilian waters and we were able financial position has allowed management to recommend 2018 Highlights to initiate the Early Production System in the Atlanta Field. distribution of R$ 500 million in dividends to shareholders, Messages Qualified as deep and ultradeep water operators, we have to be distributed in 2019, fulfilling our goal of consistently shown investors and partners the strength of our human and generating value and guaranteeing a return on capital Our purpose intellectual capital to reach a complex reserve in the Santos invested by shareholders. Basin of heavy and low-sulfur oil. Our assets The manner in which we manage generation of value and Another operational highlight in the last year was the growth at Enauta are as important as the results we achieve. Safety in acquisition of two more blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin, We always put safety first, investing in minimizing the risk of operations bringing to six the total exploration assets of the consortium accidents and protecting the lives of employees, contractors Energy we formed with major partners who operate on a global and communities. With production starting in the Atlanta transition scale. Based on drilling in other blocks near our own, we Field, our challenge has become even more significant. We are have quite positive expectations in this region in relation celebrating zero accidents with time off during the first year of Knowledge and to deep water oil discovery. activities; however, we continue vigilant and ready to maintain conservation this standard and continually evolve. Production at the Manati Field, our second asset in production, About the report remained unchanged in comparison to the year prior, with a The positive impact of our business model goes beyond daily average of 4.9 million cubic meters. Demand for gas economic and financial aspects. Committed to sustainable development, we coordinate actions to comply with legal compensations and investments in R&D, aimed at contributing Start-up on production in the Atlanta to increasing scientific knowledge and research on the Field and acquisition of two blocks for Brazilian coastline, creating long-term positive impacts for exploration were the highlights of 2018 local communities and for biodiversity. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-14 7 In 2018, we had the chance to discuss this strategy at an event held by the United Nations (UN), in New York (USA). We were therefore able to show the international community how our business is aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the principles of the Global Compact, to which we are a signatory. Sustainability is an integral part of our management and helps to direct decision-making in strategic terms. Introduction It is because of this connection that our agenda includes 2018 Highlights critical issues, such as the impacts of climate changes on Messages production activities. At the same time that society is looking for energy sources with lower carbon emissions, it is also Our purpose demanding safer and more reliable energy to advance in combating poverty and developing emerging economies, Our assets among other aspects. Safety in Our goal is to blaze trails in energy. Enauta is a Brazilian operations company that relies on highly trained professionals who Energy are capable of innovating, with unique financial solidity in transition the country and an attractive portfolio of diversified assets. From left to right: Danilo Oliveira (Production Director), Recognized as one of the best companies in the sector in Lincoln Rumenos Guardado (CEO) and Paula Costa Côrte-Real Knowledge and Brazil, we are prepared and driven to contribute to the energy (Director of Finance and IR) conservation transformation that the country and the world need. About the report Lincoln Rumenos Guardado Enauta’s CEO Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-14 8 Our purpose A new brand was born and is already found in ENAUTA. ENERGY IS WHAT GUIDES US Brazilian waters, exploring and producing oil and gas to generate energy for all of society. Enauta is Energy powers the world. It enables civilization to evolve and steers us the name of the Company that brings us together toward the future. True success is defined not only by business performance around the goal of blazing trails in the energy but by how well we protect people and the environment. Guided by our core universe and continuing to develop the energy values — trust and a commitment to safety — we have built a strategy to sources that society needs, with responsibility, optimize our results. experience and courage. Introduction We navigate through energy’s paths, since blazing trails is a part of our history. We are Enauta and we know Brazil, the O&G market and its risks. We Behind our name, we have the qualification to are specialists, we know where, how and with whom to do it. We work with 2018 Highlights act as an A Operator, with the ability to operate in responsibility and courage to find the energy the world needs. Messages deep and ultradeep waters. We have a portfolio of assets that allows for diversification of risks and Enauta. Energy is what guides us. Our purpose assures solid generation of value for the continual growth of our operations and investments. We Our assets carry out responsible and secure management of our financial resources, preserving equity and Safety in appreciating investor capital. operations Energy We are committed to preserving and protecting transition life, always putting the safety of people in first place. At our operations, we care for our Knowledge and employees and contractors and use firm action conservation to minimize every risk, especially accidents that could impact people and biodiversity. About the report Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-2 9 In the cities located in the areas of influence of exploration and production To learn more assets, we value local customs and Deep water oil reserves are those with at a depth culture, joining forces to preserve the of between 401 and 1,500 meters of water to the environment and for territorial surface. Reservoirs located at depths in excess of socio-economic development. 1,500 meters are in ultradeep waters. The investments we make in research projects, whether voluntary or in compliance with the requirements of regulatory agencies, contribute to increasing knowledge on marine and coastal biomes, in addition to production Introduction activities along the Brazilian shoreline, helping cities to create public policies 2018 Highlights and benefitting society as a whole. Messages In 2018, we started the Early Production Our purpose System (EPS) in the Atlanta Field, in Block BS-4 (Santos Basin), using a Our assets unique arrangement with innovative technologies. As a majority investor, we Safety in are also part of a consortium exploring operations the Manati Field, one of the largest Energy non-associated gas production fields, transition located in the Camamu-Almada Basin. Knowledge and conservation Our investments About the report and projects create benefits for society and contribute to environmental preservation Annual sustainability report 2018 10 Our history 2019 Enauta is born, a new Brazilian brand to explore and produce energy sources. 2018 Start-up on the EPS in the Atlanta Field. 2016 and 2017 Acquisition of two adjacent blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin, bringing Start-up on the Costa Norte project, one of the Company’s largest investments in research and development for exploration. total assets in the region to six. Adaptation of the FPSO Petrojarl I for Acquisitions were made in partnership operation in the Atlanta Field. with ExxonMobil and Murphy Oil. Introduction Sale of our stake in the BM-S-8 Block to Statoil for US$ 379 million. 2018 Highlights Acquisition of two additional blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Messages Basin during the 14th round of bidding by Brazilian National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (Agência Our purpose Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis — ANP), with 2015 70% of the blocks acquired in the 13th round being farmed out. Acquisition of two blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Our assets Basin in the 13th round of ANP bidding. Safety in 2013 and 2014 operations Finalization of the PCAP project in the BM-J-2 Block, a pioneering and innovative model for Energy compensating fishing activity during the exploration phase. 2011 and 2012 transition Drilling and completion of two wells QGEP goes public, raising R$ 1.5 billion during its IPO. in the Atlanta Field, in the BS-4 Block. Farm-in agreements are executed for the BM-S-8 and Acquisition of 8 blocks in the 11th round of ANP bidding. BS-4 Blocks in the Santos Basin. Knowledge and conservation Carcará discovery in the BM-S-8 Block. Execution of the JAPI Project, a research and development (R&D) About the report 2010 initiative to characterize and monitor ecosystems. Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção (QGEP) is founded, separating the oil exploration and production activities that were previously held at Queiroz Galvão Óleo e Gás (QGOG). 2007 2000 The first gas is extracted from the Manati Field. Discovery of the Manati Field. Annual sustainability report 2018 11 Our intangible assets Research and Brand Development (R&D) Enauta is a brand that is recognized from the start for Our investment in R&D projects, in compliance its ability to execute and deliver projects, with ethics, with ANP’s regulations, mobilizes universities transparency and sustainability as attributes of value. and research centers to develop scientific Investments and actions aimed at spreading our knowledge and innovations that strengthen activities in the exploration and production portfolio and communication of our advancements are relevant for positioning the Company at the cutting 11 universities sector. Through the partnerships we support, we edge in the areas in which it operates, strengthening and research increase our knowledge on heavy oil extraction its reputation and driving the formation of strategic institutes are partners in deep and ultradeep waters, as well as on the partnerships with global companies. in R&D projects Introduction dynamic of the marine ecosystems and biomes located in the region of our operations. This 2018 Highlights generation of knowledge not only benefits and Messages optimizes our employees’ work, it is shared with society in a variety of formats, from research Our purpose and academic thesis papers to sensitivity maps made available online. Our assets Safety in Knowledge management operations The technical and practical experience and Energy knowledge of our employees are a differential transition in our business model. Our team has specialists experienced in exploration and production Knowledge and projects in Brazil and abroad, capable of conservation identifying and applying the best solutions and technologies in an effort to make oil and gas About the report extraction feasible. Preservation and internal sharing of this intellectual capital, done through initiatives such as the Programa Disseminando Conhecimento (read more on page 23), are strategic for us to be able to gain an edge and stay competitive in the long term. Annual sustainability report 2018 12 Innovation Our ability to execute and deliver projects is directly linked to efforts to apply new technologies and solutions that make our operations feasible at a lower cost and with greater competitiveness. Our participation in different industry committees and at international seminars, as well as our continual dialog with the academic medium, leverages our alignment with trends in the industry’s technical and managerial evolution. We take part in different committees in the Introduction Brazilian Petroleum, Gas and Biofuels Institute (Instituto Brasileiro de Petróleo, 2018 Highlights Gás e Biocombustíveis — IBP) and the Messages Brazilian Association of Petroleum Geologists (Associação Brasileira de Our purpose Geólogos de Petróleo — ABGP), among other notable institutions. Our assets Safety in Human capital operations Alignment of employees with strategic Energy objectives and corporate values fortifies transition our capacity to execute projects and conduct business ethically and Knowledge and transparently. Appreciation of people conservation and maintenance of an upstanding workplace are driven by investments About the report in training and qualification programs, by the construction of mechanisms allowing breaches of our Code of Training and qualification programs Ethics (Confidential Channel) to be communicated and by encouraging an strengthen our employees’ alignment with open relationship and dialog between the ethics and transparency we use to leaders and their teams. conduct our business Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-13 13 Our business Our decisions are based on risk model management, ensuring the safest route for all Learn more from page 15 We pioneer the We want to Brazilian coast drive a positive to discover cycle by making new sources of energy for We manage our discoveries in society assets with technical the direction of excellence, respect for people and care energy. We acquire shareholdings for the environment Introduction in the auctions We safely of the regulatory Learn more 2018 Highlights agency or in from page 24 and responsibly acquisitions operate the Messages (farm-in) fields We diversify risk Our purpose Our specialists with a balanced seek the best asset portfolio We look to the Our assets technical and future and brake We form strategic operational new ground Safety in partnerships with solutions We explore the assets for the energy operations global players in search of the transition We adopt the best standards energy source that Energy society needs Learn more transition of safety from page 39 and accident prevention We conduct several types Knowledge and of studies to evaluate the conservation We replicate viability of blocks best practices for suppliers We evaluate and mitigate About the report We invest in and service the risks and impacts for providers the environment research and studies to expand We identify and integrated incorporate new knowledge about technologies of operation the Brazilian coast Learn more from page 44 Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-15 14 Governance and risk management Our corporate governance structure, supported by policies approved by the Board of Directors and by the Code of Ethical Conduct, provides guidance for conducting business at Enauta with the goal of maximizing generation of value for all stakeholders, strengthening investment capacity and the long-term continuity of operations. We are part of the Grupo Queiroz Galvão, one of the largest business corporations in Introduction Brazil, which has been active in the industry for over 30 years. 2018 Highlights As a publicly traded company, our shares are listed on Messages the B3 and are part of the Novo Mercado segment, which is composed of the companies with the best corporate Our purpose governance practices. We therefore assure ethical and transparent relations with all shareholders, including minority Our assets shareholders, strengthening corporate responsibility with independent management. Safety in operations Energy transition Knowledge and conservation In 2018, our governance About the report structure was fortified with the creation of the Ethics Committee, which advises our Board of Directors Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-5 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 15 Governance structure Our highest decision-making body is the Board of competencies and professional experiences are Directors, which is responsible for defining corporate more aligned with the themes under the scope of policies and strategies aimed at creating long-term each committee. value. In December 2018, there were six members (including two independent members) serving in this In continual evolution and in line with best body. The current board members were nominated governance practices, our Company deactivated the according to their experience with and knowledge of the Ethics, Governance and Sustainability Committee in sector in which we operate and were elected to 2018. Since May of last year, we have relied on the two-year terms which are set to end in 2020. Ethics Committee, which is tasked with suggesting and supervising actions aimed at Compliance 33% of our Board of The activities of the Board of Directors are supported Program management and with monitoring control Introduction by three informational and advisory committees. These mechanisms that serve to counter attitudes that Directors is comprised of bodies are made up of members whose technical violate the law or of our Code of Ethics. 2018 Highlights independent members Messages Our purpose Our assets Members of the Board Safety in operations of Directors on Dec. 31, 2018 Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão Chairman* Energy transition Ricardo de Queiroz Galvão Vice Chairman Knowledge and José Augusto Fernandes Filho Board member conservation José Luiz Alquéres Independent board member About the report Leduvy de Pina Gouvêa Filho Board member Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan Independent board member *The Chairman of the Board of Directors does not serve in an executive capacity at the Company. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-22 | 102-23 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 16 Another body that resulted from this change The Audit Committee, made up of three effective is the Corporate Governance, Strategy and members and three alternates, was maintained in 2018. For more information on the governance body Sustainability Committee, which is charged Functioning in a non-permanent character, this body has members, see sections with ensuring good governance practices, been instated since 2014 and among its responsibilities, 12.5 and 12.6 of the transparency and management of sustainability it is tasked with supporting analysis of the Company’s Reference Form. impacts and opportunities for the business. financial statements. We also have a Compensation and Personnel Our Executive Board, which is responsible for leadership Committee, which has been active since in managing the business and assets, contains three 2016. The functions of this body were revised members, one of which is the CEO. Aligned with the and expanded in the last year, in order values of our brand, these leaders direct execution of to support management of our staff of strategy and of the development of business so that we employees and administrators. are able to make our purpose a reality. Introduction 2018 Highlights Messages Governance structure Our purpose Our assets Shareholders Meeting Safety in operations Ethics Energy Committee transition Corporate Governance, Board of Non-Permanent Knowledge and Strategy and Directors Audit Committee conservation Sustainability Committee About the report Compensation Executive Committee Board Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-18 | 102-22 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 17 Risk management We know the risks in the oil exploration and production Management Work Group. In order to mitigate the risk of sector and we consistently work to minimize our exchange rate variation and also for us to identify opportunities exposure to factors that could impact our ability to increase the generation of value, we follow the guidelines to generate value. This management is done in of the Market Risk Management Policy, in addition to seeking an integrated and transversal manner, involving diversification of revenue-generating assets. different administrative and operational areas and the relationship with suppliers in order to mitigate We also monitor and preventively act to minimize any risk operational and financial risks as well as risks to our of accidents that could cause damage to people and the Company’s reputation. environment. We are committed to working to prevent, mitigate and control any adverse impacts of our activities, through the There are different kinds of risks associated to creation of risk and environmental impact studies, aimed at Introduction exploration of sedimentary basins. Prospection of assessing and anticipating scenarios as well as building safety estimated reserves may not be confirmed, just as barriers and mitigating measures. 2018 Highlights there may also be a chance of not having technologies Messages accessible to recover discoveries. To minimize this risk, we rely on diversification of our portfolio – with proven Our purpose reserves and contingent and prospective resources – assuring an appropriate balance between risks and Our assets expected returns on investments. Safety in Moreover, variation in the price of a barrel of oil is operations another factor that is continually monitored by the Energy Executive Board, with the support of the Market Risk transition Knowledge and conservation About the report We monitor the external environment and regulatory changes to mitigate risks that can compromise how our business is conducted Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 18 To do this, we have set up an Integrated How we manage Management System (or Sistema de our risks Gestão Integrado/SGI, in Portuguese), certified according to the ISO 14001 (environmental management) and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) international standards. We use the SGI to perform analyses of operational risks in conjunction with our suppliers (learn more on page 37), Operational Market risk Compliance through recognized methodologies safety management Program such as HAZID and HAZOP. policy policy With the support of We identify, monitor Risks from exposure to our Code of Ethical Introduction and adopt measures exchange rate variation Conduct and internal necessary to mitigate and adverse financial standards, we conduct 2018 Highlights risks associated with impacts caused by claims our activities ethically the exploration and made in activities are and transparently. The Messages production activities mitigated by adopting the Compliance Program, we carry out. We also guidelines established in place for the last engage our suppliers in the Market Risk four years, covers all Our purpose in this management Management Policy, which of the tools we use to effort, aimed at is revised whenever minimize risks related Our assets guaranteeing the necessary. Insurance is to conflicts of interest, safety of people contracted according to fraud and corruption. Safety in The Information Security operations and of exploration best market practices, and production with oversight by the Policy also establishes risk management 15 blocks operations. Board of Directors. Energy guidelines to preserve the transition integrity of our business. distributed along the Knowledge and entire Brazilian coastline conservation contribute to diversifying assets, which minimizes About the report exposure to operational risks 0 accidents Operational Financial Ethics and with time off in the Atlanta Field in 2018 (considering risks risks compliance Company workers and contractors) Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 19 Ethics and compliance At Enauta, the business we carry out and the our Code of Ethical Conduct and internal conduct we use in stakeholder relations are in line with ethics, in compliance with laws and regulations standards aimed at assuring the integrity of our operations. This set of standards 100% of our employees applicable to our sector and are aligned with our regards issues such as conflicts of interest, received Compliance corporate values. The Code of Ethical Conduct, freely philanthropic donations, third-party Program training. available on the Company’s website, establishes the contracting procedures, receipt of gifts We also conducted standards of behavior we expect from employees and presents, and more. The program’s specific training for and suppliers. development is overseen by the Compliance the Executive Board and Division, by the Executive Board and by the Board of Directors The Compliance Program, in place for the last four Ethics Committee, which advises the Board Introduction years, is the tool we use to monitor compliance of of Directors. 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-16 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-2 20 The Confidential Channel supplements the initiatives we have to mitigate risks related THIRD-PARTY CONTRACTING PROCEDURE to conduct that is not aligned with our principles. This platform is an independent With the support of leadership, we Assessment is done by the same and confidential environment that is solidified our Third-Party Contracting external company that manages the Procedure in 2018, in an effort to Confidential Channel, using a set of equipped to receive grievances, requests and minimize risks related to compliance self-assessment questionnaires that are solicitations for advice from our employees in the relationship we establish with completed by contractor companies. and other publics. suppliers whose materials and services To determine which suppliers should have a greater impact on our business. comply with the Contracting Procedure, To engage employees in the Compliance To apply this tool, we assess contractor an example of a consideration would Program and reinforce ethics and companies’ exposure in relation to be whether companies have any direct situations of corruption as well as the relationship with public agents on behalf transparency at our Company, we hold amount expended in these contracts. of our Company. training, campaigns and annual meetings where compliance and integrity are Introduction discussed. One highlight in 2018 was the Company’s IV Annual Compliance Meeting, 2018 Highlights which discussed the topics of “21st Century Messages Professional Leadership and Attitudes.” This training was offered to 100% of employees, Our purpose just as it was the year prior. Our assets Safety in operations Energy transition The Third-Party Knowledge and conservation Contracting Procedure About the report strengthens supplier relations and assures compliance across the value chain Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-16 | 102-17 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-1 | 205-2 21 Our team DIVERSITY AND Our team is made up of specialists with a command of ENGAGEMENT OF OUR TEAM different areas of knowledge, allowing for exploration and use of basins according to the country’s geophysical At Enauta, we bring together professionals who are engaged with our purpose and characteristics. With vast experience in the sector, our team capable of overcoming multiple challenges. is capable of finding the best solutions to make production This type of profile and these behavioral Career experience feasible in different reservoir types. This characteristic adds of our employees competencies are essential to guarantee competitive advantages for the Company, insofar as it drives achievement of strategic goals, especially the search for innovative solutions for the operation. because we have a smaller team compared to 22% other major companies in the sector. At the 24% end of 2018, we had 121 contracted employees Two factors are responsible for this unique qualification of and 4 interns. our professionals. The first factor is the technical education Introduction acquired through schooling. Around 91% of our employees 18% Women account for 42% of our team are High School Graduates and 52% have completed some and they hold 35% of the leadership 2018 Highlights 36% positions at the Company. type of graduate level course. Messages Within our management, we work to create The second leverage is professional experience in the sector Up to 10 years and strengthen a professional environment Our purpose and participation in drilling and production projects in Brazil 11 to 20 years of collaboration between teams that is free of and abroad. Around 40% of our team has more than 20 years 21 to 30 years discrimination. Among the management tools Our assets Over 30 years we use is the Confidential Channel (learn of career experience, having held key positions in major projects developed within the national industry. more on page 21), which also takes questions Safety in from employees that are forwarded to the operations personnel management area and to the leaders responsible for resolution. Energy transition Education level of our employees Knowledge and 4% 91% 16% conservation 32% About the report 39% 35% of leadership positions are Undergraduate MBA Master’s PhD Total high held by women Degree school graduates Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 22 Continual training In addition to their educational and professional backgrounds, our employees Another notable initiative was the Programa Disseminando Conhecimento, held every two years. 30% of increase in the enhance their knowledge continually through Through the Program, employees from technical and average training hours internal training or by participating in outside administrative areas give talks and presentations to per employee in 2018 courses. In 2018, we had over 9,000 hours of their colleagues on topics which they have mastered, training, an average of 81.5 hours per person – increasing collective knowledge on processes and approximately 30% more than in 2017. activities across the Company. Eighteen employees took part in the 2018 edition as speakers. This increase is partly due to startup on production in the Atlanta Field. One action we carry out involving all of our employees Introduction is guided tours of the FPSO Petrojarl I, which processes and stores oil extracted. 2018 Highlights Messages Our professionals travel in groups of, at most, 10 people to the city of Cabo Frio (Rio Our purpose de Janeiro State), boarding a helicopter the following day which takes them to the Our assets production platform, where they see the dayto-day of the workers stationed on the vessel. Safety in This entire trip takes nearly three days. operations Energy Visiting the Petrojarl I not only gives teams transition greater knowledge, it also contributes to increasing the perception of the value Knowledge and we generate through our business. Many conservation employees working in administrative roles are able to have their first experience in a About the report production field. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 23 Our assets Since our founding, we have built a portfolio that currently contains 15 assets located in promising basins for oil and gas exploration and production. The shares we hold in concessions were acquired through rounds of bidding held by the Brazilian National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis — ANP) and through farm-in Introduction processes carried out in Brazil. 2018 Highlights Having a diverse portfolio is one of our competitive Messages advantages. We mix assets in production with exploration areas in different stages of maturity. Our purpose There are blocks with a high chance of discoveries, such as those in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin, and Our assets others in border regions, such as the Foz do Amazonas Basin, which have a higher exploratory Safety in risk and, consequently, increase our opportunities. operations Energy We are qualified as an A Operator by the ANP, which transition means we are able to operate in fields located on land and at sea (in shallow, deep and ultradeep Knowledge and waters). We are the operator in four of the total conservation concessions we hold. About the report To learn more Farm-in and farm-out are terms used to designate the purchase and sale process between companies of the total or partial share held in a concession. The company acquiring concession rights is doing a farm-in, while the company selling is doing a farm-out. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-6 | 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 24 One of the areas we operate is the BS-4 Block 2P Reserves in the Santos Basin. The Early Production System (millions of boe)* (EPS) in the Atlanta Field was initiated in the last year, with the first oil produced in May. In 2018, we produced an average of 12,000 barrels per day, with the expectation to reach 27,000 in 2019. 40.3 Our other asset in production, since 2017, is the Manati Field, operated by Petrobras. Located in the Camamu-Almada Basin, this is one of the Oil (Atlanta) largest non-associated gas reserves in the country Natural gas (Manati) and a relevant source of revenue generation Introduction within our business model. 2018 Highlights 224.0 The partnerships we establish for exploration Messages and production in these fields are strategic and place us alongside major companies in the sector. *According to certification of reserves by GCA for Our purpose Knowledge of Brazil and of the characteristics of 100% of 2P reserves in the Atlanta and Manati reserves, as well as teams’ technical training, are Fields, updated on December 31, 2018. Our assets what sets our Company apart. Safety in operations Energy STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS transition Local knowledge is one differential at Enauta to establish Geographic diversification diversified partnerships, including with global players Knowledge and conservation and the stage of development About the report of our assets, as well as the partnerships we establish with major players, strengthen the resilience of our portfolio Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-6 | 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | OG1 25 EVOLUTION OF OUR PORTFOLIO In 2018, we optimized our portfolio of assets with the goal of maximizing value creation. In the 15th round of ANP bidding, in 2018, we acquired a stake in two blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin (SEAL-M-430 and SEAL-M-573), raising the number of assets we hold in this region to six. Exploration areas are located between 80 and 100 kilometers from the coast, in ultradeep waters, covering a total area of 1,500 km². We hold a 30% share in the consortium awarded the concession. The other partners are ExxonMobil, Introduction an operator which holds a 50% share, and Murphy Oil, with a 20% share. The total signing bonus 2018 Highlights amount was R$ 7.3 million, of which R$ 2.2 million are net to Enauta. Messages In the last year, we also returned a share corresponding to 30% in the PEPB-M-896 and Our purpose PEPB-M-894 blocks, located in the PernambucoParaíba Basin, to the ANP. These areas had been Our assets acquired in the 11th round of bidding and the exploration period had ended. Safety in operations The Camarão Norte discovery, in the southern section of the Manati Field (Camamu-Almada Energy Basin) was also returned to the Agency in 2018. transition Our consortium, in which we hold a 45% stake, concluded that the area, which was declared commercial in 2009, was not economically viable. Knowledge and conservation These changes were in addition to the farm-out of the BM-S-8 Block in the pre-salt exclusion area About the report of the Santos Basin. In late 2017, we sold the 10% stake we held in the area to Equinor for US$ 379 million. A total of 62% of this value had already been received by the Company by the end of 2018, with the remainder (38%) set to be paid over the next two years. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-10 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | OG11 26 Atlanta Field Located in the BS-4 Block, in the Santos Basin, the Atlanta Field is the most recent Enauta asset to start up operations. Initiation of the EPS in May 2018 represents a milestone in the Company’s history, rewarding the bold move of becoming a national operator in one of the most challenging fields there is in ultradeep waters in Brazil. In the last year, average production was 12,000 barrels (bbl) per day. Start-up on the EPS operation is important because the technical solutions 12,000 barrels per day were used to access and elevate the oil are innovative and unique. The reserve’s produced, in average, geological conditions, the acidity and the reological conditions (such as during the first year viscosity, for instance) of the oil, along with other natural factors, require that a of the Atlanta Field Introduction operation robust production project be built for a safe operation. 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy To learn more transition FPSO is an acronym of Floating, Production, Knowledge and Storage and Offloading. conservation It designates the special type of vessel used to About the report receive, separate, process and store oil removed from offshore fields. The Petrojarl I is the first FPSO chartered by Enauta. Annual sustainability report 2018 27 The convergence of these solutions into a single project and the success of the OIL CHALLENGES IN THE ATLANTA FIELD operation, which prioritizes operational safety, are the results of the technical training and experience of our staff, responsible for planning an operation that has become a benchmark for the sector in Brazil. Relying on partnerships with The oil in the Atlanta Field, with an API gravity of approximately 140, posed challenges to extract. The API scale measures the qualified suppliers, we uncovered a new world for our business, fortifying our density of liquids derived from oil and, the higher the degree, the courage to continue innovating and investing in new technologies to overcome higher the market value, due to the separation and refinement the challenges that lie ahead. processes. The oil we have discovered in our asset is considered heavy and has acidity levels that could compromise the FPSO if Start-up on production on the Petrojarl I (FPSO chartered for operation in appropriate equipment is not used for elevation and processing. the Atlanta Field) was the most recent advancement in this venture. In 2019, On the other hand, its chemical composition allows the Atlanta oil production in the Atlanta Field will be expanded with the drilling of a third to be used to manufacture ship fuels with a lower sulfur content. well, basically adopting the same technologies, with some updates and This is a chance to add value to the product, which can be done as improvements, and the same safety procedures. In addition, we will change out of 2020, when the International Maritime Organization (IMO) will implement new global regulations placing a 0.50% limit on sulfur the submersed pumps that were not operational during start-up of the EPS, in ship fuel; this limit is currently set at 3.50%. Introduction which reduced the volume produced in 2018. 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report Annual sustainability report 2018 28 6 Solutions in A robust project for the surface plant the Atlanta Field Receive, process, store and distribute acid and viscous oil To overcome challenges, The FPSO Petrojarl I, with a production technologies used followed capacity of up to 30,000 barrels per day, was six main concepts totally refurbished and redesigned to operate according to Brazilian law and to support the unique conditions of Atlanta oil. 5 1 Thermal isolation of submarine lines and risers Minimizes increased oil viscosity at low temperatures Installation of thermal insulation in well production Introduction Drilling of wells lines is aimed at minimizing thermal exchange with long horizontal between the inside of the pipeline and the 2018 Highlights extensions seabed during flow to the FPSO, therefore Guaranteed high flow keeping viscosity from increasing in the event The Atlanta reservoir the fluid is cooled off through contact with Messages is located in ultradeep the low temperatures of ultradeep waters. Our purpose waters, at a water depth Our assets of over 1,550 meters. The two horizontal 4 2 wells already drilled and completed are Safety in operations approximately 800 meters long. We finalized 3 Guaranteed oil flow to the surface Avoids reduced production drilling of the third Completion of wells with sand Energy production well in the The first oil was produced in May 2018, when transition control screens and gravel pack Installation of the EPS started up with the goal of assessing first quarter of 2019. Physical integrity of wells high-power the operation’s most important technical The use of sand control screens underwater pumps parameters to find the best size configurations Knowledge and inside wells conservation with gravel pack functions as a filter for the definitive project. All production on the well, which guarantees the Elevation of oil from the EPS, set to run until 2022, will be longevity of good oil productivity, purchased by Shell. About the report free of solid particles. Annual sustainability report 2018 29 Manati Field Gas production in the The Manati Field is one of the largest With a daily average of 4.9 million cubic Manati Field drives our producers of natural gas not associated meters produced in 2018, Manati is a capacity to generate value with Brazilian oil reserves. Its production mature field that is in a phase of natural fulfills demand for this fuel in the decline in production. The remaining and increases the supply of Northeast region and contributes to reserves (2P), net for Enauta, contain a safe and reliable energy overcoming supply challenges during 2.84 billion cubic meters, according to a drought periods in the region, when Reserve Certification Report issued on source for the Northeast hydroelectric plants are unable to December 31, 2018. region of Brazil generate power. Located in the Camamu-Almada Basin and Introduction operated by Petrobras, Manati represents a milestone in the country’s history, as the 2018 Highlights first well drilled by a consortium of private Messages and independent companies. We hold a 45% share in the consortium that holds the Our purpose concessions for this asset. Our assets Operations began in 2007, after we realized the significant energy potential and we Safety in invested in building the infrastructure operations needed to serve the consumer. Industries Energy in the region were therefore able to transition become more competitive, with a new energy supply option available. Knowledge and conservation The Manati Field is very relevant within our strategy. Because it was the only productive About the report asset for over ten years, its production allowed the Company to strengthen its cash and helped to drive investments in exploring the other basins in which we are present. Annual sustainability report 2018 30 Exploration These are exploration assets that hold opportunities for our business to grow. The Sergipe-Alagoas Basin, where we hold shares in six blocks, has the potential to produce excellent quality light oil in ultradeep waters, based on recent discoveries in areas near the areas we are exploring. Activities have been carried out in this basin since the 1930s, with the first discovery taking place in the 1960s. Introduction We also have blocks in new frontier regions 2018 Highlights for the sector, such as the equatorial margin Messages region, which includes the Foz do Amazonas and Pará-Maranhão basins. Preliminary Our purpose activities conducted indicate that there are light oil and associated gas reserves. Our assets Nevertheless, environmentalists and civil society organizations have expressed Safety in concern about the possible impacts of operations Energy exploration activities on the region’s biodiversity. As operators of consortiums, we invest in studies and research to map This combination of assets in different stages of exploration, with the potential for discovery 6 blocks in our portfolio are transition these regions’ ecosystems and contribute to and production of light and heavy oils, in the promising Knowledge and increasing society’s knowledge. Read more diversifies risks to our business and allows for Sergipe-Alagoas Basin conservation about this topic on page 44. better distribution of investments, lowering financial exposure and the need to raise About the report In the BS-4 Block, where we began Atlanta third-party funding. Formation of partnerships Field production in 2018, we also have with experienced companies which are the Oliva Field, located 17 kilometers from recognized internationally in consortiums also our production asset and which will be drives our capacity to blaze trails and discover developed at a later date. new energy sources to serve society. Annual sustainability report 2018 31 Location of our assets Click on each basin in the map to learn more about the blocks in which we hold stakes 1 2 3 1 4 Foz do Amazonas Basin Introduction 2018 Highlights 2 Pará-Maranhão Basin 5 Messages Our purpose 3 Our assets Ceará Basin Safety in operations 6 4 Energy Sergipe-Alagoas Basin transition Knowledge and 5 conservation 7 Camamu-Almada Basin About the report 6 Espírito Santo Basin See the list of all basins 7 Santos Basin Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-4 32 Value generation The start-up on Atlanta Field operations positively benefitted our Company’s financial results in 2018. With two assets in production, on December 31, 2018, Enauta had a cash balance of R$ 1.9 billion. On this same date, the Company’s total indebtedness was R$ 290 million. Part of this amount is related to two lines of credit for development of the EPS in the Atlanta Field that were taken out with the Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Finep), a Introduction public agency for the development of science and innovation. Net cash at the end of 2018 2018 Highlights was therefore R$ 1.6 billion, which is sufficient Messages to cover investment needs for at least the next two years. Our purpose Net revenue was up by 58.9% in comparison Our assets to 2017, totaling R$ 797.2 million. This generation of value is a result of stable gas Safety in production in the Manati Field, in addition operations to eight months of production in 2018. Energy These results consider Enauta’s increase in transition production, from 30% to 50%, in the Atlanta Field, reflecting the Arbitral Tribunal’s decision In line with growth in activities, operating Net revenue (R$ millions) Knowledge and that Dommo Energia be removed from the costs more than doubled year-over-year, conservation 797.2 consortium. Moreover, net revenue benefitted reaching R$ 458.6 million. This increase, from receipt of the second payment related driven by the EPS in the Atlanta Field, was About the report to the sale of a 10% stake in the BM-S-8 somewhat attenuated by lower operating 476.6 501.7 Block, which included the Carcará discovery. costs in the Manati Field, a mature asset In January 2018, we received R$ 147.6 million with stable production. General and – another R$ 154.3 million had already been administrative expenses were also 1.6% accounted for in the last quarter of 2017. lower in the last year, compared to 2017, totaling R$ 51.3 million. 2016 2017 2018 Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 33 19% Considering this performance and nonEBITDAX and EBITDAX Margin recurring gains, the Company’s EBITDAX in EBITDAX (R$ millions) 2018 was R$ 574.8 million, up by 40.9% EBITDAX Margin (%) of increase in net year-over-year. Excluding non-recurring earnings in 2018, 53.0 effects, the indicator assessing the capacity compared to 2017 39.5 39.6 to generate operating cash went from R$ 253.6 million (2017) to R$ 381.9 million (2018). 574.8 497.9 The increased operating result was responsible 188.6 for Enauta’s record net earnings in 2018, at Distribution of added value in 2018 R$ 425.2 million, 19% higher than in 2017. (R$ millions) This result, along with a solid cash position, 2016 2017 2018 allowed the Company to propose payment of 56.8 Introduction R$ 500 million in dividends to shareholders, which were paid out in 2019 following approval 2018 Highlights Labor at the Shareholders Meeting. Taxes, fees and Net earnings (R$ millions) 425.2 2018 309.4 Messages contributions At the end of the year, the Company’s shares Remuneration of 425.2 third-party capital Our purpose were valued at R$ 9.35, indicating a 13% loss Company remuneration 357.4 in value year-over-year. Market value totaled Our assets R$ 2.49 billion. Average daily trading value was 44.6 nearly three times higher than in 2017, reaching Safety in Distribution of added value in 2017 R$ 13.95 million. 152.9 operations (R$ millions) Energy Value added distributed totaled R$ 836 million, transition up by 25% year-over-year, driven by both 51.4 growth in revenues and by higher value added 2016 2017 2018 Knowledge and received in transfer. Distribution remained Labor conservation relatively unchanged compared to 2017, Taxes, fees and 347.4 2017 246.0 with taxes paid to the government and contributions Remuneration of About the report shareholder remuneration accounting for third-party capital the greatest share. Company remuneration For more information on the Company’s financial performance in 2018, see the 22.8 Financial Statements on the Investor Relations website. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-1 34 INVESTMENTS IN ASSETS Net CAPEX (US$ millions) 2018 62 Atlanta Field 2019 40 2020 90 2018 0 Manati Field 2019 3 Introduction 2020 0 Investments in exploration 2018 Highlights activities and in development 2018 of assets are supported by 5 Enauta’s own funds. The Messages Exploration 2019 12 Company’s cash position in Sergipeis sufficient to meet this Our purpose Alagoas 2020 14 demand over the coming years, according to decisions Our assets already made by the consortiums in which we Safety in Seismic 2018 5 surveys are members. Accounting operations for blocks for investments considers 2019 3 the share we hold in the acquired in the Energy 11th round of respective assets. transition ANP bidding 2020 16 In 2018, Enauta had total investments of US$ 73 million, Knowledge and with approximately 85% of conservation 2018 0 this amount going to the CAL-M-372 Atlanta Field. Of the portion 2019 4 About the report corresponding to exploration activities, US$ 5 million was 2020 13 invested in blocks in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin. For 2019, US$ 65 billion is planned 2018 0 for investments, with US$ 133 million planned for 2020. Other 2019 4 2020 0 Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 35 Safety in operations Guaranteeing the safety of people and the Definition of action plans necessary to guarantee the safety of environment are fundamental premises for conducting our business and our activities. The fact operations is strengthened through investments in the different types of studies and analyses that we do while still in the 50 participants that zero serious personnel incidents occurred in asset exploration phase. Execution of R&D projects, such as attended the first the EPS operation in the Atlanta Field throughout JAPI, developed in the BM-J-2 Block (in Bahia) and Costa Norte, Atlanta Field 2018 is proof of this commitment and of the conducted along Brazil’s equatorial margin, provide general HSE workshop efficacy of the mechanisms we have to guarantee scientific support for understanding the effects of oil dispersion Introduction application of a culture of systematic safety. in the event of leaks and identification of more sensitive ecosystems and regions, in addition to helping in decision2018 Highlights Our management model was structured to mitigate making in case of emergencies. Messages operational risks and trigger action plans in an integrated manner to minimize impacts in the event Our purpose that accidents and incidents occur. Guidelines for preventing these occurrences, training and Our assets HSE Performance in the Atlanta Field in 20181 awareness-raising for employees and suppliers and risk management are in our Operational Safety Safety in Policy and Values. Frequency Frequency Critical operations Rate of Rate of Severity Supplier Accidents Accidents Rate Assessment Energy Our Management Plan follows the Incident with Time without Time (TG) Rate transition Command System (ICS) methodology to coordinate Off Off (IAFC)2 responses in the event of emergencies. We rely on a (TFCA) (TFSA) Knowledge and Global Subsea Well Containment System for possible conservation underwater leak events, which is a contingency About the report plan operated by Wild Well Control, a reference in 0 2.48 0 90% safety and accident response in the sector. We are associate members of Oil Spill Response, the largest 1 Rates were calculated over a total of 806,263 hours worked. We do not have information cooperative responding to oil leaks in the world. broken down by gender, since suppliers provide Enauta with consolidated information. It is important to note that practically 100% of workers in the Atlanta Field are men; this means that information broken down by gender is not a material theme for the Company’s management. 2 The IAFC is an operational indicator that measures the percentage of suppliers considered critical who were contracted and assessed on HSE aspects. The goal is to reach 100%, with the remaining 10% set to be assessed in 2019. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-2 36 Our Integrated Management System (SGI) standardizes the way we operate to In our business, the main risks related to ensure the safety and excellence in SMS performance in our business. safety are in exploration and production activities, which are mostly done by suppliers who are under contract. Bridging documents are drafted with companies considered to have critical risk, so that activities may be executed in compliance with our HSE standards. Incident monitoring in the Atlanta Field operation is done monthly and controlled through a Pyramid of Indicators. With this tool, we monitor the evolution of key 01 Certifications 02 reactive safety indicators, such as total number of incidents and seriousness Introduction of occurrences, and we discuss plans • ISO 14001 2018 Highlights for improvements with our suppliers at oversight meetings. (environmental Operating management) Messages • OHSAS 18001 manuals 03 At our administrative offices in Rio de (occupational Our purpose Janeiro, we also invest in creating a safe and health and safety healthy workplace. We carry out training management) Our assets • These manuals with employees and include this topic in internal communication materials, aimed to In 2018, we expanded establish procedures Assessment to be adapted in Safety in operations increase individual awareness. In 2018, there the scope of these different activities of operational certifications to were no accidents with time off on record production in the Atlanta so that they may be performed in a risks Energy for our employees. Field; and, starting in standardized manner, transition 2019, we will begin an • We use the main methodologies meeting Health, Safety internal process to obtain recognized by the industry to and Environment ISO 45001 certification, an identify and evaluate risks and Knowledge and standards and ISO standard in the area implement recommendations in conservation preventing occurrence of Occupational Health order to keep conditions at ALARP of incidents. and Safety Management. (As low as reasonably possible) About the report levels, such as APR, HAZID, HAZOP, BowTie, and others, depending on the phase the venture is in. This process is done along with a multidisciplinary team from Enauta and from service providers who perform critical activities. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-11 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 37 Culture of safety To strengthen a culture of accident preventing, aimed at more effectively mitigating the risks in our operations, we invest in actions EMERGENCY RESPONSE to train personnel and raise awareness. One of these initiatives was the first HSE workshop for EPS activities at the Atlanta Field. Around To respond to emergency situations, we rely on a management plan that follows the ICS (Incident Command System) 50 participants, representing ten different companies involved in the methodology. In use since the 1970s, the ICS allows for project, discussed and gained an understanding of the operational integration between procedures, people, equipment and safety, environment and occupational health guidelines and communications systems. In 2018, there were no leaks at our requirements to be permanently followed and fulfilled. operations nor were there any other occurrences demanding activation of the ICS. In 2018, we also carried out the Campanha Destaques de SMS SPA/ Introduction Atlanta. The event recognized employees from companies involved with To assess the efficacy of our plan, in the last year we carried installation of the Atlanta Field who had the best performance related out simulations involving the entire Incident Management 2018 Highlights to safety. Award winners were elected through a vote by their coworkers. Team (IMT). The various training sessions were aimed at training IMT members to respond to and act in different Messages In addition to these initiatives, safety appreciation among our types of emergency situations. Our purpose employees is reinforced by the action of the Internal Accident Prevention Committee (or Comissão Interna de Prevenção de Acidentes/ Our assets CIPA, in Portuguese) and through regular campaigns, such as the Internal Accident Prevention Week (or Semana Interna de Prevenção de Safety in Acidentes/SIPAT, in Portuguese) as well as by talks on topics such as operations ergonomics, first aid, healthy habits and physical activity. Energy transition Knowledge and conservation In 2018, the Campanha Destaques de SMS About the report SPA/Atlanta recognized contractors working on installation of the Atlanta Field, chosen by their own coworkers for their safe behavior and for their safety performance Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-3 38 Energy transition Climate changes caused by the concentration of greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere have become one of the most critical and sensitive topics for society in the 21st century. In 2015, the Paris Agreement was established during the Climate Change Conference held in France (COP-21), of which Brazil is a signatory. This Introduction document established national targets for reducing GHG emissions, aimed at preventing the 2018 Highlights average temperature on the planet from rising by Messages more than 2 Celsius degrees. Scientific studies and climate models indicate that once this level Our purpose is surpassed, the balance of ecosystems will be severely impacted, harming human activities Our assets because of the increase in climactic extremes. Safety in As one of the main Brazilian companies operating operations in the oil and gas sector, we monitor and study Energy global evolution in search of renewable energy transition sources and to reduce dependence on fossil fuels to generate energy. Although oil and its byproducts Knowledge and are found in practically every production chain, conservation the majority of oil extracted in the world goes to energy production. About the report Natural gas is a viable and safe alternative for the transition to an energy model with fewer emissions Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 39 There is an ongoing transition to a production 2018. This production flows through a model based on renewable energies, but there is still the challenge of the intermittence of 125 kilometer long network of gas pipelines, on land and at sea, going through a compression 4.9 million cubic meters of daily these sources. For example, solar and wind station and reaching the processing station in natural gas were produced generation methods depend on storage the city of São Francisco do Conde (Bahia State). per day, on average, in the technologies being more effective and From there, it supplies Petrobras facilities or is Manati Field in 2018. This guaranteeing supply during non-productive resold, including in condensed form. fuel supplies Petrobras times. In the case of Brazil, whose energy matrix facilities or is resold. To is based on hydroelectric plants with large One of the biggest challenges to growth in the drive development of a reservoirs of water, susceptibility to droughts production and use of natural gas in Brazil’s competitive market for has demanded the activation of thermoelectric energy mix is the development of a competitive this energy resource in plants powered by fossil fuels. market that is able to attract investments to Brazil, in 2016, the federal create the infrastructure that serves potential government launched the Within this scenario, natural gas proves to be a consumer centers. This is the central goal of Gás para Crescer program Introduction viable and safe option for the energy transition. the Gás para Crescer program, launched by Among its main advantages are lower CO2 the federal government in 2016. Changes to 2018 Highlights emissions (compared to other byproducts), regulations and the opening of the sector Messages more efficient combustion, easy transportation to new participants can leverage this fuel’s and handling, low presence of contaminants, production and consumption in Brazil. Our purpose and more. With more competition, legal security and Our assets Natural gas is obtained from extracting oil or the creation of infrastructure, natural gas has from non-associated deposits, where there the potential to take on a prominent role in Safety in is much less oil. The Manati Field, an asset in the energy transition. In this sense, the operations which we hold a 45% share and which is located country will increase this fuels presence in Energy in the Camamu-Almada Basin, is one of the the industry, it will each more consumers transition largest producers of non-associated gas in and it will move toward achieving the the Northeastern region of Brazil, reaching an targets to reduce GHG emissions undertaken Knowledge and average of 4.9 million cubic meters per day in in the Paris Agreement. conservation About the report Developing a competitive market, with legal security and infrastructure, is one of the main challenges to growth in the production and use of natural gas Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 40 Environmental management Supported by the Integrated 16.8 million Management System (or Sistema de Gestão Integrado/SGI, in Portuguese), Scope 1 GHG emissions Energy generated (tCO2e) from fuels (GJ) we monitor performance in relation liters of marine diesel to the relevant environmental impacts 280,374.2 58,631.08 were consumed in 2018 of our business. With the stat-up of in the Atlanta Field Atlanta Field operations, some aspects became even more relevant for our 130,828.9 management, especially the treatment and disposal of waste and effluents, the Introduction search of energy efficiency and the 10,220.97 3,365.50 consequent reduction in greenhouse 2018 Highlights gas (GHG) emissions. 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Messages Before starting the Early Production Our purpose System (EPS) in the Santos Basin, had 58,600 tCO2e (tons of carbon we were already managing these equivalent) under scope 1, resulting Our assets environmental aspects. For example, from direct Company activities. For we take part in the Carbon Disclosure 2019, our goal is to study and begin Safety in Program (CPD), an international the development of projects that operations initiative that engages companies in allow us to understand and manage Energy providing accountability on emissions possible mitigation and off-setting transition management, in order to provide more measures for emissions generated, transparency to investors. Since 2015, using the first year of Atlanta Knowledge and we have published our GHG emissions production as a premise. conservation inventory annually on the Programa Brasileiro GHG Protocol platform. The main factor of GHG emissions About the report in the Atlanta Field operation is the Our emissions have increased because consumption of marine diesel. In of the growth in installation and 2018, the use of this fuel doubled production activities in the Atlanta compared to the previous year, mostly Field. In the last year, with the FPSO as a result of the start of the FPSO Petrojarl I beginning operations, we operation. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 302-1 | 305-1 41 Hazardous waste disposal method (t) Depressurization/decharacterization 0.19 We monitor indicators Treatment station 104.16 related to waste and Reprocessing 2.19 effluents on a monthly Re-refining 13.47 basis to guarantee legal Landfill 3.25 compliance of operations Cleaning/decontamination 5.06 Processing 29.17 Detonation 0.01 Generation, treatment and appropriate Types of effluents generated disposal of waste and effluents is another topic (thousands of m³) Autoclave 0.03 Introduction that we continually manage in our operations. Incineration 0.04 Oversight of these indicators is done monthly 2018 Highlights with the goal of guaranteeing compliance with Reconditioning 0.40 Messages the parameters established by environmental laws On-site storage 9.08 111.2 104.8 and identifying opportunities for improvement. Our purpose Similar to GHG emissions, generation of waste Total 167.0 and effluents was impacted in 2018 by the start Our assets of the Petrojarl I operation. Safety in In the last year, we have generated a total of 216,000 Oily water Sanitary effluents Non-hazardous waste operations cubic meters (m³) of effluents and around 95% of this disposal method (t) Energy volume is treated at the FPSO. There was 37.9 metric Landfill 23.57 transition tons of waste, including hazardous and Effluent disposal method (thousands of m³) Reuse 6.01 non-hazardous materials. Knowledge and 9.8 Recycling (paper, paperboard and plastic) 74.08 conservation Environmental management of our business also On-site storage 4.98 includes execution and assessment of the conditions About the report required by regulatory agencies in the licenses Composting 1.96 206.2 authorizing our operations. Various projects are Treatment station 102.25 implemented under this scope, such as the Projeto Total 212.8 de Monitoramento de Impactos sobre a Avifauna (PMAVE), monitoring birds, and the Programa de Comunicação Social (PCS), communicating with Effluent treatment station Discharge at sea fishing communities. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-1 | 306-2 42 GOAL FOR REDUCING ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION Electricity is basically consumed at our Company by administrative operations carried out at our office located in Rio de Janeiro. To rationalize the use of this resource, we have established a specific consumption target of a maximum of 0.648 GJ (180 KWh) per employee. In 2018, a total of 1,098.3 GJ of electricity was acquired from third parties, with an energy intensity (GJ/employee) of 6.9. The average monthly consumption per employee was therefore 0.575 GJ. Introduction 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 302-3 43 Knowledge and conservation Our business and management model promotes benefits beyond direct economic impacts and generation of value from oil and gas production. Investments in the project’s research, that we carry out voluntarily or in line with regulatory agency stipulations, are aimed at increasing knowledge of ecosystems Introduction in coastal areas and of relationships with traditional fishing community activities. 2018 Highlights Messages Relevant investments are made in Research and Development (R&D), to moreover engage Our purpose Brazilian universities in studies with the potential to serve as the foundation for public Our assets policies and drive innovation in the oil and gas industry. In 2018, we invested R$ 10.7 million in Safety in R&D to execute seven projects in partnership operations with 11 academic institutions. Energy transition This type of action connects global initiatives to promote sustainable development, Knowledge and especially the Sustainable Development Goals conservation (SDGs) and the Global Compact, both promoted by the United Nations (UN). Our goal is to About the report continually and consistently move forward in To learn more integrating management of our business with The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted a sustainable development agenda, making it during the United Nations Summit in 2015 and include so that the value generated by our Company 17 goals and 169 targets to be achieved by 2030. This is a benefits all of our stakeholders. global agenda, adopted by signatory countries, with a focus on eradicating poverty, promoting more sustainable standards of consumption and environmental conservation, reducing inequality, and other themes. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 44 PARCERIAS E CONHECIMENTO EM PROL DO MAR BRASILEIRO Our Parcerias e Conhecimento em Prol do Mar Brasileiro Program was created with the purpose of identifying, preventing and mitigating any damage to coastal ecosystems and to the people living in these areas in the event of incidents involving oil spills. It includes the JAPI, Costa Norte, PCAP and Marem projects (learn more about these projects starting on page 48), in which we have invested over R$ 25 million. In 2018, the Program was highlighted at the “SDGs in Brazil: The Role of the Private Sector” event, promoted by the Global Compact Network Brazil at the 73rd United Nations General Assembly, in New York (USA). Introduction At that time, Enauta’s CEO was able to show the benefits of integrated action to promote scientific 2018 Highlights knowledge, environmental protection and development of populations. Messages According to 2010 Census data, around 3 million Our purpose people live in regions that are potentially sensitive to incidents. The sharing of the results and conclusions Our assets of our R&D projects, supporting development of local public policies, was recognized by the international Safety in community as one of the main benefits of our operations management model. Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report The results of our research and projects serve to support the creation of public policies and scientific development Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 45 SDG 14 | Life Below Water Given that our activities predominantly take place in the marine environment, as well as the risks of accidents and environmental pollution, we found out that our management is more mature to communicate and manage the connections that exist within this dimension. We therefore understand that our projects make a significant contribution to the targets of Sustainable Development Goal 14 (Life Below Water) and they are also more clearly connected to promoting the principles of the Global Compact in relation to the environmental dimension (Principles 7, 8 and 9). Global Compact Principles Introduction 2018 Highlights Messages 7 8 9 Our purpose Approach to Environmental Diffusion of environmental responsibility environmentallyOur assets challenges friendly technologies Safety in operations Energy The nature of our business led the governance to make transition substantial investments in research, development of technologies and modeling of indicators geared toward Knowledge and mitigating the risks of exploration and production conservation activities. Nevertheless, we continue to work to enhance management and communication of positive impacts and About the report management of risks related to promoting human rights and NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE gender equality, actions against climate change, innovation in industry, and other topics. REDUCED INEQUALITIES SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION CLIMATE ACTION LIFE BELOW WATER LIFE ON LAND PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS The infographic on the next page shows the main AND PRODUCTION contributions our business model currently makes to the sustainability agenda. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 46 Parcerias e Conhecimento em Prol do Mar Brasileiro SDG targets 14.2, 14.3 and 14.5 Understand how R&D projects + learn more and the investments we make contribute in an integrated manner to the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources. LIFE BELOW WATER Introduction 2018 Highlights SDG targets 14.4, Messages 14.7 and 14.b + learn more Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report SDG target 14.1 + learn more See all targets Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 47 Costa Norte Project The Foz do Amazonas, Pará-Maranhão, Within our strategy of sustainable action, the Knowledge of coastal Barreirinhas, Ceará and Potiguar basins form Costa Norte Project responds to the demand Brazil’s Equatorial Margin, one of the regions on for greater knowledge of the region’s sensitivity areas in the Foz do the new frontier of oil and gas exploration and to any oil spills. Incidents of this nature have Amazonas Basin production. There are 38 blocks in these areas the potential to affect mangroves, estuaries, that were acquired by different companies in the beaches and any sand bars, as well as to impact contributes to developing 11th Round of Bidding held by the ANP. Three of social and economic activities, which is why public policies geared them are fully controlled by Enauta FZA-M-90, in it is important to build an integrated model the Foz do Amazonas Basin, and PAMA-M-265 and simulating the marine hydrodynamic and the toward preserving PAMA-M-337, in the Pará-Maranhão Basin. spread of pollutants. ecosystems Introduction This initiative, which started in 2016 and is set to 2018 Highlights end in 2020, is aimed at identifying efficiency in Messages the use of computer technologies to represent hydrodynamics and the spread of oil in coastal Our purpose and estuary regions. In 2018, one of the project’s activities was the launch of 144 surface and Our assets depth drifters that were released during monthly campaigns to simulate how pollutants are carried Safety in by currents. For each campaign, we note any operations birdlife, marine mammals and fishing vessels Energy present, in order to enrich knowledge of the transition region. We also collect physical and chemical data on water in coastal areas. Knowledge and conservation The project includes development of systems to simulate marine hydrodynamics and the About the report spread of oil in an integrated manner, aimed at enhancing techniques to forecast the impact of oil stains at sea in the coastal region adjacent to the Pará-Maranhão and Foz do Amazonas Basins. These technologies are integrated in a simulation environment based on an internet portal that can be accessed remotely by users. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 48 This virtual environment also receives environmental data (oceanographic, meteorological and biological data) collected on-site and, along with a numerical oceanic circulation model, it depicts realistic environmental conditions (updated and past conditions) in the region of project interest. Information associated to characterization of the coastal ecosystems in the region, based on analysis of satellite images and field excursions for different environmental conditions, are also accessible and used by the simulation platform. Users are therefore able to interactively obtain Introduction information on scenarios of accidents at sea and plan contingency actions according to the 2018 Highlights available logistics. With the results found from Messages simulations, previously tested actions can be assessed and used in real cases. Products created Our purpose are extremely useful to the agencies responsible for environmental management in the region of Our assets interest as well as for potential actions to prevent and mitigate environmental accidents arising from Safety in operations activities associated with the oil industry. This project includes participation from the Metocean Project Office of the Coordinator of Graduate Programs in Energy One of its greatest benefits is the chance to Engineering at the Universidade Federal do Rio de During one year, from 2016 to 2017, meteorological and transition share knowledge acquired with over 50 cities, Janeiro (COPPE/UFRJ), through the Laboratório de oceanographic data were obtained at the Equatorial supporting development of public policies Métodos Computacionais em Engenharia (LAMCE); Margin through the Metocean Project. Carried out with Knowledge and geared toward environmental conservation and the Universidade Federal do Pará (UFPA), with the funding from Enauta and another three companies conservation community development. Physical and biological Laboratório de Oceanografia Física (LOF); the School operating in the region, this initiative installed seven approaches are integrated in order to increase of Oceanography at the Universidade do Estado mooring buoys and three meteorological buoys. About the report understanding of the environmental dynamic do Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), through the Núcleo de of coastal ecosystems and their vulnerability Estudos em Manguezais (NEMA); and PROOCEANO, In addition to this preliminary data, a specialized to oil spills in the Amazonian coastal region, na oceanographic technology company. This company is set to be contracted in 2019 to develop a contributing to the environmental safety of group of institutions seeks to integrate differential hydrodynamic base in the Equatorial Margin. Studies Brazil’s Equatorial Margin. expertise and local knowledge. will last for three years and are expected to end in 2021. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 49 JAPI Project The first R&D investment we made, the JAPI Project characterized and monitored the sensitivity of coastal ecosystems on Bahia’s southern shore. The initiative was The PMDP allowed for compilation of a database of fish catches in the region during different months of the year, allowing for an understanding 22 different maps were produced to developed in partnership with two universities (UFRJ and of the dynamic of fishing activity and the indicate more sensitive UFBA) and was finalized in 2014, with significant results influence of exploration activities. The results environments according for improving environmental management, conservation were shared with communities, helping in to tide conditions and season and appreciation of fishing activities in the cities of Una, understanding efforts employed and productivity. Canavieiras and Belmonte. According to the data found over these three years, drilling was not found to have interfered in In this region, we operate through the BM-J-2 Block concession, the fishing dynamic of the communities. which was returned to the ANP in 2015. The JAPI Project’s goal was to map the sensitivity of different ecosystems to any oil The PMP, in turn, monitored the occurrence of Introduction leaks, defining priorities for containment and remediation marine animal beachings on these cities’ beaches measures. As a result of this study, 22 different maps were before, during and after drilling activities in 2018 Highlights put together, indicating the most susceptible environments the BM-J-2. This project promoted rescue and Messages according to tide conditions and season. rehabilitation, whenever possible. Our purpose One of the conclusions reached, for example, was that in this region, the mangroves, beaches and estuaries are more Our assets sensitive to spills during the months of October through March. Emergency scenarios and more effective plans of action Safety in could therefore be built to protect these ecosystems. operations Energy During our exploration activities in BM-J-2, in addition to the transition JAPI Project, we worked alongside the community to develop the Programa de Monitoramento de Praias (or PMP, its Knowledge and acronym in Portuguese) and the Programa de Monitoramento conservation da Atividade Pesqueira (or PMDP, its acronym in Portuguese), in compliance with the requirements of environmental About the report licensing granted by the Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (or Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis/IBAMA, in Portuguese). Both initiatives were maintained in the region without interruption between drilling activities (2011 to 2013), even though this was not required by the regulatory agency. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 50 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT IN ENVIRONMENTAL COMPENSATION Our strategy for investing in knowledge and research on the Brazilian shoreline, by developing coordinated R&D projects and projects on environmental conditions, matured based on an innovative initiative carried out in southern Bahia. During the exploration phase of the BM-J-2 Block, one of the conditions to be met was construction of the Plano de Compensação para a Atividade Pesqueira (PCAP). The PCAP we conducted in the region, without interruption from 2011 to 2013, was pioneering in how it was drafted, elaborated and executed. The project was developed by the community itself for the Canavieiras Marine Extractivist Reserve, which borders the BM-J-2. With constant dialog, the Associação Mãe Introduction dos Extrativistas (AMEX), an extractivist association, submitted the PCAP proposal and budgetary plan to our Company, which in turn was approved by IBAMA. 2018 Highlights According to the environment agency’s guidelines, Messages the PCAP was fully implemented by the 14 resident associations in the Reserve and by the AMEX (the Our purpose institution joining all of the fishermen’s, shellfish collectors’ and crab fishing organizations). While the Our assets community was implementing the plan, Enauta was in charge of supervising the project timeline. Safety in operations Among the compensation measures were the purchase of materials to build or remodel association Energy headquarters, acquisition of a fishing boat for transition collective use by shellfish collectors, installation of a radio station and more. The PCAP was finalized in Knowledge and 2013, with a savings of over 10% in the funding used. conservation Implementation of the plan by the community, About the report with autonomy to purchase materials and manage resources, was a milestone in our history and for the sector. The relationship of transparency and trust established between the Company, fishing communities in the Canavieiras Reserve and the licensing agency was fundamental to build a participatory model of action which values local culture and traditions. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 51 Marem Project Developed by the IBP in partnership with IBAMA, We participate in this initiative along with other companies in the the Marem Project is an initiative aimed to improve sector, in an effort to contribute to strengthening actions and plans assessment of environmental impacts and enhancing to protect and clean the Brazilian coast in the event of incidents environmental management. Data collected include, involving oil spills. We also work on the subsequent project phases, among other things, information on the physical and which map coastal islands and vulnerable species that should be a socio-environmental features of the Brazilian coast. priority for protection in the case of incidents. Introduction 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Safety in operations Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 52 Private social investment Investments we make in supporting civil society to humanizing pediatric care for patients R$ 1.85 initiatives geared toward promoting sports, health in Brazil’s Unified Healthcare System (or million and education are aligned with our purpose of Sistema Único de Saúde/SUS, in Portuguese) in total was invested helping to develop Brazil. Through our own funds in various specialties, such as oncology, in social projects and and through fiscal incentives, we make contributions neurology and others. At the hospital in São initiatives in 2018 to recognized organizations and projects that make Paulo, we provide funding for the Amparo a positive impact on people. In 2018, private social investments totaled R$ 1.85 million. ao Idoso project, aimed at increasing and qualifying free care for the elderly during oncology treatments. Over 1,000 kids and teens One of the initiatives supported was the Mar à Vista benefit from sports – o Desafio da Sustentabilidade no Mar Brasileiro activities during Introduction project. Paid for through Audiovisual Incentive Act extracurricular hours funding, this initiative will produce a series of five 2018 Highlights episodes discussing the risks of oceanic degradation Messages to human existence and the possibilities to reverse damage caused by human actions. Our purpose The Vôlei em Rede project, funded through the Our assets Sports Act, is carried out by Instituto Compartilhar, which was created by Bernardinho, the former Safety in coach of the Brazilian national volleyball team. operations This initiative creates a welcoming environment Energy and trains educators using a methodology to transition teach this sport to young people in association with the values of cooperation, respect, autonomy Knowledge and and responsibility. Over 1,000 kids and teens from conservation public schools in Rio de Janeiro benefit from these extracurricular activities. About the report In the area of health, we support actions by Hospital Pequeno Príncipe, in Curitiba (Paraná), and by Hospital do Amor, in Barretos (in the heartland of São Paulo). In Curitiba, support is provided to the Saúde Integral project, which contributes Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 53 About the report The goal of our Annual Sustainability Report is to The study was produced by IPIECA, a non-profit Our leaders were also engaged through transparently and clearly provide all stakeholders institution created in 1974 which works to drive face-to-face interviews. This stage sought to with relevant information on our Company’s improvement of socio-environmental performance relate our management policies and practices business model, risk management and the capacity in the sector, in partnership with the United Nations to trends and demands from the industry to generate and share value. In order to set the Development Programme (UNDP). and society for a more sustainable model of direction of content reported, we therefore carried production and consumption. out an active consultation and dialog process The sustainability topics we identified during with our stakeholders in 2018, as well as assessment this preliminary stage were then debated with Based on this process, we identified eight Introduction of the context in the sector in relation to the representatives from the stakeholder groups that most material themes for communicating our biggest demands and trends related to the impact us or that are most impacted by the value sustainability management. These themes 2018 Highlights topic of sustainability. we generate – regulatory and industry organizations, cover the topics indicated by our stakeholders Messages financial and capital market companies, suppliers, as relevant to decision-making and guided In order for us to identify potentially relevant strategic partners and academia. Specialists prioritization of indicators that show how we Our purpose topics for our communication, we analyzed participated in individual interviews and explained manage risks and opportunities within our key international guidelines for sustainability their points of view regarding the topics they consider business model. Our assets management – Global Compact, Sustainable most important to our management. Development Goals (SDGs), Sustainability Accounting Safety in Standards Board (SASB), Global Reporting operations Initiative (GRI) guidelines and guidelines from the Energy International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). transition We also assessed how other oil and gas sector companies use these platforms to communicate Knowledge and their governance and projects. conservation In order to consolidate a systemic vision of the About the report economic, social and environmental impacts of the sector in which we operate, we selected and consulted studies produced by internationally recognized institutions, focused on promoting sustainable development. On this front, we highlighted benchmarking in relation to oil and gas industry contributions to achieve the SDGs. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-46 | 102-49 54 Materiality Matrix Click to learn about the material themes identified in the updating process we conducted in 2018 and their relation to the SDGs and Global Compact principles. Operational Management Risk and personnel of the environmanagement safety mental impacts of production Introduction 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets Governance Partnership Climate and compliance model change and Safety in operations energy transition Energy transition Knowledge and conservation About the report Community Financial relations and health and impacts wealth generation Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-44 | 102-47 | 102-49 | 103-1 55 Supplement to GRI disclosures 102-3 102-12 Enauta’s headquarters is located at Avenida Almirante Barroso, We have been signatories to the Global 52, in the city of Rio de Janeiro. Compact since 2011. 102-8 102-25 At the end of 2018, we had 121 employees under contract in accordance Within the context of the Compliance Program, our with the Consolidated Labor Laws (or Consolidação das Leis do employees and administrators must act in compliance Trabalho/CLT, in Portuguese), 2 statutory directors, 4 interns and 42 with the Policy on Conflicts of Interest and with the contractors, all allocated to the Southeast region. Information on Code of Ethical Conduct, which define parameters for Introduction headcounts is controlled by Enauta using Excel spreadsheets. avoiding conditions of conflict of interest. In addition, executives are unable to vote in general shareholder 2018 Highlights Employees 2018 2017 meetings or at meetings of the Board of Directors, by work contract in line with laws applicable to publicly-listed Messages and gender Men Women Total Men Women Total companies in Brazil. Our purpose Company employees 74 51 125 74 53 127 102-30 Our assets Third-party employees 30 12 42 22 10 32 Management of risks at Enauta is done based on Total 104 63 167 96 63 159 specific policies and guidelines, with each area Safety in responsible for monitoring and reporting risks operations related to their action to the executive levels and Energy 102-9 pertinent governance committees for each theme. transition At the close of 2018, we had 250 contracts with suppliers, The main risks mapped are therefore brought to totaling approximately R$ 3 billion in effective contracts. During the attention of the administration, which makes Knowledge and the period, we included 140 suppliers into our asset registration decisions regarding these risks. conservation database, which has a total of over 1,200 companies. Of these, 52 are considered critical, since they represent over 90% of 102-41 About the report costs from procurement and contracting. Management of this All of employees under the CLT regime are covered by chain follows a policy and procedures defined by Enauta, collective bargaining agreements or accords. which establishes, among other things, selection processes; compliance, financial and health, safety and environment (HSE) 102-45 assessments; and qualification. The Annual and Sustainability Report covers the same organizations covered by Enauta’s financial statements. However, social and environmental indicators only regard the assets in which we are operators. Annual sustainability report 2018 56 102-48 302-1 and 302-3 No data was restated. Energy 2018 2017 consumption (GJ) 102-51 The last report was published in 2018, in relation to Generated from fuel | Marine diesel A 280,374.2 130,828.9 the performance in 2017. Electricity acquired 1,098.3 1,136.1 102-54 Total 281,472.5 131,965.0 This report was drafted according to the GRI Energy intensity (GJ/employee) 2,326.22 1,072.89 Standards: Core option. 102-56 Information in the report and GRI indicators were 304-1 not submitted to an external audit. Operating units and 2018 Introduction protected areas 205-1 In addition to third-party assessment, we Company area Nearby Social relevance 2018 Highlights continually promote analysis of 100% of Company (km2) conservation and relevance to operations concerning to risks related to corruption, unit biodiversity Messages with no significant risk being identified. Block BS-4 116.08 There is no protected Our purpose or high-value area (Campo de Atlanta) 205-3 for biodiversity in Our assets There were no cases of corruption involving neighboring locations the Company in 2018, nor any judicial processes Blocks PAMA-M-265 PAMA-M-265 = 769.3 Along the coasts of Highly relevant, Safety in in which Enauta or its collaborators were named the states of Pará and considering the operations and PAMA-M-337 PAMA-M-337= 769.3 as defendants. Maranhão (located over increased sensitivity Energy 200 km from the blocks) – environmental transition there are various study classified by conservation units, with IBAMA as Class 2, Knowledge and sensitive ecosystems pursuant to Directive conservation 422/11 About the report Block FZA-M-90 766.3 The coast of the state Highly relevant, of Amapá has various considering the conservation units, with increased sensitivity the closest (PARNA do – environmental Cabo Orange) being study classified by around 150 km away IBAMA as Class 1, pursuant to Directive 422/11 Annual sustainability report 2018 57 305-1, 305-2 and 305-3 307-1 and 419-1 The greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory is drafted according to the Enauta received no significant fines or non-monetary specifications of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and covers the CO2, sanctions related to environmental or socio-economic CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC e SF6 gasses. . aspects in 2018. GHG emissions inventory 2018 2017 403-3 (thousands of tCO2e) Our employees are not subject to a high risk or incidence Scope 1 of occupational diseases. Emissions 58,631.08 10,220.97 413-1 Biogenic emissions 0.00 33.86 At 100% of the assets where we are operators, we promote Scope 2 assessments within the context of creating impact studies for licensing. These analyses support projects to mitigate Indirect emissions (electricity consumption) 0.00 30.41 impacts that are implemented in assets’ operational Scope 3 phase. Throughout this entire process, we seek to Introduction continual dialog and engagement with local communities. Indirect emissions (other) 22.60 1,550.82 2018 Highlights Messages Our purpose Our assets 404-1 Safety in Average training hours per employee 2018 2017 operations By gender Energy transition Men 94.0 78.5 Women 64.4 41.6 Knowledge and conservation OVERALL 81.5 62.6 By functional level About the report Executive Board 3.3 2.7 Management / coordination / supervision 49.4 24.9 Technicians (engineers and geologists) 89.9 78.9 Analysts (others) 101.7 80.2 OVERALL 81.5 62.6 Annual sustainability report 2018 58 GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact GRI 101 | Foundation 2016 General disclosures ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 | Name of the organization 3 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services 9 102-3 | Location of headquarters 56 102-4 | Location of operations 32 102-5 | Ownership and legal form 15 Introduction 102-6 | Markets served 3, 24 and 25 2018 Highlights 102-7 | Scale of the organization 5 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 22 and 56 6 Messages 102-9 | Supply chain 56 GRI 102 | General 102-10 | Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 5 and 26 Our purpose disclosures 2016 102-11 | Precautionary Principle or approach 37 Our assets 102-12 | External initiatives 56 102-13 | Membership of associations 13 Safety in operations STRATEGY 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker 7 and 8 Energy 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14, 18, 19, 24, 25, 39 and 40 transition ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 20 and 21 10 Knowledge and conservation 102-17 | Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 21 10 GOVERNANCE About the report 102-18 | Governance structure 17 102-22 | Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 16 and 17 102-23 | Chair of the highest governance body 16 102-25 | Conflicts of interest 56 102-30 | Effectiveness of risk management processes 56 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-55 59 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact General disclosures STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 54 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements 56 3 Introduction 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders 54 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 54 2018 Highlights 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised 55 REPORTING PRACTICE Messages 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 56 GRI 102 | General Our purpose 102-46 | Defining report content and topic Boundaries 54 disclosures 2016 102-47 | List of material topics 55 Our assets 102-48 | Restatements of information 57 102-49 | Changes in reporting 54 and 55 Safety in operations 102-50 | Reporting period 3 102-51 | Date of most recent report 57 Energy 102-52 | Reporting cycle 3 transition 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 4 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 57 Knowledge and conservation 102-55 | GRI content index 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 102-56 | External assurance 57 About the report Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-55 60 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Management of the environmental impacts of production GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 55 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 38, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46 and 47 approach 20161 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 38, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46 and 47 GRI 304 | 304-1 | | Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 57 8 Biodiversity 2016 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 306 | Effluents 306-1 | Water discharge by quality and destination 42 8 Introduction and waste 2016 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method 42 8 306-3 | Significant spills 38 8 2018 Highlights GRI 307 | 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 58 8 Messages Environmental compliance 2016 Our purpose Material topic | Risk management GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 19 and 55 Our assets Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 18 and 19 Safety in approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 18 and 19 operations Material topic | Governance and compliance GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 15, 16, 17, 20, 21 and 55 Energy transition Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 15, 16, 17, 20 and 21 approach 20162 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 15, 16, 17, 20 and 21 Knowledge and GRI 205 | 205-1 | Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 21 and 57 10 conservation Anti-corruption 205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 20 and 21 10 2016 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 57 10 About the report GRI 419 | 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and regulations 58 Socioeconomic in the social and economic area compliance 2016 1 The management approach refers to all GRI topics whithin the material topic “Management of the environmental impacts of production”. 2 The management approach refers to all GRI topics whithin the material topic “Governance and compliance”. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-55 61 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Partnership model GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24, 25, 26 and 55 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 24, 25 and 26 approach 2016 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 24, 25 and 26 Material topic | Climate change and energy transition GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 39, 40, 41, 43 and 55 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 39, 40, 41 and 43 approach 20163 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 39, 40, 41 and 43 Introduction GRI 302 | Energy 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 41 and 57 7 and 8 2016 302-3 | Energy intensity 43 and 57 8 2018 Highlights GRI 305 | Emissions 305-1 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 41 and 58 7 and 8 Messages 2016 305-2 | Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 58 7 and 8 305-3 | Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 58 7 and 8 Our purpose Material topic | Community relations and impacts GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, Our assets Management 52, 53 and 55 Safety in approach 20164 103-2 | The management approach and its components 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52 operations and 53 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52 Energy transition and 53 GRI 413 | Local 413-1 | Operations with local community engagement, 53 and 58 1 Knowledge and communities 2016 impact assessments, and development programs conservation GRI Oil and gas OG11 | Number of sites that have been decomissioned and sites 26 About the report sector disclosures that are in the process of being decommissioned 2013 3 The management approach refers to all GRI topics whithin the material topic “Climate change and energy transition”. 4 The management approach refers to all GRI topics and sector disclosures whithin the material topic “Community relations and impacts”. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-55 62 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Operational and personnel safety GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 22, 23, 36, 37, 38 and 55 Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 22, 23, 36, 37 and 38 approach 2016 5 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 22, 23, 36, 37 and 38 GRI 403 | 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 36 Occupational and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities health and safety 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related 58 2016 to their occupation Introduction GRI 404 | Training 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee 23 and 58 6 and education 2018 Highlights 2016 Messages Material topic | Financial health and wealth generation GRI 103 | 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24, 25, 26, 33, 34, 35 and 55 Our purpose Management 103-2 | The management approach and its components 24, 25, 26, 33, 34 and 35 approach 20166 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 24, 25, 26, 33, 34 and 35 Our assets GRI 201 | Economic 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 34 Safety in performance 2016 operations GRI Oil and gas OG1 | Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 25 sector disclosures Energy 2013 transition Knowledge and conservation About the report 5 The management approach refers to all GRI topics whithin the material topic “Operational and personnel safety”. 6 The management approach refers to all GRI topics and sector disclosures whithin the material topic “Financial health and wealth generation”. Annual sustainability report 2018 GRI 102-55 63 Credits General coordination Enauta’s Communication and Sustainability department GRI consulting, editorial coordination and design usina82 Photos Enauta’s collection and Shutterstock Corporate information Rio de Janeiro Avenida Almirante Barroso, 52 – 1.301 – Centro Rio de Janeiro (RJ) Phone.: +55 21 3509-5800 Bahia Avenida Antônio Carlos Magalhães, 1.034 – 353 – Pituba – Parque Center – Itaigara Salvador (BA) Phone.: +55 71 3351-6210 www.enauta.com.br
