5 July 2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Great Day Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Health and Happiness International Holdings Limited (“H&H Group”) continues to support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As a Group we are united by our mission to make people healthier and happier, and understand to do that we must ensure a healthier and happier future for people and our planet. This document seeks to act as our annual Communication on Progress in line with our support of public accountability and transparency. Our Progress in the last 12 months We have introduced three Group-wide sustainability goals that are based around the 10 principles; 1. Advance the story of good health 2. Reduce our footprint on the planet (Covers issue area: Environment) 3. Honour human rights and fairness (Covers issue areas: Human Rights and Labour) These goals have been consistently referenced in Group communications including in our annual results presentations internally and externally and any forums in which sustainability has been discussed. For a detailed report on these goals and our related commitments, and our 2018 performance across the Group in relation to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption please see our annual Sustainability Report that is publicly available on our website. The Report references our material topics which were developed through stakeholder interviews alongside other documentation including the 10 principles of the UNGC and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), of which seven SDGs have been identified as priority areas of focus. To support these principles in our value chain we have produced a Group Supplier Code of Conduct which all new suppliers will need to sign, and developed a phase-in plan with our existing suppliers across our brands over the next three years. This document references the principles of the UNGC as well as many internationally recognised documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In line with the World Health Organization (WHO) we recognise primary healthcare as a human right. As an organisation that produces Infant Milk Formula we understand to respect human rights we need to advocate for the promotion of breast-feeding and ensure responsible marketing of breast-milk substitutes. In line with this commitment we developed a Responsible Marketing of Breast-Milk Substitutes Policy that addresses each article of the WHO International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk. Plans before the end of 2019 We are planning to: 1. Publish a Group Code of Conduct addressing the 10 principles and all of the relevant human rights guidelines acting as the consistent expectations of all team members across these principles 2. Publish a Group Ingredient and Packaging Sourcing Policy specifically targeting the procurement of raw materials and packaging across the Group and aligning this with the principles of the UNGC 3. Review our approach to supply chain governance, specifically to develop an approach to supplier sustainability auditing and compliance We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Sincerely yours, Mrs. Laetitia Garnier H&H Group CEO
