Acting responsibly for you LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTENTS & 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Contents Our focus areas Introduction 1 We have a wider role in the world to improve society, the economy and the environment. We have linked the CEO statement 3 following four focus areas to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): About us 5 1. Running our business to a higher standard CSR Strategy 7 2. Making society more resilient with our financial solutions Material issues 8 3. Creating new investments for the future economy Stakeholder engagement 10 4. Transition to a low carbon economy Commitment to SDGs 11 Progress against targets 12 Our focus areas 18 Community development 33 Looking ahead 35 2017 highlights £14.5bn invested to date in direct investments, £3.7m contributed into UK and US 6,200 students and 379 teachers reached including housing, urban regeneration, non-profit organisations through our secondary school financial clean energy and small business finance education programme 60+ mental health first aiders 20+ areas of business policy tested through £1,234m total global tax contribution the Responsible 100 network 1 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION Our purpose is to improve the lives of customers, build a better society for the long term and create value for shareholders. This shapes every aspect of how we do business.” Our behaviours Our business principles Straightforward Customer led Economically and socially useful Fair and transparent Inclusive How we communicate Our customers are at the heart We aim to ensure our products, We treat all our customers, We value inclusiveness and embrace Building trust by doing what we say of everything we do. We develop services and investments have employees, investors, suppliers difference to engage and empower and saying what we mean. We are fair solutions to build financial resilience both economic and social value. and regulators with integrity and our people. We recognise and and transparent, open to feedback and and meet their present and future Our long‑term financial sustainability openness. It should be easy to reward success, investing in the always seek to communicate in a fair financial goals. We strive to achieve benefits our customers, employees, understand our intentions, provide development and wellbeing of and genuine way. great value, excellent service and shareholders, suppliers and society us with feedback, challenge us our employees. responsiveness; being easy to deal at large. and work with us. Collaborative with and communicate with. Examples: How we work together Examples: Examples: 50/50 by 2020 Working together constructively, Examples: Active ownership Speaking out This initiative is designed to seeking out originality in ideas Creating the right products We aim to improve the performance We have launched a new ‘speak up’ encourage gender diversity and and valuing the diversity in our Our product life-cycle management of the companies we invest in through initiative, part of our commitment to remove the barriers to women teams. We engage our networks sets out the standards we require, responsible board behaviour and listening and acting on feedback progressing throughout the and stakeholders to shape our and the approach we follow when commitment to good environmental, from employees. company. ideas and manage the impact designing, launching and managing social and governance practices. of our decisions. products. Working with NGOs Helping vulnerable customers Real assets Last year, 20 areas of our business Our insight into the needs of Purposeful Critical friends We create direct investments which worked with over 350 NGOs and vulnerable customers helps us How we deliver We use a number of charity sector generate investment returns and experts to look at our policies. create products and investments Balancing performance with professionals to help us review our help build cities, homes, jobs which help people through difficult principles to do what’s right for the products and services. This helps and communities. times. We liaise with charities and business and our customers. We us improve our service, processes social enterprise experts to help work with pace and energy, always and innovate new products. guide us on how we can improve. taking ownership and demonstrating excellent execution. 2 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO STATEMENT 2017 Review of our sustainability strategy Inclusive capitalism means running a successful and responsible 2. Moving towards a low carbon world business which benefits shareholders, customers and broader Our investment management business has signed up to the society. That involves us in using our assets in an economically Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and has and socially useful way to improve the lives of our communities. developed the Future World investment fund, to encourage investments into environmentally sustainable businesses. We are striving to be more inclusive in everything we do: We have set ourselves goals to reduce our own carbon • making sure that our products and services are suitable for emissions per policy by 20% by 2020. the widest possible group of people • providing opportunities in our company to anyone who has 3. Improving family resilience the ambition and talents to succeed The core of our insurance and savings businesses is helping • helping people throughout our communities, including those families protect themselves against the effects of devastating who are experiencing deprivation or physical or mental events such as premature death, long-term sickness, floods, impairments. We also help these communities through fires and poverty in retirement. Our life insurance businesses investment in housing and infrastructure. paid out on average £1.74 million every day in claims in 2017, Nigel Wilson, settling 98% of all claims made. In addition, we are helping Group Chief Executive Officer Our achievements in 2017 more and more people save for retirement. We now have We can only become a fully sustainable business if we 2.7 million customers in auto-enrolled pension schemes and embed responsible behaviour in everything we do. Some other direct contribution plans. of our key achievements in 2017 were: Successful companies are 4. Campaigning activities 1. Using our investment funds to build a better real economy Our employees have been active in a number of projects to help those that understand the We have so far invested £14.4 billion, up by £4.4 billion from communities across the country. Some important areas have importance of behaving 2016, creating real assets and real jobs for the real economy. been Alzheimer’s research, homelessness and poverty in old age. Our programme of direct investments includes urban regeneration, One cause which is particularly important to me is the need responsibly for the good of housing, clean energy and SME business financing. to understand more about the causes of mental illness. We society and acting in the have supported the ‘Not a Red Card’ campaign which aims to change perceptions about mental health. interests of their customers.” 3 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CEO STATEMENT CONTINUED £1,004m loans advanced through our lifetime £1bn invested in build to rent homes mortgage business to help older people manage their finances in retirement A responsible future Pages 12 to 17 of this report covers the progress we have Our CSR Committee has decided that going forward made against these targets. we should focus our activities on four areas: 1. Running our business to a higher standard: embedding Making sure we are fit for purpose corporate responsibility in every aspect of the business. We have a number of ‘critical friends’ that help us make sure 2. Making society more resilient with our financial solutions. that we do business the right way. Last year over 20 areas 3. Creating new investments for the future economy. of business policy were tested through the Responsible 4. Transitioning to a low carbon economy. 100 network. These included carbon emissions, workplace inequality, culture, board effectiveness and the responsible You can read about these areas on pages 18 to 32. use of artificial intelligence. Strategic alignment The future We seek to align our work in corporate responsibility with the Looking forward to 2018 we know we can’t have all the growth drivers that form the basis of our commercial strategy: answers ourselves and as a business we continue to look for ageing demographics, globalisation of asset markets, creation like-minded external partners to improve our understanding of new real assets, welfare reform, technological innovation of mental health, intergenerational unfairness and innovative and the provision of today’s capital. housing solutions. The social sector has many answers to these issues and we want to hear from you on both sides This alignment enables us to work effectively, and particularly of the Atlantic. Why not contact us? to identify and address areas of market failure where we can make a difference, delivering solutions that benefit society at large. Examples include our work on health and resilience in old age, our housing and regeneration activities and our provision of patient capital for SMEs. Nigel Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer Setting ourselves realistic targets Prior to 2017, we set ourselves five-year targets for the group. We based these upon stakeholder feedback, materiality and the need to set realistic, but challenging goals. Our performance targets are aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 4 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT US/OUR BUSINESS About us / what we do We have three main business groups which work together. LGIM’s corporate governance team has built up enormous respect within the industry, working tirelessly on behalf of Our strategy is determined by our six global growth drivers, our clients. where we develop products, services, and investments in keeping with our four CSR focus areas. 2. Insurance Our life insurance business, Legal & General Insurance (LGI), 1. Investment Management helps UK individuals protect themselves from the effects Legal & General Investment Management (LGIM) is the of death, critical illness and permanent disability, and longUK’s largest investment manager of UK corporate pension term sickness. In the US we also offer life insurance cover schemes. LGIM helps UK companies with defined benefit to individuals. Our UK group protection business can provide pension schemes manage their liabilities to ensure that their life, critical illness and long-term sickness cover for employees scheme members are paid their pensions on time and in full. and their families. In addition, we are also the UK’s No 1 manager of defined contribution assets, with £68.2 billion assets under LGI also have a UK housing-related business which helps management. These include auto-enrolled pensions, which people find suitable mortgages through our panel of lenders We have been helping people look are increasingly making a difference to the retirement savings operating through our mortgage club. We also offer a after their finances since 1836. Today, of more and more relatively lower-paid people, many of whom surveying service. are saving for retirement for the first time. our expertise in managing investments Our UK general insurance business provides home contents makes us one of Europe’s biggest We are also rapidly growing our international investment and buildings cover, landlord insurance, pet insurance and investment managers, managing £983 management businesses, where we now have £228 billion travel insurance. billion of assets globally. Our expertise of assets. The US is our biggest and most important overseas market. 3. Investing and Annuities in understanding mortality has led to Legal & General Capital (LGC) us being the UK’s biggest provider of LGIM also are developing their retail investment business, This business was established to invest part of our life insurance and a market leader in where we want to encourage a wider group of people to own shareholder capital and part of the assets held by Legal investment-backed savings plans, using either online services & General Retirement (LGR). As a group we have now put providing people with secure or with advice from a financial adviser. LGIM’s scale means over £14.4 billion into direct investments such as urban incomes in retirement. that we are a major investor in most companies in the UK and regeneration, housing, clean energy and small businesses. globally. This gives LGIM a responsibility to ensure that those LGC’s share of this is £2.5 billion. companies we invest in are well-run and well-governed. 5 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT US/OUR BUSINESS CONTINUED My goal is to improve the quality of life for older people by empowering them to manage their financial and physical wellbeing in retirement.” Chris Knight, Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General Retirement Retail Legal & General Retirement has two key businesses Our customers Our people LGR Institutional offers ‘pension risk transfer’ products to We have nearly nine million UK retail customers and also look We have around 7,500 employees globally, with the majority pension scheme trustees who want to ensure that pension after over four million people in our corporate, institutional and based in the UK in our main offices in London, Hove, Cardiff schemes have enough money to pay retired members on international businesses. and Birmingham. In the US we have around 650 employees. time and in full. These products include bulk annuities, where The performance of our employees depends upon personal we take over the responsibility for managing the payment of • Our UK insurance businesses look after around five million achievement, based around three key behaviours which pensions rather than the scheme trustees. individuals, with another two million people covered in group we embody: schemes and one million people covered in the US LGR Retail provides customers with products to help them • We provide pension income for one million people 1. Straightforward manage their finances in retirement. Annuity products give • We have 2.7 million people saving for retirement in our 2. Collaborative people a guaranteed income, either through life or for a fixed auto-enrolled pension schemes 3. Purposeful term. We also enable people to make use of the equity in • We also have around 1.5 million people with savings plans. their homes to boost their retirement finances, through lifetime mortgages which are paid off on death or when On the corporate and institutional side, we provide investment entering a nursing home. management services for nearly 3,000 clients. Ownership and management Our business is owned by our shareholders and has a market value of over £15 billion. Our Board is led by our Chairman, Sir John Kingman, with a team of four executive directors and five non-executive directors. 6 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CSR STRATEGY Overview of our strategic approach to CSR Our approach is to embed corporate Developing a sustainable business GCRE Delivery Committee and social responsibility in everything Our businesses develop products, services and investment The Group Corporate Responsibility and Ethics Delivery solutions based upon our six growth drivers. These in turn Committee (GCRE) meets four times a year and consists we do. build economic, environmental and social value for society. of people who own ESG targets on behalf of the group. This begins with our culture, where The Committee’s role is to: We bring in external critical friends and partners to different • initiate an independent materiality assessment our three behaviours: ‘Straightforward’, parts of our business to help improve our business decision with stakeholders ‘Collaborative’ and ‘Purposeful’ focus making. This helps make sure that the key functions in our • own and progress public targets on responsible behaviours that enable business are fit for purpose and are doing business in an • highlight any areas of emerging ESG risks and economically and socially useful manner. opportunities raised by stakeholders during the year us to deliver for our customers. Our • set and integrate the group’s Ethics Policy across business principles: ‘customer led’, Finally, the CSR targets we set ourselves make sure we are the company ‘economically and socially useful’, ‘fair on track in creating a responsible and sustainable business. • ensure that the company’s responsible business policies and transparent’ and ‘inclusive’ ensure Our aim is eventually to integrate these into non-financial are fit for purpose reporting targets. • produce a yearly report on the group’s ESG performance that we carry out all our business in the form of a sustainability report activities in a responsible manner. Board level accountability • support increased disclosure of non-financial reporting The Group Corporate Responsibility and Ethics Committee and ESG risks within the annual reporting process. Our six growth drivers, which inspire (GCRE) manages the Environmental, Social and Governance our strategic development, are our (ESG) performance of the group. responses to the macro-economic The Group Board and the Group Executive Committee are needs of people globally. These growth given a yearly update of our materiality position with key drivers ensure that we develop our stakeholders with a summary of the group’s key deliverables strategy in a way that is relevant to and oversight of the forward looking targets. everyone and is rooted in the real issues that affect us all. 7 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MATERIAL ISSUES Independent materiality analysis 2017 400 external stakeholder views We conducted an online stakeholder survey that focused on our Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) efforts. Nearly The majority of stakeholders consider that we are very transparent in running our business, however it was noted on our UK operation 400 stakeholders responded with their views on our UK that there should be more transparency regarding our pricing operations, the majority of which were external stakeholders. and where finances are being invested. 77% stakeholders who commented that Stakeholders believe that cyber security, climate action (environmental issues in general) and customer privacy are Going forward, we will focus on: • Connecting our customers better to the regeneration work we address the right issues within our Sustainable Development Goals most likely to increase in relevance over the next three to five that we are doing in their local area years. Stakeholders perceive that we are performing well in • Looking at how our housing work is helping young people these areas. get access to the housing market. Issues where we performed moderately well include urban Material issues over the next five years regeneration, community engagement and supporting young • cyber security people. • climate action • customer privacy Feedback showed that 77% of stakeholders commented that we address the right issues within Sustainable These are the most likely to increase in relevance over the next Development Goals. three to five years. We received the following further suggestions on what additional areas our strategic focus should cover • support young people to find affordable housing • invest in building UK infrastructure • develop youth education and equal opportunity • support rural communities. 8 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MATERIAL ISSUES CONTINUED Materiality matrix Business Integrity and Business Ethics Employees Serving Customers Responsibly 3.0 A Corporate Governance A Diversity and equal A Customer privacy opportunity B Compliance B Claims management B Employee and director remuneration C Active stewardship C Education C Wellbeing – employee care D Integration with governments D Customer experience journey (regional, national, 2.5 Relevance of high continental) D Employee inclusion E Financial inclusion and access issues from to products and services external E Risk management E Human rights A I stakeholders’ F Product innovation perspective F Taxation transparency F Long-term leadership E B G Occupational health G Culture and ethics G Occupational health and safety 2.0 F and safety B D A C E medium G B A H Treating suppliers fairly B H Recruiting and retaining talent D A D A H I Cyber security D E G H F I Training and further education F I C C G D B C 1.5 A 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Relevance of issues from the company’s perspective 9 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Engaging with our stakeholders Engaging with different stakeholder groups is extremely important. Our most material issues in 2017 It helps us understand the issues they face and their expectations Stakeholder group How we engage Examples for 2017 of a responsible business. Employees We gain feedback from employees through the annual CEO and Chairman World tours and employee survey, employee forums, speak up tool and CEO breakfast meetings with internal communications. employees. The following stakeholder groups are key for us: • Employees Customers At the end of transactions in our direct business, Our meetings with NGOs such as • Customers surveys are issued for feedback. We also meet with WWF and Share Action help us • Investors NGOs who represent customer collective views on understand customer views. social responsibility issues. • Community Groups • Non-Government Organisations • Governments and Regulators Investors We meet with investors through events, conference We presented our ESG credentials and calls and direct meetings to understand their views performance at the BoAML • Charities and not-for-profit partners on the way we manage Environmental, Social and conference. • Suppliers. Governance (ESG) issues. We invite representatives from these groups to participate in roundtables, online surveys Community We have contact through phone calls, roundtables and We have worked with communities and one to one meetings. This helps us understand their views and explain our perspectives. Groups direct meetings on how our infrastructure investment to build our Social Value charter. affects communities. This is particularly important as we start to engage with communities based around Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) often provide early indications of consumer and housing developments. societal sentiment around what’s expected from business. Governments The Board meets regularly with the Prudential We have attended economic Critical friend feedback and Regulators Regulation Authority and the Financial partnership meetings. In 2017, 20 areas of our business engaged with over 350 NGOs and experts through the Conduct Authority. Responsible 100 network. We scored 67% for our performance across 20 areas, including employee engagement, environment, culture, tax, community engagement, cyber security, Charities and not We regularly meet with charities and NGOs. They These meetings help improve housing data protection and suppliers, and were rated ‘good-to-excellent’. for profits have become our critical friends on the products provision and family resilience. and services we offer. During 2018, we will be carry out further testing in key areas of our business: for example, transition to a low carbon economy, diversity in the workplace, marketing to vulnerable groups Suppliers We work closely with suppliers to ensure they maintain We hosted a number of workshops high standards by conducting assessments in line with with some of our key suppliers to help and reducing inequality. our code of conduct. us understand the impact and process of modern slavery in the UK. Interaction with LGIM Legal & General Investment Management (LGIM) Corporate Governance team is very active in intervening and campaigning for Environmental, Social and Governance performance. They play a key role in making sure that the group’s performance on ESG is aligned with LGIM’s campaigns. In 2018 we will work with LGIM on board diversity and gender diversity strategy. 10 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMITMENT TO SDGs Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) All companies have a responsibility to help achieve the aims of the United Nations Sustainable Our strategy Development Goals (SDGs). The markets in which we operate (UK, US and India) all make an Influence stakeholders Make society more active contribution to playing our part in helping to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure to transition to a low resilient with our financial Create new investments Run our business to prosperity for all. The UN Sustainable Development Goals help guide us, our customers and SDGs carbon economy solutions for the future economy a higher standard society towards a brighter, sustainable future. We have analysed which SDGs we can focus on that align closely with our strategic priorities. Examples Good health and wellbeing Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all – at all ages. • Cancer Research UK created a new model of early cancer prevention and diagnosis in NHS GP surgeries that has taught our life insurance business about early detection, leading to better survival rates for cancer. • Our employee wellbeing programme has a strong focus on mental health, offering advice and support with designated mental health first aiders. Decent work and economic growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. • All employees and sub-contractors earn (as a minimum) the living wage set by the Living Wage Foundation. • Each division has developed bespoke training above and beyond the basic computer-based training on vulnerable customers. Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. • Investment in the regeneration of Cardiff Central Square in Wales has created a positive social impact and seen us employ 2,000 people in the city. • We have helped towards building the world’s largest offshore wind farm – providing enough power for more than 590,000 homes. We will continue to work with stakeholders and collaborative networks to check that we are actively contributing to the right areas of the SDGs through our yearly materiality process. 11 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TARGETS AND PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS Performance against targets aligned to UNSDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) In 2017 we set out five years’ worth of ESG targets for the Group. These were based upon stakeholder feedback, materiality and strategic fit. Campaign 1 We will run our business to a higher standard in the next 12 months (new targets for 2018 will follow) Strengthening our corporate governance and sustainability policies, reviewing our business principles and ensuring our people embrace diversity and inclusion. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2017 Deliver employee roadshows in all locations to test our performance with 2017 Our ‘Speak up’ service launched as part of our culture work to all employees alongside ‘My voice’ to provide our employees employees against business principles. with an additional way of feeding back on our business principles. Work with Open Corporates to improve our company structure disclosure 2017 As a result of our Responsible 100 network we have increased our data and disclosure around taxation, carbon, diversity to stay ahead of beneficial ownership transparency. and pay. We are working towards adopting the Open Corporates standards. Deliver the first local sustainability report for IndiaFirst Life and the US. 2017 LGA has produced its second CSR report. IndiaFirst Life has produced more disclosure than ever on its community impact through investment and its inclusive products. As a group we will provide financial education to at least 200 teachers 2017 We set out to reach over 200 teachers and 3,000 KS2 pupils. We reached over 6,200 pupils and over 379 teachers in 2017. and 3,000 students to better prepare them for their future. Communicate externally our policy to stakeholders on big data usage 2017 Responsible 100 recently assessed our current stance which scored an ‘OKAY’. This shows that we are performing at a reasonable to run our business. level. We are currently focused upon GDPR delivery and have a number of big data projects in the pipeline. LGIM will formally invite external stakeholders to at least two roundtables 2017 LGIM’s inaugural client and stakeholder roundtables were held and the feedback obtained helped to strengthen the 2018 Corporate that strengthen our Corporate Governance and Sustainability policies. Governance and Sustainability policies. 12 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TARGETS AND PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS CONTINUED Performance against targets aligned to UNSDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) Campaign 2 We will create new investments for the future economy Taking action to make our investment activities more sustainable and embrace Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors. This applies to our own direct investments, pension scheme investment funds and social investments. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2017 As a group, we will continue our strategy to invest £15 billion into sectors of the 2019 We have invested £14.4 billion in urban regeneration, housing, clean energy and SME finance. economy that are economically, socially and environmentally useful. Develop investment solutions via LGIM that are more clearly aligned to the UN 2023 Product plans remain on track. Further information will be provided in the 2018 Sustainability Report. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). LGIM will develop and enhance long-term investment offerings which integrate 2023 Product plans remain on track. Further information will be provided in the 2018 Sustainability Report. ESG themes. Legal & General Capital will enable over £10 billion of funding into small 2023 Our Venture Capital and SME investment programme, including our ‘SE-Assist’ product, has made investments in more than to medium sized enterprises (SMEs), supporting job creation and 100 UK based companies. Prime areas of focus have included technology, analytics, life sciences and digital healthcare. In addition, economic growth. we provide debt finance to SMEs by investing in the £1.9 billion plus Pemberton investment platform. As a group, we will expand our divestment strategy from shareholder funds 2023 We have set a strategy for decarbonising our balance sheet traded assets, moving high carbon intensity investments to low carbon to investing in new economy assets. intensity. The group has invested £200 million of its own equity portfolio into the LGIM Future World Fund as a result. As a group, we will support at least one development of a new economy 2019 Our SE-Assist fund continues to grow in supporting early stage social enterprises. We now have over £600k out on loan in Wales, asset classes to create economic and social value to our communities Croydon and Sussex to 29 social enterprises. We expect this fund to have provided over £1 million of loan finance to social through mechanisms such as Social Stock Exchanges, Incubators and enterprises by the end of 2018. Community Share Schemes. By 2021 as a group, invest in major regeneration schemes in at least 2021 We have recently acquired major new housing schemes in Berkshire and Oxfordshire, as well as acquiring land for the first ever ten UK cities. Build to Rent scheme to be delivered in Brighton. Our English Cities Fund will double its investment in cities and towns in England to £200 million, as it looks to acquire more major urban regeneration schemes. 13 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TARGETS AND PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS CONTINUED Performance against targets aligned to UNSDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) Campaign 3 We will make society more resilient with our financial solutions Ensuring our products and services are available to the widest range of social groups and that we support customers who become vulnerable. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2017 Across our business, we will improve our products and services to support 2017 and every year We undertook an independent internal review of our vulnerable customer programme, with positive results. We are encouraging emerging vulnerabilities in our customers’ lives. progress more not-for-profit training for our employees. We will be directly addressing the increasing mental health problems in the 2017 and every year We have implemented psychological treatment and support for GIP & GCI claims; mental health support and training for developed world through enhancing our products, services and investments progress Line Managers; Not a Red Card campaign; launch of NARC Awards on 19/10/17; NARC campaign to continue in 2018 – RedArc available to customers. implemented, providing CI claimant’s and family long-term emotional support; Group – implementation and embedding of Stevenson/Farmer review recommendations. We will design and distribute our retail products so they become more 2017 and every year Our insurance division focuses on FinTech. We are well placed to pursue a strategy of acquisitions and scale-ups to drive new accessible, transparent and simpler to purchase by innovating product design, progress revenue streams and innovations. We launched SmartQuote an enhanced customer-centric experience. accessing big data and rationalising the way that we distribute products. We also launched the first phase of our SmartClaims programme in November, beginning a journey to reduce claims settlement times from days to minutes, ensuring we are a leader in end-to-end digital insurance. Our SmartClaims innovation uses advanced data and technology capability to streamline the claims journey, enabling claims to be settled quickly and at lower cost, thereby improving customer outcomes and internal processes, whilst also reducing fraudulent claims. Our investment business, ‘The idol.com’ (Investment Discounts Online), contributes to the development of digital services and acts as an incubator of new digital comparison brands as well as a supplier of technology to the UK aggregation market. We aim to have 20% of the real assets we own or invest in to have an economic 2023 We use the ‘Social Value Portals’ framework: ‘TOMS’ (themes, outcomes and measures). Two investment funds are currently being and a social value generated based upon how we design and run them. assessed for social value. LGIM will engage with investees on key themes that will help to create more 2017 In the US, we communicated with 58 US companies where board diversity is poor and met with 27 companies, eight of which have resilient societies, namely: diversity, health, technology, income inequality and already committed to change their diversity policies. financial inclusion. In 2017, we will engage with governments and companies to promote more disclosure on income ratios and engage with US companies on In the UK, we voted against 37 Board Chairs of UK boards due to poor diversity. gender diversity. We campaigned for the disclosure of pay ratios in the UK, which show the ratio between the highest paid executive and the median employee. In 2017 the UK Government committed to introduce such disclosure through legislation. Legal & General Capital will integrate ESG performance into investment 2017 Legal & General Capital has invested in the LGIM Future World Fund with its equity portfolio and also Group Environmental, strategy, including investment selection, diligence and ESG policies for the Social and Governance sign off now exists within the Transaction Committee for all new investments. companies we invest in. 14 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TARGETS AND PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS CONTINUED Performance against targets aligned to UNSDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) Campaign 3 continued Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2017 The group will institutionalise long-term investment into social housing. 2023 We are formulating plans to enter the social housing market in 2018. Group Treasury has met with a number of capital providers including Deutsche Bank to understand the role that Social Bonds could play in this market. As a group, we will deliver our 50:50 by 2020 gender mix through recruitment 2020 Our key successes have been at the most senior level where the gender balance of new starters was 50/50 men and women in 2017 and retention initiatives. and, because of our strong pipeline of female leadership successors, 43% of our divisional CEOs are now women. We regularly monitor our progress on diversity and inclusion. We know that many of our gender based initiatives will take time to show results. Our progress towards achieving our Women in Finance target has been impacted by organisational structure changes to our business that have disproportionately affected women. In 2018 we are renewing our focus on our attraction and hiring practices to address those gaps. We are committed to continuing our work to create a more diverse and gender balanced organisation which will in turn help us reduce our gender pay gap. 15 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TARGETS AND PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS CONTINUED Performance against targets aligned to UNSDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) Campaign 4 We will seek to influence stakeholders in the transition to a low carbon economy Running our own business in an environmentally sustainable way, creating products and services that support a low carbon future, influencing the companies we invest in to act in an environmentally resilient manner and ensuring that our direct investments support the aim to limit climate change. Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2017 Reduce the number of carbon intensive companies that we own in our 2017 We worked with Trucost and WWF to understand the carbon within our balance sheet. We have focused on the areas where we shareholder funds and replace them with less carbon intensive companies. have a position to influence. Therefore we have identified and assessed the carbon associated with corporate bonds and equity By the end of 2017 we will publish the carbon intensity of our own balance held in our balance sheet. Trucost and WWF assessed our £26 billion of equity and debt holdings, which they determined equates sheet. Our Insurance business will deliver insurance solutions to support low to 11 million tonnes of associated CO2e per annum. Separate to this Our Direct Investment Portfolio on an apportioned basis also cost, energy efficient homes. 2023 accounted for 178,000 tonnes of CO2 per annum. Our Group ALCO is now working through the decarbonisation strategy as a result. LGIM will engage with investee companies globally to build strong governance 2017 We held 108 meetings with companies to discuss climate change in 2017. The outcome of the 2017 Climate Impact Pledge and strategies that are resilient and adaptive to changing policy and technology. engagement will be published in 2018. This will involve celebrating investees who have made good progress in 2017 and In 2017 we will engage with 84 companies as part of our Climate Impact Pledge. highlighting the investees who did not achieve our minimum expectations. In LGIM’s Future World range of funds, companies may be excluded if they do not address our areas of concern. LGIM will help clients understand better the risk and opportunities created by 2023 During 2017 LGIM publicly committed to the Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosure, which sets out guidance on the low carbon transition through education and then provide investment reporting so that our clients may better understand climate related risks and opportunities. Additionally, a unit trust version of the solutions to finance and benefit from the low carbon transition. Future World Fund was launched during the year. Support the development of key technologies with the potential to accelerate 2023 We are funding UK-based science, technology and engineering to develop clean energy solutions with potential to transform clean the transition to a low carbon economy. energy at a global scale. Specifically our investments in solar photovoltaic perovskite technology (Oxford PV) and nuclear fusion (Tokamak Energy) could make a major contribution to the decarbonisation of the global energy system and support UK jobs. Develop low carbon, energy efficient homes in our housing business. 2023 We are seeking ways to make the homes we build more sustainable, for example we have made a commitment to include EV charging points in our Bracknell development and are about to test battery technology on our construction compound. Legal & General Capital will provide capital for up to 5% of the UK clean energy 2021 By the end of 2017, LGC equity investment of £90 million has enabled more than 135MW new capacity onshore wind to come market, enough to sustainably power 5% of all UK households by 2021. on-line. Further, we invested in Manchester-based Upside Energy, an innovative digital solution to help balance the use of power across the UK electricity grid, thereby responding to the more variable nature of the renewable wind and solar energy generation. In 2018 we hope to pilot this technology across property managed by LGIM. 16 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 TARGETS AND PROGRESS AGAINST TARGETS CONTINUED Performance against targets aligned to UNSDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals) Campaign 4 continued Target Deadline for delivery Progress update in 2017 By 2020 the group will reduce carbon emissions per policy by 20% based 2020 In 2015 we extended the scope of our carbon reporting beyond the CRC requirements to include all real asset investments on 2013 baseline. as well as our new construction businesses, namely L&G Homes Modular and Communities. As a result of this extension in scope our total carbon has increased from our base year. However, in 2017 we have reduced our carbon by 17% based on 2015 data. Data available in the Environment Data centre. By 2020 the group will reduce operational office water consumption per policy 2020 We have reduced office water consumption per policy by 38% against our 2013 baseline. Data available in the Environment by 20% based on 2013 baseline. Data centre. By 2020 the group will reduce total waste generation per policy by 25% based 2020 Our waste per policy has increased by 27% against our 2013 baseline. This is in part due to our new construction businesses. on 2013 baseline. Data available in the Environment Data centre. By 2020 the group will reduce paper consumption per policy by 30% based 2020 We have achieved approximately a 16% reduction on baseline year (2013). on 2013 baseline. In 2017 the group will review the current approach to measuring resources 2017 We have appointed Carbon Clear to carry out this piece of work to define new targets for a 2 degree limited world. We will set new and seek to reset these on a scientific basis out to 2030. targets during 2018. 17 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS Our focus areas We recognise that beyond our own strategy we play a wider role in the world to improve society, the economy and the environment. As such we have linked our focus areas to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 60 mental health first aiders £1bn invested in build to rent homes 11% reduction in carbon usage £1bn total lifetime mortgage loans trained across the business for the group in 2017 in 2017 29 to support employees 91% social enterprises funded 22% reduction against our baseline 250k customers helped by employee survey response rate carbon usage on real assets Salary Finance investments Running our business to a higher Creating new investments for the We will seek to influence stakeholders in We will make society more resilient with standard future economy the transition to a low carbon economy our financial solutions Our key focus in 2017 has been about Taking action to make our investment The global temperature increases we will We provide financial safety nets for millions understanding and measuring our culture, activities more sustainable and embrace experience in the coming decades will of people and support the UN’s Sustainable using a range of metrics and actively managing Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) profoundly impact people’s lives, including Development Goals to alleviate poverty in the a programme of initiatives in each business factors. It’s important that our customers our economies. In order to minimise the most countries in which we operate. We develop area. This is designed to ensure we are and shareholders understand clearly, in which damaging consequences, global leaders have products and services beyond what national embedding a positive culture based on areas we are investing their money. Many key agreed to limit the temperature increase to governments provide for their citizens and our business principles and behaviours, areas have emerging economies which need 1.5°C to 2°C above pre-industrial levels. It is have a responsibility to ensure that we celebrating our successes and recognising to be funded over the long term in an an ambitious but achievable target if we can market these products and services to the contributions, and, finally, addressing areas economically viable, social useful and meaningfully shift our methods of generating widest set of social and economic groups for improvement. environmentally impactful way. and consuming energy globally towards low as possible. carbon alternatives. 18 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED Running our business to a higher standard Our purpose is to improve the lives of our customers, build a better society for the long term and create value for shareholders. This shapes every aspect of how we do business. Our key focus in 2017 has been about understanding and measuring our culture, using a range of metrics and actively managing a programme of initiatives in each business area. This is designed to ensure we are embedding a positive culture based on our business principles and behaviours, celebrating our successes and recognising contributions, and, finally, addressing areas for improvement. Our people and culture Culture Our people are at the heart of what we do at Legal & General. What you measure is what you get. In order to ensure To deliver the best for our customers, we need employees who we are creating focus on culture, in 2017 all of our leaders feel engaged, empowered and energised about working here. have had ‘owning and monitoring our culture’ as one of There are five key areas where we focus particular attention: their performance objectives. Each leader worked with 1. Culture their business divisions to identify the most relevant metrics, 2. Engagement qualitative and quantitative, that would signal what we are 3. Diversity and Inclusion proud of and want to protect and equally importantly what 4. Talent Development we want to improve or evolve. 5. Wellbeing. We know we have a At the end of the year, each CEO presented to our Group CEO, Group Chief Risk Officer and Group HR Director responsibility to do business to share their approach to embedding and monitoring better each year for our our culture. customers. We need the best The discussion focused on: solutions, the best service and, • the relevance of metrics • level of challenge and debate crucially, the very best people.” • evidence of embedding the principles and behaviours across the business. 19 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED Underpinning our culture focus, we have three values and are focusing on the following initiatives to increase not • As a direct result of that feedback we held an ‘Inclusion that determine how we do business: just gender diversity but also other under-represented groups. Month’ in September to October 2017 to celebrate the • Straightforward (how we communicate) diversity in our business and encourage open conversations • Collaborative (how we work together) Changing the way we recruit amongst employees. • Purposeful (how we deliver). • We aim to have diverse shortlists, with at least one woman on every shortlist for all roles Creating diverse talent pipelines 95% of our employees said that they understood • We use diverse interview panels, to ensure a fair and • We have career sponsorship and mentoring programmes for our behaviours. inclusive interview process senior women and women who we consider to be talented • We demand more from our recruitment partners and and in the pipeline for promotion Engagement engage them in our diversity and inclusion plans; in 2018 we • We are striving to attract untapped talent returning to the Alongside other culture measures, we continued to measure will also be working to develop a code of conduct that will workplace after a career break by launching our career the level of engagement of our employees and were delighted set out a shared commitment to diversity between returners initiative to report our highest ever response rate of 91%. Our worldwide ourselves and our commercial partners • We are ensuring greater diversity of our early career talent and ‘Employee Engagement Index’ increased slightly from 76% in • We are working to remove bias from our recruitment therefore our talent pipeline through apprenticeships, graduate 2016 to 77% in 2017. This moderate increase in score reflects process by providing training to our employees and using and Investment 2020 programmes. how our culture is maturing through adoption of our behaviours technology. and enablement through an agile or flexible working environment. Creating a flexible, agile and supportive environment All this is underpinned by continued strong leadership scores Raising awareness of gender and wider inclusion issues • Wherever possible, we’re creating an ‘agile’ work environment around the organisation. • We have visible and active board support by providing the technology to enable people, and the support • We champion the achievements of our female role models and training to facilitate more flexible and empowering working Diversity and inclusion and communicate this within our business practices We’re committed to increasing the diversity of our workforce • We communicate our progress and have dialogue with • We have a programme of workshops and support for working and are working to build an inclusive culture that encourages our people through internal social media discussions, parents and carers, including new parent coaching. all our people to be the best they can be at work. We know and on our intranet that this will help us to deliver excellent customer outcomes • We hold internal events with leaders and business sponsors As well as our own focus within the company, it’s important and better business results. • We recently launched our L&GBT network across the group that we partner with other financial services firms so that we to support our LGBT colleagues and allies can influence the industry more broadly. We therefore work Our own ambitious gender initiative 50/50 by 2020 started • We facilitate regular networking events for to foster debate with leading diversity campaigns such as the 30% Club, the in 2014 and continues to push hard on gender diversity. We and create momentum for change across the inclusion Diversity Project and the Hampton Alexander Review. In 2016 want to ensure wider female participation in our workforce agenda and we held ‘Ethnicity Matters’ focus groups in we signed the Women in Finance Charter which aims to 2017 to start the conversation on race, raise awareness increase the proportion of women in management roles. and gain feedback 20 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED This has helped us focus on the actions we need to take to drive We aim to promote a culture of continuous and inclusive Employee health and wellbeing greater gender diversity and in 2017, at the most senior level of learning where all employees can take advantage of • Our goal is for our employees to be emotionally, mentally and our organisation, the gender balance of new hires was 50/50 development opportunities on-the-job, as well as through physically fit, resilient to change and performing at their best. and 43% of our divisional CEO’s are now women. online and face-to-face training. Our online ‘Learning Hub’ We achieve this by working to deliver a proactive, integrated is our one-stop shop for development, where our people are and consistent plan of activities to support our commitment The Gender Pay Gap regulations were introduced in 2016 able to access a range of bite-size learning materials, toolkits, to our employees’ physical and mental health and wellbeing at with the intention of bringing additional transparency to the e-learning and online books on a variety of topics. They are work through our My Health, My Money, My Life programme. pay arrangements in large organisations. The Gender Pay Gap also able to find information on, and register for, face to face measures the difference in average pay of men and women, workshops, training programmes and professional support. A key focus for Legal & General is on mental health since signing regardless of their seniority. As an employer and an investor, In 2017, the site was accessed more than 41,000 times and ‘The Time to Change’ pledge in 2013. In May 2017, we launched we think reporting on the Gender Pay Gap is a very positive over 34,000 learning and development and business book ‘Talking About Mental Health – It’s Not A Red Card Offence’. We step in helping to improve transparency across UK businesses. summaries were downloaded. worked with high profile, inspirational sports people to start to try and reduce the stigma of talking about mental health. We decided that in order to reflect our figures in a transparent We have seen our colleagues report positively about and fair way, we would go beyond the requirements of the their learning and development experiences: 75% of UK Consequently, in October 2017 Nigel Wilson committed regulations and report our combined UK businesses with median employees either agree or strongly agree with the statement to the following as a priority for Legal & General: Gender Pay Gap (31.6%) alongside the two employing entities ‘I have the opportunity to develop my knowledge and skills • mental health training we are obliged to report upon. at work’. This is up one percentage point year-on-year. • incentivising openness • developing a positive narrative around mental health, You can see our Gender Pay Gap data and commentary here. Our performance management philosophy focuses on regular to be communicated with colleagues all around the world. constructive feedback throughout the year – ‘check-ins’ to Talent development celebrate what is going well, to discuss and understand how We have trained over 60 Mental Health First Aiders We continue to evolve our offering to help talented individuals to improve those things that may not be going as well and to across our business whose role is to support colleagues progress in the organisation. In 2017 we ran ten leadership plan for what is coming next. These conversations focus on by taking time to listen, and by signposting additional support programmes covering strategic, high performance, expert and behaviours as well as business objectives and that balance is resources. One of our aims is to increase the inclusivity in essential leadership. reflected in our more formal reviews at the end of the year teams across Legal & General, helping managers to understand with individuals receiving rating for the behaviours (the how) how to create psychological safety in their teams and building they have demonstrated as well the objectives (the what) a more supportive environment for working parents and carers. they have achieved. We will roll out a new and improved Legal & General has committed to the recommendations set Talent Management approach designed to support the out in the ‘Thriving at Work’ Stevenson/Farmer report (2017). development of talented women and men in our business. 21 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED 60+ colleagues trained as 91% employee engagement across our Mental Health First Aiders UK, US and Asian businesses 77% employee engagement index Speaking up – a principled business In addition to this, for 2018, all new applicable sourcing We are keen to hear from new suppliers and we don’t put up Employee voice is an enabler of employee engagement. requirements which come up for tender will include the barriers to suppliers who are suitably matched to the goods When we are heard, we feel trusted and will work harder, requirement to remove single-use plastics. and services we procure. be positive about the company and be loyal to the company. We have a range of methods for people to express their views. Understanding and reducing the impact of modern In 2017, we implemented a consistent global procurement code. We seek ongoing feedback from our people, our customers day slavery and external partners as part of our ‘Speak Up’ campaign and With the assistance of Anti-Slavery International, we have We check key suppliers thoroughly before working with listening groups. The aim of Speak Up is to capture positive been able to make an in-depth review of our business around them. This includes asking them to sign our Supplier Code evidence of our business principles in action and areas that the Modern Slavery Act. During 2017, we hosted a number of Conduct, which incorporates the Modern Slavery Act. need focus where things are not meeting the principles. of workshops with some of our key suppliers to help us We validate the adherence of our key suppliers by asking Going forward, we will be working hard to share best understand the impact and process of slavery in the UK and them to provide supporting evidence of compliance annually. practice across the business, paying attention to where how we would practically spot signs of slavery when working We continually engage with them around sustainability we can improve and celebrating success as we progress. with our suppliers. We will implement in 2018 a new set of issues. The Head of Group Procurement and Supplier common expectations for our suppliers. We have worked Management is responsible for the Supplier Code of Conduct, Our suppliers with them and jointly arrived at a number of indicators of maintaining a supply chain that reflects and is aligned to our We work closely with key suppliers to ensure they meet working standards, which are currently being integrated own standards of conduct and principles for how we do and maintain high standards by conducting assessments and into our Supplier Code of Conduct. business. We monitor the reputational performance of key gathering evidence in line with our Supplier Code of Conduct. suppliers and hold regular meetings with them to ensure risks The purpose of our Supplier Code of Conduct is to establish Improving all aspects of our supply chain are managed. We keep them up to date with ongoing projects standards that ensure our key suppliers operate ethically, are We use a fair, transparent and ethical supply chain process. and share knowledge on market trends and new technologies. environmentally responsible and that workers are treated with We source the best-value solutions available to meet our respect and dignity. Our key suppliers are expected to have business needs. processes in place to maintain these standards and to be able to provide evidence of meeting these standards if required. 22 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED How we work with government 2017 highlights on delivering public policy We have a set of principles for engagement with government Our engagement with government and policy makers. We believe people should know what we As part of our dialogue, in 2017, we responded to over 60 do and what we stand for. government and regulatory consultations, as well as shaping responses from trade and industry bodies. Our main areas Our public policy principles: of discussion with government in 2017 have included: 1. We make no political donations. We are politically neutral, • supporting jobs and growth through urban regeneration; working with all parties, officials, regulators and other policy • changes to the pensions and ‘at retirement’ market; organisations in the jurisdictions we operate in. • financial regulation – both conduct and prudential; 2. We work collaboratively both directly and through • corporate governance; a range of industry representative bodies. • risk sharing; 3. We aim to deliver evidence-based, practical proposals • financial regulation – UK, US and EU; for consideration by policy-makers. • reforms to both prudential and conduct regulation; 4. We aim to be experts and thought-leaders: we are an • urban regeneration; organisation rich in expertise that we’re willing to share • engaging with EU, US, UK national and regional with those responsible for formulating public policy. government on direct investment into infrastructure 5. We are focused on delivering positive outcomes for and housing; customers, shareholders, investment markets, the • risk sharing; broader economy and society. • discussion with UK government to improve financial resilience. 23 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED Creating new investments Case study Our £225 million investment in the regeneration of Cardiff Central Square in for the future economy Wales has seen Legal & General employ 2,000 people in the city, with a social investment portfolio in the area through its SE-Assist programme. This is a model that is similar to the one we launched in greater Brighton where employment, regeneration of shopping centres, private rented developments, financial education and social investment have all come together to make a city thrive. Read more here Direct investments have a positive impact, economically and socially. They unlock capital investment in the wider UK economy and help to promote city growth and the build stronger future tenancies within housing and business areas that we are helping to create. development of cities such as Manchester, Salford, Leeds, Birmingham, Newcastle, Cardiff and Bristol. Focus on corporate governance – active ownership As one of the largest asset managers in the world, we believe It’s important that our customers and shareholders we have a responsibility not just to our clients and to the understand clearly which areas we are investing their individual companies we invest in, but also to society. money in. Many key areas have emerging economies This is why we are active owners, using our size and influence which need to be funded over the long-term in to help bring about real, positive change across entire markets a economically viable, social useful and and sectors. To protect our clients’ assets, we seek to ensure environmentally impactful way. the companies in which we invest are equipped to deliver long-term growth. By taking action to make our investment activities more sustainable (and embrace Environmental, We work to make sure investor rights are protected – We are exceptionally well placed Social and Governance (ESG) factors), we are able to encouraging companies and other investors to uphold codes of practice and improve their culture. In 2017, the corporate to invest in urban infrastructure, apply our own direct investments, pension scheme governance team held a total of 370 meetings, with board creating jobs and providing investment funds and social investments through composition, executive pay and climate change being the mechanisms such as social stock exchanges and top three areas of focus. housing for young and old alike. community share schemes. We’re ready and willing to invest If we identify insufficient progress, we will use our shareholder power to vote against companies or their board of directors. more patient capital in start-ups Social impact investment In 2017, globally we opposed more than 1,000 pay packages and scale-ups.” In 2018 we will widen the role that social investment plays as well as more than 2,800 director appointments. Our scale around the cities where we have offices. We are committed means our voice is heard and we do not remain silent on the Nigel Wilson, to looking at investment cities (i.e. Newcastle, Liverpool, issues that matter. Group CEO, Legal & General Leeds and Birmingham) and are keen to understand what role we can play in regional or city based social investments (such We minimise abstentions worldwide, so our clients can be sure as crowdfunding) that will help stimulate local economies and that we are working and engaging on their behalf. 24 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED Active engagement facts and figures Our passion for housing Renewing Britain’s rail infrastructure Top five themes discussed in our We are involved in delivering 80,000 homes in the next We also want to improve the quality of people’s lives company meetings five to ten years. The UK still has a chronic need to deliver by helping to upgrade infrastructure. In 2017, we made a more housing at scale. We have a multi-tenure strategy to number of important investments in the UK’s rail network. #1 Board composition #2 Remuneration #3 Climate change speed up housing delivery. Our housing investments are designed to address the supplyA £120 million debt scheme helped accelerate the purchase of High Speed 1 (HS1) by the Equitix, HICL and Infrared consortium, connecting London to the Channel Tunnel. side shortage and be inclusive, increasing the availability of affordable and key worker housing. We have now also completed four rolling stock deals, #4 Nomination #5 Company disclosure Our £1 billion build to rent housing pipeline June 2017 was an important milestone as the first residents for more than £550 million, helping to finance a fleet of 665 Bombardier Aventra trains for Abellio East Anglia and financed the supply of more than 400 vehicles for use on and succession moved into our new build to rent (BTR) development based in the West Midlands Railway. Salford. Our BTR sites can offer higher quality accommodation Active engagement in 2017 with lower living costs, significantly reduced energy bills, no Small business finance agency fees and access to enhanced services. By November 2017 our Venture Capital and SME investment Activity 2017 programme, including our innovative ‘SE-Assist’ product for social Meetings held 370 In 2017 we announced new BTR schemes in Leeds, Bath, enterprises, had made investments in more than 100 UK based Bristol and Birmingham, bringing the total pipeline of BTR companies, and is on track to double that number during 2018. units to more than 1,700. Companies met 224 Investing in later life living Meeting discussing environmental and 57% By investing in Inspired Villages Group in August 2017, a social issues later-living housing provider, we aim to ‘accelerate the evolution’ of this sector. Retirement living is the most under-supplied area Companies based outside the UK 50% of the housing market. Our Tattenhall development marked a significant entry into the retirement housing sector, creating UK companies voted against 36% safe, secure, social and comfortable village environments. (at least one resolution) We now have seven village schemes in total. Our vision UK board directors voted against 178 is to create vibrant villages where people want to live, close to family, friends and facilities. 25 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED Early stage companies which have benefitted from Talking point Legal & General’s Venture Capital funding now have a Could a social pension product help engage defined Our ideal model for a place combined enterprise value of over £10 billion. Prime areas contribution scheme members? of focus have included technology, analytics, life sciences In 2017, we tested the concept of creating a social pension is to employ people, invest and digital healthcare. In addition, we provide debt finance fund with our DC pensions customer base. Recent surveys in infrastructure and indirectly to SMEs by investing in the £1.9 billion plus Pemberton by Barclays and Ethex have suggested that over half of savers investment platform. are interested in having investments that create positive social invest through social impact. Our Defined Contribution (DC) pensions conference investments. And we want Future World Funding explored the increasing demand for a Social Pension. In November 2016 we launched our Future World Fund, to prove that what we are together with a major UK pension scheme. The conference also discussed the significant challenge doing really has a value to of low engagement of DC pension savers. Younger pension the place in which it sits.” The Fund responds to the long-term challenges facing pension funds, including climate change risks. The Fund uses scheme members often feel that their pension isn’t important, mainly because it won’t be drawn upon for some time. Graham Precey, a multi-factor index-based strategy and also incorporates a Head of Sustainability, Legal & General climate ‘tilt’, giving investors greater exposure to companies As a result of this, customers are disengaged and usually that generate green revenues that are more likely to benefit don’t save much or early enough, leading to poorer financial from the transition to a low carbon economy. The tilt also outcomes in later life. A question we are interested in reduces exposure to companies with worse than average exploring is whether investing in social businesses could carbon emissions and fossil fuel assets engage members to save more and earlier. By analysing solidarity funds in France, evidence suggests that employees LGIM sponsored ‘Boring Money’ – financial markets in these schemes are more engaged with their money, how made simple it is being invested and how it is being used to create a We contributed to a series of installations that explored positive impact socially. new methods of communicating savings-related information to individual investors, with the aim of making financial information, products and the overall market easily understood. Our new personal investing platform will aim to incorporate this approach into its communications and overall proposition. 26 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED We will seek to influence stakeholders in the transition to a low carbon economy Global temperature increases will profoundly impact people’s lives and national economies. To minimise the most damaging consequences, global leaders have agreed to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C – 2°C above pre-industrial levels. It is an ambitious but achievable target involving a meaningful shift towards low carbon alternatives. We’re fully committed to a 2°C (or below) world and have an important role in the transition to a low carbon economy. We can run our own business in an environmentally sustainable way, create products and services that support a low carbon future, influence the companies we invest in and ensure that our direct investments support the aim to limit climate change. These steps are fundamental to the long-term success of our businesses as well as helping to deliver a low carbon economy. Our group carbon has reduced by 11% from last year associated CO2e per annum. Separate to this Our Direct We understand our role in this transition and have undertaken Investment Portfolio on an apportioned basis also accounted We are fully committed to a strategic review of our carbon risks and opportunities. For for 178,000 tonnes of CO2 per annum. Our Group ALCO is some time now we have understood, managed and reported now working through the decarbonisation strategy as a result. a 2°C (or below) world and on our Scope 1 & 2 emissions and our business travel scope We will spend 2018 reviewing how this knowledge will shape believe that we have an 3 emissions. However, until now we have never formally our current and future business decisions and strategy and assessed the carbon associated with our investments. We we will report on this area further in 2018. important role in the global worked with Trucost and WWF to understand the carbon transition to a low carbon within our balance sheet. We have focused on the areas Encouraging responsible behaviour where we have a position to influence. Therefore we have As well as assessing and understanding the carbon footprint economy.” identified and assessed the carbon associated with corporate of our investments we continue to encourage public policies, Sacha Sadan, bonds and equity held in our balance sheet. Trucost and investment practices and corporate behaviour that address the Director of Corporate Governance, LGIM WWF assessed our £26 billion of equity and debt holdings, long-term risks associated with the impact of climate change. which they determined equates to 11 million tonnes of 27 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED >590k homes powered through our investment 22% reduction in our direct Carbon on Real Our strategy inspires us to build a better society for the long term and part of this is to understand and respond to the risks We have invested in renewables • NTR onshore wind farm capacity of 120MW in offshore wind farms Asset investment ‘like for like’ properties and opportunities that climate change presents. This year we • ‘Upside Energy’, a demand-side response business able to are particularly proud of the following actions undertaken in optimise power storage and consumption for consumers using response to our climate risks and opportunities: its cloud-based technology -38% reduction in water consumption since 2013 +27% increase in waste generation since 2013 • Working with Carbon Clear to set ‘Science Based Targets’ to bring our businesses in line with a 2°C world. Our new SBT approved targets will be publicly available on our CSR website • £300 million debt investment scheme to facilitate a £2 billion purchase of 50% of ‘Walney Extension’. This will be the world’s largest offshore wind farm providing enough power for more due to our new construction businesses during 2018. than 590,000 homes and is a great asset for backing annuity • We have strengthened our customer offering in low carbon payments investment through our Future World Fund which incorporates • We retained Green Stars for all of our 11 eligible real asset -16% reduction in paper usage since 2013 -17% reduction in carbon emissions since 2015 a climate ‘tilt’. • As part of our Climate Impact Pledge we held 108 company meetings focused on climate change. investment funds as well as four European leader awards under GRESB (The Global ESG Benchmark for Real Assets). • We have reduced our direct Carbon on real asset investment • We also engaged on climate related issues at the highest ‘like-for-like’ property by 22% against baseline, so have level. For example, Mark Zinkula (LGIM’s CEO) and Meryam exceeded our target Omi (Head of Sustainability and Responsible Investment • Our group carbon has reduced by 11% from last year. Strategy) have been appointed to the UK Government’s Green Finance Taskforce. 28 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED As a signatory to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures we are fully committed to disclosing our approach to the risks and opportunities presented by climate change. Our approach to each of the four disclosure areas is outlined in the table: Our strategy inspires us to build a better TCFD recommendation Disclosure overview society for the long term and part of this Governance Overall responsibility for climate change and environmental performance is held by our Group CEO Nigel Wilson. is to understand and respond to the risks The GCRE Committee (chaired by our CEO) is supported by our Group Environment Committee (GEC). The GEC review the group’s climate and environmental risk. Our Assets and Liabilities Committee also carries out a review. and opportunities that climate change present to us.” Strategy We have made public our approach to managing risks and opportunities through LGIM’s Climate Pledge and the Carbon Disclosure Project. This ranges from weather pattern impacts in our insurance business to the opportunities Meryam Omi, to create new products to assist the transition to a low carbon economy. To support our strategy we are committed to modelling climate scenarios including a 2°C scenario and are working with Carbon Clear to set science based Head of Sustainability and Responsible Investment Strategy targets. We create products and services that support a low carbon future and ensure that our direct investments support the aim to limit climate change. Risk Management We have a formal framework for risk management policies in place, which sets out approaches to managing different types of risks and defines the minimal control standard over the short, medium and long term. These can be broken down into four key areas where we capture information as a business and use it to influence our strategy and policies: we have set long-term targets on our own energy usage. By 2020 we want to ‘reduce carbon emission per policy by 20% based on 2013 baseline’; the natural resources used within our commercial property portfolio. We set reduction targets and monitor through our managing agents; our own balance sheet investments. For example, we are committed as a long-term investor in UK renewables and have a target to increase investments into UK energy infrastructure with our own money and that of our customers that support the transition to a low carbon economy over the next three years; our influence as an investor in publicly listed companies, specifically on environmental issues and the transition to a low carbon economy. Metrics and Targets Our mandatory carbon and headline data is included on page 233 of our 2017 annual report. Measuring our commitment to society outlines our key carbon emission reduction targets and performance. As well as managing carbon we also continue to manage our other environmental impacts. Details of our performance in these areas can be found in the data section of this report. 29 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS We will make society more resilient with our financial solutions Financial inclusion and improving social mobility • ‘Age of no retirement’ working with our marketing professionals We have a responsibility to ensure that we market these to reduce unconscious bias around ageing in our advertising products and services to the widest set of social and and communications economic groups as possible. • ‘Arthritis UK working’ with our Group Protection teams to help customers with long-term health conditions Our products and services are not limited to those offered • ‘StepChange’ working with our debt recovery teams to do by traditional financial services providers. We have had business the right way conversations with investors about innovative products • Samaritans working with our bereavement teams. such as social bond funds and with governments on the increasing role we can play directly and indirectly through Business maturity review financial products that will increase the take up of insurance Key findings from the review held by our Group Risk and savings. Our UK marketing data shows that our success and Control teams were: in auto-enrolled pensions is improving financial services 1. Bespoke training to staff: Each division has developed market inclusion in the UK population in harder-to-reach bespoke training above and beyond the basic computer-based segments. training on vulnerable customers. 2. Single point of relationship: some divisions now provide Supporting vulnerable customers a single point of contact in the form of dedicated staff to In 2017 our Group Vulnerable Customer Committee funded a customer once vulnerability is identified. training for our businesses and asked for independent internal 3. Proactive engagement with customers: businesses We provide financial safety reviews for each business to see how they were developing have proactively sought to engage with customers who their approach to dealing with vulnerability. may have suddenly faced vulnerabilities upon occurrence nets for millions of people and of certain events. support the UN’s Sustainable During 2017 we encouraged ‘not-for-profit organisations’ 4. Organisational capability: vulnerable customer champions to provide training for our employees, including: have been identified in many divisions. Development Goals to alleviate • The Elderly Accommodation Counsel helping us to design 5. Adding system flags: many businesses have developed poverty in the countries in better services for our employees in later life flags within their systems to identify and record vulnerabilities • ‘Silver Line’ working with our mature savings and pensions to better provide individual treatment and engagement to which we operate. businesses to improve the way we deal with customers the customers. on the phone 30 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED 2.7m Number of people saving for retirement 33% Market share of the UK lifetime The following opportunities for improvement were identified: • We should develop a divisional vulnerable customer strategy Providing insurance and health related solutions Our UK life insurance business continues to be the UK’s No 1 in DC pension schemes mortgage market in 2017 document which would ensure a clear approach to the individual insurance provider. However, Mintel data showed identification and management of vulnerable customers; in June 2017 that 73% of UK adults had no life insurance • We should develop suitable formats for documents, such in place. 98% Life assurance claims paid £1.7bn Pensions paid in 2017 as large fonts; • We should share experiences across our divisions, building consistent treatment of vulnerable customers; Our response is to try and make insurance more accessible, by providing simple digital solutions We are adopting the • We should share data about individual customers’ same digital strategy in the US to increase take-up among vulnerabilities across divisions; mass-market consumers. • We should have uniform procedures about keeping data logs £136m Household insurance claims paid £800m Debt funding to later life social of vulnerabilities; • We should share topics covered within each division. In addition, a greater use of insurance in the workplace health and wellbeing market will help mainstream consumers have access to financial services products. Our group protection to 92,000 customers housing funders Helping working people avoid debt business is developing additional products and services that In 2017, we invested in Salary Finance, a company which help treat mental wellbeing in the same way as physical specialises in providing loans and building financial wellbeing wellbeing in the workplace. for employees. Our investment saw over 250,000 new employees signing up and our partnership is well on its Supporting the ageing population way to reaching over one million employees. 1. Helping people save for retirement We are a UK market leader in providing auto-enrolled Our aim is to encourage employees to move away from debt pensions, offering some of the lowest charges in the market towards becoming savers and, in doing so, to improve their and providing administration and investment services to some financial and mental wellbeing, their engagement at work and of the UK’s biggest retailers. This has enabled many lowerfamily resilience. paid retail employees to start saving for retirement for the first time in their lives. In 2017, we increased the number of people in our direct contribution schemes to over 2.7 million. Our own customer data shows that we have more people in the ‘poorer parents’ social demographic group than in any other group. 31 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR FOCUS AREAS CONTINUED 2. Helping the elderly in retirement • The creation of new open space, improvement of air quality We launched our lifetime mortgage product in 2015 and and new amenities Affordable housing is a classic in 2017 we became the UK market leader by sales volumes, • The impact of new people moving into the area, the impact with a 33% market share. We are expanding the pilot of on community cohesion, the impact on education and direct example of underinvestment... a mortgage product which allows equity-rich elderly people support for the most vulnerable. This important sector has to stay in their homes for longer in good living conditions and fund essential refurbishments that will bring the property up Measuring social value now been added to Legal & to the Government’s decent homes standards. We worked The UK Social Value Act is an important development General’s £15 billion UK direct with Age Partnership to provide customers with the required which recognises the importance of social value. advice on the suitability of the product. We partnered with 1. Through our Real Assets business we have led the debate investment programme.” social enterprises and home improvement agencies who on calculating the Social Value of Buildings that we own. Nigel Wilson, work with approved suppliers to manage the renovation 2. L&G Homes is one of the first housing developers to deliver Group CEO, Legal & General works through to completion and support the customer a Social Value Charter in Berkshire. Our aim is to create profits throughout the refurbishment process. for our businesses and provide social value for society. 3. The social value of a financial services product that provides Investing in affordable and social housing a financial safety net. For the first time we have asked an We provided over £800 million of debt funding to social and independent organisation, Social Value Portal, to assess later life housing providers in 2017 as a result of our the social value created over time for a product line for infrastructure commitments. the individual, their families and their communities. Legal & General Homes is working with the Social Value Portal We have committed in the next four years that 20% of our to develop the UK’s first Community Social Value Charter. commercial property will have an economic and social value Delivering social value is about adding more value to the local published so that people can see both the environmental impact economy, improving the wellbeing of the community whilst and the footprint. protecting our environment. Some clear advantages to local communities are: • Housing developments and new transport links or infrastructure • The creation of new jobs for residents, opportunities for local companies and support for local businesses to grow and prosper 32 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT/INVESTMENT Long-term commitment to communities We recognise that our employees want to give their time to Fundraising volunteering and fundraising – by giving employees a purpose, We have a long history of supporting charities and good we are able to help provide positive differences towards an causes. By listening to our employees, we explore new and individual’s mental health and wellbeing. Employees are innovative ways we can support communities and charities encouraged at all levels to get involved and are focused on the close to their hearts. In 2017, 440 employees asked us to give following four key areas: £44,000 to small grass-roots charities they support as part of 1. Education our ‘small charities donation month’. Employees volunteered 2. Social enterprises their time (worth over £86,000) and gave over £500,000 3. Employee fundraising and volunteering through our payroll giving scheme. 4. Our charity stakeholders In 2017, the cash contributions made by our staff and Financial education matching schemes amounted to £1.4 million. Further Our long-term commitment to financial education focuses information on our contributions can be found in the data around a number of modules, including: centre for communities. • Get it, Spend it and Save it: providing real life choices to 14-16 year olds – getting them ready for the world of work. Chairman’s awards As part of the programme, we ask pupils about the best advice Each year our Chairman hosts the Community Awards they have received about money and from whom. We originally with the Group Board. The awards recognise the amazing set out to reach over 200 teachers and 3,000 pupils, with an achievements of our employees and their volunteering aim to train teachers and provide resources for them to efforts. Categories include: fundraisers, charity ambassadors, The Board and I look forward continue to educate their pupils, we succeeded in reaching inspiring young people and community spirit, with employees over 6,200 pupils and over 379 teachers. nominating their colleagues. to acknowledging and • RedSTART: a charity that provides financial education training celebrating the extraordinary to children aged 10-18 years old. We help host and run Our commitment to social enterprises educational training days for primary school children at our Our social investment initiative provides essential calibre of people who work at London offices, with a goal to train one million school children mentoring support to build sustainable local social enterprise Legal & General, and their in personal finance by 2025. infrastructure. We continue to support the partnership with • KickStart Money: a ground-breaking financial education the Welsh Fund in partnership with the Welsh Government, passion and sense of doing the programme for children delivered by the MyBank charity. Wales Co-operative Centre, Business in the Community right thing for others.” Over the next three years the target is to provide around Wales and the Institute of Directors Wales. 18,000 primary school children between the ages of seven Sir John Kingman, and 11 with education on topics such as the value of money, We have provided interest-free loans to 27 social enterprises Chairman of Legal & General Group where money comes from, personal relationships with money, in Sussex and Wales. prioritising spending, budgeting and saving. The aim is to influence attitudes towards managing money at an early age. 33 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT/INVESTMENT Group Social Investment Committee • Family and Childcare Trust has taught our Retirement and Our Group Social Investment Committee is committed to Savings business that local authorities across the UK face an improving our understanding of a number of key topics that ongoing struggle to deliver local care in later life, impacting over are both beneficial to society and relevant for our business: 4.2 million people aged over 75. • The Stroke Association has taught our Insurance business • Our work with Walthamstow Wetlands Trust and CAF Bank about the economic case for early stroke intervention through has helped our Private Rented Sector Development Team to our joint report Current, future and avoidable costs of stroke innovate how a longterm developer of housing solutions in the UK. It warns that over the next 20 years, more people has locked in social value to a community on behalf of its every year will be living with a stroke, and by 2035 there will future residents’ health and wellbeing. be over two million stroke survivors in the UK, with around • Our work with the Housing LIN has helped Legal & General 700,000 living with long-term disabilities. However, the findings Capital to understand the variety of local authority partnership also reveal that a £10 million investment into prevention models delivering housing innovation in the affordable and research could change the story and save 114,000 people social space. from having a stroke. • With our help, Alzheimer’s Research UK are putting together • Our Home Starter Boxes programme with Shelter in the a formal evaluation of A Walk Through Dementia as a training West Midlands has made our General Insurance business tool for health and social care staff, and healthcare students. aware that the simple things in a home starter kit for young • We became a founding partner of The Open Up Hospice Care families can make all the difference when moving into Alliance through our relationship with Hospice UK. a hard-fought-for home. • Our work with the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award scheme has • The Elderly Accommodation Counsel (EAC) reached 40,000 enabled their operations officers to sign up 27,583 young people voicing their opinion on the quality of later life people across London. accommodation, which has taught our Retirements business that older people need a voice in retirement and lays out clearly For 2018 we have widened our scope for investments to what they need from us in financial services and in building now include crowdfunding, community interest companies later life living accommodation. and social investments to continue our work to research • Cancer Research UK created a new model of early cancer and develop with organisations that will help us to make prevention and diagnosis in GPs’ surgeries in the NHS which better decisions. has taught our Life Insurance business that early detection leads to better survival rates for cancer. • Royal Voluntary Service (RVS) has taught our Retirements business that a simple investment in a ‘Home from Hospital’, placing a caring volunteer at the centre of an older person’s recovery plan, can reduce hospital readmissions for older people from 80% to 10%. 34 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 LOOKING AHEAD Looking ahead Our overall sustainability focus for 2018 and beyond In particular, the application of social value approaches to ESG data in all the right places We are pleased that a large majority of our stakeholders our business extends from the social value of real estate Working with investors and investor analysts, we must have backed our current focus and targets around the chosen through to social value charters for our housing developments not only publish our ESG data on areas such as carbon and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). and an industry first of an independent assessment of lifetime gender diversity but also work a little harder at making sure There are a few areas from the overall stakeholder feedback mortgages on their value over time. key analytics tools have the right data so that investors can that we can use to better run our business in 2018 and compare and contrast our performance against other beyond. These can be summarised as follows: Climate Change organisations within and outside our sector One of Legal & General’s five-year targets is to help shift the Dealing with local communities visibly and locally economy to low carbon. It will do this in a number of different Review and simplification of our Business Ethics Policy as ‘L&G near You’ ways including through its own energy use, its investments Our work to improve and simplify our culture as a company so As Legal & General continues to deliver place-making for clients and shareholders and its influence on policy makers. that we can measure it means that our Business Ethics Policy investments across the UK and into the USA and increases needs simplification in line with our Business Principles. This the transparency of what it owns on the balance sheet The reporting standards and requirements through key also means that our Speak Out Service to provide different down to postcode/zip code levels, we need to get better at programmes such as the Asset Owners Disclosure Project, stakeholders with the chance to feedback on our performance communicating the regeneration of an area to our stakeholders Total Carbon Financial Disclosure project (TCDF) and the around business principles. Quite rightly, employees have and also have better mechanisms to deal with local questions Carbon Disclosure Project amongst others mean that we been given this opportunity first. Tenants and suppliers should for or against developments we are involved with. We are need to work harder at keeping our Board involved in this be next as they have few independent ways of feeding back also in the process of upgrading our investment map which important topic of our time. on our performance compared to others. will give all stakeholders the ability to see what we own. It is particularly powerful for customers and shareholders looking Modern slavery and human rights to understand what we own ultimately on their behalf through Our exposure to human rights and modern slavery is low our balance sheet investments. but increasing as we become more construction based as a company through our housing developments. Our work Continuing to proving the social and economic value so far to develop indicators of good job standards in suppliers of our business working with Anti Slavery International and must be translated Our purpose is to be economically and socially useful by more into our construction businesses. Check out our current improving the lives of our customers, building a better society stance and approach. for the long term and creating value for our shareholders, suppliers and communities. We continue to be innovative in the way that we can prove this to our audiences. 35 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ABOUT THE REPORT About the report We’ve written our sustainability report primarily for Reporting standards We have not restated any data or information. We have institutional investors, customers, non-governmental This year, we reviewed our stakeholder feedback for the increased the scope of the amount of reporting based upon group from a wide variety of stakeholders. This report is stakeholder feedback in specific areas. Figures quoted on carbon, organisations (NGOs), government researchers, in accordance with the requirements of the Global Reporting community investment, employee numbers, customer numbers, employees and others with a particular professional Initiative (GRI) and contains Standard Disclosures for Core investments and financials (tax, assets under management, interest in our approach to sustainability. level from the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability investments) are shown in our annual report and independently Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) (launched in verified. This report complements our Annual Report and November 2016). Accounts for 2017. It provides additional commentary All other data is collected through our own internal systems The report covers disclosure from all the Legal & General which are internally and externally managed. Our internal audit on how we achieve our financial success while group businesses in the United Kingdom and United States. will review these systems throughout the year. All facts and taking Environmental, Social and Governance figures stated are from our own publications or available factors into account. What we report public research. Every year we identify priority issues by talking to our key stakeholders directly, inviting them to come and share their Timeframe concerns. We assess the issues against our strategy, purpose This report covers the financial year from January to and values. Specifically, we assess feedback and queries December 2017 (unless otherwise noted). In some cases, globally from our customers, employees, shareholders, information for early 2018 is also included to give an up-toregulators and NGOs, as well as media commentary. We date picture. Facts and figures refer to Legal & General gather insight from and engage with major investors, through Group Plc unless indicated otherwise. investor road shows and by contributing to various indices and surveys. Our campaigns are a result of how we use the skills Images within the report and experience to shape new products and understand our Thank you to our employees for providing photos of ‘things customers’ needs for the future. This is our 13th Corporate that matter to you’ as part of a photo competition for all staff. Responsibility Report. In 2005, we published our first full Each employee will receive a £100 donation to their chosen Corporate Responsibility Report detailing our performance charity for their photos which appear in the report. and targets to our critical stakeholders and have since done so every year. This is a continuation of the 2016 CSR report which you can find in our archive. 36 Feedback We welcome feedback and questions from readers. Please direct them to: Sara Heald Head of Community Involvement E: Sara.Heald@group.landg.com T (+44) (0) 20 3124 2039 Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA. Registered in England and Wales, No. 01417162. www.legalandgeneralgroup.com/csr Stay in touch Designed and produced by Superunion (formerly Addison Group) www.superunion.com
