XII 2019 2019 – ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT CEO Letter Rome, 05/12/2019 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that INTEGRA AES s.r.l. reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first Annual Communication on Progress, one year after joining UN Global Compact as a signatory, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Annual Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Luca Montesi Chief Executive Officer Our firm INTEGRA AES is an Italian consulting company offering services in the fields of civil engineering, electrical and mechanical systems, hydraulic and transport infrastructures, buildings architecture and urban planning. Our multidisciplinary team includes architects, building and civil engineers as well as electrical and mechanical experts with long experience in their field. Since our creation in 2007, our teams have successfully managed challenging international projects. INTEGRA AES, which is independent from any construction or industrial firm, provides services in different phases of the design process and during the construction phase. WHAT WE DO : Our firm WHERE WE WORK: INTEGRA AES operates in Europe, in the Middle East, in Central Asia and in North Africa. We are active in large international projects, working for leading international funding agencies and military organizations, including in post-conflict areas such as Iraq or Afghanistan. Our head office is in Italy and we have opened this year a Branch in Kabul, Afghanistan. Example of project achieved in 2019: Design of new HQ Offices for WFP in Damascus, Syria. UN GLOBAL COMPACT OUR COMMITMENTS Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Certifications & Memberships CERTIFICATIONS: INTEGRA AES has adopted an integrated management system for quality, environment and safety. This choice is made to comply with both the requirements of occupational safety and environmental prevention regulations, to implement and improve the effectiveness of a management system and to increase customer satisfaction. Our firm is Certified for the following management systems:  Quality System ISO 9001:2015 click here to see certificate  Health & Safety System OHSAS 18001:2007 click here to see certificate  Environmental System ISO 14001:2015 click here to see certificate  Information Security System ISO/IEC 27001:2017 click here to see certificate Certifications & Memberships MEMBERSHIPS: INTEGRA AES is a member of the following associations:  FIDIC International Federation of Consulting Engineers is an international standards organization for the consulting engineering and construction and EFCA is the European branch. FIDIC believes that construction should be sustainable, and to this end, it is the policy of FIDIC that each party in the construction process should be committed to satisfying its obligations with respect to achieving Quality of Construction. FIDIC’s key role and that of its Member Associations around the world is to improve people’s quality of life through the promotion of quality, integrity and sustainability in the infrastructure industry and the projects and services it delivers on a global scale.  OICE Italian Architecture and Engineering Society (OICE), which embraces FIDIC's values and promotes exchange between specialists in the field, the sharing of energies and knowledge. This association is the Italian guarantor of the respect of the rights and ethics of this sector of activity. Achievements 2019 Growth and Employment + 28,5 % Growth in 2018, the increase in the number of projects and tasks resulted in an increase in positions openings this year. Partnerships and JV Opening of a new Branch in Kabul, Afghanistan and strengthening of partnership in Jordan. Innovation and Smart Technologies Development of our new platform ResourceStorage. In order to promote paperless and smart working activities. Education and University This year our firm signed a partnership agreement with the University of Pisa for an internship program. Achievements 2019 School Kindergartens – UNICEF – Amman, Jordan Our firm was appointed to design a number of preschool structures, for UNICEF in vulnerable Districts of Jordan identified as a priority by the Ministry of Education. Food Strategic Reserve – WFP Afghanistan INTEGRA AES provided consultancy services to review the design documents of new Food Storage Facilities in Afghanistan. The project was coordinated by WFP and the Afghan Ministry of Agriculture, responding to the challenges of food shortage in vulnerable areas of the Country, in particular in rural and remote areas. Asbestos Removal – Caserma Donato – Rome, Italy INTEGRA AES was commissioned to design, supervise the works and coordinate safety, to remove asbestos roofing of an ex-military compound to ensure the air quality of this sensitive site, located near a residential area. Human Rights OUR IMPACT INTEGRA AES SRL considers as leading importance the responsibility in the social sphere, paying close attention toward the populations with great difficulties. Our firm fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All guidelines to ensure that those principles are respected are duly enumerated in both our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy and in our Ethical Code of Conduct issued and available on our company’s website. OUR ACTIONS ACTIONS PROMOTING SOCIAL ISSUES Every year, INTEGRA AES SRL support and sustains social issues, committing to devolve part of its profits to the ONLUS Save the Children, with the aim to guarantee especially rights, health and education to the most disadvantaged children, believing that they are essential part of the social growth. Labour OUR IMPACT INTEGRA AES wants to stand out for its commitment to Social Responsibility, building her own commitment based on two of the CSR fundamental principles: the search for the improvement of people's working conditions and the respect for their dignity and freedom. The assessment of the staff to be hired is based on the correspondence of the candidates' profiles to the expectations and the business needs, while respecting equal opportunities for all stakeholders. OUR ACTIONS The staff is employed with regular contract of employment; no form of irregular work is tolerated. Regarding international staff, INTEGRA AES wishes to expand the diversity of its directly employed staff in the future, in particular thanks to the Branch opened this year in Afghanistan. So far, our firm has been in partnership with local consultants, sharing skills and knowledge, in particular in Jordan where we have established a solid collaboration. Human Rights & Labour OUR ACTIONS QUALITY Our firm Quality System is certified in compliance with ISO 9001:2015 standard, in order to continuously and effectively improve its business processes, increase efficacy, efficiency and Client satisfaction. INTEGRA AES is constantly involved in assuring the quality of its projects and the level of performances, auditing objectives and results and implementing new procedures to reach continual improvement. The certificate is valid for the following services: – Project management and design of civil works and related facilities; – Work supervision; – Technical and administrative inspection; – H&S coordination during the planning and execution; – Checks on design of buildings for validation. HEALTH and SAFETY INTEGRA AES’ H&S Policy is certified in compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 standard. It defines the procedures and prevention measures to be applied on the basis of potential risks, both in INTEGRA AES’ offices and building sites. Risk analysis is regularly reviewed by H&S Management, monitoring activities and updating its objectives in order to enhance the firm’s H&S approach. From the use of equipment to working at heights protocols, we have skilled staff to advise on H&S guidelines during design and to oversee if safe working practices have been adopted on site. Human Rights & Labour OUR ACTIONS IT SECURITY INTEGRA AES’s Information Security Management Policy is certified in compliance with the ISO/IEC 27001: 2017 standard. With this certification, our firm has bolstered its security procedures to guarantee data security, in a context where the IT risks caused by violations of the security systems are continuously increasing. With a long-standing experience in sensitive infrastructures projects, INTEGRA AES has long ago started to consider data protection as a critical requirement in all its activities. Not only to protect the firm’s and the client’s data, but also in our approach when designing active security measures. RESOURCESTORAGE ® This year, INTEGRA AES has also raised the level of IT Security, with a new version of its owned web platform ResourceStorage®. ResourceStorage® is a warranty that employees, clients and any other stakeholders information is safely kept on our platform with the highest standards of cyber security through the encryption protocols (Thawte® certificate) combined with strong authentication procedures. It is also a tool that enables smart working and paperless working, avoiding unnecessary travel and allowing a considerable reduction in paper printing. This platform provides data management (classified and unclassified) features and INTEGRA AES will implement other Multi Project Manager (MPM) functionalities in future releases, such as proposal, procurement and project management, to improve its own processes and allow users to have a better view on their projects. Measurement of Outcomes QUALITY H&S IT SECURITY Our certifications are duly issued by a third party consultant firm which monitors and verifies our procedures, our progress and the achievement of our internal goals. This audit takes place each year to ensure objectives and targets are met. Our firm has also hired internally a Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental (QHSE) Manager who is in charge of driving and coordinating continual improvements of the management system and who provides support to team members by promoting best practices by challenging current work methods to drive improvements. This manager interfaces with stakeholders especially board members on matters relating to corporate governance, compliance, assurance and improvement. He also conducts internal audits to ensure conformities are strictly adhered to. Measurement of Outcomes OUR INDICATORS LABOUR Our year-end figures regarding staff nationality, gender and age are shown in the graphs below. INTEGRA AES, who promotes multiculturalism and diversity is very proud to have reached a fair balance of women and men staff in 2019. Our staff is also made of young employees, hired right after obtaining their degree. INTEGRA AES strives to give them the opportunity to learn from the senior staff and to be quickly involved in exciting international projects. Nationality Gender Age 4% 4% 11% 22% 48% 52% 92% 67% ITA FRA GRE M F < 30 years 30 ÷ 40 years > 40 years Environment OUR IMPACT As an Engineering and Consulting firm we are aware that can have a huge impact on:  Sustainable cities and Communities.  Climate Action  Affordable and clean energy  Clean water and Sanitation How so? Not only in our internal day-to-day activities, but above all when a client comes with the idea of a new project or a renovation, our responsibility is to make sure that all the solutions that will be selected in the design of the building or the infrastructure are the most sustainable. Environment OUR ACTIONS As detailed in the following slides, we have implemented actions both at an internal and an external level: Internal: procedures implemented in the management of our office, employees, suppliers regarding our day to day activities External: as an architecture and engineering firm, we have implemented action and guidelines in order to spread our awareness to our customers, in the selection of the solutions in the project design. STAFF TRAINING To achieve this goal our teams are duly trained on: Environment-friendly building materials Low-energy consumption systems Renewables energy supply systems Our internal quality management system has identified a list of environmental – friendly materials with brand and country of origin, which is the reference for our architects and engineers when they design a new project. They endeavor to select local products in order to reduce the negative long distance transport effect. Environment OUR ACTIONS CLIENT AWARENESS Our team is then able to provide our client with the most sustainable solutions and inform him on alternative options available. This is important for us to sensitize our clients, who may not have considered the environmental aspect in the first place. INTEGRA AES strives to offer several strategies to the customer to increase buildings performance and this takes into account the local facilities, services, constraints and local contractor expected capacities. All strategies offered to our clients are always supported by figures which are based on international guidelines, so that our client can decide based on reliable data, as shown in this example aside. Example: Increasing levels of green building performance following ASHRAE prescriptions. Environment OUR ACTIONS PROJECT SOLUTIONS Regarding energy efficiency, for example, based on the local irradiation, we may suggest a corresponding photovoltaic production system and a solar domestic hot water production. Regarding the energy consumption management, our team will design smart buildings with BMS including optimization functions such as occupancy dependent switching, room temperature limitations, nights cooling, etc… Regarding water saving, in particular in regions where the use of potable water is very restricted, for example our landscape and external areas design will include only bio-diverse native plants, that require no irrigation. We may also design water tanks capturing rainwater and recycling grey water for building sewage conveyance and for irrigation. Measurement of Outcomes ENVIRONMENT INTEGRA AES demonstrates its continuous effort to minimize pollution and waste, limit and optimize energy demand and continuously improve its Environmental Management System. The firm’s internal procedures, such as the assessment of environmental effects and the supervision of current legislation, are frequently updated to meet higher environmental standards. INTERNALLY Implementation of a new best practice regarding paper printing / ink consumption and communication to all staff to spread awareness. Achievement of our yearly paper printing reduction target Implementation of a yearly energy consumption target. The outcome will be measured at the end of the year. EXTERNALLY Our firm has completed recently a number of projects where the lowest emission solutions were adopted. As an example : Design of UNOPS CCTV center in Kabul, Afghanistan, implementation of photovoltaic panels, Design of WFP Country office in Kabul, Afghanistan, implementation of photovoltaic panels, Military Airport in Sigonella, Italy, implementation of photovoltaic panels for its new facilities. Anti-Corruption OUR ACTIONS Our firm is committed to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The rules and guidelines to ensure that our personnel’s behavior is in line with our commitment are stated in our Ethical Code. For example, “INTEGRA AES SRL repudiates any behavior that can be interpreted as a promise or proposal of payments, goods or other utilities of various kinds in order to promote and foster self-interests and benefits. In carrying out the ordinary external relations of commercial and institutional nature, any homages, gifts or benefits offered by INTEGRA AES SRL are oriented exclusively to the choices of promotion of their own image and cannot, under any circumstances, be considered as exceeding normal commercial or courtesy practices.” CLICK HERE TO READ THE FULL TEXT: ETHICAL CODE _ 2019 _ INTEGRA AES CONTACT US: INTEGRA AES Via Gregorio XI, n.175 00166, Rome – ITALY www.integra-aes.com info@integra-aes.com
