UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 UNGC PRINCIPLES By incorporating the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) into strategies, Human Rights policies and procedures, corporates can establish a culture of integrity, upholding responsibilities to Principle 1: P1 people and the planet, and set the stage Businesses should support and respect the for long-term success. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: P2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Environment Principle 7: P7 Labour Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 3: P3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 8: P8 association and the effective recognition of the undertake initiatives to promote greater right to collective bargaining; environmental responsibility; and P9 Principle 4: Principle 9: P4 the elimination of all forms of forced and encourage the development and diffusion compulsory labour; of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 5: Anti-Corruption P5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10: P10 Principle 6: Businesses should work against corruption P6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of in all its forms, including extortion and employment and occupation. bribery. OTHER UN INITIATIVES Women’s Empowerment Principles The Women’s Empowerment Principles are the end result of collaboration between UNGC and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality (UN Women). The principles offer guidance to companies on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. The seven principles are as follows: 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work, respecting and supporting human rights and non-discrimination. 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all female and male employees. 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women. 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women. 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy. Caring for Climate 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. Having taken part in the Caring for Climate initiative since August 2008, MAS is one of 453 companies from over 65 countries to be a part of this movement. The world’s largest global coalition, Caring for Climate is led by UN Global Compact, UNEP and UNFCCC. Based on the consensus Business for Peace that climate change will affect business and society in vital ways, consultants from UNGC, UNEP and WBCSD prepared a statement titled “Caring for Climate: After a decade of researching the role of business and its contribution to peace, The Business Leadership Platform”, which offers participants an opportunity in September 2013, UN Global Compact launched the Business for Peace to demonstrate climate leadership. MAS chose to endorse and implement the initiative. The platform assists companies in implementing responsible business Caring for Climate initiative through CEO support, tactical changes within the practices in conflict-affected and high-risk areas. MAS endorsed the initiative in organization and ongoing public communication. September 2013, and is proud to be one of its founding participants. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 3 4 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD TABLE OF CONTENTS OUR STORY 7 PRODUCTS MADE BETTER 62 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 8 CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION 64 Operational Structure 9 Energy 66 LIVES MADE BETTER 10 MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT 67 DIVERSITY IN THE WORKPLACE 12 Water 67 Persons with Disabilities (PWD) 13 Waste 68 Supporting Women in the Workplace 14 Chemicals 69 MEANINGFUL EMPLOYMENT 31 SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET 69 Our People 34 Biodiversity initiatives in 2018 71 Work life Balance and Wellbeing 40 ALIGNMENT TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES 75 BEYOND COMPLIANCE AND STANDARDS 46 ANNEXURES 76 SUPPORT THRIVING COMMUNITIES 56 MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The 15th Communication on Progress of MAS was formulated in a year when our We also embarked on a journey to better identify and align all that we do to the organizational theme was “Collaboration for Growth”. UN SDGs, which we believe are pivotal to make real change. Whilst the organization had considerable success in its undertakings we With a view of the future, we partnered with McKinsey & Company in 2018 to continue to ensure that all our behaviours and actions are anchored to the craft the strategy for MAS 2025, to make our company future-ready, thereby values of MAS. ensuring that we continue to safeguard and enrich the lives of our associates, their families and communities. This is well reflected in the accolades and recognition we received in 2018. In addition to winning the award for Highest Foreign Exchange Earner at the MAS remains committed to the UN Global Compact and its principles. Presidential Export Awards, we also won multiple awards at the Presidential Environmental Awards, the Responsible Care Awards and the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards. We leveraged on partnerships and used innovation in the space of sustainability. Some key highlights on environmental sustainability include the establishment of the Material Recovery Center at the Biyagama Export Processing Zone, which allowed for the closure of the landfill, the kickoff of our PET to yarn project, which paves the way for a solution for plastic pollution and on the biodiversity front, our reforestation through the seed bombing project in collaboration with the Government of Sri Lanka. On the social sustainability front, we delved into the area of diversity especially on a quest to bring more women into leadership roles. We are working on multiple programmes on gender sensitization, flexible work arrangements, mentorship and childcare. We also partnered with the UNFPA to address gender-based violence. Providing our people with the opportunity for meaningful life and employment has also been an area of focus, where with much deliberation, a Dinali Peiris group-wide flexi policy was developed and is in its pilot phase. We continue our DirectorGroup Human Resources efforts in engraining the MAS DNA (our Code of Conduct) in every employee. MAS Holdings (Pvt.) Ltd. OUR STORY Founded in 1987 by brothers Mahesh, Ajay and Sharad Amalean, whose initials The seamlessly integrated supply chain that complements the organization’s make up the company name MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, commenced operations as lean enterprise platform gives MAS the knowledge, means and speed to deliver a pioneer in the intimate apparel manufacturing space, and has now expanded what is demanded by the industry. This expertise has enabled the company to to the production of sportswear, performance wear and swimwear. cater to the world’s leading fashion and retail brands, including Victoria’s Secret, Nike, Marks & Spencer, DBA, Lululemon, H&M, Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren. MAS Holdings manages a portfolio of businesses under its operational SBUs and is positioned as one of the world’s most recognized design-to-delivery solution The nurturing of people, their passion and their ideas has evolved MAS Holdings providers in the realm of apparel and textile manufacturing, as well as the largest from a business organization to a global community that partners with some of in South Asia. The company is headquartered in Sri Lanka, with an additional 53 the world’s foremost brands in fashion and style. manufacturing facilities located across 16 countries, and design locations placed MAS Holdings is proud to hold a global reputation for an ethical and sustainable in key style centers across the globe, managing over 95,000 people involved in working environment. The tireless effort made by the company to focus on its operations. women’s empowerment has also put MAS on the map as a global standard. The MAS global footprint spans across Sri Lanka, India, Bangladesh, Vietnam, In addition, the spirit of innovation encouraged at MAS breaks the mold as Indonesia, China, Hong Kong, Australia, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, the world sees it by re-engineering and re-thinking resource utility, exploiting Jordan, the US, Mexico, Honduras and Haiti. processes and relentlessly pursuing excellence, which has become the MAS lifestyle. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 7 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY As a part of its sustainability goals for 2025, MAS The driving force behind this strategy within MAS The chairman of MAS; the Apparel Board; and heads mapped its sustainability strategy, making clear its is spearheaded by the Board and our Central Team of each division, business unit and manufacturing commitment to the quest of driving sustainable that help us activate bold decisions in areas that facility, supported by departmental heads, are manufacturing in Sri Lanka. demand action. The overarching responsibility responsible to ensure that the group’s policy and of driving sustainability sits with the MAS Capital strategy are respected and implemented across the We envision radically changing how businesses Apparel Board, while two directors oversee the main organization. intervene and innovate to tackle the environmental pillars of the group’s strategy. and social challenges of our time. We have strategically categorised our key sustainability initiatives as ‘Products Made Better’ to tackle our environmental agenda and ‘Lives made better’ for our social impact. We are committed to taking radical climate change action to manage our own footprint by increasing our surrounding biodiversity by as much as 100 times the area we currently occupy. As one of the largest employers in Sri Lanka, we are also committed to our values and vow to remain people-centric and continue helping our communities to thrive. Through these initiatives, MAS hopes to champion its Sustainability Management Framework as a part of its commitment to integrate sustainability into its business strategy. 8 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE Chairman/Apparel Board The Divisional Heads Council Divisional Operational Teams The responsibility and vision for the overall strategy This is a team of divisional sustainability heads, These include divisional activators and their lies with the chairman and the Apparel Board. and includes both environmental and social implementing teams, including technical leaders sustainability leaders who decide how to and engineers who help the divisions implement Sustainability Advisory Board implement the group-level strategy within their the work. This includes decision makers from the Board own divisions and SBUs. and from each business function, as well as key SBU Teams sustainability heads who will help steer the strategy These include SBU-level management and in the right direction. champions who implement the work at local facility level. Group Sustainability Team This is a combined team of those who facilitate work at divisional level, drive strategy and coordinate core processes. The team is also the key This report gives us a chance to share our stories, inspiration and innovations from within our facilities reporting liaison between the advisory board and and about our people. divisional heads. We have committed to a future that is driven by innovation and excellence with sustainability integrated across all our functions. We remain committed to our ethos of continuous improvement and our precautionary approach, which play a key role in how we tackle these issues head on. | 9 LIVES MADE BETTER 10 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD For over 32 years, we at MAS have considered our strength behind our success, hence, our continued with a focus on special initiatives beyond compliance people our greatest asset and our most important focus on initiatives by the Women Go Beyond team and standards. Our thriving communities pillar is responsibility. Stemming from the group’s as well as with persons with disabilities. responsible for corporate citizenship initiatives, as sustainability strategy, the Lives Made Better vertical well as other SBU and division-led programmes that Our meaningful employment pillar centers on the ensures social sustainability toward the people at promote community engagement. Group’s sustainable compensation initiatives, workMAS and the communities around us. life balance and well-being initiatives run by the We have identified these key areas that we believe We operate in over 16 countries and have personnel central and divisional teams. Our HR regulatory are material to all our stakeholders and to us as a representing 21 religions from across 65 nationalities. requirements, compliance and voluntary standards sustainable business. We believe this inclusion of a diversity of people is the are overlooked by the divisional compliance teams, 1) Diversity in the Workplace a) Persons with disabilities b) Women in Management 2) Meaningful Employment a) Work-life balance and well-being b) Sustainable compensation 3) Beyond Compliance and Standards a) HR regulatory requirements, compliance b) Voluntary standards 4) Thriving Communities a) Corporate citizenship b) Community engagement UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY ITALY USA CHINA JORDAN BANGLADESH HONGKOND MEXICO INDIA HAITI HONDURAS VIETNAM SRI LANKA INDONESIA AUSTRALIA DIVERSITY IN THE WORKPLACE At MAS, building and upholding diversity has been a core driver of our operations. While MAS has always supported women’s entry into and long-term We take pride in supporting an all-inclusive and non-discriminatory workforce, involvement in the workforce, improving female representation in leadership and promoting this among new hires without discriminating against age or roles was identified as a key area of focus. We have begun changing trends gender. and mindsets by creating a steady shift in culture and introducing mentoring, empowerment and career advancement tools that truly make the women at Across MAS Group, including all its SBUs and factories, we maintain a gender MAS feel comfortable to advance to leadership positions. balance of 27,870 male and 66,986 female employees. Furthermore, in our 16 countries of operation (including Attune and Stretchline locations), we have staff In keeping with this vision, the individual companies ofMAS Group have launched representing 21 religions from across 65 nationalities. various initiatives in line with the sustainability goal of 1:1 gender representation at all levels of the organization. 12 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD This year too, we continued our partnerships with the Employers Federation of Ceylon and the University of Kelaniya. The MAS Social Sustainability team is currently in the process of formulating the Supported Employment Model for persons with disabilities in the company, with the aim of introducing training and development for Supported Employment Officers of different divisions and SBUs in the near future. Workforce numbers of persons with disabilities in 2018 86 Physical Impairment Enabling people with disabilities is also a primary goal at MAS. In 2017, we created a working committee to understand how to define and support persons with disabilities with greater depth in the context of our industry and Sri Lanka. 5 Cognitive Impairment Using our findings, we have identified which SBUs and what jobs, people with disabilities could take up safely and comfortably inside MAS and reaffirmed a group-wide commitment and strategy for this key area in the future. 281 Speech & Hearing Impairment Persons with Disabilities (PWD) 9 Vision Impairment Over its years of operation, MAS has created an equal opportunity workplace for everyone. Today, it employs more than 380 persons with disabilities in its workforce, from hearing impaired to physically impaired. Upholding the company’s values, our SBUs took the lead in implementing In 2018, we re-examined our strategies and practices implemented in the last their own initiatives in order to support the employment of Persons with year and continued the journey towards developing MAS employees with Disabilities. disabilities within their capacity. In addition, we took additional measures to facilitate PWD-friendly work environments within our facilities to further encourage these individuals. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 13 MAS Active conducted the Disability Inclusion Nirmaana conducted a full factory training to create lives, empowering them both at the workplace and in Project, a spotlight initiative in 2018, to create a awareness on HR functions and other operations their personal lives by fostering pride in themselves disability-inclusive work environment across its for all employees, together with a sign language and their jobs. They are being trained to appreciate operation units. All SBUs of the MAS Active division interpreter for PWDs. They also conducted a training their place in the organisation, the community and conducted varied activities to create an equal on road safety in the same manner. the country, seeing the bigger picture rather than opportunity workplace for everyone. operating in individual silos. Synergy invited their Abhimani 2017 winner from MAS Active now employs 59 persons with various the Special Awards Category for entrepreneurship The programme, which is woven around four pillars disabilities, ranging from hearing impaired to to speak at the 2018 International Women’s Day of success: Career Advancement, Work-Life Balance, physically impaired. The main goal of this Disability celebrations organized by the BOI. Skills Development and Rewarding Excellence, has Inclusion Project is to make the workplace a more provided our female associates with opportunities to accessible environment for everyone, and ensure gain economic independence, career advancement, gainful employment for all. One such programme leadership and skill development, knowledge is “Voice Of Our Own”, initiated this year, for our enhancement, entrepreneurial spirit, attitudinal hearing and speech impaired employees. A fullSupporting Women in the Workplace change, and the ability to balance their work & day workshop was held with the participation of Because SHE matters! personal lives. 43 hearing and speech impaired employees. The The Women Go Beyond framework measures second workshop – “Obath Ekka Api Program” – was Placing strategic importance on addressing issues its success against 5 of the UN’s Women’s held during the international week of sign language, related to women, MAS launched ‘Women Go Empowerment Principles: celebrated from the 23-29 September 2018, with the Beyond (WGB)’ in 2003 as an inclusive women’s empowerment programme to make a difference • Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate participation of 55 employees with disabilities. The leadership for gender equality workshop was conducted by Nuwan Rajapaksha (an in the lives of our female employees, their families and the communities around them by empowering • Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly internal trainer at Shadowline). at work – respect and support human rights those in the workplace and at home. A talented hearing & speech impaired team and non-discrimination from Shadowline also took part in the dancing Celebrating 15 years in operation, our hallmark • Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety and competition at Abhinandani 2018, and performed at women’s empowerment platform WGB has well-being of all women and men workers the Grand Finale as a special act. certainly achieved its objectives and more, making a • Principle 4: Promote education, training positive difference in the lives of our majority female and professional development for women associates. It has made a tangible difference in their • Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality 14 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Our programmes are largely aligned with the following Career Advancement Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations We aim to promote career advancement through General Assembly. In our process of achieving a well-rounded education and training for female employees. We and holistic life-experience: believe essential learnings in basic IT, computer skills, • Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being OUR JOURNEY IN English language and other soft skills develop and for all at all ages 2018 HAS RESULTED IN enhance a total personality, and are vital to making • Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality educaa positive impact on the company and society as a tion and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all whole. We focus on equipping our female associates • Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all with the knowledge and skills in work-related areas. women and girls This training reaches beyond the immediate work • Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable requirements of each associate and prepares them economic growth, full and productive employment and for their next step in the organization. For example, decent work for all equal opportunity will be given to a team member • Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for to obtain cohesive knowledge in English language, sustainable development, provide access to justice for IT and leadership skills development, which serves all and build effective, accountable and inclusive instias the core of the programme. In addition, training tutions at all levels is also provided to enhance their knowledge in soft • Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and skills, positive thinking, negotiation abilities, time revitalize the global partnership for sustainable develmanagement and presentation skills. opment The WGB programme was also extended to female Over the years, the Women Go Beyond initiative has touched associates at MAS ACME, North Carolina, where the lives of almost 3 million beneficiaries through over 9,000 Spanish classes were held for employees. programmes as at 2018. (Refer Annexure 1) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 15 Women in Management SheWorks network, an IFC programme dealing with SheWorks survey and the one-on-one conversations women at work, conducted a groupwide survey will be used to formulate an action plan that can be As a champion of maintaining diversity in the among the executive and above cadre, to underrolled out across the group to address the various workforce based on age and gender, as well stand the working experience of all employees and issues affecting the gender gap in management. as new hires and attrition, MAS launched its focusing on challenges faced by women within MAS, strategy in 2016 to drastically raise the number of including childcare needs, work-life balance, equal The individual companies of MAS Group have also women in our middle and top management tiers opportunity for advancement, etc. launched the following initiatives in line with the than the current ratio. The challenge, however, sustainability goal of 1:1 gender representation: remains that women continue to be attracted to To further strengthen our learnings on the status support functions rather than core primary areas. of women at work, the WGB team also completed MAS Intimates selected 40 female employees in 45 one-on-one conversations with high-potential different roles including TL and GL (Team Leader In line with SDG 5.5.2, MAS is focusing on increasfemale employees at MAS Active, Kreeda, Intimates, and Group Leader), ranging from Team Member to ing the representation of women in management Linea Aqua and Bodyline covering a multitude Executive level from across all departments of the through a synergized effort across the group. The of disciplines including production, planning, company, for a Leadership Training Programme leadership has committed to a social sustainability HR, finance, design and merchandising, across at Unichela (Pvt) Ltd – Panadura. The programme goal of 1:1 gender representation in management by designations from executive and above, to named “Future Female Leaders” was held in 2018 the year 2025. While this is an aspirational goal, the understand women’s experience and challenges with the objective of developing leadership skills, group is working on many interventions to support in moving into leadership roles. The purpose promoting team spirit and creating a second layer and develop more women in the leadership pipeline. of these conversations was to gain an in-depth of leaders. understanding of the challenges that are holding The Women Go Beyond team together with the the female cadre back. The findings from the 16 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD MAS Active carried out a focused group through the empowerment and active involvement development programme in 2018 to develop their of the whole workforce. staff level female associates to help them advance to the next level. Twenty selected staff participated in this programme, which helped them identify and bridge the gap to advance in their career. This programme was more focused on developing soft Other initiatives in 2018 skills, basic IT knowledge, communications skills, An Evening of Inspiration with Gail Klintworth team building and stress management capabilities. On 27 February, an evening of inspiration was organized with Gail Klintworth, an Advisory Member of the MAS MAS Kreeda launched its first-ever, customized, Holdings Board and the Business Transformation Director of the Business and Sustainable Development all-female Executive Development Programme Commission. She has worked for Unilever for 28 years, most recently as its Chief Sustainability Officer. Gail “Emerge” in 2018. Seventeen potential leaders were also served as a Board Member of the Leadership Foundation of the International Women’s Foundation, selected for the programme, where the 70:20:10 which seeks to promote women’s leadership globally. Over 75 female executives and managers got the learning and development strategy was utilized; in opportunity to engage, network and interact with Gail and each other at the session. line with this strategy, all line managers have been requested to provide on-the-job training (70%), each “Engage, Encourage, Enable: Women in Leadership” participant has been allocated a mentor from top On 13 November 2018, Corporate Women Go Beyond and Group L&D, organized “Engage, Encourage, Enable: management (20%) and are currently undergoing Women in Leadership”, a programme to facilitate discussion among MAS management on the importance classroom training to enhance their leadership of developing more female leaders and the challenges faced by women in that journey. capabilities (10%). The 8-month programme will be evaluated and replicated if proven to be successful. The intention of the programme was to allow open discussion of the challenges and to determine a remedy action plan. The programme featured Jennifer Martineau, Senior Vice President of Research, Evaluation In 2018, MAS Intimates was supported by a Gender and Societal Advancement at the Center for Creative Leadership, who has over 25 years of experience in Specialist from Canada, in partnership with the leadership development and organisational leadership transformation. WUSC Uniterra Programme, on sensitization and awareness work in relation to Anti-Harassment and The programme was conducted in 2 sessions: the first was for all female managers and above, where diversity in the workplace. A broad spectrum of Jennifer had a discussion on the challenges to advancement and what an organisation can do to support initiatives called “BoldiQ” designed to impactfully more women taking on leadership roles; and the second was an open conversation with the Executive address workplace diversity, accessibility and respect Committees and senior leadership (both male and female) where they shared views on the challenges and were conducted to ensure that everyone has a voice the way forward to increase female representation in leadership. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 17 Role Model Development Programme for Breaking Stereotypical Job Roles Speech Craft Programmes empowered women “Iron Lady Training Programmes” Public speaking is a major challenge faced by all The Role Model Development Programme is With the aim of providing broader career employees and a major skill required for personal designed to develop life skills of those exceptional advancement opportunities, MAS is increasing and career advancement. Speech craft programmes women who have created legacy with their passion female participation in stereotypically maleto aid the process of becoming a competent and devotion. They are recognized and awarded dominant roles by conducting technical training communicator were conducted at Nirmaana, as “Empowered Women of the Year” representing programmes across the group for female associates. Methliya and Vaanavil in the MAS Kreeda cluster each Strategic Business Unit. The programme seeks One such programme is the “Iron Lady Training for 42 members. The Colombo Toastmasters Club to enhance their leadership capabilities, personality Programme”, which aims to develop female facilitated the public speaking training sessions and language proficiency to help them bridge the mechanics, electricians, printers and cutters, giving conducted in English at Nirmaana and Sinhalese gaps in their personal and work lives. The programme them an opportunity to progress in alternative training sessions at Vaanavil, as their primary consists of 3 phases: Diploma in English, Leadership career paths. language is Tamil. Development and Personality Development Course. In 2018, a total of 48 female employees were trained to be cutters, 3 mechanics, 12 end-line printers and 67 technicians across the group, creating a total pool of 130 women trained in nonstereotypical areas of work. 18 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Go Beyond Champions’ Retreat – 2018 Empowerment & Advocacy The annual Go Beyond Champions’ (GBCs) Retreat took place on 2-3 March 2018 In supporting women’s entry into and long-term involvement in the workforce, with the participation of 45 champions of the Women Go Beyond and Eco Go helping them maintain a healthy work-life balance is a key focus area for MAS. Beyond programmes, and their divisional leaders. The GBCs enjoyed their time We wish to educate and create awareness through training and developing in Kilinochchi visiting the two plants, Vaanavil and Vidiyal, as they learnt and female employees to become more knowledgeable and capable, and thus build shared best practices while strengthening their networks. their ability to make informed decisions and overcome challenges successfully. The participants also got the opportunity to visit historical places in Jaffna as Our focus areas in 2018 were employee health and well-being, child and family they participated in the “Jaffna Fun Challenge”, while learning and engaging well being, and employee engagement. with the community. At the end of the two days, there was greater synergy within the group to reach greater heights together towards improving employee (Refer Annexure 2) engagement and motivation. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 19 Promoting Effective Anti-Sexual Harassment and Abuse In 2018, all staff and above category employees (both male and female) at MAS Kreeda underwent a gender sensitization and anti-harassment awareness At MAS we strive to ensure a working environment that embraces diversity and training, in line with the anti-harassment policy and MAS DNA. is free from all kinds of harassment. In addition, a multitude of sensitization programmes such as ‘Getting More Out In 2018, MAS partnered with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to of Life’ are being conducted across the group with the support of the Family address gender-based violence and promote gender equality. Five pilot plants Planning Association (FPA) and the WGB Team. were selected to conduct individual surveys and focus group discussions by the UNFPA Gender Specialist. Suggestions received from the UNFPA were Personal Advancement & Career Enhancement (P.A.C.E.), a life skills incorporated to the MAS Anti-Harassment Policy, and plans are being made to education programme initiated by Gap Inc., is another initiative that helps expand this programme to all the other SBUs in the group. female employees reach higher levels in their personal and work lives. This comprehensive programme covers eight structured modules: communication; The first Gender Sensitivity Training was held to sensitize employees at all levels problem solving and decision making; time and stress management; water, on gender and related barriers at work, home and society. The Representative sanitization and hygiene; execution excellence; general and reproductive health; for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in Sri Lanka Ms. Ritsu Nacken financial literacy; legal literacy; and social entitlement, while gender roles and graced the occasion. safety & security are learning aspects integrated across all modules. 20 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Maternity and Childcare Related Initiatives At MAS, we acknowledge the strong role played by our women as mothers. To facilitate their role as a mother and a working woman, plants across MAS conduct a multitude of initiatives related to maternity and childcare. MAS Holdings provides childcare facilities at 10 of its SBUs across Sri Lanka, India and Jordan. Most of these facilities are open to MAS employees, while some also serve the surrounding communities. As at 2018, more than 430 children benefit from these 10 facilities, 250 of them children of MAS employees. This has also proven effective in supporting over 90 employees in managing their work-life balance. In 2018, the two onsite crèche facilities in Sri Lanka (MAS Kreeda Vaanavil in Kilinochchi and MAS Active in Nawala) were highlighted as best practice case studies in the report published by International Finance Corporation on “Tackling Childcare: The Business Case for Employer-Supported Childcare in Sri Lanka”. In December 2018, Rapid (Unichela Biyagama) conducted an awareness Happy Family Life Programme Extends to the Community programme for pregnant mothers titled “Dignity of Motherhood” with the objective of giving the required knowledge on antenatal care, With the objective of increasing individual and family well-being, the WGB team delivery, postnatal care and the importance of breastfeeding. Essential launched a series of health and well-being sessions under the title “Happy Family child care items too were given away as donations at the session. Life”. In 2018, these programmes were conducted at Bodyline 4 – Balangoda. The programme covered areas such as drug abuse, smoking and alcohol addiction that has become a menace in society, which impacts the workplace, family and community. The aim of this programme was to create awareness on the determinants of well-being and prevention of various forms of harassment, including domestic and gender-based violence. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 21 On 19 February 2018, the first session was conducted for Bodyline employees by Counselling Programmes Dr. Manoj Fernando, Director of the National Drug Prevention and Operation MAS always focuses on the physical, social and mental well-being of our Unit. The community initiative of the programme was conducted in two phases: employees since a happy and healthy employee is able to engage and contribute one for family members conducted on 1 March, and a separate series of sessions better to the organisation’s output. Counselling programmes are thus a common for school students and community leaders on 8th, 9th, 14th and 15th of May 2018. feature in the spectrum of programmes each year. A TOT was conducted to enhance teachers’ knowledge and coping skills, and a monitoring mechanism established to record information regularly with the With the motive of improving their self-awareness and empathy, Linea aim of creating and improving a healthy school environment. Intimates conducted several programmes titled “Suhada Sithak” (a friendly mind), which gave basic counselling knowledge to selected employee groups throughout the months of September to December 2018. A total number of 5,400 participated in these sessions, which will be an ongoing programme that will be implemented at other plants in the group as well. In November 2018, Intimates Casualline conducted a pre-marital counselling session for 47 young employees who were planning to get married in the near future, to educate them on how to lead a happy married life while sharing experiences. (Refer Annexure 3) 22 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD pride in what they do. The bottom-line objective of such programmes is to increase employee engagement, and to keep them happy and motivated, while enhancing the relationship between the company and the employees’ families. Breast Cancer Awareness Programmes Many initiatives were taken by MAS Intimates Bangladesh in 2018 to facilitate early detection and prevention of breast cancer. There were on-floor awareness and knowledge sharing sessions, discussions Family Day with the in-house doctor that went live on-air through their FM booth, and a With the aim of helping their employees strike a balance between home and special awareness session by Dr. Sharmin Tafura, an Oncologist specializing in the workplace, Sumbiri conducted a Family Day in May 2018. Family members Women’s care. These were aimed at sharing information on how to perform selfof 120 employees were invited to the plant premises to give them a better diagnosis and how to seek immediate treatment for breast cancer. understanding of the employees’ workplace and to emphasize the importance of working to support the family economy. Linea Aqua conducted a similar Family Day in 2018 with the objective of ensuring a safe working environment for the families of their team members – building more trust, familiarizing the families with the production team, emphasizing the importance of their team members’ contribution to the company, and building COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 23 Skills Development and Rewarding Excellence Abhinandani 2018 The focus of 2018 was on Skills Development of our associates. The grand Abhinandani was indeed an extravaganza of talent, recognizing and rewarding finale of ‘Abhinandani 2018’ with its slogan “Unleash the talent within” was excellence in a multitude of categories such as singing, dancing, music, skits, held in its glorious and ceremonial nature on the 26 November 2018 at Stein compering, fashion design, modeling, art and photography. A novel category Studios Ratmalana. An eminent panel of judges included Keerthi Pasquel, added to the list was creative writing. Upuli Panibharatha, Suresh Maliyadde and Professor Mangalika Jayatunga. Veteran and international award-winning actress Malini Fonseka also graced the event, and witnessed and endorsed the exceptional talent at MAS. 24 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 25 Entrepreneurial Skills Development Programmes With the aim of encouraging our employees to increase their entrepreneurial Bodyline also conducted a flower arrangement workshop​and a one-day skills and establish a secondary source of income, many programmes are being workshop for orchid planting for all its employees in 2018. A similar one-day conducted across the group. workshop for anthurium planting was conducted towards the latter part of the year. Bodyline also conducted a bridal show, followed by a certificate awarding In 2018, Slimline facilitated a dress making certificate course over a period of 6 ceremony. months for 90 employees, at the end of which an awards ceremony, together with a fashion show, was conducted. MAS Active conducted an entrepreneurship workshop that targeted its employees who aspire to become entrepreneurs. This was held on 21 July 2018 Thurulie conducted quarterly self-employment and knowledge aid sessions for with the participation of 55 employees. The workshop was facilitated by Achala over 2,800 female employees. Samaradiwakara, co-founder of the Good Market, a curated community of social Bodyline commenced a 6-month sewing and beauty culture course in January enterprises. Young entrepreneurs like Lonali Rodrigo and Udhara Rathnayaka 2018, where certificates of excellence were awarded to the participants for too shared their success stories during the session. completing the entrepreneurial skill development programme. 26 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Improving Aesthetic Skills Adding to our Skill Development pillar, Unichela (Pvt) Ltd – Koggala opened the Bodyline conducted a similar initiative with their ‘talent pool participation’, that stage for all its employees as they held the “Super Talent Show” on 2 August 2018, aimed at strengthening and developing aesthetic skills of their employees on 2 creating a platform to demonstrate the employees’ hidden talents in singing, January 2018. dancing and music to bring out their inner creativity. (Refer Annexure 4 & 5) “The Fashion Show”, which went hand-in-hand with the talent show, sought to recognize creativity, originality and quality in design concepts, which aligned with the concepts of the contemporary fashion industry. Sketches of their designs were submitted for a preliminary assessment, and once approved, proceeded to production and modeling, which were carried out end to end solely by the employees. The key objective of both shows was to identify and emphasize the hidden talents of their colleagues; the events saw a participation of 250 male and female employees. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 27 Community Engagement “Aloka” Breast Cancer Awareness Community Project Building a School Volleyball Court MAS Intimates – Slimtex initiated a noble cause as it collaborated with the Abhimani Past Winners (Empowered Alumni) of MAS Intimates – Slimtex Kuliyapitiya AG Office to conduct a Breast Cancer awareness programme named started building a volleyball court worth Rs256,630 for Ingaradawula Gamunu “Aloka” for its community. The programme, which was facilitated by the Suwanari Madyamaha Vidyalaya. Sujeewa Malkanthi, Abhimani Sports Category Winner Health Service, was held on 11 June 2018 at the AG Office – Kuliyapitiya, with the in 2017, was a past pupil of this school. The Alumni team wanted in do something participation of about 350 women who live in the area. that will help the school produce more such sportswomen to the community. They have conducted two fundraising projects in this regard: selling Pickles (achcharu) and a ‘Salpila’ (a small fair), while the Amaliya Foundation contributed Rs10,000 to the cause. The balance was funded by the Slimtex CSR budget. The project is ongoing and progressing well towards one unified dream. 28 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Publications and Sharing Best Practices Building a ‘Pahangeya’ (a house to light Internal Publications lamps for Lord Buddha) Considering the request of Abhimani Empowered Woman of the Year 2017 W.T. Swarnalatha, Slimtex Abhimani Abhinandani Abhinandani past winners got together to build a Creatives Booklet – An Sustainable Fashion pahangeya (a house to light lamps for appreciation of the multitude Booklet– A conceptualized Lord Buddha) at ‘Sisila Sewana’ monastery of talent in Art, Photography production of sustainable in Narangalla. The total project was worth and Creative Writing outfits with upcycled and Rs40,541, and the team sold ice cream to recycled material and other raise the required funds. The balance was sustainable items created funded by the Slimtex CSR budget. This by non-professional fashion noteworthy project is progressing well designers of MAS towards improving the spiritual well-being of the community. Abhimani Redefining Boundaries 2017 – A reflection of the lives of MAS women who have created a legacy with their passion and devotion COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 29 External Publications WGB’s Global Presence Tackling Childcare in Sri Lanka: A publication by SheWorks Sri Lanka featuring Shanaaz Preena, Director of Women Go Beyond & Women advocacy, was invited MAS Holdings as a Panelist to share best practices on many occasions. MAS Holdings along with 9 other SheWorks Sri Lanka members – Brandix, Fair• Giving Women 8th Annual Conference titled “The Fashion Industry: way Holdings, Hemas, MIT, Standard Chartered Bank, F J & G de Saram, Selyn, Women’s friend or foe?” held on 11 October 2018 in Geneva Unilever Sri Lanka Limited and WSO2 – were featured in the business case for • ‘Asian Approaches to Development Cooperation and Private Sector employer-supported childcare in Sri Lanka publication by the IFC-led Women in Engagement’ organized by KDI School & The Asia Foundation held on Work programme, which is researching the business case, promising practices 1 November 2018 in Seoul, Korea and innovative models for employer-supported childcare available in Sri Lanka. • Global South-South Development (GSSD Expo) 2018, Thematic Solution The purpose of this publication is to capture and communicate the business case Forum 8 titled ‘Private Sector Partnerships for Inclusive and Sustainfor private sector employers providing childcare support, raise the profile of comable South-South Cooperation’ [Co-organised by The Asia Foundation, panies promoting access to childcare for their employees, and provide guidance the UN Office for South-South Cooperation (Asia-Pacific) and UN to other companies seeking to support the childcare needs of their employees. Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA] – held on 29 November 2018 at the United Nations Headquarters in New York MAS was featured in many other local and international publications during 2018: • Better Leadership Better World: Women Leading for the Global Goals – 2018 • How Business Can Invest in Women and Realize Returns 2018 30 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD MEANINGFUL EMPLOYMENT Present in 16 countries as at 2018, MAS believes that developing our people is Employee composition by gender at the various levels of the organization is as of paramount importance as we slowly but surely increase our global footprint. follows: Initiatives conducted in this area include upskilling people’s capabilities, while adequately compensating and rewarding them. Group-wide employee composition is as follows: 66, 983 females (71%) versus 27,870 males (29%) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 31 While the number of females at management level is lower, a larger percentage of employees in the Team Member category is female. Female Male Total Team Members 60,771 79% 16,481 21% 77,252 Staff 3,447 39% 5,457 61% 8,904 Executives 1,753 38% 2,918 62% 4,671 Senior Executives 518 31% 1,165 69% 1,683 Assistant Managers 230 21% 850 79% 1,080 Manager 164 21% 609 79% 773 DGMs 44 24% 143 76% 187 GMs, Divisional/Functional Directors 52 20% 213 80% 265 New hires by gender at the various levels of the organization are as follows: CEO, Group Director-Holdings, Board Director-MAS/Apparel Board Directors 4 11% 32 89% 36 Chairman, Deputy Chairman 0 0% 2 100% 2 New Hires The division of new hires by gender is as follows: 32,299 females (78%) versus 8,871 males (22%). In comparison with 2017, female hiring has increased by 27% and male hiring has reduced by 13%. 32 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Female Male Total Resignations by gender at the various levels of the organization are as follows: Team Members 31,078 81% 7,448 19% 38,526 Staff 775 57% 585 43% 1360 Executives 366 39% 580 61% 946 Senior Executives 45 33% 93 67% 138 Assistant Managers 16 19% 67 81% 83 Managers 15 20% 61 80% 76 DGMs 3 18% 14 82% 17 GMs, Divisional/ 1 4% 23 96% 24 Functional Directors Terminations The division of resignations by gender is as follows: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 33 Our People Recruitment Skills For Work As mentioned in the 2017 COP report, MAS has established a recruitment process The Skills for Work programme is aimed at bridging the gap between university that enables the best talent to be harnessed and brought into the organization students and the industry by improving the students’ soft skills capabilities. In in the shortest lead time. This process has been standardised across the whole 2018, the programme targeted university students of 4 universities & representing group. 8 faculties. Our recruitment is based on the MAS recruitment policy, which is complemented by the policy on equal opportunity, and employee career development and training requirements that are identified through an annual performance appraisal. Skills For Work University of Colombo University of Moratuwa University of Kelaniya University of Sri Jayewardenepura • Faculty of Science • Textile Clothing • Human Resources • Faculty of Science • Faculty of Management • Fashion Designing • Management and Information • Material Science Total Number of Total Number of Total Number of Total Number of Sessions Students Trained Man Hours Hours Conducted 147 1,120 20,684 370 34 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Learning & Development A key initiative that has gained momentum in 2018 is the focus on ensuring that a robust feedback mechanism was in place. With our learning partner CCL, tools MAS believes that its people are the secret to the company’s success. Therefore, such as the SBII model and ACS have been invested via licensed programmes to MAS considers lifelong learning necessary for individuals to achieve their disseminate the information and upskill all employees in the hope that it would personal and professional aspirations, while enabling an organization to build foster open, unbiased and constructive feedback and dialogue across all levels a sustainable & competitive advantage. As such, we continue to evolve our at MAS. Learning and Development (L&D) function to include all 99,000+ employees of our organisation. Furthermore, the continued effort to drive a learning culture through 70:20:10 has shown that more employees have requested for 70% learning as opposed From employees at needle point on the shop floor, to those sitting in boardrooms, to other years, where the focus is usually centered around 10%. training is provided to all to further their skills, careers and enable a robust talent pipeline to drive business performance. While the main focus is on technical skills at the supervisory and shop floor levels, employees are also provided the 20 70 10 opportunity to gain skills on professional and leadership competencies with the ability to practice in a safe environment. Executives and above are also developed based on their specific development areas and encouraged to learn and practice Coaching/Social Learning 19% Experiential Learning 39% Formal Learning 42% what they learn on-the-job – be it technical, professional or leadership skills. The L&D process continued with its 4th cycle being rolled out across the group for executives and above. Employees and managers work on assessing and In 2018, initiatives carried out by the Group’s Learning & Development (L&D) identifying competencies that need to be developed through a carefully curated team were categorised broadly under the following banners: conversation based on tools and techniques. The manager helps define a 1. Competency-Based Development (leadership, professional and carefully curated road map of learning for the employee, incorporating blended technical) learning and practicality to achieve a win-win outcome: for the employee, a 2. Onboarding and MAS Values platform to learn, practice and implement; and for the manager, an opportunity 3. Branding Initiatives (Summer Internship, MAS Awards, Ready to to engage the employee and help him/her grow with confidence. Unleash) In 2018, in a seamless integration of all employee lifecycle processes, “Hitched” 4. Conversations (feedback that works, better conversations every day, was launched amalgamating the Performance Management & Learning and talent conversations and coaching for greater effectiveness) Development Competency assessments, another stepping stone to building a 5. Process & System Management highly empowered and performance-based, versatile workforce. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 35 MAS continued to offer career development opportunities including internships, Leadership Development Initiatives in 2018 mentoring programmes and knowledge sharing sessions facilitated by the Group’s HR Division to various individuals and entities, including the armed • LIME for ALP & Senior Leaders: The programme curriculum was deforces, school and university students, academics, and business professionals. signed and developed with the purpose of creating leaders who appreciate the lean journey, behave as lean leaders and use lean as a strategy to achieve business excellence. The initiative is scheduled to Progress in 2018 be launched in 2019. • Lead for success: The programme curriculum and deliverables were While focused efforts are made to ensure that every classroom training an capable of moving leaders from average to high-performing by deemployee attends is mandatorily practiced on-the-job, failure is also considered veloping the four fundamental skills (self-awareness, learning agility, a learning at MAS. It instills a greater purpose – a safe environment to try, test influence and communication). and more importantly “live the learning” through its application on-the-job. Professional Development Initiatives in 2018 With a strong focus on learning on-the-job, 4 initiatives were launched under the professional competency banner. 36 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Communication: The Standout Communicator facilitated by an internal trainer Branding Initiatives in 2018 marked the beginning of a development journey for 63 individuals from various MAS, Dialog & Hemas Summer Internship Programme 2018: The MAS divisions and SBUs. The programme was crafted to enhance an individual’s Holdings, Dialog Axiata and Hemas Holdings Summer Internship Programme communication competency focusing on elements such as delivery of provides undergraduates and fresh graduates a glimpse into world class career communication, active listening, impact and engage using a variety of methods opportunities available in Sri Lanka. It has been built upon the foundation of including individual post-programme feedback sessions. “Retaining Local Talent”, bringing together a highly diverse and talented pool Analytical Skills: Data Analytics Fundamental is a 90-day online course of youth. The 2018 programme is in it’s 15th year of existence, and 20 interns designed to give a foundation in Data analytics including tools and techniques benefited from the programme. to help mine, filter, analyze, understand and tell the story behind the data. The • MAS Awards: In 2018, 17 students from the following universities comadvanced program is a 120-day online course crafted to drive the importance of peted to be the MAS Best Overall Student 2018: applying scientific principles to decision making with data. University of Moratuwa Innovation & Ingenuity: A programme for Innovation & Ingenuity was piloted Faculty of Textile Engineering with 26 individuals from the HR fraternity in December 2018. The programme focused on ‘Linear Innovation’ to help participants think outside the box and University of Moratuwa change perspectives to arrive at a creative solution. Fashion Design & Product Development Decision Making & Problem Solving: From everyday choices in working University of Jaffna with customers to making strategic decisions that can change the direction Faculty of Human Resource Management of a business, effective decision making is fundamental in achieving goals University of Kelaniya and generating the results needed to succeed. Problem Solving and decisionManagement and Information Technology making training provides and enhances management and leadership skills needed at every level of the organization. • Ready to Unleash: 02 programmes and 259 participants in total • In a bid to develop our future leaders, the MAS Executive Development • MAS Onboarding: 12 programmes and over 741 participants in total Programme was organized to upskill employees of the executive cadre to take on future leadership roles, with 224 participants in 2018. • Similarly, the MAS Emerging Leaders Programme saw the upskilling of 76 first-time assistant managers to assist them in their new responsibilities of managing people. The programme included a military simulation and a 100-day plan to track the progress of the individual and the team under their purview. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 37 Technical Development Initiatives in 2018 The TL/GL Technical Competency Development Program – Certificate Level enhances technical confidence of team and group leaders in textile & clothing technology in the manufacturing sector. The goal of this programme is to provide the professional qualification to support their career progression and develop key areas of technical competence needed to prepare professionally trained technical and managerial personnel for the future industry. To-date, two programmes have been completed with 72 participants. Batch three will commence in October with 45 participants. 38 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD TL/GL HR College: HR College is a learning experience TL/GL Certificate TL/GL Certificate Description Certificate On demand Technical training designed for the HR fraternity to equip them Batch 1 Batch 2 Batch 3 with the right knowledge, skills and behaviour Assistant Mangers & above to build and grow the core business, as well who are engaged in finance, as the strategic business of tomorrow. The Target Group Team Leaders & Group Leaders production, sourcing and programme was vetted and finalized to kick off innovation representing in 2019. The focus for 2019 would be the MAS HR Participants’ Status 41 41 45 College Excellence programme, where future 150 HR leaders of MAS would be upskilled with the Completion Status 36 36 ongoing modules of “The MAS Way” & “IR & ER” with the Active Active internal resources available at MAS. Kreeda Kreeda Fabrics Fabrics Trischel SBU Intimates Intimates Noyon Lanka Composition Bodyline Bodyline Matrix Linea Aqua Linea Aqua Twinery Stretchline Prym 1 female GL 1 male (Shadowline) (Bodyline) GL Promotions was promoted was promoted as an executive as an executive Retention Ratio 88% 83% COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 39 Work life Balance and Wellbeing Flexible Working Policy The flexible working policy is an initiative to support all employees to manage A group-wide centralized flexi policy has been developed and approved by all their personal lives and work lives better and be more productive. The policy heads of HR. The policy is a framework within which employees can avail flexible is under the direct purview of the Group Human Resource department and is work options appropriate for their job roles. The policy is currently in a pilot phase supported by the Women Go Beyond program as flexible working arrangements where options for flexibility are being trialed in different job roles in a number of support women to stay on and continue in their work and take on leadership manufacturing units. roles. The policy is open to both men and women and aims to support men While the centralized group policy is in its first phase, MAS Kreeda established and women in childcare, elderly care and also pursuing of interests, studies and a policy on flexible work arrangements in 2018, and implemented the following goals outside of work. flexible arrangements at its corporate offices: 40 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD • Telecommuting: Where relevant to the nature of the work involved, Standardization of Benefits staff members may spend up to two days (18 hours per week) working With the aim to provide equity, parity and fairness among employee benefits, from an alternative work site, provided they can always be reached by one of the key initiatives of 2018 was to standardize benefits across the group, for telephone or email. which we have taken significant steps to-date. This also allowed the company to • Staggered working hours: Employees are expected to be present have better bargaining power with vendors, thus allowing for the augmentation during a core period of the working day, 10am to 4pm. Staff must comof existing benefits schemes. plete the balance of working hours for each day before, after or partly after the core period. Staff must not exceed 09 hours of work on any day Introduction of Augmented L.I.F.E. Cover (excluding the one-hour lunch break) and must leave the workplace by 7pm at the Operations Centre. Information was collated from each SBU on the L.I.F.E. Cover, which is financial • Work from home: Available for special circumstances like ill health, assistance offered in the event of family funeral expenses, and life, critical and family emergencies, arriving home late the previous night due to work accident covers. With the bargaining power of a large headcount, MAS was obligations, etc.; this arrangement must be approved by the immediate able to negotiate better benefits and premiums under the scheme on behalf supervisor. of its employees. Thereafter, SBUs were free to voluntarily opt for the enhanced scheme. By end of 2018, MAS Kreeda conducted a survey to understand the uptake of the Flexible Work (FW) options and the challenges. Of the 160 respondents, 31% Introduction of Parent Cover & Top-Up Cover of males were aware of the policy and were utilizing it, while the percentage of MAS also introduced the Parent Cover for executive and above employees, and females stood at 25%. As a majority of the responses were positive, MAS Kreeda thereafter the Top-Up Cover as value additions. The Top-Up Cover is done on a will be rolling out phase 2 of the policy in 2019. co-sharing basis, as MAS would bear the cost of the corporate medical cover; Compensation and Benefits thereafter, the employee has the option of increasing the cover based on the need. Both these schemes were negotiated on behalf of the employee and MAS is committed to ensure parity in pay and benefits. The year 2018 was pivotal communicated accordingly. for MAS with many initiatives taking place, including the following: • Standardization of Benefits Setting a Health & Wellness Theme within the Group • Introduction of Augmented L.I.F.E. Cover The inaugural Health & Wellness Forum was held in October 2018 with the • Introduction of Parent Covers & Top-Up Covers participation of the Wellness Champs across the Group. The objective of the • Setting a Health & Wellness theme within the Group forum was to discuss the programmes carried out throughout MAS in terms of • Vendor Partnerships the Health & Wellness theme, and how we could consolidate the theme to run through the years 2019/20. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 41 Accordingly, the theme for 2019/20 was Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and Occupational Health & Safety. The focus on NCDs also extended to Mental Wellness, and accordingly, the Champs were selected in terms of SBUs who excelled in dealing with these areas. Thereafter, the Champs shared best practices and knowledge throughout the group. The corporate office has thereafter been tracking the quarterly progress of the initiatives taken by the divisions through updates to continue awareness and interest. Occupational Health & Safety is overseen by the Compliance teams, who are also developing a holistic policy around Health & Safety. Vendor Partnerships MAS also targeted key vendors in the hospital, pharmacy and optician sectors in order to provide employees with discounted benefits. In addition, MAS also signed up for discounted medical check-ups in order to address Health & Wellness concerns proactively. MAS Sports The communication of these partnerships has been done under 5 main With a focus on extracurricular activities, MAS competed in 14 sports categories pillars: Wealth, Health & wellness, Personal & Career Development, Society with over 1,300 participants in 2018. We competed in 18 mercantile tournaments, & Environment, and Work-Life integrator. These pillars encompass the MAS emerging victorious in 12. values and encourages holistic employees, both personally and professionally. The concept. “Life That Counts” has been developed into an attractive and informative site accessible to all MAS employees. 42 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Additional Achievements SPORT EVENT & RESULT Athletics Mercantile Championships Champions Cricket Badminton Mercantile Team Doubles Championships – A division champions Unichela Private Limited (Panadura Division) won the Mercantile A Division Basketball Mercantile Services Basketball Association Knockout Championships 2018 – MAS Women B division champions T20 championships. Silueta Private Limited won the Mercantile Chess Mercantile & Government Services Champions A Division 50-over championships. Mercantile & Government Services Rapid Chess Championship – Unichela Private Limited won the Sri Champions Lanka Cricket Division 2 championships. Mercantile & Government Services Blitz Champions Hockey Mercantile League Championships 2018 – A division 2nd Runners up Boxing Table Tennis Mercantile Open Championship – Champions Layton Cup (Men’s) Mercantile Knockout Championship – Champions EVENT NAME MEDAL Mercantile Open Championship (2 nd tournament) – Champions Heavyweight 91kg Imesh Abeyasinghe Gold Mercantile Team League Table Tennis Championships Champions Bantam Weight 56kg UNK Amarawansa Silver Lightweight 60kg Banuka Jayampahi Silver Rugby Mercantile Tap Rugby Champions Women Welter Weight 69kg Asanga Rajapaksha Silver Middle Weight 75kg GGDA Gunasekara Silver Volleyball Men’s Super League – MAS Kreeda Leisureline – Champions Super Heavyweight 91+kg LTB Rathnadivakara Silver Women’s Super League – MAS Intimates Casualine Champions Light Flyweight 49kg WACI Perera Bronze Tennis Mercantile Tennis Champions Flyweight 52kg MR Sandaruwan Bronze Swimming Mercantile Swimming Championships Champions COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 43 Clifford Cup (Men’s) EVENT NAME MEDAL Light Flyweight 49kg WACI Perera Gold Lightweight 60kg KASB Jayampathi Gold Light Welter Weight 64kg PVDDD Saparamadu Gold Welter Weight 69kg NM Hettiarchchi Gold Super Heavyweight 91+kg LTB Rathnadivakara Gold Light Flyweight 49kg WAI Sanjaya Silver Flyweight 52kg MR Sandaruwan Bronze Bantam Weight 56kg UNK Amarawansa Bronze Layton Cup (Women’s) Middle Weight 75kg GGDA Gunasekara Bronze EVENT NAME MEDAL Heavyweight 81kg KA Sisira Kumara Bronze Light Flyweight 48kg Anuthara Jayasundera Gold Clifford Cup (Women’s) Flyweight 51kg Kosala Nilmini Gold EVENT NAME MEDAL Welter Weight 69kg MMKGL Udayangani Gold Light Flyweight 48kg KAK Nilmini Gold Middle Weight 75kg IWSS Chandrasekara Gold Flyweight 51kg KADA Kodithuwakku Gold Light Heavyweight 81kg GDMH Jayadeva Gold Feather Weight 57kg HNS Hanshika Gold Flyweight 51kg Kaushalya Silver Lightweight 60kg KAD Dharmathilake Gold Bantam Weight 54kg Nadeeka Pushpakumari Silver Light Welter Weight 64kg AMP Athapathu Gold Light Welter Weight 64kg Pradeepika Attapathu Silver Middle Weight 75kg IWSS Chandrasekara Gold Light Flyweight 48kg DD Dinusha Bronze Light Heavyweight 81kg GDMH Jayadeva Gold Bantam Weight 54kg MPSS Cooray Silver Light Flyweight 48kg Kumudu Wasana Bronze Welter Weight 69kg MMKGL Udayangani Silver Bantam Weight 54kg Wasana Thalgspitiya Bronze 44 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD National Championships (Men’s) EVENT NAME MEDAL CALLING NAME Key Highlights Bantam Weight 56kg UNK Amarawansa Gold Nuwan Amarawansa Cricket Lightweight 60kg KASB Jayampathi Gold Banuka Jayampathi Light Welter Weight 64kg PVDDD Saparamadu Gold Dinidu Saparamadu • Chamara Dilshan Rajapaksha of MAS Kreeda was a part of the Sri Lankan Welter Weight 69kg NM Hettiarchchi Gold Neil Hettiarchchi team that won the 2nd Deaf T2o World Cup held in November 2018 in Super Heavyweight 91+kg LTB Rathnadivakara Silver Lahiru Rathnadivakara India. Light Flyweight 49kg WACI Perera Bronze Perera Athletics Middle Weight 75kg GGDA Gunasekara Bronze Dilshan Gunasekara Light Heavyweight 81kg KA Sisira Kumara Bronze Sisira Kumara • Amara Indumathie of MAS Intimates won the Silver medal for the Heavyweight 91kg I Abeyasinghe Bronze Imesh Abeyasinghe women’s long jump event at the 3rd Asian Para Games held in October 2018 in Jakarta, Indonesia. National Championships (Women’s) EVENT NAME MEDAL CALLING NAME Boxing Light Flyweight 48kg N Pushpakumari Gold Nadeeka Puspakumari • Anusha Kodituwakku of MAS Intimates won a Bronze medal in the Flyweight 51kg KAK Nilmini Gold Kosala Nilmini Flyweight 51kg category at the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games and the Ulaanbaatar Open International Boxing Meet in Mongolia. Feather Weight 57kg HNS Hanshika Gold Keshani Hanshika • Keshani Hanshika won a Bronze medal in the feather weight 57kg Lightweight 60kg KAD Dharmathilake Gold Krishmi Dharmathilake category at the Culpori Cup International Boxing Meet in Indonesia. Light Welter Weight 64kg AMP Athapathu Gold Atapatthu Welter Weight 69kg MMKGL Udayangani Gold Lakmali Udayangani Light Heavyweight 81kg GDMH Jayadeva Gold Hansika Jayadewa Bantam Weight 54kg W Thalgaspitiya Silver Wasana Thalgaspitiya Middle weight 75kg IWSS Chandrasekara Silver Shashikala Chandrasekara COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 45 BEYOND COMPLIANCE AND STANDARDS We understand that being people centric is relevant in order to maintain a MAS across the organization, whilst operating as ‘One MAS’ with a standardized competitive advantage and to create synergies within our growing global ecoCode of Conduct (MAS DNA). system. Our continuing objective is to ensure and encourage a happy, healthy, The MAS DNA is structured in a manner that translates our values into behavioural diverse and skilled workforce, while maintaining strong relations with them and pillars and policies that stipulate the organization’s expectations on employee providing a safe and secure working environment for all. conduct. These policies include the Equal Opportunity and Anti-Harassment Policy, Gift Policy, Conflict of Interest Policy, and many other policies covering The MAS DNA administrative, HR and behavioural requirements. Since its inception, MAS was built on the foundation of five values: honesty & With the objective of successfully communicating the above, we conducted the integrity, trust & mutual respect, freedom with accountability, humility, and MAS DNA Roll Out Sessions in 14 locations, covering a total of 813 employees in passion for excellence. These values are embedded as our core strengths and the executive and above cadre. The trainings were carried out as workshops, help us to create the distinctive MAS culture. In 2017, MAS launched its own where the participants were educated on the policies, and resource people Code of Conduct, or MAS DNA as we call it; a collection of policies, standards and platforms made available for grievance handling and consequence and guidelines to help instill our values intrinsically within all those we influence. management. As we grow beyond borders, our focus is on conserving the unique culture of 46 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD different policies, helpdesk and MAS values. The emailer directs employees to the MAS DNA website where they can view the policy video and documents. Furthermore, we rolled out the MAS DNA in Sinhala to 36 team and group leaders as a first step to a broader roll out to team members in 2019. The session followed the usual agenda of a roll out session conducted with the executive and above cadre, with emphasis on the harassment aspect of MAS DNA. One of the objectives of this session was to initiate and understand how best to take the MAS DNA to team members, which will be one of the focus points in 2019. The following was analyzed with regard to the use of the MAS DNA website in 2018: One of the key highlights of the programme was the introduction of the MAS DNA website, through which individuals have the ability to access and download all material pertaining to the MAS DNA; as well as the Helpdesk hosted by a globally recognized, third-party service provider Navex Global, which allows individuals to raise their concerns online/via the hotline. The companies across MAS Group have taken this initiative further in their respective locations by conducting internal awareness sessions, workshops and one-on-one conversations. Additionally, they have taken measures to communicate the MAS DNA and its affiliated policies through internal email communication, internal e-magazines and display posters in their workplaces/ factories. While carrying out various awareness and education initiatives, the companies have also conducted pop quizzes and questionnaires to understand employees’ levels of awareness and understanding. As a group-wide communication initiative, policy communications commenced in April 2018 in the form of informative emailers sent to all employees on the COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 47 Furthermore, there was a total of 157 cases of non-compliance through 2017Compliance and Certifications 2018. Of these cases, 31 were reported to the Central Team directly and 9 via the MAS DNA Helpdesk. The remaining cases were directly brought up with the At MAS, the governing ethos has always been to do the right thing. This principle relevant Divisional/SBU code officers of the respective company. was the cornerstone of the founders work ethic. It has been deeply embedded in all our organizational undertakings. Thus, MAS compliance has always been This indicates a level of trust and acceptance towards the MAS DNA, the beyond adherence to regulations. credibility of the investigation process and the manner in which the course of action is decided. However, continuous wok is being carried out to strengthen Furthermore, when commanding a diverse workforce, having the highest stanawareness and acceptance of the process. dards on how we conduct our business has been a key factor in attracting talent with the right values. Corruption and Grievances MAS has owed much of its success to also being driven by continuous improvement in all its practices. Therefore, we view the compliance and regulatory 112 cases reported in 2018 frameworks as opportunities to push our boundaries. Our aspirational end state is where we have a strong self-governing mechanism with the approval of all our stakeholders. Whilst some of our units have already reached this level of acceptance with our customers, we are striving to move every entity towards this goal. In 2018, MAS successfully completed many external, internal and sub-contractor audits across its divisions. These audits covered areas of Labour, Health and Safety, Supply Chain, Security, Brand Protection and Trade. 48 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Number of external audits carried out across the group External audits conducted in 2018 NUMBER OF FOCUS AREAS ACTIVE AQUA BODYLINE FABRICS INTIMATES KREEDA TOTAL EXTERNAL DIVISION AUDITS Labor 17 17 15 8 60 11 128 Active 17 H&S 17 17 15 8 59 11 127 Linea Aqua 17 Supply Chain 4 1 3 15 11 34 Bodyline 16 Security 5 1 11 18 11 46 Fabrics 8 Brand Protection 3 9 12 Intimates 62 Trade 2 12 14 Kreeda 23 Grand Total 143 Number of Internal audits (conducted by divisional compliance teams) carried out across the group DIVISION NUMBER OF INTERNAL AUDITS Active 36 Linea Aqua 24 Bodyline 20 Fabrics 22 Intimates 24 Kreeda 88 Grand Total 214 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 49 FOCUS AREA ACTIVE AQUA BODYLINE FABRICS INTIMATES KREEDA TOTAL Labour 36 6 4 23 29 98 H&S 36 15 8 22 59 140 Supply Chain 36 3 15 23 29 106 Security 36 3 15 7 23 29 113 Brand 3 14 3 23 Protection 43 Trade 13 23 36 Furthermore, MAS conducted 17 audits at its sub-contractor facilities. 50 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Certifications MAS continued and added to the list of certifications in its portfolio in 2018. ROW LABELS ACTIVE AQUA BODYLINE FABRICS INTIMATES KREEDA GRAND TOTAL BS EN ISO 14064 -3:2006 4 4 BSCI 2 2 C-TPAT 2 2 ETI 10 10 Fair Trade USA 3 2 5 GMP 1 1 2 ISO 1 1 ISO 14001 5 5 4 3 8 25 ISO 50001 1 3 4 ISO 9001:2015 1 1 1 3 OHSAS 18001 2 4 1 8 15 RCS 1 1 Responsible Care 6 8 14 WCA 1 1 WRAP 6 3 5 6 19 Zero Waste to Landfill Certificate 1 1 Grand Total 24 9 11 15 23 28 109 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 51 Social and Labour Convergence Program (SLCP) Special Recognitions Nine factories across MAS Holdings took part in the light Number of operations of the SLCP in 2018 by completing the selfTypes of Recognition Division/SBU Awards assessments and verifications (to be completed in early 2019). The Social and Labour Convergence Program is Best Corporate Sustainability Awards 1 MAS Kreeda -Linea Intimo the first industry-wide framework to assess social and Global Chemical Leasing 1 MAS Active Linea Intimo labour conditions which includes a standard tool and MAS Fabrics Global Chemical Leasing Award – Gold 1 verification methodology. This programme will help the Noyon Lanka MAS Fabrics industry to eliminate audit fatigue, avoid duplication and International Safety Award British Safety Council 1 Noyon Lanka reduce the number of social & labour audits, by replacing JASTECA Merit Award Sustainability 1 MAS Active Asialine current proprietary assessment tools, increasing the JASTECA Seven Best CSR – Sustainability Award 2018 1 Linea Aqua opportunity for greater comparability of social & labour MAS Kreeda data, and redeploying resources for improvement. JASTECA Seven Best CSR – Sustainability Award 2018 1 Operations Center JASTECA Sustainability Award Merit 1 MAS Fabrics Matrix With the collaborative effort with our brands partners, MAS Activewe look forward to include more factories in to this JASTECA 5S Akimoto Silver 1 Asialine programme in 2019. Ministry of Trade Indonesia 2018 Strongest Exporter in Central 1 MAS Sumbiri Java National Energy Efficiency Award Highest energy consuming MAS Fabrics 1 industry – Gold Noyon Lanka National Energy Efficiency Award Highest energy consuming MAS Fabrics 1 industry – Merit Textprint Lanka National Energy Efficiency Award Highest energy consuming 1 Linea Aqua industry – Merit National Energy Efficiency Award Highest energy consuming 1 MAS Fabrics Matrix industry – Silver Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Bronze Award 1 MAS KreedaLinea AITC (Apparel sector) Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Bronze Award 1 MAS intimates -Casualline (Apparel Sector) Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Gold Award MAS Kreeda 1 (Apparel Sector) Nirmaana 52 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 – Gold Award 1 MAS Fabrics Matrix (Textile sector) Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Merit Award MAS Kreeda1 (Apparel sector) Methliya Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Merit Award MAS Kreeda 1 (Apparel sector) Shadeline Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 – Silver MAS Fabrics 1 ( Textile sector) Noyon Lanka Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Silver Award MAS Active1 (Apparel sector) Asialine Presidential Environmental Awards 2018 Silver Award MAS Intimates1 (Apparel sector) Unichela Koggala Presidential Export Awards 2017/2018Highest Foreign Exchange 1 MAS Fabrics-Matrix Earner Presidential Export Awards 2017/2018-Contributor from the 1 MAS Intimates Regions to the Export Supply Chain Presidential Export Awards 2017/2018-Exporter of the Year 1 MAS Intimates 2017/2018 Presidential Export Awards 2017/2018-Highest Net Foreign 1 MAS Intimates Exchange Earner PVH Gold Vendor Award 1 MAS Intimates Responsible Care Awards 2018 – Manufacturing Large Category MAS Kreeda1 Bronze Shadeline Responsible Care Awards 2018 – Manufacturing Large Category MAS Fabrics 1 – Bronze Noyon Lanka Responsible Care Awards 2018 – Manufacturing Large Category 1 MAS Active-Linea Intimo Gold Responsible Care Awards 2018 – Manufacturing Large Category 1 MAS Active-Mamadala Merit Responsible Care Awards 2018 – Manufacturing Large Category 1 MAS Fabrics – Matrix – Merit Social Dialogue Award 2018 Bronze Award MAS Kreeda1 (Apparel sector Medium scale) Leisureline COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 53 Social Dialogue Award 2018 Gold Award MAS Kreeda1 (Apparel sector large scale) Shadeline Sri Lanka Best Employer Brand Awards 2018Outstanding 1 MAS Fabrics Women in Leadership Award Talent Management at Sri Lanka Best Employer Brand Awards 1 MAS Fabrics 2018 The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Best Corporate Citizen 1 MAS Intimates Sustainability Award 2018 The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Best Corporate Citizen MAS Active1 Sustainability Awards 2018 Merit Award Contourline The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Category Award Winners: 1 MAS Intimates Community Relations The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Category Award Winners: 1 MAS Intimates Environmental Commitment The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Category Award 1 MAS Intimates Winners: Environmental Integration The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Category of Ten Best 1 MAS Intimates Corporate Citizens The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce-Triple Bottomline Awards 1 MAS Intimates Environmental Sustainability (Planet) Top 50 Professional & Career Women Award 2018 (for the Best CSR Programme run by a private sector for Women’s Empower1 MAS Intimates ment). 45 54 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Accident and incident occurrence Incident Category Count As % of Total Headcount We continue to track our accident and injury rates across the group, as Health and Safety is a priority Fatality 1 0.001% for the organization. Injury 92 0.097% INCIDENT CATEGORY ACTIVE AQUA BODYLINE FABRICS INTIMATES KREEDA GRAND TOTAL Partial disability 0 0.00% Fatality 1 1 The organization lost one of its team members last year Injury 6 10 30 17 19 10 92 during operations. Based on the recommendations and Partial disability findings from the investigations which were carried out by independent government organizations, we have Total 6 10 30 18 19 10 93 taken precautionary actions in ensuring safety of all our employees to prevent the reoccurrence of such an unfortunate incident in the future. H&S Committee Composition JCC Committee Composition COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 55 SUPPORT THRIVING COMMUNITIES While valuing and safeguarding our people, we maintain our commitment to all MAS remains committed to its corporate responsibility with 568 Corporate our stakeholders, including the communities around us and the environment in Citizenship activities conducted and Rs 41 million spent in 2018. The projects which our businesses operate. In keeping with these values, MAS goes beyond impacted over 2,480,000 beneficiaries, with the help of 11,905 volunteers. simply adhering to environmental, social and legal requirements to make an operational impact on our communities and the environment as and when we can. In 2018, MAS continues its corporate citizenship activities under six main categories: Education, Environmental Initiatives, Health, Local Connect, Nation Mindedness and Sports. All corporate citizenship activities were aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals by increasing the knowledge of SDGs within each division. We have identified some significant activities out of our total Corporate Citizenship activities in 2018, by considering its impact and investment made. (Refer Annexure 6) 56 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD SDG Number of Activities Prioritized in 2018 Affordable and Clean Energy 106 1. Quality education Clean Water and Sanitation 126 2. Health and well-being Climate Action 117 3. Sustainable cities and communities Decent Work and Economic Growth 116 Gender Equality 66 Compared with the 2017 figure, internally initialized Corporate Citizenship activGood Health and Well-Being 240 ities increased by 32% in 2018. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 93 More than 50% of Corporate Citizenship activities were conducted under the EdJustice and Strong Institutions 73 ucation category in 2018. We also increased priority for Infrastructure activities Life Below Water 104 this year, while focusing on Capacity Building, which increased by 142% when Life on Land Peace 113 compared with 2017. No Poverty 128 Partnerships for the Goals 134 Number of activities by category of intervention Quality Education 308 Reduced Inequalities 95 Responsible Consumption and Production 110 Sustainable Cities and Communities 156 Zero Hunger 115 Number of Number of Category of Intervention Activities 2017 Activities 2018 + /% Education 232 304 72 31% Environmental Initiatives 27 28 1 4% Health 94 60 -34 -36% Local Connect 150 125 -25 -17% Nation-mindedness 18 19 1 6% Sports 16 25 9 56% COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 57 In 2018, we covered 20 districts, with the activities frequency changing according The number of volunteers also increased significantly this year, as well as their to the SBU’s location. commitment. Number of activities by location 58 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD The sub-category awards ceremony was also held in November, where 10 championship awards were given based on specific criterion. The student also held an exhibition. The chief guest at the event was Thilaka Jayasundara, Additional Secretary (Planning & Development) of the Department of Mass Media at the Ministry of Vocational Training & Skills Development. Special recognition Two former members of the Eco Go Beyond teams of the schools Mahawatte Maha Vidyalaya and Sagarapalansooriy Maha Vidyalaya, S.A.G. Dilruckshi Kumari and Sakuni Ayodya Mendis, also got the rare opportunity to present their learnings from the programme at the Sustainable Consumption and Production (SCP) National Roundtable organized by SWITCH-Asia. Corporate Citizenship spotlights in 2018 Eco Go Beyond Marking 12 years in existence, the Eco Go Beyond programme concluded stage 2 of the 2017-2019 cycle in 2018. Continuing with the 30 schools onboarded in 2017, the schools roll-out took place through workshops that impacted 5,700 students, 284 teachers, and 515 parents and well-wishers. This brings the total students impacted by the programme, from 2006 to-date, to just over 54,000. The leadership camp held in June covered sessions on social ethics, mental health, storytelling & videography, drama, rainwater harvesting, birds of Sri Lanka and their conservation, biogas production, waste into resources handcrafts and developing hydroponics and organic fertilizer. In addition, there was a visit to the MAS Thurulie Green factory, where 120 students and 59 teachers participated in the two and half-day residential camp. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 59 Installing 20 street lights at the Pannala bus stand Slimline School Prefects Leadership Program – LC/LI This project was done in collaboration with the trade association of Pannala. Linea clothing/Linea Intimates (LC/LI) organised the School Prefects Leadership Slimline was able to light up the inward area of the bus stand as a result of Program in 2018 at The Golden Crown Hotel in Kandy with the aim of “contributing this project. There were around 4,000-5,000 beneficiaries from this project. to creating positive-thinking youth leaders in society, by strengthening Furthermore, this is a good initiative in terms of the security of the city. This opportunities to develop their personalities, decision making skills and ability to project was carried out as a part of the smart city project. (Total cost – Rs 200,000) face challenges, to become role models of society”. The objective of the programme was to provide information on personality and Grade 5 scholarship seminar 2018 Slimline skill development, problem analysis and improved decision-making to become responsible youth. They were also taught to improve and increase the qualities Slimline conducted a seminar for 400 students who will be siting for the grade of accountability and responsibility to become responsible leaders in society. 5 scholarship examination. The following schools sent their students for the seminar: The programme was conducted by Dr. Sanath Gamage, a qualified personnel • Kadanegedar Primary School on leadership development programmes. Dr. Gamage is a renowned Personal • Iriyagolla National School Success Trainer, and holds a B.Sc. in Management and an MBA. He is also a Senior • Kithalahitiyawa Primary School Resource Person at the Ministry of Education, under which he conductings • Horawadunna Primary School training programmes for directors of education, principals and teachers. He has • Sripathi College Kuliyapitiya facilitated more than 300 workshops in schools and universities. • Napokuna Primary School We invited 15 schools from the Kandy educational zone and 8 schools from An exam paper was discussed by a popular teacher from the Pannala area. Wattegama educational zone to attend this workshop: Furthermore, motivational events were conducted to inspire the students. Approximately 210 students and 25 teachers participated in this programme, Slimline gifted a stationery pack to all attendees, which included the necessary which was conducted successfully and received positive feedback. items to be used at the examination. A similar programme was also organised exclusively for the parents of these students, which comprised the following events: • An information session on child security conducted by the police • A cancer awareness programme conducted by a specialized doctor 60 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Bridge and road project in Illukthanna, Kandy LC/LI Sisuwaruna leadership program for school prefects Unichela Koggala Conducted as a joint project by LI and LC, the project focused on facilitating Based on the theme ‘How to build the foundation of my life’s success’, a leadership better logistics and greater connectivity for over 250 families daily from three programme for school prefects of the following schools was conducted by villages by constructing a bridge in Bopana. Unichela Koggala: • Narawala Maha Vidyalaya 10 students and 2 teachers • Kalahe Sumangalodaya Vidyalaya 25 students and 3 teachers • Habaraduva Dharmika Vidyalaya 26 students and 2 teachers • Richmond College 24 students and 2 teachers • Mahinda College 19 students and 2 teachers • Sacred Heart Convent 33 students and 2 teachers • Pilana Vidyarthodaya Vidyalaya 17 students and 2 teachers COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 61 PRODUCTS MADE BETTER 62 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD MAS aims to ensure the sustainability of its surrounding environment, by not We have identified several key areas that we believe are material to all our stakeonly being conscious of the products that we manufacture, but also by paying holders and also to us as a responsible business. Through various monitoring close attention to the way in which we manufacture them. measures, and rigorous self-assessment, we have been able to increase the level of commitment to our sustainability operations, thereby saving resources and We want to ensure that through our sustainable manufacturing processes, we reducing the impact to the environment. minimize negative impacts on the environment, while maximizing benefits to the locality as well as our people. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 63 CHAMPION CLIMATE ACTION A significant investment has taken place to utilize rooftops of the manufacturing facilities with Solar PV installations totaling up to 11.18 MW commissioned sites thanks to Project Photon. The targeted 15 MW will be reached through the We aim to champion climate change by reducing energy consumption at all commissioning of rest of the projects in the pipeline. During 2019 MAS has placed our plants, while also generating more renewable energy through identified emphasis on increasing the contribution of renewable energy to the company’s sustainability measures. energy mix. Since 2010, MAS has increased its renewable energy component in The data that follows shows energy consumption and production levels achieved the total mix from 12% to 50%. at MAS during the course of the year 2018, highlighting a significant saving and taking us one step closer to our sustainability production goals for the future. Renewable Energy and GHG Emissions 64 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD As in previous years, the largest contributor to the renewable energy in 2018 was MAS Annually verifies its GHG footprint for Sri Lankan operations through biomass. The 11.18 MW of Solar has only contributed to 0.38 % of total renewable TUV Nord. The latest verification was done for 2017. energy due to the commissioning of the project happening towards the end of the year. Apart from the 11.18 MWs commissioned in 2018, an additional 1.5 MWs Solar PV installations were installed on rooftops. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 65 Energy There is a higher energy usage and intensity at Textile manufacturing facilities and this represents a higher proportion of the energy use. Due to the processing requirements at these facilities, the highest energy usage is for steam. We depend considerably on grid energy for running our operations smoothly. 66 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT We employ monitoring systems to manage our environmental footprint by measuring water usage, enhancing the value of all waste materials discharged at the plants, and ensuring zero toxicity in our products and processes. The following data highlights the company’s achievements in this aspect within 2018. Water Despite our expanding operations and being a highly water-intensive operation, especially in our Fabrics facilities, we managed to achieve water intensity reductions across our operations. Through efficiency measures, innovative solutions and infrastructure changes we continued the positive changes to our water intensities throughout 2018. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 67 The percentage of water used within MAS amounted to MAS 68% for dying Waste processes in the textile sector and 32% for human consumption in the apparel sector. MFP treated and provided over 26% of the water used in 2018. While recognizing waste as a key industrial and operational challenge, MAS continues to introduce solutions for all identified waste types at our facilities, with the overall goal of repurposing and value enhancing our waste. In 2018, approximately 85% of MAS non-hazardous raw material (RM) waste was disposed in a sustainable manner, of which 47% was value enhanced. A majority of non-hazardous raw material related waste, which mostly consisted MAS Fabrics, one of the largest users of water in its operations, has achieved the of fabric offcuts, was sent for reuse and recycling. All hazardous waste was given highest water intensity reduction of 52% since the base year (2011). special care and were destroyed through energy recovery by Insee Ecocycle. 68 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Chemicals SUPPORT A THRIVING PLANET Responsible chemical management is a key focus area in the MAS sustainability We are committed to supporting our thriving planet by restoring the habitat in plan. In 2016, MAS became the first Sri Lankan company to become value chain proportion to the space that we occupy. affiliates of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) roadmap, taking one more step towards creating a non-toxic future. As of 2018, approximately 87% of dye house chemicals and 25% of chemicals used in the embellishment operation are compliant with ZDHC MRSL assessments. By 2025, we aim to be zero-toxic in our products, processes and supply chains. Action Taken in 2018 • Completed internal verification of the Higg FEM 3.0 – CM module at chemical-intensive SBUs​ • Completed the audits of Calibration Tool version 2.0Conducted two awareness sessions for chemical suppliers in the dye house and embellishment operation plants​ • Conducted two awareness sessions for chemical suppliers in the dye house and embellishment operation plantsConducted the ZDHC Waste Water testing at 11 wet processing sub-contracting facilities 82% of sub-contractors are currently fully compliant with ZDHC waste water guidelines In 2018, MAS restored 1,208 acres of habitat, thus extending previous year’s • Conducted ZDHC WW testing at 9 wet processing facilities All 9 achievement of 1:1 biodiversity mapping of our facility footprint to considerable facilities are currently fully compliant with ZDHC waste water guidelines amount of 1:5. • Conducted the ZDHC Waste Water testing at 11 wet processing subcontracting facilities 82% of sub-contractors are currently fully compliant with ZDHC waste water guidelines COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 69 Protecting our Biodiversity MAS is one of the world’s most recognized design-to-delivery solutions providers and the continuing support from the Forest Department, Wildlife Department in the realm of apparel and textile manufacturing, and the largest apparel and and other stakeholders, the group achieved double the impact. textile manufacturer in South Asia. However, our business depends on our own Throughout 2017-2018, sustainability teams from 43 MAS factories collectively people and communities, and vice versa. If we do not have a healthy community made an impact on over 1,200 acres, with a 3-5 year commitment to maintain and environment, we cannot operate at our highest capacity. and ensure that the projects keep growing. With that in mind, we asked ourselves ‘How can we help restore the biodiversity Currently, we have over 27 such projects belonging to the above categories we may have either displaced or destroyed by our physical presence?’ This spread throughout various geographical locations in Sri Lanka. simple question grew into a more ambitious vision – and in 2017, MAS made a pledge to take radical climate action to continuously manage the footprint of its business and to directly supports biodiversity by creating habitats in 100 times the area it occupies in by 2025. Conservative estimates say Sri Lanka is losing 8,000 hectares of forest cover each year, and more critically, we are losing our precious endemic species of flora and fauna at alarming rates. Knowing that growing trees alone wouldn’t help the problem of biodiversity loss, MAS picked 6 models to engage and deploy habitat creation from all fronts: Restoration, Afforestation, Invasive Removal and Enrichment, Analog Forestry/Social Forestry, Forest Gardens, and Conservation. In 2017, MAS set out to cover 250 acres, equal to the space it occupies in Sri Lanka, but thanks to the incredible passion and dedication by its own teams 70 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Biodiversity initiatives in 2018 MAS Holdings and Sri Lanka Air Force launched the nation’s first-ever aerial reforestation project Since June 2018, MAS Holdings has been experimenting with a new tool against MAS Holdings integrated the seed-balling project to its sustainability action deforestation that could change how Sri Lanka protects and grows its future plan in June 2018 with the expertise of the University of Peradeniya. Prof. forests. Seed balls are an ancient technique for propagating plants from seeds D.K.N.G. Pushpakumara, the Dean of the Agriculture faculty, and his team have without opening up soil with cultivation tools such as a plough. (The rediscovery been carrying out years of research into the aerial reforestation method that and modern popularization of seed balls is credited to Japanese natural farmer drops hundreds of seeds wrapped in clay or soil across a defined land area to and philosopher Masanobu Fukuoka). encourage growth of new saplings and vegetation. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 71 MAS found equally enthusiastic partners in the Sri Lanka Air Force, who had also been researching on how to implement a seed bombing reforestation technique and immediately agreed to provide essential aerial assistance for the project. Inside the plant nursery of the MAS Fabric Park in Thulhiriya, we conducted trial runs on the seed ball composition with a limited amount of seed bombs where the germination and growth rate were studied in-house. Together with the Air Force, the teams carried out drop tests on a limited amount of seed balls from designated heights. MAS picked 3 types of seeds, Kumbuk (Terminalia arjuna), Karanda (Pongamia pinnata) and Mee (Madhuca longifolia), for the pilot drop. Sri Lanka loses over 8,000 hectares of forests each year. Our future forests will depend on powerful partnerships that bring creative reforestation ideas to life. This is a project we are ready to document in detail and share with the rest of the world. 72 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD CASE STUDIES MAS ACTIVE Linea Intimo SPECIAL INNOVATION Bronze Noyon Lanka Gold Celebrating Global Sustainable Business Wins Two MAS facilities became the first Sri Lankan companies to win awards at the From 91 applications considered from 20 countries, Noyon Lanka and MAS AcGlobal Chemical Leasing Awards in Vienna this month. The awards, launched tive Linea Intimo emerged winners from Sri Lanka. in 2010, recognize case studies and innovation in chemical leasing, promote the application of innovative business models, and inspire companies and individuals around the globe to innovate for sustainability. The 2018 award was jointly sponsored and supported by The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Austrian Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism (BMNT), the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB), the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment (FOEN), and the German Environment Agency (UBA). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 73 Taking the Oceans Project to the Next Level We started the oceans project in 2016 after witnessing a trail of trash our beaches The second round was conducted to celebrate World Environmental Day. Armed that put us to shame. Throughout the years, we have grown by partnering with with a powerful purpose, biodegradable gloves and bags, 1,500 volunteers from the Sri Lanka Navy and Beira Group to establish PET plastic collection centers MAS, Sri Lanka Navy and the coastal community unleashed themselves on 13 of along Sri Lanka’s coastline with the purpose of managing these fugitive plastics. the dirtiest beaches around Sri Lanka in one weekend on a mission to clear our beaches from trash in line with World Environmental Day. In 2018, the focus of this project was to increase public awareness of mismanaged plastics and how to properly manage plastics before they end up in the ocean. Together, we collected 9,000 kg of plastic, polythene and a whole lot more that With this aim, we conducted a series of coastal cleanups together with the would have otherwise ended up in the ocean, from 25km of coastline. general public to take this message out. Adding to this, in 2018, Beira Group established the “EcoSpindle” facility, a factory The first line round of beach cleanups were conducted in March 2018 in the fully equipped to convert PET plastic waste into yarn. This new development Negombo and Waikkal coastal areas, partnering with Negombo Hoteliers paved the way for MAS to explore a new avenue: clothing made from 100% Association and the community. We were able to divert 0.5 tons of plastics, 0.5 recycled yarn that is 100% Sri Lankan. tons of glass waste and close to 10 tons of mixed waste. 74 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD ALIGNMENT TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES Initiatives Policies and Processes P1 P2 P10 MAS DNA P6 Persons with Disabilities interventions P6 Supporting Women in the Workplace P1 P2 P8 Thriving Communities P1 P2 P3 P10 Compliance and Certifications P2 Compensation and Benefits P6 TL/GL Programmes P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 Our People P7 Water, Chemical & Waste Management P7 P9 Energy Management System P8 P9 Biodiversity Initiatives P8 ZDHC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 75 ANNEXURES Annexure 1 PROGRAMME NAME NO OF PROGRAMS IMPACT NO -FEMALE IMPACT NO MALE PARTICIPATION HOURS Leadership Development Employee Induction 39 2,255 360 142.7 GBC Retreat 2 36 10 32.0 Leadership Training for Empowered Women 1 58 16.0 Motivational Speech by an External Facilitator 5 1,840 2,251 20.5 Motivational Speech by an Internal Facilitator 1 25 2 2.0 Out Bound / Leadership / Team building 20 567 221 244.5 Positive Thinking 26 16,326 2,377 2,698.0 Presentation Skills 4 57 16 35.0 Soft Skill Development 12 352 62 202.5 Speech Craft Programme 8 42 64 20.0 Career Guidance Programme 30 620 130 81.0 Time Management 1 450 0 2.0 Language & IT Skills Diploma in English Language (Corporate WGB) 1 40 104.0 Diploma in English Language (SBU Level) 4 43 22 66.0 Communication Skills 15 214 87 30.0 76 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Computer/IT 10 235 101 74.5 Education Fair 3 4,500 1,000 25.0 English Language 31 558 141 82.9 Diversity & Inclusion in the Workplace Disability Inclusion Training 5 39 29 34.0 Training for Differently Abled Employees 3 22 24 16.0 Breaking the stereotypical job roles Female Cutters Training 1 2 0 7.0 Female End Line Printer Training 6 6 0 5.5 Female Mechanical Training 2 2 2 13.0 Female Technician Training 4 42 2 25.0 Other End Controller Training (Printing) 2 1210 200 3.0 Abhimani Training & Coaching Sessions 3 47 7 10.5 Basic Incentive Process 1 2,840 320 1.0 Behavioral Based Safety Training 2 19 71 70.0 Total 242 32,447 7,499 4,063.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 77 Annexure 2 Diabetes 1 2,840 330 1.0 NO OF PROIMPACT NO IMPACT PARTICIPATION PROGRAMME NAME Eye Clinic / Camp / 7 1,536 737 583.0 GRAMS FEMALE NO MALE HOURS Check-Up Health & Well-Being Activities Happy Family Life 15 5,880 3,243 46.0 Alcohol, Drugs & 3 2,880 445 6.5 HIV & AIDS 3 4,359 1,069 4.0 Tobacco Prevention Medical Clinic / 33 3,262 564 116.0 Anger / Stress / 19 5,670 982 28.5 Camp / Check-Up Mental Health & Personal Hygiene, 9 5,926 875 271.0 Well-being Grooming & Awareness on Mental 1 20 0 1.0 Etiquette Disorders Sexually Transmitted 1 45 2.0 Awareness 4 965 296 10.0 Diseases (STDs) Programme for Skin Clinic / Camp / 3 564 25 10.5 Prevent Dengue Check -Up Ayurvedic Clinic / 3 2,370 1,500 22.0 Yoga Session 5 468 457 8.7 Camp / Check-Up Zumba Session 7 428 6 15.5 Balance Diet / 10 7,117 1,970 18.5 Child Care and Family Well-Being Nutrition / Obesity Child Abuse 1 2,000 500 1.0 Blood Donation 11 995 727 72.0 Camp Child Care and 9 7,549 1,019 18.5 Development Breast Cancer 27 32,643 12,616 148.5 Day Care / Creche 14 758 10 37.5 Breast Cancer 37 33,790 11,026 63.1 Facility (Aloka By Intimates Division) Early Marriages & its 1 50 1 4.0 consequences Cancer Check-Up 5 175 0 20.5 Family Planning/ 8 8,737 1,022 17.5 Cervical Cancers 1 70 2.0 Reproductive Health Communicable 4 4,890 970 6.5 Pregnant Mothers 23 780 4 55.0 Diseases Clinics Counseling 44 7,436 612 103.0 Support for 1 26 2.0 Dental Clinic / Camp 8 349 58 79.0 Breastfeeding in the / Check-Up Workplace 78 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Domestic Violence 8 9,576 2,027 55.5 International 23 21,470 4,295 111.0 Women’s Day Finance 10 5,171 1,011 23.3 Celebrations Management New Year 13 8,331 2,736 49.0 Gender Sensitivity 15 2,118 1,121 67.8 Celebrations Training Product Promotions 18 18,460 4,340 119.0 Legal Requirements 24 17,365 3,019 74.5 or Sales Motivational Speech 6 2,882 ,1901 9.5 Social Media 3 9,790 330 7.0 by an External Facilitator Thai Pongal Day 1 18 6 0.5 Celebrations Motivational Speech 6 1,922 507 10.0 by an Internal Vesak Day 1 10 2 0.0 Facilitator Celebrations Positive Thinking to 2 3,028 322 1.5 World Environment 2 18 20 5.0 Family Day Employee Engagement Activities Pink Ribbon Day 1 2500, 1,600 1.0 Bakthi Geetha 5 831 112 13.5 Other Programme Abhinandani 1 10 5 1.5 Bodi Pooja / Bana 5 857 306 8.0 Training & Coaching Program Sessions Christmas Day 7 4,819 1,772 20.0 Awareness Session 4 23 21 21.5 Celebrations for Differently Abled Employees Family Day 5 1,612 462 15.5 Library Development 3 1,873 596 12.0 Fundraising Activity 2 25 0 7.0 Programs Donation Activity 5 225 35 9.0 TOTAL 492 261,662 68,550 2,427.7 International 2 1,050 300 8.0 Children’s Day Celebration International 2 3,100 640 3.0 Mother’s Day Celebrations COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 79 Annexure 3 Annexure 4 The following figure depicts the Skill Development Activities increasing engagement of our employees over the years. NO OF IMPACT NO IMPACT PARTICIPATION PROGRAMME NAME PROGRAMS FEMALE NO MALE HOURS YEAR STATUS COUNT Abhinandani Talent Show Related Activities Total Applicants 2,053 Abhinandani Launch 4 7,780 595 5.0 2014 Semi Finalists 434 Abhinandani Promotional Activities 9 4,602 1,100 18.5 Finalists 250 Abhinandani Semi Final Selections SBU level 7 177 44 23.0 Abhinandani Training & Coaching Sessions 25 224 127 95.5 Total Applicants 700 Entrepreneurship Development 2016 Semi Finalists 341 Entrepreneurship Programme 3 69 18 8.5 Finalists 258 Arts & Craft Training 25 477 0 52.0 Total Applicants 2,515 Beauty Culture Training 8 459 6 22.0 2018 Finalists 567 Culinary Classes 5 225 9 19.0 Curtain Stitching 2 88 0 6.0 Dress Making / Sewing Course 13 802 0 28.0 Handbag manufacturing Class 2 113 0 4.0 Saree Dressing / Saree Painting / Saree Blouse Making 3 147 1 13.0 Shoe Manufacturing Class 3 51 2 11.5 Soft Toys Making Class 1 50 3 60.0 Tailoring Training 2 99 1 11.0 Training Programme Compering 1 9 2 6.0 Sports Activities Athletic Meet 8 30 11 51.0 Athletic Meet Taekwondo Practices 1 10 5 1.5 Badminton Training 2 2 18 5.0 80 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Cricket Tournaments 3 196 432 12.5 Kabaddi Tournament 1 6 0 3.0 Netball Tournament 1 12 2.0 Netball Training 1 15 0 1.5 Rugby Training 1 1 0 24.0 Sports Day 3 151 100 10.0 Swimming Training 1 0 20 1.5 Volleyball Tournament 4 46 57 19.0 Volleyball Training 3 35 24 6.5 Aesthetic Skills Creative Writing Competition 2 46 5 12.0 Dancing Class / Music & Singing 23 278 103 118.0 Drama & Theater 3 15 12 5.0 Other Driving License 9 668 102 40.0 Firefighting Training 1 10 8 0.5 First Aid Training 2 4,280 520 3.0 Motivational Programme to improve skills 1 638 220 4.0 Self Defense 7 1202 19 15.0 Total 190 23,013 3,564 717 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 81 Rewarding Excellence Activities PARTICIPATION PROGRAMME NAME NO OF PROGRAMS IMPACT NO FEMALE IMPACT NO MALE HOURS Abhinandani SBU / Divisional / Final Level Recognition Activities 22 495 320 75.8 Abhimani Winners Recognition / Felicitation SBU Celebrations 5 4,938 1,650 5.5 Competitions Art Competition 27 7,200 2,940 168.5 Culinary Competition 3 49 13 6.0 Dancing / Singing / Drama / Music Competition 2 221 82 10.0 Debating Competition 2 6 6 2.0 English Speech / Comprehension Competition 2 17 11 3.0 Handicraft Competition 5 241 2 49.0 Puzzle Competition 1 5 0 0.5 Singing Competition 9 171 106 58.0 Other EWY Alumni Recognition 7 175 7.0 Art and Craft Exhibition & Sale 4 95 1 22.0 Avurudu Pola 4 2611 483 46.0 Diriya Pola 23 15,466 6,750 205.0 Employee Recognition 17 9,136 2,525 2,645.5 Total 133 40,826 14,889 3,303.7 82 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Annexure 5 Branding and Promotional Activities The Women Go Beyond (WGB) logo was refiled for registration in the US as a trademark. IMPACT NO OF IMPACT NO PARTICIPATION PROGRAMME NAME NO PROGRAMS MALE HOURS FEMALE Corporate Newsletters 2 3005 500 4.0 Divisional / SBU Level Newsletters 3 9000 1500 9.0 Employee Induction 1 240 18.0 Management Meeting / JCC Meeting / GBC Meeting 6 119 51 18.5 Notice Board Women Go Beyond 11 3355 581 11.5 Open Day School Children / Community 4 130 81 8.5 Women Go Beyond Launch 2 190 158 1.5 Women Go Beyond Promotional Activities 28 30172 2644 156.5 Total 57 46211 5515 227.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 83 Annexure 6 Definitions CATEGORY OF INTERVENTION SUB CATEGORY DEFINITION Programmes done to develop & strengthen the skills, knowledge & attitudes related to Education. Capacity Building They should have a clear impact measurement of the outcome (quantitative/qualitative) Education Activities related to receiving and or giving systematic instruction, especially attached to educational institutes. Constructing/providing physical structures or facilities such as Equipment & large scale materials, Infrastructure for the public use of the school/training facility/educational institute. The impact measurement should ideally be quantifiable. Programmes done to develop & strengthen the skills, knowledge & attitudes related to Health. It Capacity Building should have a clear measurement of outcome (Quantitative/Qualitative) Health Activities with regard to prevention or Wellness Programmes done to uplift well-being, maintain good health and prevent possible health risks. mitigation of any illness or injury. Constructing/providing physical structures or facilities such as equipment & large scale materials, for Infrastructure the public use of health services. The impact measurement should ideally be quantifiable. Programmes done to develop & strengthen the skills, knowledge & attitudes related to sports. They Capacity Building SportsActivities supporting games involving should have a clear measurement of the outcome (quantitative/qualitative) physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment. Constructing/providing physical structures or facilities such as equipment & large scale materials, for Infrastructure the public use for sports. Measurement of the outcome can be appreciation or increased goodwill. 84 | COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD Programmes done to develop & strengthen the skills, knowledge & attitudes related to community Capacity Building goodwill. Measurement of the outcome can be appreciation increased goodwill or the number of people impacted. Local Connect Activities related to communiConstructing/providing physical structures or facilities such as Equipment & large scale materials, ty goodwill stemming from community needs Infrastructure for public use. Measurement of the outcome can be the appreciation increased goodwill or the based on their requests. These can be small scale number of people impacted. donation/short-term, one-off capacity building or infrastructure activities that cannot belong to Can include all forms of other four categories. Outcome can only be mea• Individual donations (monetary or any kind) sured from the increase in goodwill or the num• Small scale donations of which you cannot measure the impact ber of people impacted. (can be related to Health, Education & Sports) (Donations) • Religious activities • Charity activities done with the purpose of building/maintaining/improving relationships within the locality & suburbs. Activities done to rescue/overcome/prevent/mitigate national-level natural/accidental/man-made Disaster relief disasters and catastrophes. Nation-MindednessActivities done to a wider community outside the local operating community or on request of the state directly to the comProgrammes that serve a greater national purpose pany for an activity of national importance/reach On the request made by a state authority/party or state-run organization State-run programmes With the scale of national importance Or to enhance or uplift the standards of the nation as a whole Programmes addressing environment related issues (environmental conservation/protection, Environmental Initiatives enhancing diversity) where the end beneficiary is the environment itself. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MAS HOLDINGS (PVT) LTD | 85
