REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS | 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE CEO message.................................... 3 Climate change................................. 53 Innovation........................................ 125 ABOUT OUR REPORT Our perspective and engagement........................... 54 Our approach to technology and innovation......... 126 About our report.............................. 6 GHG performance and mitigating emissions.......... 59 In situ technologies................................................... 130 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Strategy and governance................ 10 Integrating our GHG performance goal.................. 64 Mining technologies................................................. 133 About Suncor............................................................. 11 Low-carbon innovation............................................. 67 Reclamation technologies........................................ 135 OUR BUSINESS Sustainability Q and A.............................................. 12 Carbon risk and energy outlook.............................. 70 Upgrading and refining technologies..................... 136 Sustainability goals................................................... 15 Resilient strategy....................................................... 75 Renewable technologies........................................... 137 CLIMATE CHANGE UN Sustainable Development Goals........................ 16 Carbon policy and regulation................................... 79 Digitalization ............................................................ 138 Renewables................................................................ 19 Collaboration............................................................. 140 ENVIRONMENT Environment..................................... 81 Corporate governance.............................................. 23 Social innovation....................................................... 143 Air quality.................................................................. 82 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Risk management...................................................... 25 Water performance and stewardship...................... 85 Performance data............................. 144 Policy engagement.................................................... 27 Tailings management................................................ 88 INNOVATION Lobbying and disclosure........................................... 32 Appendices....................................... 151 Land and reclamation............................................... 92 Appendix A: Performance data notes...................... 152 PERFORMANCE DATA Our business..................................... 34 Biodiversity ............................................................... 97 Appendix B: Independent assurance statement..... 161 Operations summary................................................. 35 Caribou recovery and conservation......................... 101 Appendix C: Advisories............................................. 164 APPENDICES Economic impact....................................................... 37 Social responsibility......................... 103 Appendix D: GRI and SASB ...................................... 168 Supplier engagement............................................... 39 Stakeholder and Indigenous relations..................... 104 Market access ........................................................... 40 Community investment............................................. 108 Personal and process safety...................................... 41 Social goal.................................................................. 113 Ethical business conduct........................................... 43 Strengthening relationships..................................... 114 Inclusion and diversity.............................................. 46 Partnering with Indigenous youth........................... 117 Partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities....................................................... 120 Improving Indigenous workforce development..... 123 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 CEO message | 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Mark Little, President and chief executive officer. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION We are in the midst of an exciting time that is helping re-focus the way A TIME OF we work and, even more important, why we do what we do. TRANSFORMATION PERFORMANCE DATA We are living in an era of transformation – as a We know that to be a successful company in an These integrated pillars of sustainability will continue company, as an industry and as a global community. increasingly complex world, investors, employees, to guide us as we embark on the next phase in our We have choices to make about our shared energy APPENDICES Indigenous communities and partners, governments company’s evolution – what we’re calling Suncor 4.0. future and the role we will all play in shaping it. and stakeholders need to see we have a purpose that Technology and digital solutions will be a big part of Suncor’s commitment to safety, reliability, operational goes beyond the balance sheet. More than ever, they Suncor 4.0, but unleashing the full potential of our excellence and capital discipline continues – as does want tangible proof of our commitment to the three people is what will get us where we need to be. To our unwavering determination to be a leader in dimensions of energy development that have long secure our competitive advantage for the long term, sustainability. Globally, we are all beginning to been part of Suncor’s vision: continually improving we must foster a workplace culture where everyone transform our energy systems toward a low-carbon our environmental performance, addressing social is inspired to be and give their best. economy. Suncor has an important role to play in challenges, and generating economic value. that transition and believe innovation will be critical to our success. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 CEO message | 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS As polarization increases on various issues, many will At the same time, energy production and I was also closely involved in the talks with the choose to take a step back. Suncor will continue to consumption comes with costs and risks. We must First Nations Chiefs that led to this landmark step forward to demonstrate leadership in an all address the amount of energy we use and the agreement and saw firsthand the power of working CEO MESSAGE increasingly complex world. We are doing this by: emissions associated with that use. As a country more collaboratively with our Indigenous partners. and as global citizens we need to pursue all forms • investing in emerging and potentially For Suncor, our social goal is a journey and about of energy to provide for an ever growing population, ABOUT OUR REPORT transformative technologies, including new much more than commercial success. We will while tackling the environmental challenges associated digital capabilities continue to expand our support for Indigenous with its use. With Suncor’s focus on sustainability, youth, increase the participation of Indigenous • supporting collaborative solutions on major we remain optimistic the Canadian oil and gas STRATEGY AND Peoples in our workforce, and improve our environmental and societal challenges, including industry will remain part of the global energy mix. GOVERNANCE employees’ awareness of the history and experience climate change Our optimism is based on a strong history of of Indigenous Peoples. Above all, we will continue to • working with and learning from Indigenous technology and innovation, continued focus on cost listen and learn. OUR BUSINESS partners and others to create opportunities for and carbon competitiveness, of putting people first, Our other major sustainability goal is to further economic and social reconciliation and building relationships and opportunities with reduce the total greenhouse gas emissions intensity Indigenous Peoples. CLIMATE CHANGE • further integrating sustainability into our of the production of our oil and petroleum products decision-making as we aspire to be a competitive Climate change is real and we have a shared by 30% by 2030. Our ambition is driving operational, producer for the long term obligation to reduce our carbon footprint. The more energy and fuel efficiency improvements into our ENVIRONMENT people are engaged, the greater likelihood of success. business. Technology and innovation are pointing to As we move ahead, we are also asking ourselves how a realistic path for reaching that goal, which will also can we best live up to our purpose. The communities where we operate – many of them move us toward ultimately bending the curve on our SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY home to Indigenous Peoples in Canada – are most absolute GHG emissions. ENERGY CHALLENGES AND directly impacted by the energy industry’s activities. Yet for too long, they have not fully shared in the This past year, Suncor invested $635 million in INNOVATION OPPORTUNITIES benefits and opportunities of resource development. technology development and deployment, including For me, answering that question begins with digital transformation. That also includes nextI firmly believe energy companies need to recognize reflecting on the absolutely essential role energy generation in situ technologies that could dramatically PERFORMANCE DATA they have a unique obligation, and opportunity, to plays in our lives. The availability of reliable and reduce GHG emissions from operations. make a difference. We can and should innovate not affordable energy is behind the many advances, just on technologies to improve our environmental Fort Hills is another key example of Suncor’s medical and otherwise, that have made this possible. APPENDICES It’s remarkable to think that in the developed world, performance – which Suncor is doing and will commitment to improving environmental continue to do at an accelerated level – but also to performance through technology and innovation. life expectancy has increased roughly 15% in Canada address complex social challenges. With paraffinic froth treatment (PFT) technology, the since I was born. barrels will have a GHG emissions intensity on par Our long-term socially focused sustainability goal is Energy is the lifeblood of our modern society. It heats with the average refined barrel in North America. about changing the way we think and act so we can and powers our homes, schools and hospitals. It work together with Indigenous Peoples to create This is a significant step forward for our industry. enables us to be mobile. It offers meaningful jobs opportunities for economic and social reconciliation. We are finding ways to alter the carbon content in a and careers. And it provides governments with barrel of crude and, in some cases, leave a portion revenues that help fund services and infrastructure Our partnership with the Fort McKay and Mikisew of that carbon in the ground before it becomes a for the benefit of all. Cree First Nations on the East Tank Farm development problematic gas. No other oil-producing jurisdiction is is an example of this kind of innovation in action. The doing this – and, as we make further advances, this First Nations acquired a 49% equity position in the will help Canada to earn the trust needed to be the facility at a value of $500 million – the largest progressive supplier of choice to the global community. First Nations business investment to date in Canada. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 CEO message | 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor’s plan is to remain resilient and thrive in We also work with several other companies as Suncor 4.0 is a chapter in our evolution, and includes tomorrow’s low-carbon economy. Our annual members of the United Nations Global Compact accelerating this process to fully leverage technology Climate Risk and Resilience Report sets out why we (UNGC) Local Network in Canada. This reflects to improve performance. But it’s also about CEO MESSAGE believe this is a realistic goal. In 2018, we took Suncor’s broad support for the UNGC and its transforming our leadership and culture to develop another step forward on climate risk transparency by 10 principles, which guide our approach to human the workplace of the future – one that is supporting reporting recommendations by the Task rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption collaborative, connected and understands that we ABOUT OUR REPORT Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), for all our operations. expect our work to have meaning and purpose. an international initiative of the Financial Collaboration continues to open us up to new As we continue to innovate, lead and stay true to our Stability Board. STRATEGY AND perspectives and possibilities. It helps reinforce and purpose, one value will always stand above the rest: GOVERNANCE refine our common purpose. safety. Suncor is committed to providing a safe COLLABORATING ON workplace. For us, this is about ensuring everyone INNOVATION NEXT STEPS goes home to their loved ones safely at the end of OUR BUSINESS their day. As we innovate, collaboration remains critical. This brings us full circle – to the conversations we Again, we take an integrated approach. are having at Suncor about what we do, and why, In a time of transition and change, success is with CLIMATE CHANGE Suncor works closely with organizations like Canada’s and the actions we are taking to best harness new those who are agile and can adapt. But as much capabilities that are transforming our world. as things are changing in our energy world, one Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), Evok Innovations thing remains constant: sustainability is at the core and the Clean Resource Innovation Network (CRIN) on What’s being called “the fourth industrial evolution” ENVIRONMENT of all we do. It’s our best guide as we make this technology solutions that improve environmental will have a major impact on every industry and journey together. performance and reduce costs. The Energy Futures Lab, economy. Advances in digital technologies such as SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY which the Suncor Energy Foundation co-founded, is improved data analytics, artificial intelligence and an example of social innovation that brings together automation have the potential to make our diverse partners to advance a fit-for-the-future energy operations and workplaces smarter and more INNOVATION system. And our work with groups like the Carbon connected, opening up new ways to enhance our Pricing Leadership Coalition and Canada’s Ecofiscal economic, social and environmental performance. Mark Little Commission is based on a shared understanding of PERFORMANCE DATA President and chief executive officer how the economy and the environment are so closely entwined. APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 About our report | 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ABOUT OUR REPORT Our Report on Sustainability reflects our commitment to continually monitor and assess the impacts INNOVATION and benefits of our business, and to effectively share these efforts. PERFORMANCE DATA FRAMEWORK SCOPE We’ve prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Consolidated company-wide economic, environmental, safety and social APPENDICES Standards: Core option, with additional use of their Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. performance from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2018 is reported only for assets we operate We also disclose our United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on (unless otherwise stated), including five-year data trends where possible. Progress throughout this report. This is part of our support for their 10 principles Facility or business segment performance, where applicable, is available for which guide our approach to sustainability. New in our 2019 report are the inclusion download. Information regarding events or performance in early 2019 may also of Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, representing be included, where possible. financially material sustainability topics and metrics relevant for our industry. For more information about our disclosures against these frameworks, see Appendix D. In certain cases, economic and operational data is aligned in a consistent manner with our annual financial reports (which may include non-operated assets). Our REPORT FORMAT financial performance and description of our business is also presented thoroughly in our 2018 Annual Report. Available in English or French, we prepared this report to engage a wider audience interested in our sustainability priorities and performance through the use of multiple formats – a downloadable PDF, complemented by an online version available at sustainability.suncor.com. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 About our report | 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS ASSURING ACCURACY • industry benchmarking and research We engaged Ernst & Young LLP to provide review-level assurance on selected • topics identified through our internal strategic issues management process CEO MESSAGE performance indicators for the year ended Dec. 31, 2018 using the GRI Standards • ongoing stakeholder engagement and dialogue and sector disclosures. This resulted in more than 30 consolidated sustainability topics, which were then ABOUT OUR REPORT MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT FOR ranked and prioritized by groups of stakeholders and internal subject matter experts. DETERMINING REPORT CONTENT Rank and prioritize issues STRATEGY AND An important step in preparing our Report on Sustainability is to review the most Two workshops were facilitated to capture a wide range of perspectives, including: GOVERNANCE relevant sustainability priorities for our business and our stakeholders. • external stakeholders (academia, community members, business partners, investors and NGO) OUR BUSINESS We review priorities for our report annually and, • internal subject matter experts and cross functional employee leaders in early 2018, we conducted an in-depth Outputs from both workshops were used to prioritize topics and ultimately CLIMATE CHANGE materiality assessment to ensure we accurately determine report content and direction. considered a broad range of perspectives. ENVIRONMENT SUNCOR MATERIALITY MATRIX We reviewed and used the results from this assessment for our 2019 report, and plan to conduct another materiality evaluation later this year in support of our HIGH SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2020 report. 4 Materiality, in the sustainability context used for this report, refers to the relative MATERIAL INNOVATION significance of environmental, social, governance and economic priorities and their SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES impacts (both positive and negative) to both our business, and to our stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER INTEREST PERFORMANCE DATA MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS OTHER SIGNIFICANT PRIORITIES In early 2018, we were supported by a third-party, with expertise in sustainability we manage, monitor and report on APPENDICES reporting and facilitating materiality assessments, to evaluate our priority topics for our Report on Sustainability. We used the following process: Identify sustainability topics An initial list of topics was compiled using several frameworks and methods to better understand areas of importance to our stakeholders and to our business, including: MEDIUM HIGH IMPACT ON BUSINESS SUCCESS • Global Reporting Initiative Standards (Materiality Principle and Principles for Defining Report Content) Hands-on prioritization activities and discussion helped guide participants to consensus on which topics could have a significant impact on Suncor’s business • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board success or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of • recent Suncor materiality assessments and results stakeholders over the next one-to-three years. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 About our report | 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Our assessment process identified four material priority topics that consistently ranked high in both workshops and have informed the focus of our Report on Sustainability: CEO MESSAGE Indigenous relations Climate change ABOUT OUR REPORT Why is this important? Why is this important? As a pillar of our social goal, the trust and support of stakeholders and Energy is the backbone of the economy and contributes to our STRATEGY AND Indigenous communities are foundational to successful well-being. At the same time, the science is clear that the world needs GOVERNANCE energy development. action to reduce carbon emissions and avoid the worst effects of climate change. Examples of our efforts in this area: OUR BUSINESS Examples of our efforts in this area: • $703 million spent with 83 Indigenous businesses across Canada in 2018, including 24 new suppliers • Carbon risk is considered one of our principal risks and undergoes CLIMATE CHANGE an annual board review • Our new Downstream Indigenous Business Engagement strategy established in 2018 resulted in a year-over-year doubling of our • We invested approximately $635 million in 2018 in technology Indigenous business spend for that business segment development, deployment and digital technologies aimed at ENVIRONMENT reducing the carbon intensity of our operations • In 2018, participation in our Summer Aboriginal Student Program grew by 400%, and 40% more employees completed Aboriginal • Our GHG goal is driving operational, energy and fuel efficiency SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY awareness training improvements, and accelerating new technology development and implementation INNOVATION Operational safety and reliability Water stewardship PERFORMANCE DATA Why is this important? Why is this important? APPENDICES Suncor is committed to incident prevention and believes that a ‘zero Water is a shared and precious resource. Suncor’s integrated water incident’ workplace is achievable. We continue to raise the bar to management approach balances optimizing our water use practices improve process safety and reliability performance. with technological innovation to sustainably manage water. Examples of our efforts in this area: Examples of our efforts in this area: • We achieved our second best Recordable Injury Frequency • A new Water Technology Development Centre for COSIA is now performance on record in 2018 operational, allowing new water technologies to be tested to improve the sustainability performance of thermal in situ projects • We’ve improved our focus on the quality of process hazard analyses for assessing process safety risks, including the • We are working to ensure healthy ecosystems and watersheds and digitization of information engaging closely with Indigenous communities in projects like Lake Miwasin and mine closure planning • Reliability reduces unplanned downtime, emissions, and air and water pollutants • Approximately 88% of the water used by our mining and extraction operations in 2018 was recycled tailings water SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 About our report | 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indigenous Peoples and communities and our stakeholders consider these Environment priorities critically important and, for our business to be successful, they require Our environmental performance represents a key strategic risk and opportunity. innovative, strategic approaches and commitment to operational excellence across The management of these issues is subject to strict scrutiny from both government CEO MESSAGE all functions of our organization. regulators and stakeholders. Poor management of these issues will result in Other significant priorities were also identified and our performance or approach regulatory fines, stakeholder concern, capital divestment and project costs and ABOUT OUR REPORT to these priorities are listed below and included throughout our report. Topics delays. Managed well, these issues contribute to a case for innovation, new that were evaluated, but not reported on are managed, tracked internally and technology and collaboration with our stakeholders and industry peers to create monitored in the context of an ever changing external landscape. Our approach more value and improved environmental performance. These priorities include: STRATEGY AND to technology and innovation is a key theme of this report and is closely related • tailings management GOVERNANCE to many of the priorities identified in our materiality assessment. • land use and reclamation OUR BUSINESS OTHER SIGNIFICANT PRIORITIES • biodiversity Our business • air quality We aim to deliver competitive and sustainable returns to our shareholders by CLIMATE CHANGE • cumulative impacts focusing on capital discipline, operational excellence and long-term cash-flow growth. We are also committed to our value of safety above all else. If managed • spills poorly, these priorities could result in unplanned legal, financial, operational or ENVIRONMENT reputational impacts as well as process and personal safety incidents. Managed well, Social responsibility they support business continuity, increased shareholder value, improved productivity, Continuously earning and maintaining trust with our nearby communities is SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and a strong and thriving work culture. These priorities include: crucial to our business. If not managed well, these priorities could potentially • governance and ethics result in increased project delays and costs, legal proceedings, stakeholder opposition and an erosion of community resilience. Managed well, they present INNOVATION • health and wellness a vital shared value opportunity to build relationships and provide economic • compliance and social benefit. These priorities include: PERFORMANCE DATA • economic impact • community investment and social innovation • public policy • stakeholder engagement APPENDICES • inclusion and diversity • market access About our report | 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE To realize Suncor’s vision we’ve embraced long-term thinking and strategies. With sound governance and committed leadership, we have a created a OUR BUSINESS strong foundation for resilient and sustainable energy development. CLIMATE CHANGE About Suncor............................................................ 11 Sustainability Q and A.............................................. 12 ENVIRONMENT Sustainability goals................................................... 15 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UN Sustainable Development Goals........................ 16 Renewables............................................................... 19 INNOVATION Corporate governance.............................................. 23 PERFORMANCE DATA Risk management..................................................... 25 Policy engagement................................................... 27 APPENDICES Lobbying and disclosure........................................... 32 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 About Suncor | 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT SUNCOR CEO MESSAGE As Canada’s leading integrated energy company, we know that together with our Sustainable development stakeholders we need to look beyond the energy needs of today and understand We continue to be focused on being a trusted producer of energy while what is required for the future. Sustainability is about seeing the big picture and ABOUT OUR REPORT demonstrating sustainability leadership in: working together towards better, more sustainable solutions. • environmental performance STRATEGY AND OUR VALUES • social responsibility GOVERNANCE Our values are our guiding principles – our constant set of beliefs. They define the • economic prosperity way we do business each and every day. OUR BUSINESS Safety above all else A proven integrated model Do it safely or don’t do it. From the ground to the gas station, we optimize value through each link in the Respect value chain. Our flexible model allows us to capture the shift in value between CLIMATE CHANGE operating segments during periods of market volatility and limits Suncor’s Being our best. Giving our best. Showing we care. exposure to crude differentials, with a significant portion of bitumen production Do the right thing being upgraded to higher-priced light oil and refined products. ENVIRONMENT The right way – with integrity. The company’s midstream assets and pipeline commitments, strategically acquired Raise the bar with the future in mind, provide operational flexibility through secured market SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Pursue with passion. Always add value. access, including to the U.S. Gulf Coast and other international markets. Commitments matter We are all connected and part of something bigger. Financial strength INNOVATION We aim to deliver competitive, sustainable and increasing returns and benefits WHAT MAKES SUNCOR DIFFERENT FROM to our stakeholders, by focusing on capital discipline, operational excellence, and PERFORMANCE DATA long-term profitable growth. We have returned value to shareholders through OTHER ENERGY COMPANIES? consistent dividend growth, with 2018 marking the 16th consecutive year we Suncor’s long-life, low-decline asset base, strong balance sheet and integrated increased our cumulative annual dividends, while also significantly increasing our APPENDICES model create an advantage. What sets us apart from our peers is our approach to share repurchase program. sustainability, technology and innovation, which will help us achieve our social goal, further reduce our carbon emissions intensity by 30% by 2030 through a GHG goal, and grow the cash flow from our business. Making the most of these SUNCOR’S COMMITMENT TO differentiators has contributed to our industry-leading position and provides the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT foundation for increasing long-term returns to shareholders. Continuous sustainability improvement is critical to our business strategy, and it’s woven into the very fabric of the organization. Suncor’s chief sustainability officer Long-life, low-decline reserve base reports directly to our chief executive officer. We are working to unlock value from Alberta’s extensive resources through a As always, actions speak louder than words. This Report on Sustainability continued focus on responsible development and cost discipline. Our focus on documents several examples. operational excellence helps to unlock the full value of these resources for all of Canada. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Sustainability Q and A | 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY Q AND A CEO MESSAGE Eric Axford serves as Suncor’s chief sustainability officer, an executive-level position created just over a year ago. He is charged with helping Suncor navigate a complex and challenging external environment, and embedding ABOUT OUR REPORT leading sustainability practices and capabilities across the organization. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE STEPPING FORWARD ON SUSTAINABILITY In a wide-ranging conversation, Eric discusses the progress made in the past year, the priorities ahead – and how Suncor’s recent leadership transition impacts the OUR BUSINESS company’s sustainability journey. CLIMATE CHANGE When you took on this position, you said the role of the chief sustainability officer (CSO) is to “ensure the organization is living up to its commitments, values and beliefs” when it comes to ENVIRONMENT sustainability. One year in, how do you think it’s going? It’s a really interesting question. We live in such complex times that, some days, it SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY feels like taking two steps forward and then one step back. But overall, I think we are making significant progress and continue to evolve. There’ve been regulatory and legislative challenges that demanded a lot of our INNOVATION attention. There have also been elections and changes in government. I’m very proud of what we’ve accomplished and the way we continue to work respectfully PERFORMANCE DATA with governments of all stripes and in all areas of the country. We’ve also maintained – and, I’d say, even strengthened – our relationship with investors at a time when many of them have expressed concerns about Canadian APPENDICES competitiveness. We’ve stepped forward and outperformed our peers in retaining confidence in our business model and by maintaining our commitment to sustainability as a core value and a key part of our business strategy. We have a very compelling story because of the breadth of that strategy; it’s not only about environmental performance, but also about technology and innovation, Indigenous partnerships and even areas like inclusion and diversity, which are not traditionally thought of as part of the sustainability journey. Investors say they like the way we think and act. It gives them confidence that we are looking at the long Eric Axford, EVP and chief sustainability officer. term and actually thinking about societal needs and Suncor’s role. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Sustainability Q and A | 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS On that point, one of Suncor’s key sustainability goals is a social Suncor’s other key sustainability goal is a 30% reduction by 2030 goal that’s focused on strengthening relationships with in the total greenhouse gas emissions intensity of the production Indigenous Peoples and communities in Canada. Where have you of its oil and petroleum products. Do you remain confident that can CEO MESSAGE made progress and what are the opportunities ahead? be achieved? The East Tank Farm agreement is the example that’s most often cited, with the Yes, very much so. We have a robust plan for attaining that goal and we’ve seen ABOUT OUR REPORT Fort McKay and Mikisew Cree First Nations acquiring a combined 49% equity good progress in developing and implementing the technology and innovation position in a key part of Suncor’s Fort Hills infrastructure. That’s the largest that will get us there. Setting that goal was hugely important in terms of getting investment to date by First Nations communities in Canada and widely us focused on the enormity of driving an energy company to that kind of STRATEGY AND acknowledged as a game-changer. efficiency and effectiveness. Again, it’s something that has been a source of GOVERNANCE confidence for our investors and other stakeholders. But I’m also very proud of equity agreements we’ve forged with Indigenous Peoples in Ontario and Quebec as well as other partnerships across the country. When you compare us to many of our competitors, you can see we are making OUR BUSINESS For example, there are now more than 30 Petro-Canada branded retail sites tangible investments in technology development and deployment – $635 million owned and operated by First Nations. last year alone, when you include our investments in the digital sphere – to set us up for long-term success as we all make the transition to a lower-carbon economy. CLIMATE CHANGE The goal is to get beyond transactional relationships into real, meaningful long-term engagement – and I think we’re making significant progress. One We are also thinking increasingly about where the world is going post-2030. We initiative I’m particularly proud of is the recent launch of an Indigenous Youth do see continued demand for petroleum products well into the future. We also ENVIRONMENT Advisory Council, something we’ve been working towards for a while. This is see Suncor being agile enough to evolve, transition and transform in ways that helping to bring the voice of Indigenous youth – the fastest growing segment of will make us a trusted energy supplier for decades to come. The holistic nature of the Canadian population – into our organization. That’s opening up a whole new our technology and innovation strategies is a big reason for that. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY world of possibility and it’s very exciting to see it take root. Through our social goal, we are finding new ways to work with Indigenous Peoples When it comes to technology, do investors or other stakeholders INNOVATION to promote economic and social reconciliation. This isn’t just about building energy sometimes say to you, “Okay, so when are we going to see the projects; it’s about trying to build bridges between cultures. The opportunities are big, transformative breakthroughs?” enormous and we’ve just scratched the surface of what can be accomplished. Yes, we get asked that all the time. I respond by pointing first to some of the big PERFORMANCE DATA There’s so much more to be done and I believe it will happen if we continue to breakthroughs we’ve already had in recent years. For one thing, we now have listen, learn and work together. autonomous haul vehicles in place at our mining operations, resulting in safer and more productive mining operations, and improved fuel efficiency. Another APPENDICES example is the PASS (permanent aquatic storage structure) technology being implemented by our tailings reclamation team that’s helping address one of our biggest sustainability challenges. The next key potential breakthrough areas are the solvents and waterless extraction technologies being developed for our in situ sites that could reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity of our operations by 50 to 70%. These advances are not decades away; they are already in our field of view. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Sustainability Q and A | 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS A lot of this is about ensuring Suncor can continue to succeed Suncor has made inclusion and diversity a priority. How are through what many predict will be a significant energy transition. things progressing? What are some of the other key elements of that strategy? It sometimes feels like our journey on inclusion and diversity is slower than I’d CEO MESSAGE We have put a lot of emphasis on scenario-planning. I’d say our capabilities in like it to be, but we are working to increase the awareness, capabilities and this area have improved ten-fold over the past five years – and will become even knowledge of all our employees and leaders so that we advance a more inclusive ABOUT OUR REPORT better. The dimensions of uncertainty about the future are as great as they’ve ever culture over time. Our Aboriginal Employee Network (now known as Journeys) been and we need to be planning smartly for a number of eventualities. This will and our Inclusion and Diversity Council, along with other internal initiatives are give us the agility to embrace change in a positive way, rather than resist it. opening up conversations and new opportunities to really engage our workforce, STRATEGY AND our contractors and our suppliers. GOVERNANCE Our annual Climate Risk and Resilience Report is an early and excellent example of this. It’s a way of sharing with our investors and other stakeholders the kind of I’d also say that Suncor promotes diversity in the way we collaborate with external forward thinking that shapes our business planning and decisions. The report organizations – including some unlikely partners – on everything from technology OUR BUSINESS describes how we view carbon as a principal risk and the steps we are taking to to energy policy and social innovation. It’s easy to collaborate with people who mitigate that risk. Our business strategies are tested annually against three energy think exactly as you do, but we’ve always been deliberate about seeking out future scenarios, including one envisioning an aggressive decline in oil demand. and working with people of diverse perspectives. You can see this through our CLIMATE CHANGE Under each of these scenarios, Suncor’s strategy remains resilient. In other words, collaborations with groups like Evok Innovations and the Energy Futures Lab, we would continue to generate strong economic value, address social challenges and it’s really been to our mutual benefit. You never know where the next great and improve environmental performance, while responsibly producing the energy idea or innovation is going to come from and these kinds of collaborations often ENVIRONMENT the world needs. impact our view of potential solutions and how we conduct our business. A big part of what global sustainability leadership looks like to investors these Suncor recently underwent a leadership transition, with SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY days has to do with transparency and disclosure. And I think Suncor is widely acknowledged as a leader in this area. That’s why bringing our carbon disclosures Mark Little taking over as president and CEO from Steve Williams. in line with the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Will that have an impact on Suncor’s sustainability vision? INNOVATION Disclosures (TFCD) is a pretty natural evolution for us. Sustainability is so deeply embedded in the culture and values of Suncor that leadership transitions are, in this sense, quite seamless. What I think people will We believe additional transparency and disclosure can help us tell our story in a see with Mark is a re-articulation of why Suncor exists, what we contribute to the PERFORMANCE DATA better way and explain some of the good things that are going on in the Canadian broader society and how critical technology, innovation and creating social value energy sector. It can help differentiate Canadian energy for what it is, which is some are to Suncor’s long-term success. of the most responsible and trusted energy on the planet. APPENDICES Mark is deeply and personally committed to strengthening relationships with Indigenous Peoples, not just when it comes to Suncor or the energy business, but across our society. At the same time, people are already seeing his support for the triple-bottom-line concept of sustainability that Suncor has long embraced. He believes, as do I, that you can’t meet your environmental goals without a strong economy and you can’t have a strong economy without a healthy environment. To be successful over the long term, you also have to meet community needs and address social challenges. It’s not about trade-offs between these elements; they are all interconnected. Sustainability is at the root of all we do – and that sets us up for the long term as we move forward in tomorrow’s economy. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Sustainability goals | 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY GOALS CEO MESSAGE Suncor’s sustainability goals reflect our focused efforts on strengthening relationships with Indigenous ABOUT OUR REPORT Peoples and communities in Canada, and harnessing technology and innovation to reduce our greenhouse STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE gas (GHG) emissions intensity. Continuous improvement of our long-term environmental, social and OUR BUSINESS economic performance requires an evolution of our business that’s beyond our current capabilities. CLIMATE CHANGE We established our social and GHG goals in 2016, with a baseline year of 2014, as guide posts to drive performance improvement. More detail about these goals is provided in our social responsibility and climate change sections of this report. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOAL: STRENGTHENING OUR Student researcher measuring trees at Nikanotee Fen. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RELATIONSHIPS WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES AND COMMUNITIES IN CANADA GHG GOAL: REDUCING OUR GHG INNOVATION Our social goal reflects our commitment to change the way we think and act as EMISSIONS INTENSITY an organization and build greater mutual trust and respect with the Indigenous We share in the global challenge to address climate change by harnessing Peoples of Canada. The goal outlines four areas to focus on through 2025 and technology and innovation to set us on a pathway to a low-carbon energy system. PERFORMANCE DATA beyond where we can work together to advance greater participation of We aim to reduce total emissions intensity of the production of our oil and Indigenous Peoples and communities in energy development: petroleum products by 30% by 2030. Our focus on GHG emissions intensity • strengthening relationships with Indigenous Peoples and all Canadians reductions is in these key areas: APPENDICES • partnering with Indigenous youth to develop leadership potential • implementing and improving energy efficiency • partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities • developing and deploying new technologies • significantly improving our Indigenous workforce development • investing in low-carbon power • moving to low-carbon fuels OUR COMMITMENT TO WATER STEWARDSHIP We are also focused on extending our commitment to water stewardship by working to develop a new long-term water goal. Our plan is to take a watershed approach to this goal and work with stakeholders and Indigenous communities to determine where we can have the greatest impact. This is an innovative approach to goal setting and we are excited to see the results of the process. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS | 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS CEO MESSAGE Suncor supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and shares the view that businesses have a key role to play in the implementation of these goals. ABOUT OUR REPORT The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SUNCOR’S CONTRIBUTIONS IN ACTION (SDGs) define global development priorities for 2030. STRATEGY AND The following are examples of how Suncor is taking action on a select number of SDGs. They address the global challenges including those GOVERNANCE related to poverty, inequality, climate, environmental degradation, prosperity, and peace and justice, OUR BUSINESS and are a reflection of an integrated conversation on sustainability. The objective is for businesses, governments and civil society to co-operate and CLIMATE CHANGE collaborate on a defined set of targets to drive GOAL 5: Achieve gender equality and GOAL 6: Ensure availability and sustainable meaningful change. empower women and girls management of water and sanitation for all We recognize Suncor’s business activities can have ENVIRONMENT • inclusion and diversity strategies and action • partnering with Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation both a positive and a negative impact on the SDGs. plans across the enterprise Alliance (COSIA) to achieve the COSIA water We also learned that through our initiatives and goals, and to generate water-related SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY activities our work contributes to all 17 goals. • unconscious bias training to provide learning technologies and innovative ideas targeting opportunities to eliminate bias and increase In 2018, we mapped the SDGs across our business efficiency improvements across the oil and gas cultural competency to better understand: industry INNOVATION • partnering with Women Building Futures on a • what our positive contributions are • sourcing recycled wastewater for use at our program to train women in heavy industrial Edmonton refinery from the Gold Bar PERFORMANCE DATA • where we can minimize our negative impacts trades to increase their participation in the Wastewater Treatment plant workforce • opportunities to collaborate with others • implementation of a $65 million upgrade for solutions APPENDICES to our existing wastewater treatment facility at • areas to maximize value over the short, medium our Commerce City, CO refinery to leverage and long-term for a positive contribution membrane ultrafiltration technology to treat and filter water SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS | 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE GOAL 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, GOAL 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and GOAL 9: Build resilient infrastructure, ABOUT OUR REPORT sustainable and modern energy for all sustainable economic growth, full and promote inclusive and sustainable productive employment, and decent work for all industrialization, and foster innovation • advancing a portfolio of technologies to lower STRATEGY AND the carbon intensity of producing bitumen and • partnering with companies and organizations • partnering with COSIA to develop the Alberta GOVERNANCE improve cost competitiveness such as Evok Innovations, COSIA and Clean Carbon Conversion Technology Centre, a test Resource Innovations Network (CRIN) to facility for initiatives such as the NRG COSIA • our renewable power portfolio, including a promote and support the growing ecosystem Carbon XPRIZE OUR BUSINESS partnership with Aamjiwnaang First Nation in of entrepreneurship focused on clean energy the Adelaide Wind Power Project near Sarnia, • being a CRIN member, an organization which research and technology solutions Ontario focuses on creating connections for our CLIMATE CHANGE • implementing Suncor’s social goal to partner resource sector, to advance technologies for use • using cogeneration, a carbon-efficient form of with Indigenous businesses and communities, in Canada and global markets base load power generation at our oil sands including: ENVIRONMENT facilities, and exporting excess low-carbon • participating in Energy Futures Lab, which aims electricity to the Alberta provincial grid -an equity partnership in the East Tank Farm to strengthen Alberta and Canada’s position as a Development with Mikisew Cree First Nation global energy leader and Engineering Change • investing in biofuels, including the largest SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Fort McKay First Nation in northern Alberta Lab, a collaborative platform for stewarding the ethanol facility in Canada and investments in application of science and technology biofuel technologies -an equity partnership in PetroNor, a distributor INNOVATION of petroleum products owned and operated by the James Bay Cree First Nation in Quebec • supporting organizations who share our vision PERFORMANCE DATA in developing skills and ensuring career success for youth, women, and Indigenous communities, APPENDICES such as Keyano College SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS | 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our approach to sustainability continues to contribute directly and indirectly to the UN 2030 agenda. We look for partnership opportunities to CEO MESSAGE deliver change at scale. We are committed to supporting a number of aligned initiatives, including: GOAL 12: Ensure sustainable consumption GOAL 13: Take urgent action to combat • The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Our ABOUT OUR REPORT and production patterns climate change and its impacts commitment and implementation of the principles • developing a supply chain sustainability strategy • establishing a long-term GHG goal to reduce are integrated throughout this report. STRATEGY AND to accelerate progress on the environmental and emissions across our operations • The ambition of the Paris Climate Agreement GOVERNANCE social impacts of our procurement decisions • understanding and reporting on carbon risk and contributing to development of low-carbon • investments in businesses such as Enerkem Inc., and resiliency, and being a signatory to the policies, such as the Pan-Canadian Framework OUR BUSINESS which manufactures biofuels and renewable Task Force on Climate-related Financial on Clean Growth and Climate Change. chemical products from household garbage Disclosures (TCFD) • The Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Call to that would otherwise be landfilled Action for the corporate sector to adopt United CLIMATE CHANGE • partnering with industry to launch the Alberta • launching Canada’s first coast-to-coast Carbon Conversion Technology Centre to test Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous electric charging network through our carbon capture, and conversion technologies Peoples as a reconciliation framework for its Petro-Canada stations alongside other researchers and innovators relationship with the Indigenous Peoples in Canada. ENVIRONMENT • partnering with Titan Tire Reclamation Corporation and the Athabasca Chipewyan SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY First Nation (ACFN) on an innovative solution to recycle scrap industrial mining tires INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Renewables | 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Joint venture wind project, Chin Chute, located in Taber, Alberta. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RENEWABLES INNOVATION Global demand for low-carbon energy sources is dramatically increasing. Technological advancements continue PERFORMANCE DATA to drive down costs while increasing efficiency. Renewable power development is a key part of the transition towards a low-carbon future. Suncor has an ambitious goal to reduce total emissions intensity by 30% by APPENDICES 2030 – investment in renewable energy is part of the solution. RENEWABLE POWER STRATEGY Since entering the renewable power generation In support of Suncor’s greenhouse gas (GHG) goal, our Renewable Energy team business in 2002, we have developed eight wind is working to economically add approximately 800 megawatts (MW) of new, more efficient power capacity over the next 10 years. This new power capacity power projects which have a gross generating is expected to contribute to both direct and indirect GHG emission reductions. capacity of 395 MW. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Renewables | 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our renewable energy strategy has three main aspirational drivers: RENEWABLE POWER OPERATIONS UPDATE 1. Offset carbon dioxide CEO MESSAGE Suncor plans to offset 1.5 megatonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent per Our wind power facilities located in Alberta, year by 2030 through the build-out of 800 MW of renewable power generation Saskatchewan and Ontario have a gross generating with a focus on the western Canadian market. We have a number of renewable ABOUT OUR REPORT energy sites in our development portfolio. The prime focus is on wind and solar capacity of 111 MW, enough to power about power sites in Alberta, starting with the proposed Forty Mile Wind Power Project. 52,000 Canadian homes and to avoid approximately STRATEGY AND The proposed Forty Mile Wind Power Project is located in southeastern Alberta 179,000 tonnes of CO2 each year. GOVERNANCE on approximately 50,000 acres of private land, south and east of the town of Bow Island and in the County of Forty Mile. The project is proposed to be Suncor and Aamjiwnaang First Nation are partners on the Adelaide Wind Power developed in two phases for a total of 400 MW. The proposed project will Project, in Strathroy, Ontario, with Aamjiwnaang First Nation owning a 25% OUR BUSINESS consist of wind turbines, meteorological tower(s), an electrical collection interest in the project and Suncor as operator. Other Western Canadian wind system(s), turbine access roads and temporary construction facilities. power projects that we have interests in, but are not the operator of, include Chin Chute, Magrath and Sunbridge. CLIMATE CHANGE 2. Create economic opportunities for Indigenous groups Renewable energy is a common interest we share with many Indigenous groups Safety who are working to develop projects for their own consumption as well as for ENVIRONMENT Adelaide’s safety performance remains strong with zero recordable incidents to capacity-building with their respective economic development corporations. date, thanks in part to working alone technology. This technology uses a mobile In support of Suncor’s long-term social goal, we plan to create economic phone-sized device worn by personnel while on site that monitors the person’s SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY opportunities for Indigenous groups through both service provision and equity location and well-being via cellular network. partnership opportunities. The jointly-owned Adelaide Wind Power Project In 2018, Suncor’s Renewable Energy and Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) in southern Ontario has contributed to a positive working relationship between INNOVATION teams worked with Adelaide’s turbine service and maintenance contractor to Suncor and Aamjiwnaang First Nation. perform a site EH&S audit. The audit identified some opportunities to improve 3. Preserve future optionality for Suncor processes and safety for the project, which are being implemented. PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor recognized the value of renewable energy 18 years ago and in 2002 The Renewable Energy team attends regular monthly meetings with project commissioned our first wind power project in Gull Lake, Saskatchewan. Since partners and contractors to ensure effective stewardship of the project. Suncor is APPENDICES then, our investments have focused on wind power and biofuels, and we also an active member of the Canadian Wind Energy Association (CanWEA), continue to evaluate opportunities in other renewable technologies such as solar. which provide resources and conferences to stay current on renewable energy safety, technology and best practices. As a large electricity generator in Alberta and an industry player focused on reducing its carbon footprint, Suncor continues to work with policymakers, industry partners and other stakeholders to increase investment in renewable Reliability power development. Suncor works closely with industry experts and contractors to drive availability and production goals for the Adelaide project. The Renewable Energy team is focused on applying new technology for inspections and data analytics to enhance and optimize the wind farm’s performance. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Renewables | 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Operating expenses Community support Renewable Energy collaborates with internal supply chain management partners Suncor is a partner in four operational wind power facilities in Canada. It’s critical to efficiently execute procurement processes, manage contractor responsibilities that Suncor and its partners demonstrate a commitment to communities in which CEO MESSAGE and cost controls. This work ultimately builds stronger operating results for the facilities have a presence. the business. • In Alberta in 2018, the Chin Chute Wind Power project made a donation to ABOUT OUR REPORT the Safe Haven Women’s Society, and the Magrath Wind Power project made a Regulatory requirements donation to the Magrath & District Emergency Services department for an Suncor closely monitors the requirements of the Adelaide project’s Renewable equipment upgrade initiative. Suncor also contributed to HALO Rescue’s annual STRATEGY AND Energy Agreement (REA), the permit awarded by the Government of Ontario. fundraising event, the only dedicated medivac helicopter for southern Alberta GOVERNANCE Some REA commitments for Adelaide include: and southwest Saskatchewan. • species at risk habitat enhancement and monitoring • In 2018, the SunBridge Wind Power project in Saskatchewan continued its OUR BUSINESS support of Gull Lake Communities in Bloom and Crescent Point Pool in Gull • raptor mortality monitoring Lake, Alta. Suncor also supported the Women of the Dawn Counselling Centre • water quality and acoustic monitoring in Regina for their annual children’s Christmas event. CLIMATE CHANGE • hazardous waste collection All requirements are managed by team members and contractors through ENVIRONMENT Suncor’s regulatory compliance tool. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Technology improvements Data analytics continues to be an area of focus for Suncor, as does drone technology, which looks promising for wind turbine blade inspections. We are INNOVATION also exploring the use of drones for greater reliability, along with safer and more efficient inspections. Suncor monitors and evaluates a variety of new technologies for both new development and operating facilities. PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Renewables | 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS BIOFUELS A life cycle value assessment conducted for our St. Clair ethanol plant estimated that overall CO2 emissions could be reduced by up to 300,000 tonnes per year by Suncor operates Canada’s largest ethanol facility by volume – the St. Clair ethanol blending 10% ethanol from the St. Clair plant into gasoline. CEO MESSAGE plant in the Sarnia-Lambton region of Ontario. The plant opened in June 2006 and has a current production capacity of 400 million litres per year. In addition to our St. Clair ethanol plant and to ensure that the product we sell to our consumers remain cost and carbon competitive, Suncor has also invested ABOUT OUR REPORT in the following companies: St. Clair recently surpassed four billion litres of 1. Enerkem Inc.: In 2019, we invested in Enerkem which manufactures biofuels ethanol production, a site milestone. and renewable chemical products from household garbage that would STRATEGY AND otherwise be landfilled. In addition to a financial investment, a number of GOVERNANCE Ethanol produced at St. Clair is blended into Petro-Canada gasoline. Government Suncor employees have been seconded to Enerkem’s facility in Edmonton regulations in Canada and the U.S. require that a percentage of ethanol be 2. Flint Hills Resources: a biodiesel plant in Beatrice, Nebraska OUR BUSINESS blended into fuels to reduce the environmental impacts of vehicle emissions. 3. LanzaTech: a biofuels firm based in the United States that is advancing a Ethanol is a cleaner-burning, renewable resource produced from corn that is not proprietary gas phase fermentation technology to recycle waste gas and considered to be suitable for human consumption. The St. Clair ethanol plant uses CLIMATE CHANGE greenhouse gas emissions into low-carbon fuels and chemicals approximately 40 million bushels of corn annually, a significant portion of Ontario’s annual corn crop. The type of corn used as feedstock has traditionally According to the International Energy Agency’s Renewables 2018 market analysis been used to feed livestock. Once the starches are extracted from the corn to report released in October 2018, fuel ethanol will account for two-thirds of the ENVIRONMENT make ethanol, the remaining elements are used to make premium cattle feed. worldwide growth in conventional biofuels between 2018 and 2023. A third-party industrial gas plant is attached to the St. Clair plant to capture CO2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY from the fermenters, which is then sold to the local greenhouse industry. INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Corporate governance | 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE Suncor’s Board of Directors supervises the management of our business and affairs on behalf of our shareholders. Its responsibilities include governance, strategic planning and stewardship of Suncor. Our board has processes in place to help ABOUT OUR REPORT ensure Suncor lives up to all regulatory requirements and the standards of excellence we set for ourselves. STRATEGY AND The board responsibilities include: GOVERNANCE • identifying principal risks and ensuring systems are in place to effectively monitor, manage and mitigate those risks, ensuring Suncor has an effective OUR BUSINESS strategic planning process • overseeing the establishment and enforcement of Suncor’s Standards of Business Conduct CLIMATE CHANGE • ensuring systems are in place for communication with investors and other stakeholders ENVIRONMENT • selecting, monitoring and evaluating executive leadership and aligning management’s decision-making with long-term shareholder interest SUNCOR’S GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Effective corporate governance comes from leadership and good corporate • ensuring processes are in place to monitor and maintain the integrity of structure. Economic, environmental and social issues aren’t considered separately Suncor’s internal controls and management information systems but evaluated holistically as part of Suncor’s strategic decision-making process. INNOVATION This continues to inform our corporate structure. Key features of this governance A DIVERSE AND EXPERIENCED BOARD structure include: The Canadian Board Diversity Council (CBDC) notes that having a diverse, PERFORMANCE DATA • our board and its committees, which have clearly defined and distinct oversight experienced and well-credentialed Board of Directors improves board discussions, roles to protect the interests of our shareholders set out in terms of reference contributes to greater diligence when decisions are being made, and leads to improved financial performance and shareholder value. • the board’s Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development APPENDICES (EHS&SD) Committee, which monitors management’s performance in areas Suncor’s board aims to have directors with a range of perspectives, insights and within its mandate views on the issues affecting Suncor. It searches for members from diverse backgrounds, considering gender, ethnicity/Indigenous status, age, business • our executive management team, which integrates key operational and experience, professional expertise, personal skills, stakeholder perspectives and functional accountabilities for maximum efficiency and effectiveness, including geographic background. a chief sustainability officer Suncor is a proud supporter of the 30% Club of Canada, a not-for-profit organization focused on the continued drive toward achieving greater gender balance at all levels, Good corporate governance is a critical part of including an aspirational objective of 30% women on boards by 2020. We currently our business culture and how our directors make exceed this objective with 33% of our board who are women. decisions in the best interest of our shareholders. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Corporate governance | 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Environment, social and governance (ESG) issues and Chief sustainability officer (CSO) board practices CEO MESSAGE ESG factors also play a role in director recruitment, board evaluation and Eric Axford was appointed as Suncor’s first-ever chief sustainability officer in 2017. committee representation. To ensure Suncor’s board has the right expertise: Eric plays a key role navigating the many external relationships and strategic partnerships that are part of Suncor’s commitment to sustainability. Eric presents • the board revised its skills matrix in 2017 to ensure skills and experience in ABOUT OUR REPORT on sustainability matters at meetings of the Environment, Health, Safety and environment, health, safety and social responsibility were desired competencies Sustainable Development (EHS&SD) Committee of the board, and represents them • the governance committee conducts the selection process for new board at periodic board reviews. STRATEGY AND nominees and seeks to have a representation of diverse backgrounds, GOVERNANCE experience and skills EHS&SD Committee The EHS&SD Committee of the board oversees and manages matters relating to • the aspiration of the board diversity policy is to maintain at least 30% OUR BUSINESS environmental, health, safety and sustainable development. The committee meets gender diversity quarterly to review: Suncor’s board practices on performance evaluation and compensation • recommendations to the board about Suncor’s strategies and policies on consider ESG factors by: CLIMATE CHANGE environmental, health, safety and sustainable development • evaluating senior executive performance annually against well-defined goals • Suncor’s Operational Excellence Management System (an overarching framework that support and reinforce Suncor’s value drivers ENVIRONMENT to manage operational risk) • considering Suncor’s performance against enterprise-wide sustainability goals • management’s performance and emerging trends and issues in the related to safety, environmental (including GHGs) and social performance in SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY environmental, health, safety and sustainable development space to ensure we determining the amount of annual incentive payments to the CEO are anticipating future challenges and positioning ourselves to minimize risks INNOVATION • management stewardship reports as well as the findings of significant external and internal environmental, health and safety investigations, assessments, reviews and audits PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Risk management | 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS RISK MANAGEMENT CEO MESSAGE Risk management is fundamental to achieving our business goals, and requires a culture of operational discipline. ABOUT OUR REPORT IDENTIFYING PRINCIPAL RISKS Principal risks are generally considered those that have the potential to materially STRATEGY AND impact our ability to meet or support our strategic objectives. In the constantly GOVERNANCE evolving energy business, new risks can emerge and established risks can take on new forms or orders of magnitude. OUR BUSINESS We manage identification of new principal risks through our critical and principal risk processes. These risks are further outlined in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis, and include: CLIMATE CHANGE • carbon risk • commodity price ENVIRONMENT • cumulative impact and pace of change • government/regulatory and policy effectiveness SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH • information security We make risk-informed decisions that reflect our culture of embedding sustainability considerations including active engagement with Indigenous and community • major operational incident (safety, environmental and reliability) INNOVATION stakeholders, and governed by our guiding principles for risk management. • market access This requires ongoing identification, assessment, treatment and monitoring of PERFORMANCE DATA • project development and execution risks inherent to our assets, activities and operations. Some of these risks are common to operations, while some are unique to Suncor. Our risk management program is aligned with the International Organization for Standardization RISK GOVERNANCE APPENDICES guidelines (the ISO 31000 Risk management – Guidelines), which were also All levels of our organization are engaged in our enterprise risk management adopted by the Standards Council of Canada. The guidelines provide principles, (ERM) program. Suncor’s Board of Directors and Audit committee are accountable a framework and a process for managing risk. for oversight of our principal risks and ensure systems are in place to manage their impact. Individual business units and functions regularly identify, mitigate and Our risk management practice is governed by our risk management policy, and report on critical risks in their areas of business. This coordinated approach fosters supported through processes and tools such as risk management standards a culture of risk governance throughout the enterprise. and the risk matrix to effectively identify and assess risk across the enterprise. This policy and supporting tools drives a culture of being: Risk responsibility, accountability and ownership are appropriately assigned to ensure management of identified risks. Dedicated risk co-ordinators are • Proactive: We do the right thing by identifying and managing risk in advance. embedded in each function, and are instrumental in building risk awareness and • Transparent: We encourage openness and honesty about our risks. We actively competency across the business to ensure proper accountability of risk. Follow-up provide and seek out information so we can make better decisions. measures are in place to ensure risk management decisions are properly and effectively implemented and monitored. • Consistent: We are disciplined in doing the right thing, the right way to achieve excellence in risk management. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Risk management | 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS All principal risks must be reported annually to the Board of Directors and Audit Through formal annual internal assessments and reviews of the system by committee. Reporting includes details on what’s being done to address these risks, our leaders, we continually identify opportunities to improve. Our ISO 14001 how the risks are being monitored and any changes in the risk profile. and 9001 certified facilities are also subject to regular external audits. CEO MESSAGE Our 2018 Annual Information Form (dated Feb. 28, 2019), provides a comprehensive overview of significant risks applicable to Suncor and its SUSTAINABILITY CONSIDERATIONS IN ABOUT OUR REPORT businesses. Since 2016, carbon risk has been included in these principal risks and PROJECT DEVELOPMENT subsequently undergoes an annual board review. The environment, health, safety When initiating new projects, our governance framework ensures we continually and sustainable development committee of the board also oversees this risk. raise the bar by systematically embedding sustainability considerations into STRATEGY AND planning and decision-making. This process is consistent with our commitment to GOVERNANCE RISK ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION strive for strong environmental performance, strong collaboration and strong Once identified, risks are assessed and evaluated in terms of magnitude of impact stakeholder relationships. OUR BUSINESS and likelihood using an internal risk-matrix tool. A single risk-matrix tool allows We have a long history of building and maintaining relationships, listening to employees to consistently assess risks and evaluate the consequence and likelihood community needs and concerns, and working together to mitigate potential of risk events. It also helps to assign responsibility for different levels of residual risk. impacts while seeking opportunities. CLIMATE CHANGE The consequence is based on the following five receptors on the risk matrix: By integrating sustainability into our process for developing physical assets 1. Health and safety we ensure: ENVIRONMENT 2. Environmental • environmental and social risks, as well as opportunities, are identified as part of 3. Regulatory the project definition SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • development options are evaluated against sustainability criteria through the 4. Reputation concept selection process 5. Financial impact INNOVATION • environmental and social risks are incorporated into the project’s risk register OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE • Suncor’s project portfolio supports our strategic sustainability goals and PERFORMANCE DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM long-term vision Operational excellence is a disciplined way of running our business and using This process informs project development decision-making and ensures asset consistent practices to operate in a way that is safe, reliable, cost-efficient and options include both technical and sustainability considerations in their APPENDICES evaluations. For example, climate change implications are considered early in the environmentally responsible, as well as to continually improve our performance. asset development process, before we commit significant resources. This ensures The Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is the framework we use we mitigate risks and make the most of opportunities that will enable us to to systematically manage operational risk and enable achievement of our achieve our goal of reducing carbon emission intensity by 30% by 2030. operational objectives. Our OEMS enables us to: • operate safely and reliably • prevent and mitigate environmental and social impacts • develop and share best practices SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Policy engagement | 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS POLICY ENGAGEMENT CEO MESSAGE We participate in public policy discussions on energy and the environment, and regularly communicate with governments in jurisdictions where we operate. ABOUT OUR REPORT Our policy position with governments includes: STRATEGY AND • supporting Canada’s long-term prosperity GOVERNANCE • developing vibrant, sustainable communities • ensuring that Canada remains competitive and able to attract needed OUR BUSINESS investment • encouraging Indigenous economic collaboration and capacity building CLIMATE CHANGE • encouraging a healthy dialogue about energy solutions • considering energy development and distribution costs and benefits ENVIRONMENT • understanding the role of and supporting advancements in research, technology and innovation SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • ensuring effective policy outcomes and effective and efficient regulation that will enable timely and responsible development INNOVATION • supporting carbon mitigation policies that address both consumption and production, including a price on carbon When participating in public policy dialogue, we ensure our participation is in PERFORMANCE DATA compliance with all lobbying regulations and we report government interactions • advocating for policy and regulatory regimes to support deployment of consistent with the law and company policies. innovations that reduce environmental footprints such as GHG emissions and water management Increasingly in Canada, public policy is developed through open and transparent APPENDICES processes, incorporating the expertise and perspective of a broad range of • supporting Alberta as the first oil and gas producing jurisdiction to limit the Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders. Suncor participates in these forums, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the oil sector, all while allowing for bringing our industry perspective and a solutions-based mindset to advance continued growth, investments in technology, and expanding market access responsible development. We support governments taking a reasoned and outcomes-based approach to ECONOMIC POLICY policy development. We believe policy should be built on evidence-based Royalties and taxes information and informed perspectives. Royalties and taxes should deliver a fair return to government, while providing Constructive dialogue and transparent sharing of information are critical in industry with a competitive, stable and predictable fiscal framework on which to guiding our interaction with governments and stakeholders toward the base long-term investment decisions. development of practical policy solutions. These activities promote responsible Policies should recognize market factors, such as challenges faced by corporations development of existing and new energy sources. We seek opportunities to competing in a global economy. mitigate polarization through engaging broadly with diverse interests. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Policy engagement | 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Levies added over and above current royalties and taxes need to be holistically In addition to the existing comprehensive and robust regulatory framework that considered and understood in terms of costs, outcomes and competitiveness governs development and operation of pipelines and other large infrastructure against other jurisdictions in which Canada’s natural resources compete. projects, the Government of Canada has introduced Bill C-48, Oil Tanker CEO MESSAGE Moratorium Act that received Royal Assent on June 21, 2019. This Act will restrict Transparency vessels that transport crude oil or persistent oil to or from ports of marine installations located along British Columbia’s north coast. ABOUT OUR REPORT We support policy and regulations that promote transparency and advocate for rules that are consistently applied and respect agreements with Indigenous Peoples. We believe efficient, effective and transparent STRATEGY AND Cumulative impact of policy changes regulatory oversight is the responsible thing to GOVERNANCE We continually assess risks associated with existing and proposed policy and regulation changes. The findings are from the assessments to inform our approach do and will be valuable to accurately inform OUR BUSINESS with governments and others involved in policy and decision-making. The Canadians, decision-makers and other stakeholders. assessments provide context for policy-makers and regulators so we can fully consider all aspects of potential policy and regulation. This enhances our focus on CLIMATE CHANGE how to achieve constructive outcomes. SOCIAL POLICY Local community capacity Market access Suncor is committed to being a good neighbour and playing a lead role in the ENVIRONMENT Our oil sands industry makes a strong contribution to meeting global energy strength and resiliency of the communities where we operate. demands, while creating jobs, contributing to the economy and generating revenues for government to fund social programs across Canada. We continue to Building capacity and supporting key community initiatives is an important SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY component of our work in all of our operating regions. For example, in the support the development of new pipelines to ensure we have options during unplanned events, to get full value for all our products and to enable future growth. Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo we have been working in co-operation with industry partners and local business associations to better forecast future INNOVATION Suncor is supportive of all the major pipelines that are currently proposed and/ population growth and infrastructure needs. or approved: PERFORMANCE DATA • Keystone XL ENVIRONMENT POLICY • Line 3 Federal environmental legislation reviews APPENDICES • Trans Mountain expansion Environmental assessments inform government decision-making and support sustainable development by identifying opportunities to avoid, eliminate or reduce Pipeline projects take several years to approve, develop and make operational, so a project’s potential adverse impact on the environment and ensure mitigation it also makes sense for us to tap into existing networks to transport our products measures are in place when a project is constructed, operated and to market. decommissioned. Pipelines continue to be the safest, most efficient means of transportation for In May of 2016, the Government of Canada initiated a review of Canada’s crude oil and other petroleum products. We are working with stakeholders to environmental assessment processes with the introduction of Bill C-69, Impact address many of these concerns from a producer’s perspective and are engaged Assessment Act. Bill C-69 aims to enhance predictability and timeliness of with governments to the same extent. environmental assessments for major project reviews to protect Canada’s Canadians are not receiving the full value for our energy resources and an uncertain environment and grow the economy. regulatory environment hinders investment and growth. Pipeline infrastructure is The legislation expands the types of impacts to understand how a proposed critical to all Canadians because when we receive full value for our energy resources, project could affect not just the environment, but also health, social and economic we’re better able to fund health care and education, and provide employment. impacts as well as impacts on Indigenous Peoples over the long term. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Policy engagement | 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Since 2016, Suncor was actively engaged in the federal government consultation We are a strong voice in the call for effective policy to address the Canadian oil process to ensure that our concerns were considered in the proposed legislation. and gas industry’s GHG emissions. In our view, this includes a carbon price signal In June 2019, Bill C-69 received Royal Assent. that incents carbon reduction and a practical regulatory architecture. CEO MESSAGE While we support the intent of Bill C-69 with its early planning phase that Regardless of the strategy chosen to reduce carbon, implementation really includes clear timelines, permitting and Indigenous consultation requirements, we matters. We also think it’s important for investors and other stakeholders that ABOUT OUR REPORT are concerned that the Bill will not restore investor confidence in our industry and policy is predictable and certain. our country. The environmental assessment processes for major projects need to Since 2008, we have advocated publicly in support of a broad-based, economyappropriately balance the economy, the environment and social impact while at wide carbon price. In 2016, we joined the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition STRATEGY AND the same time incent innovation and future investment. (CPLC) – and contributed to the CPLC’s Canadian industry report in 2017 – to GOVERNANCE support Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission, ultimately broadening the discussion of Lower Athabasca Regional Plan carbon pricing into the realm of practical policy application. In 2012, the Government of Alberta approved the Lower Athabasca Regional Plan OUR BUSINESS Our continued collaboration with Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission has generated (LARP). The LARP addresses land-use management in the Lower Athabasca region numerous reports focused on two themes: of Alberta, which includes the area of the province in which Suncor’s Oil Sands CLIMATE CHANGE business is located. The LARP, which was developed pursuant to the Alberta • the importance of implementing carbon pricing Land Stewardship Act, is part of Alberta’s approach to managing economic, • considerations needed for policy design environmental and social goals, including cumulative environmental effects ENVIRONMENT management on a regional scale. We support regulatory design that: The LARP includes management frameworks for: • is focused on emissions rather than targeting specific sectors and protects against SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY carbon leakage • air quality (sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide) • drives best achievable performance from existing facilities • surface water quality INNOVATION • provides clear support for innovation and technology development that enables • surface water quantity game-changing solutions • tailings management for mineable Athabasca oil sands PERFORMANCE DATA • positions Canada as a leader in energy innovation and ensures competitiveness • regional groundwater management • sets challenging but achievable reduction goals with a process that allows for Each of these frameworks includes interim triggers to allow early indications of an increase in ambition as technology develops APPENDICES change. On an ongoing basis, we also participate in discussions that lay a • is flexible and provides for multi-jurisdictional compliance pathways foundation for future policy and regulation on aspects of tailings management, water return, biodiversity, caribou and wetlands. • avoids duplication In Canada, there exists a “patchwork quilt” of carbon pricing policies across the GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS provinces, as well as differences in complementary policies across provinces. Over Climate change regulation time, this will mean higher costs than necessary. We advocate for both levels of government to ensure policies work together. Suncor operates in many jurisdictions that regulate, or have proposed to regulate, industrial greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We are committed to fully complying Canada’s energy industry has a responsibility to navigate between the aspirational with existing regulations and we are engaged with all levels of government to and the realistic, which for the oil sector specifically means keeping the Canadian establish or evolve a credible carbon policy regulatory framework for the oil and gas economy moving, through continued investment in existing energy supply and sector in Canada. Our position is that Canada’s oil and gas sector are world-class, maintaining critical infrastructure. Policies should provide the certainty required to responsibly developed resources that are needed to meet growing global energy make necessary investment decisions and not lead to leakage of investment capital. demand. Canada will continue to advance technologies to improve environmental performance and contribute to tackling the climate change challenge. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Policy engagement | 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS There remains much work to be done to define a unified Canadian energy vision Starting in 2020, Alberta industries will be regulated under a yet-to-be-developed for 2050. The need exists for collaborative policy solutions that can advance our Technology Innovation and Emission Reduction Fund program (TIER). The nation’s economic ambitions while advancing measurable environmental outcomes. proposed construct of the TIER is similar to the previous Specified Gas Emitters CEO MESSAGE Regulation (SGER) that was put in place between 2007 and 2017. Canadian federal government To protect the competitiveness of Alberta trade-exposed industries, the proposed ABOUT OUR REPORT The federal government’s Pan-Canadian Carbon Price Framework requires each TIER model, similar to SGER, will apply to facilities that emit greater than province to implement a carbon pricing policy with an overall stringency 100,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide (or equivalent) applying historical facility equivalent to a minimum price of $20 per tonne, rising to $50 per tonne over the intensity baseline architecture with a requirement to reduce the carbon intensity STRATEGY AND next four years. Provinces and territories that do not comply are subject to a of an industrial operation beginning at 10%. A portion of the carbon revenues GOVERNANCE federal carbon pricing backstop. collected from the TIER program will be used to support emission reduction technologies, a distinct component of Alberta’s climate policies since 2007. Provinces and territories that volunteered to accept the federal plan may use the Electricity generators will be required to meet a “good as best gas” output-based revenue as necessary for the unique circumstances of their region, including OUR BUSINESS standard similar to the current CCIR. protecting carbon-intense, trade-exposed industries. Involuntary provinces with policies that were viewed to be inadequate are subject to the federal backstop. In Quebec CLIMATE CHANGE these jurisdictions, carbon revenues are generally collected from two streams: Suncor’s Montreal refinery in Quebec is regulated under a cap-and-trade program • A consumer-facing carbon tax on all fossil fuels where the majority of the linked to the Western Climate Initiative (WCI). Industries regulated under the carbon revenues collected are returned to their citizens in the form of a rebate program receive an allowance allocation that aligns with a benchmark ENVIRONMENT rather than to their provincial governments. performance specific to their sector and takes into account competitiveness in a trade-exposed context. • An output-based pricing system (OBPS) for industrial facilities that emit above SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 kt CO2e or more per year, with the ability to opt-in for smaller facilities – Fuel suppliers are required to purchase allowances to cover the tailpipe emissions protecting the competitiveness of the industrial sector. of all fuel sold, the cost of which is expected to be largely passed to the consumer, thus acting as a carbon price on fuel consumption. INNOVATION The federal government is consulting with industry on how best to use the carbon revenues to help industry reduce their emissions. Under the proposed OBPS structure, Ontario the federal government’s current direction is to implement a fuel-differentiated In June 2018, Ontario withdrew its participation in the WCI cap-and-trade PERFORMANCE DATA output-based standard for emissions from electricity. We believe this approach program in favour of introducing its own Emission Performance System intended prolongs coal fired power generation and favours converting coal power plants to to meet the overall stringency of the Federal backstop. natural gas over lower carbon and more efficient forms of power generation that APPENDICES exist in today’s energy system, including renewables and cogeneration. This could In the interim, Ontario has become an involuntary province subject to the federal lead to a higher intensity electricity grid over a longer period of time and therefore backstop. Suncor’s Sarnia refinery and St. Clair ethanol plant are both regulated increased GHG emissions. Suncor continues to highlight this issue. facilities under the federal OBPS where it receives an emissions allowance to protect the competitiveness of our sector. Suncor will work with the provincial Canadian provincial governments government to explore solutions that achieve the required outcomes while minimizing impacts to people and business. Alberta In April 2019, Alberta elected a new provincial government and for the remainder Newfoundland and Labrador of 2019, Alberta’s industries will continue to be regulated under the current The Government of Newfoundland and Labrador’s carbon pricing plan took effect Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation (CCIR) at the economy-wide price on January 1, 2019 with a carbon price of $20 per tonne of CO2e. The plan is a of $30 per tonne. hybrid system comprised of performance standards for large industrial facilities, including large scale electricity generation, plus a consumer carbon tax on transportation, building fuels, electricity generation and other fuels combusted in the province. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Policy engagement | 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS Performance standards for large industrial facilities are legislated under the In Alberta, policies remain in place that accelerate the transition from coal to Management of Greenhouse Gas Act (MGGA) and associated regulations, which renewable electricity and natural gas generation by 2030. Suncor is a proponent apply to all facilities that emit 15,000 tonnes of CO2e or more per year. of increased cogeneration as a key part of the power mix in Alberta, particularly CEO MESSAGE as the province transitions away from coal. Cogeneration provides reliable, Similar to Alberta’s SGER and CCIR, the MGGA will establish a fund for clean base-load power to intermittent renewable power at the lowest GHG intensity of technology through carbon compliance payments made by industrial emitters. any hydrocarbon fuel. ABOUT OUR REPORT This is expected to support technology and innovation as well as provide flexible compliance options and protect the competitiveness of energy-intensive tradeGreening the electricity grid through our existing renewable wind assets and exposed sectors such as the province’s offshore petroleum sector. highly efficient cogeneration units in addition to our continued commitment to STRATEGY AND invest in low carbon power is one important pathway for Suncor to be able to GOVERNANCE Low-carbon fuel standards make a measurable positive impact in support of our shared environment. We continue to monitor and consult on numerous policy initiatives such as the We are the 5th largest electricity generator in Alberta and are keenly focused on federal government’s proposed Clean Fuel Standards (CFS) to reduce Canada’s reducing our carbon footprint. We have cogeneration units at Oil Sands Base OUR BUSINESS GHG emissions through the increased use of lower-carbon fuels. plant, Firebag, MacKay River and Fort Hills facilities, and we export low-carbon excess electricity generated from these units to the provincial grid. Suncor works At Suncor, we’ve long acknowledged that broad-based carbon policy tools can CLIMATE CHANGE create an efficient, market-based approach that addresses both consumption and with policy-makers, industry partners and other stakeholders to increase investment in low and zero carbon power generation. Collaboration between production challenges. It’s important to remember that about 80% of overall government, industry and other stakeholders is the only way to ensure that carbon emissions occur at the point of consumption, while only about 20% are ENVIRONMENT measurable environmental outcomes are achieved under electricity market. generated in production. Therefore, some tools will need to focus on that 80% to make a real difference. Biofuel policy advocacy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The challenge is to design a system that economically efficient without adding Canada’s renewable biofuels industry is quickly maturing, and Suncor is working duplicative layers of cost and administrative burden, while truly complementing to improve its long-term viability as current government support programs GHG policies that can support a carbon price and drive greater emissions INNOVATION directed at first-generation biofuels decline. reductions at a lower economic cost. As opportunities arise, we invest in advanced renewable energy technologies to Where complementary policies are added to carbon pricing, the objectives of the complement the existing biofuel industry. This involves funding outside companies PERFORMANCE DATA complementary policy should be clear and the interaction with other policies, and whose technology ideas align with the strategic needs of our operations the environmental outcomes as a result of carbon pricing in particular, should be or businesses. well understood. APPENDICES Suncor supports a flexible performance standard for transportation fuel intensity RENEWABLE ENERGY over more narrowly constructed mandates. Renewable and low-carbon power policy Under the proposed OBPS structure, the federal government’s current direction is to implement a fuel-differentiated output-based standard for emissions from electricity. We believe this approach prolongs coal fired power generation and favours converting coal power-plants to natural gas over lower-carbon and more efficient forms of power generation that exist in today’s energy system, including renewables and cogeneration. This could lead to a higher intensity electricity grid over a longer period of time and therefore increased GHG emissions. Suncor continues to highlight this issue. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Lobbying and disclosure | 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LOBBYING AND DISCLOSURE Suncor participates in public policy discussions on a wide range of issues relevant to our business INNOVATION and regularly communicates with governments in jurisdictions where we operate. PERFORMANCE DATA We believe communication with government officials (otherwise known as GOVERNANCE lobbying) improves government decision-making through open dialogue among Suncor has a policy that applies to all employees. The policy sets out guiding government, stakeholders and industry and better informs government officials APPENDICES principles for interacting with governments, including required training and about Suncor, the energy industry and the effects of government policies. reporting, as well as roles and responsibilities. Through our engagement activities, we aim to ensure proposed policy and regulatory development are effective and efficient in establishing and maintaining MEMBERSHIP DISCLOSURES regulations that provide certainty and consistency for resource developers, while Suncor participates in industry groups representing the interests of both the ensuring public and investor confidence. energy industry and the broader business community and, in doing so, promotes the public policy objectives important to us, its shareholders, Indigenous Peoples and other stakeholders. However, our participation as a member of these organizations comes with the understanding that we may not always support every position taken by these organizations or their members. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Lobbying and disclosure | 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor complies with all laws regarding lobbying and lobbying disclosure. As a >$100K matter of general practice, we do not engage third-party (consultant) lobbyists. • American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers In the event a third-party is hired for lobbying, they work closely with Suncor to CEO MESSAGE ensure they are in compliance with the lobbying laws and respect Suncor policies • Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers related to lobbying activities. • Canadian Fuels Association ABOUT OUR REPORT We are committed to transparency, and share our approach on lobbying and • Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance political donations. We also provide a list of organizations and trade associations that may lobby government to which Suncor pays membership dues of greater • Colorado Asphalt Pavement Association STRATEGY AND than $50,000. • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers GOVERNANCE We have a demonstrated track record of transparent reporting. We believe • Mining Association of Canada additional disclosure about the resilience of our business strategy benefits OUR BUSINESS shareholders and stakeholders. • Sarnia & Lambton Environmental Association Suncor’s enhanced disclosure is consistent with our strong focus on sustainability, • Oil Spill Response Limited reflects our openness to engage with shareholders, Indigenous Peoples and CLIMATE CHANGE • World Economic Forum stakeholders, and reflects excellence in transparency within the energy industry in Canada. For a listing of the groups that receive funding from the Suncor Energy Foundation, please refer to the CRA website and search for Suncor. ENVIRONMENT The following is a list of organizations and trade associations of which we are a member and that may engage in lobbying of governments. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY $50K–$100K As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Any such contributions will continue • Business Council of Canada to be disclosed in this report. INNOVATION • Canadian Chamber of Commerce • Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters PERFORMANCE DATA • Canadian Propane Association • Ceres APPENDICES • Colorado Petroleum Association • Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce • Industrial Gas Users Association • Public Policy Forum • Resource Works Society • Strathcona Industrial Association • The Sulphur Institute Lobbying and disclosure | 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE Suncor is focused on being a low-cost, low-carbon producer and demonstrating leadership in environmental performance and social OUR BUSINESS responsibility, while contributing to a strong economy. CLIMATE CHANGE Operations summary................................................ 35 Economic impact....................................................... 37 ENVIRONMENT Supplier engagement............................................... 39 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Market access............................................................ 40 Personal and process safety..................................... 41 INNOVATION Ethical business conduct........................................... 43 PERFORMANCE DATA Inclusion and diversity.............................................. 46 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Operations summary | 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OPERATIONS SUMMARY Suncor is focused on being a low-cost, low-carbon producer and demonstrating leadership in INNOVATION environmental performance and social responsibility, while contributing to a strong economy. PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor is Canada’s leading integrated energy company. Suncor’s operations include OIL SANDS oil sands development and upgrading, onshore and offshore oil and gas production, Suncor’s Oil Sands segment, with assets located in the Athabasca oil sands of petroleum refining and product marketing under the Petro-Canada brand. APPENDICES northeast Alberta, recovers bitumen from mining and in situ operations and either A member of the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, and the upgrades this product into synthetic crude oil for refinery feedstock and diesel fuel FTSE4Good Index Series, Suncor is working to responsibly develop petroleum or blends the bitumen with diluent for direct sale to market. resources while also growing a renewable energy portfolio. Suncor also responds to CDP’s Climate Change and Water programs. EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Suncor’s common shares (symbol: SU) are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange Suncor’s Exploration and Production (E&P) segment consists of offshore operations and the New York Stock Exchange. off the east coast of Canada and in the North Sea, the U.K. and Norway, and onshore assets in Libya and Syria. (Operations in Syria have been suspended indefinitely due to political unrest in the country. Production and liftings in Libya have been intermittent due to political unrest.) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Operations summary | 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS CORPORATE AND ELIMINATIONS RENEWABLE ENERGY The grouping Corporate and Eliminations includes the company’s investments in renewable energy projects, results related to energy marketing, supply and Wind power projects CEO MESSAGE trading activities, and other activities not directly attributable to any other Suncor is a partner in four operational wind power facilities in Canada. These operating segment. wind power facilities have a gross generating capacity of 111 megawatts, enough ABOUT OUR REPORT to power about 52,000 Canadian homes and avoid approximately 179,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions each year. Our wind facilities are located in Alberta, REFINING AND MARKETING Saskatchewan and Ontario. In addition, we have secured a number of sites for STRATEGY AND We further unlock the value of the upstream barrel through our strong refining potential future wind and solar power projects that are in various stages of GOVERNANCE and marketing network. Suncor refines crude oil and intermediate feedstock into development, including the proposed Forty Mile Wind Power project located in a broad range of petroleum and petrochemical products at our four refineries southeast Alberta. located in Edmonton, Alberta; Sarnia, Ontario; Montreal, Quebec and Commerce OUR BUSINESS City, Colorado. St. Clair ethanol plant Our marketing operations sell refined petroleum products to retail, commercial Suncor operates Canada's largest ethanol facility – the St. Clair ethanol plant in and industrial customers through the more than 1,800 Petro-Canada branded the Sarnia-Lambton region of Ontario. The plant opened in June 2006 and has a CLIMATE CHANGE retail and wholesale sites, more than 30 of which are owned and operated by current production capacity of 400 million litres per year. Ethanol produced here is First Nations. The network is supported by a nationwide commercial road blended into Petro-Canada gasoline. ENVIRONMENT transport network and a bulk sales channel throughout Canada as well as other retail stations in Colorado. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OPERATIONS WHERE WEMAP OPERATE INNOVATION Oil Sands Fenja Norway Fort Hills East Coast Canada PERFORMANCE DATA Golden Eagle Hibernia Rosebank Stavanger St. John’s Buzzard APPENDICES Firebag White Oda Edmonton Aberdeen Montreal Rose MacKay Syncrude Calgary London United River Kingdom Terra Sarnia Hebron Nova Base Plant Denver / & Millennium Commerce City Mississauga Houston Fort Tripoli McMurray Libya Head office Regional office Operated Non-operated Proposed Refining capacity Circles are scaled to relative net capacity Suncor’s operations around the globe. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Economic impact | 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC IMPACT The economic benefits of our success extend well beyond the returns we $2.6 INNOVATION billion provide to shareholders. In 2018, we contributed more than $2.6 billion contributed in royalties and taxes for PERFORMANCE DATA in royalties and taxes for governments – revenues that were then available governments in 2018 to help fund public sector programs, including education, health care and critical infrastructure. APPENDICES Strong economic performance, along with social Development of our core assets also allows us to $5.2 billion responsibility and environmental stewardship, is part invest in our renewable energy business and in new of being a sustainable energy company. Our technologies to improve company-wide operational total capital spending in 2018 investment in energy production, upgrading, refining efficiency and environmental performance. Our and marketing benefits the economy by: strong economic performance allows us to invest in $703 profitable growth and continuous improvements in • creating well-paying jobs our existing operations, and we continue to create • promoting economic growth value for our shareholders and society at large. million • providing governments and suppliers with revenues spent on direct purchases from Indigenous businesses in 2018 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Economic impact | 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS ROYALTIES AND TAXES • fleet and fleet parts In addition to our Supplier Code of Conduct, our prequalification and qualification standards, we In 2018, royalties totalled more than $1 billion, • freight and transportation also have specific practices in place related to local CEO MESSAGE including $398 million directed to oil sands royalties. • ground transportation supplier selection. Regional development clauses are As well, current income tax expense totalled in place with suppliers and in contracts across all $1.25 billion* to governments in Canada and • health and wellness businesses, and sourcing documents often have ABOUT OUR REPORT internationally. $295 million in property taxes were • instrumentation and controls criteria that evaluate suppliers on Indigenous or paid to municipalities in Canada. local representation. • information services (digital projects, hardware, STRATEGY AND CAPITAL SPENDING applications and infrastructure) Our common practice is to post local contract and GOVERNANCE supplier opportunities on regional organizations’ Capital and exploration expenditures totalled • lodging websites such as Regional Economic Development $5.2 billion in 2018, not including capitalized • maintenance services (REDlink) and Northeastern Alberta Aboriginal OUR BUSINESS interest, compared to $5.8 billion in 2017. Business Association (NAABA). This is to ensure local • marketing and sales businesses and suppliers are aware of opportunities GOODS AND SERVICES • materials (consumables, steel and PVF) in their region. CLIMATE CHANGE Our supply chain spending demonstrates we had • mining equipment and services close to 5,000 Canadian vendors spanning all INDIGENOUS PARTNERS 10 provinces in 2018, as well as the Northwest • offshore equipment and services ENVIRONMENT In 2018, we spent $703 million on direct purchases Territories and the Yukon. We purchase from • professional services from Indigenous businesses, a 35% increase over nearly 40 countries globally; the United States is 2017 thanks to new suppliers and doubled spend SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY our second-largest supplier with more than • rotating machinery from Downstream. 1,300 vendors. In 2018, we spent $10.6 billion • static equipment on goods and services. Since 1999, Suncor has spent approximately INNOVATION • support services $5 billion with Indigenous businesses (as direct We have five major category groups that are further contractors and subcontractors), nearly half of segmented into categories and subcategories. The • tailings on-pond assets which has been spent since 2013. PERFORMANCE DATA range of goods and services is extensive and includes: • telecom • aviation services • travel and entertainment APPENDICES • chemicals, gases and fluids The typical split of materials versus services depends • civil works on the type of worksite, such as the following: • construction services • operating facilities, where the spend is typically 60% services and 40% materials • drilling and completions • major greenfield construction sites, where the • environment, health and safety services spend is typically 70% services and 30% materials or consulting • electrical • engineering and services • facility services and materials * Does not include excise taxes collected and remitted by Suncor. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Supplier engagement | 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT CEO MESSAGE Suncor has long held a belief that developing solutions requires engaging with shareholders, environmental organizations, local communities, ABOUT OUR REPORT Indigenous communities, governments, suppliers and industry partners. STRATEGY AND We find value in thinking about things differently, and By building on collaborative relationships with our GOVERNANCE this often leads to new ideas, joint problem solving or stakeholders, we aim to embed sustainability into new ways of working with our stakeholders. all go-to-market activities and the supply chain management culture throughout our own OUR BUSINESS In 2019, we embarked on a journey of integrating organization over the coming five years. sustainability into our supply chain to serve as a driver of change and progress – in order to affect In addition, we aim to systematically assess and trace CLIMATE CHANGE environmental and social impacts of procurement the flow of materials and information in our supply decisions while improving business value. chain. We are benchmarking our performance in the Canadian landscape and partnering with suppliers ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN and other sustainability leaders. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Suncor recognizes the importance of maturing our SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY relationships with suppliers in our industry from The development of our supply chain sustainability transactional to strategic. And, we look forward to strategy is founded in a systems approach – with Howard McIntyre, vice president, Supply Chain & Field Logistics these opportunities to build mutual understanding (retired), speaking on behalf of Suncor at the inaugural Forward a triple-bottom-line lens to identifying risks and INNOVATION on the best approach for us to meet our business Summit: Empowering Indigenous Economies. opportunities. Our strategy focus areas include: objectives and to address stakeholder expectations. • Indigenous supplier engagement Our strategy includes accelerating PERFORMANCE DATA • greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions our leadership position beyond the APPENDICES • inclusion and diversity focus of Indigenous spend, and • governance, ethics and human rights into capability development with • community investment and social innovation our supplier base creating greater • water stewardship value for our Indigenous partners and suppliers through mutually beneficial relationships and collaboration. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Market access | 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS MARKET ACCESS CEO MESSAGE Our oil sands industry can make a strong contribution to meeting global energy demands, by creating jobs, contributing to the economy and generating revenues for governments to fund social programs across Canada. ABOUT OUR REPORT Market access is critical and is in the national interest. Suncor supports the Keystone XL development of pipeline infrastructure that provides access to markets, including STRATEGY AND In November, 2018, the U.S. Federal District Court invalidated the Presidential expanded connectivity to the United States Gulf Coast. We have an interest in all GOVERNANCE Permit and ordered construction to cease until the U.S. State Department the major pipelines under development, including Keystone XL, Line 3 and the completed a supplemental environmental impact statement. A November ruling Trans Mountain Expansion. These projects are critical and will bring responsibly by a Montana-based district judge cited deficiencies in the State Department’s OUR BUSINESS developed Canadian crude oil to new and expanded markets. Because pipeline environmental analysis. On March 29, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump issued projects take several years to approve, develop and make operational, it also a new Presidential Permit, intended to speed up the development of the pipeline. makes sense for the industry to utilize existing rail networks to transport our A previous injunction was also quashed in the spring of 2019; however, CLIMATE CHANGE products to market. construction activities have still not fully ramped up. The Nebraska Supreme Court has yet to deliver its decision on the validity of the Nebraska Utilities Commission MARKET ACCESS NOTABLE EVENTS finding on the need for Keystone XL and the approval of the route through ENVIRONMENT the State. Trans Mountain On June 18, 2019, the Government of Canada approved the Trans Mountain SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Line 3 Expansion Project, reaffirming that the infrastructure is critical and in the national Construction of the Canadian portion of the Line 3 replacement continued in interest. The Trans Mountain Expansion will support the diversification of market 2018 and is ready to be put in service. However, this requires regulatory approval INNOVATION access for responsibly developed Canadian crude oil and will support the desire and ENB is currently negotiating the rate with Shippers as the volume is of for Canadians to receive the full value for Western Canadian crude oil. incremental capacity is limited given that the US portion continues to be delayed. PERFORMANCE DATA On June 28 2018, the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission approved the project, granting a certificate of need and approving Enbridge’s preferred route with minor modifications and certain conditions. However, on June 3, 2019, the APPENDICES Minnesota Court of Appeals ruled that the environment impact statement on the Line 3 replacement was inadequate. Enbridge is working with authorities to get the construction permits approved and to have the Line in service in the second half of 2020; however, there is a high risk this will be delayed by another year. Suncor will continue to work with governments, regulators, industry associations, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders to support market access objectives. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Personal and process safety | 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS PERSONAL AND PROCESS SAFETY CEO MESSAGE We place safety above all else. It’s our number-one value and nothing matters more. ABOUT OUR REPORT We work to continuously learn, share and improve 2018 SAFETY PERFORMANCE PERSONAL SAFETY safety efforts by embedding safety leadership into Suncor’s 2018 combined employee and contractor We believe that a ‘zero incident’ workplace is our culture, fully engaging all employees in safety Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF) performance was achievable, and we promote workforce safety STRATEGY AND and providing a safe work environment for all 0.37, close to the annual target of 0.36, and the dialogues and participation through various activities GOVERNANCE employees and contractors. second best on record. Our Lost Time Injury and processes, including: In April 2019, a contractor fatality occurred at Frequency (LTIF) for 2018 was 0.02. • Incident management: Suncor’s incident OUR BUSINESS Fort Hills. The individual was struck by a light management process provides a framework by vehicle. This tragic loss of a colleague reminds us which we can consistently respond to, investigate that we can never stop thinking about safety. and identify the causes of incidents and near misses CLIMATE CHANGE RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY* within our operations. Incident findings are shared Injuries per 200,000 hours worked across the enterprise to promote learning from 1.00 incidents and to prevent them from reoccurring. ENVIRONMENT 0.75 • Serious injury and fatality (SIF) prevention: Our SIF program is designed to improve the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 0.50 awareness and management of SIF exposures in our operations. The goal is to bring visibility to 0.25 SIF exposures, allowing the organization to identify INNOVATION and address their precursors. 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 • Safety initiatives: Suncor’s safety initiatives are PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor employees 0.37 0.27 0.24 0.30 0.30 intended to inform, increase awareness, and Suncor contractors 0.50 0.56 0.38 0.45 0.41 provide data and recommendations to prevent * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to data notes (#12 – notes on health and safety). incidents or losses. Examples of safety initiatives APPENDICES include efforts to address common mechanisms of LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY* Injuries per 200,000 hours worked recordable injury incidents, such as slips, trips and 0.09 falls and being in the line of fire. • Engagement: All employees and contractors are 0.06 responsible for and committed to safety, including following our Life Saving Rules. To drive and promote the expected safety behaviours we hold 0.03 regular safety meetings to exchange information and concerns and increase safety awareness. We 0.00 engage in toolbox talks at worksites focusing on 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 specific hazards, and if a situation or incident Suncor employees 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 merits, we pause scheduled work for safety Suncor contractors 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.02 stand-down sessions to reflect on performance * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to data notes (#12 – notes on health and safety). and reinforce our commitment to safety. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Personal and process safety | 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Contractor safety Our integrated model is an important part of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Each year, we hire thousands of contractors to By using established protocols, we can effectively perform work at Suncor job sites. Our contractor CEO MESSAGE respond to emergencies and unplanned events. management process helps drive safe, productive execution of work on our sites. It’s our ‘one way’ Our employees and contractors regularly conduct ABOUT OUR REPORT approach to manage contractors. training, emergency drills and tabletop exercises to reinforce, verify and improve our emergency One requirement of the process is that contractors preparedness capabilities. Practice prepares us for must complete a comprehensive hazard checklist for STRATEGY AND unplanned situations. Debriefs emphasize learnings each scope of work, and develop an Environment, GOVERNANCE and increase effectiveness across all business units. We Health and Safety plan to address those hazards. seek to learn and share lessons from drills, exercises and real events across our business to continuously OUR BUSINESS HEALTH AND WELLNESS improve preparedness and response capabilities. Our employee health and wellness programs are CLIMATE CHANGE administered by specialists in Occupational Health, PROCESS SAFETY SIS improvement Disability Management, and Occupational Hygiene. Suncor is focused on reducing loss of primary These systems are key controls to mitigate process These professionals are subject matter experts who containment incidents by assessing incidents and safety and reliability risks. A team of Suncor Process assist workers in achieving greater health and ENVIRONMENT prioritizing gap closure and continuous improvement Automation Systems experts continuously work work-life balance within a safe work environment. opportunities. Effective management has ensured towards improving SIS management. Through this Suncor’s Journey to Zero objectives, operational alignment across the company to identify team, Suncor incorporates industry best practices SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY excellence and people values are reflected in the into existing functional safety management opportunities and accelerate performance standards, processes and procedures we use to improvement. Recent improvements include a focus programs, to ensure consistency and effectiveness. manage health events employees may experience. on the quality of process hazard analyses, including INNOVATION We provide resources to all employees in the event of digitization of information to improve the efficiency of Operational controls an occupational or non-work-related injury or illness business processes and competency in consistent Operating procedures, safe work practices and PERFORMANCE DATA to positively influence a safe, timely and sustainable identification, and assessment of consequences and operating envelopes enable our front-line employees return to work and ensure strict adherence to likelihood of process safety risks. to manage operational risks. We continue to raise employee privacy and confidentiality. the bar by implementing new standards across the APPENDICES Reliability company. Increasing the effectiveness of operational EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT Through a robust governance structure, senior controls helps us manage personal and process safety Effective emergency management is integral to leadership sets enterprise priorities and manages risks and supports reliability improvement initiatives. protecting our workers, the environment and our initiatives to ensure a focused effort on maintaining Suncor applies the OEMS to manage process safety operations. It encompasses prevention and and improving reliability. Stewardship of key and reliability. mitigation, preparedness, response, recovery, and indicators and benchmarking is an important business continuity activities. component to ensure progress and sustainment We look at lessons from incident investigations to of reliability elements such as asset criticality improve process safety and reliability performance. This assignments, strategies, root-cause analysis, ensures learnings are embedded in our work practices work execution, bad-actor elimination and safety and mitigating actions are implemented to prevent the instrumented systems (SIS) integrity. reoccurrence of similar incidents. We use audits and management reviews to ensure our practices are effective and that we continuously improve. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Ethical business conduct | 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT CEO MESSAGE Our commitment to integrity and ethics is the foundation for our Standards of Business Conduct Code and the company policy guidance and standards that reinforce it. ABOUT OUR REPORT The code requires strict compliance with legal requirements and sets standards for the ethical conduct of our business, enabling us to maintain the confidence of our STRATEGY AND customers, colleagues, shareholders, vendors and the governments and GOVERNANCE communities where we do business. OUR BUSINESS STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT CODE Our business conduct policy statement articulates our commitment to sound legal and ethical business practices. We meet this commitment through our Standards CLIMATE CHANGE of Business Conduct Code, which is comprised of a number of detailed policy guidance and standards (PG&S) and a code compliance program. ENVIRONMENT Under the code, every Suncor director, officer, employee and independent contractor is required annually to take an online training course, review the code and certify that he or she: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • has reviewed a summary of the code Our annual business conduct code affirmation and training for employees and • understands the requirements of the code independent contractors is included in our Learning Management System – an INNOVATION online hub where courses are centrally managed. Employees see it listed alongside • has complied with the code; alternatively, has disclosed and resolved any all of their assigned learning for the year. non-compliance with the code PERFORMANCE DATA The Way We Do Business is a summary of our code of conduct policies. As part Topics addressed in the code, and detailed further in various PG&S, include: of the annual affirmation, employees and independent contractors review and • competition certify they have complied with our code. The guide is an interactive document APPENDICES that can be accessed year-round to support understanding of our expectations on • conflict of interest and confidentiality ethical conduct. • trading in shares and securities We also maintain a supplier code of conduct for suppliers engaged through • improper payments Suncor’s supply chain. It highlights the values that are important to Suncor and is a guide to the standard of behaviour required of suppliers, contractors and • fair dealing in trade relations consultants who do business with us. The supplier code addresses topics such as • harassment safety, harassment, bribery and corruption, human rights and confidential information, among others. • accounting, reporting and business control • protection and proper use of corporate assets and opportunities SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Ethical business conduct | 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS Throughout the year, we keep ethical business conduct top of mind for employees RAISING ETHICAL CONCERNS through our Acting with Integrity intranet, a central employee resource for ethical We encourage employees to raise concerns about suspected violations of our conduct information. In addition to brief presentations and case studies, the site CEO MESSAGE business conduct code without fear of reprisal with these teams/departments: hosts professional videos in which actors demonstrate unethical behaviour on a number of important topics, such as: • management ABOUT OUR REPORT • disclosing material information about the company to the public • Legal – compliance • conflicts of interest • Corporate Security STRATEGY AND • maintaining a respectful workplace • Human Resources GOVERNANCE • fair competition • Internal Audit • accepting gifts and entertainment In addition, we have established an integrity hotline where they can anonymously OUR BUSINESS report issues of concern to a third-party service provider. “Through our training and resources, we help all The integrity hotline is available 24/7 to employees, contractors and the public. CLIMATE CHANGE Any issues of a serious nature are investigated by Corporate Security or Human representatives of Suncor to understand our policies Resources. The audit committee receives regular updates on Integrity Hotline and their responsibility to conduct business in a activities. As per the code, the vice-president responsible for internal audit is ENVIRONMENT charged with maintaining the Integrity Hotline and ensuring that all alleged code safe, fair and ethical manner.” violations are thoroughly investigated. – Craig Tomalty, director of compliance and ethics in legal affairs SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PREVENTION OF IMPROPER PAYMENTS STEWARDING TO BUSINESS CONDUCT CODE Corruption constrains sustainable economic activity. It hinders the development of INNOVATION fair market structures and distorts competition. More importantly, corrupt business • Suncor’s Board of Directors exercises stewardship over the code practices undermine citizens’ trust in political and business systems, institutions • internal auditors audit the code affirmation process annually and leadership. We strive to act transparently and in the best interests of the PERFORMANCE DATA communities where we operate. • the vice president of enterprise risk and audit, who has a direct reporting relationship with the audit committee, reports on compliance to that committee Our position on bribery and corruption is clear and detailed in our PG&S on the APPENDICES prevention of improper payments, which includes: At least once a year, the code is reviewed and if appropriate, updated. Management reports to the governance committee each year on this review process. • funds and facilities are not to be used for any illegal or improper purposes Any waivers of code requirements for executive officers or members of the board • bribery, kickbacks or any payment to a person to commit an unlawful act, or to must be approved by the board or appropriate board committee and disclosed. influence a person performing public duties, are prohibited, as is the diversion No such waivers were granted in 2018. of assets for personal benefit • personnel are required to comply with all applicable laws concerning improper payments to foreign officials or other third parties Supervisors and managers are expected to promote a working environment consistent with this PG&S and assist all personnel within their supervision to understand and comply with it. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Ethical business conduct | 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor also provides employees with additional specialized training for matters Many of our investments and projects are long-term in nature and we expect to governed by the code where it is determined such training would be beneficial. be a corporate citizen in communities where we’re located for many years. We For example, certain employees directly involved with Suncor’s international and have a clear interest in social and economic development in regions and countries CEO MESSAGE offshore operations are required to periodically attend workshops which address, where we work. among other items, compliance with sanctions and anti-bribery and antiAs such, we support public accountability by governments and transparency of corruption legislation and best practices for operating in international jurisdictions ABOUT OUR REPORT revenues, as a means to promote political and economic stability in regions where where Suncor operates. we operate. We acknowledge work that the Extractive Industries Transparency Our Board of Directors reviews compliance with this PG&S as part of its annual Initiative does in this regard and, while we haven’t formally endorsed the initiative, STRATEGY AND review of the Standards of Business Conduct Compliance program. Our chief we consider supporting host countries seeking to implement greater transparency GOVERNANCE compliance officer oversees this PG&S and provides periodic reports to the general if requested. counsel and the governance committee of our Board of Directors. OUR BUSINESS CONFLICT OF INTEREST PRIVACY Our governance committee annually reviews a declaration of interest from each We collect, use and store personal information about employees, contractors, board member to determine if any conflicts of interest exist. In addition, directors CLIMATE CHANGE customers, suppliers, associates and others in the course of business activities. are required to maintain with the corporate secretary a current list of all other The collection, use and disclosure of personal information is subject to provincial entities in which they have a material interest or on which they serve as a director, or state, and federal and international laws. We respect privacy rights of all trustee, or in a similar capacity. ENVIRONMENT individuals and have policies, procedures and practices to protect those rights. As per the board’s conflict of interest policy, if a director is a party to, or has an interest in any party to, a contract or transaction before the Board of Directors SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMPETITIVE PRACTICES (regardless of the materiality of the contract or transaction), the director must: We do not engage in anti-competitive activities. We compete for business • immediately advise the board chair or the particular committee chair vigorously, honestly and in material compliance with all applicable antitrust and INNOVATION competition laws. These laws encourage fair competition in the marketplace for • exit from the meeting for any material discussions or deliberations concerning products and services. the subject matter of the contract or transaction PERFORMANCE DATA Those negotiating or administering agreements, involved in advertising and • abstain from voting on any resolution in respect of such contract or transaction promotion, or participating in industry associations or similar groups, are required The conflict or potential conflict is recorded in the meeting minutes. The corporate to be familiar with local laws regarding competition and trade practices. We do secretary also ensures that directors don’t receive board materials in situations APPENDICES business with suppliers who, in our judgement, enhance our competitiveness and where the subject matter of the materials could involve an actual or potential who share our vision of sustainability and business ethics. conflict of interest. Open, honest and transparent relationships support sound corporate governance and high ethical standards. Within the bounds of commercial confidentiality, we commit to transparent relationships with employees, shareholders and stakeholders alike. We encourage transparent transactions and operating agreements with provisions that respect the local laws of wherever we operate around the world. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY We want Suncor to be a great place to work for everyone. We’re committed to building an inclusive culture INNOVATION where people’s unique perspectives, experiences, backgrounds, cultures and attributes are valued, respected PERFORMANCE DATA and leveraged so our employees can thrive and contribute to their full potential. As a large organization with operations across different geographies, Suncor’s In 2018, we continued our journey by fostering a common understanding of what APPENDICES workforce is made up of diverse demographics and ethnicities – yet we know we inclusion and diversity means: haven’t totally tapped into the opportunity to create a workplace that fully values • Inclusion is recognizing, respecting and understanding all the ways we differ, differences and fosters a sense of belonging. and leveraging those differences to achieve strong results. Inclusion is creating We recognize we have work to do to build a work environment where people feel a place where people feel they belong, can be authentic, and can share their comfortable being themselves, and where bias is faced directly. differences. By listening to our employees we are challenging assumptions, understanding • Diversity is all the attributes that make every person unique. Most often this is barriers and being honest with one another on our journey to truly creating a thought of in terms of gender, age, culture, race or abilities. But diversity also great place to work for everyone. includes our different perspectives, backgrounds, experiences and thinking styles. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS “Our people are the foundation of all that we do, and creating an environment where everyone can CEO MESSAGE do their best work is fundamental to our success. We know it’s our responsibility to build a great ABOUT OUR REPORT place to work for all of our people.” – Paul Gardner, SVP, Human Resources STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Building awareness and engaging people in conversations and initiatives around inclusion and diversity is occurring at all levels of the organization. And although we don’t have all the answers yet, we’re talking more and asking some of the OUR BUSINESS right questions. We recognize change will take time, as well as consistent commitment and CLIMATE CHANGE engagement by leaders and employees. We also recognize that our success will not be based on statistics and metrics alone, but on the power of inclusion and belonging, and the impact it will have on our people and our business outcomes. ENVIRONMENT Understanding the demographic makeup of our workforce is helping us. We continue to regularly review our representation, retention, advancement and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY demographic data to inform our progress, guide our focus areas, help tell the story, and ensure we are identifying and breaking down barriers – whether they are cultural, ethnic, generational or gender-based. This will help us improve the INNOVATION way we work together to achieve our goals. • In the first half of 2019, we invited Canadian employees to voluntarily complete PERFORMANCE DATA a confidential self-identification form to help us better understand the composition of our workforce, including Indigenous Peoples, persons with disabilities, visible minorities and LGBT persons. APPENDICES • These groups align with Canada’s Employment Equity Act and the Canadian Human Rights Act, which encourage the establishment of working conditions that are free of barriers and discrimination, address any conditions of disadvantage in employment, and promote the principle that employment equity requires special measures and the accommodation of differences for these groups in Canada. Our data has led us to start with focused efforts for specific demographics, particularly women and Indigenous Peoples, but our ultimate outcome is a feeling of inclusion for everyone. We believe this will positively contribute to strong employee engagement and business performance. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS HOW IS INCLUSION AND The Inclusion and Diversity Council DIVERSITY MANAGED? Formed in 2017 with a cross-section of senior leaders who represent our business and functional areas, Suncor’s I&D Council sets strategy, champions and guides CEO MESSAGE Board of Directors’ diversity policy I&D initiatives, and understands and addresses systemic barriers to a more inclusive workplace. Suncor recognizes the value that diverse points of view can bring. The board ABOUT OUR REPORT strives to include individuals from diverse backgrounds with regard to gender, ethnicity/Indigenous status, age, business experience, professional expertise, Standards of business conduct code personal skills, stakeholder perspectives, geographic background and other The code commits us to maintaining a business environment free from harassment, STRATEGY AND attributes. It also aspires to maintain a board where at least 30% of its members violence, intimidation and other unethical behaviour. Showing mutual respect and GOVERNANCE are women. consideration is a fundamental expectation of our workplace. OUR BUSINESS CEO goal on inclusion and diversity Suncor’s social goal Suncor’s long-term goal is to ensure we have a competent, engaged and Recognizes the value of relationships and that the support and trust of diverse leadership, workforce and culture needed to achieve our tripleIndigenous communities impacted by energy development is essential for CLIMATE CHANGE bottom-line objectives. sustainable development. Our 2018 enterprise goal was to ensure diversity is improved, valued and ENVIRONMENT optimized. As we continue to learn about inclusion and diversity (I&D), we have HOW IS INCLUSIVITY AND realized that what is most important, and brings the most value to people and DIVERSITY ENABLED? our organization, is inclusion. Suncor’s I&D strategy includes initiatives and actions in five focus areas: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Therefore, our 2019 goal is to significantly improve inclusion and diversity of 1. Leadership our workforce. The focus is to strengthen inclusion and diversity knowledge and INNOVATION skills, and implement enterprise and business unit action plans to address 2. Processes systemic barriers. 3. Awareness and skill development PERFORMANCE DATA 4. Employee involvement “A more inclusive workforce will increase diversity 5. Community and industry partnerships and enable us to benefit from a wide range of APPENDICES employee backgrounds, perspectives and experiences. Leadership We believe this leads to a better workplace and We believe inclusive leadership is a core competency for people leaders at Suncor. Over the past few years, we have focused on building inclusive ultimately, to stronger performance – economic, leadership awareness and skills for all leaders through unconscious bias training. social and environmental.” Our goal is to help leaders understand the importance of respecting, valuing and leveraging diversity within their teams and have built elements of this into – Arlene Strom, SVP and general counsel our leadership programs. Our I&D Council consists of 10 senior leaders from across Suncor business and functional areas, and Suncor leaders across the enterprise are our I&D champions. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Processes Indigenous Cultural Learning Experiences We are working to reduce systemic bias in our people processes, including There are a variety of experiences for employees to choose including the equitable hiring, performance management and promotions, and career KAIROS blanket exercise; each is intended to support further understanding and CEO MESSAGE development opportunities. awareness of Indigenous Peoples, their unique history, rights and cultures. We partner with Elders and communities to make relevant and meaningful content. Hiring leader training ABOUT OUR REPORT Our HR group delivered I&D Moments – short presentations for employees and Eliminating bias when we hire people is an important part of our commitment leaders – and workshops across our organization to help employees understand to improving diversity. To strengthen leaders’ abilities to select and hire qualified Suncor’s definition of diversity and the value and importance of inclusion and a STRATEGY AND candidates with the skills, abilities and backgrounds to support Suncor’s success, sense of belonging. GOVERNANCE we have held Hiring Leader Training sessions in Calgary, Edmonton and Mississauga. These sessions focused on helping leaders become aware of how Cultural awareness workshops unconscious bias can affect a leader’s review of applicants and hiring decisions. Suncor hosted nine workshops to build cross-cultural understanding and respect. OUR BUSINESS To help us attract qualified, diverse candidates to roles at Suncor, we use a software tool to ensure language in our job postings is gender neutral. Employee involvement CLIMATE CHANGE Employees and employee networks play a critical role in fostering and improving Awareness and skill development inclusion and respect for diversity, equity, engagement and belonging in the Unconscious bias training workplace. We recognize the importance of listening to employees and stakeholders, ENVIRONMENT to understand where opportunities lie to improve inclusion and diversity, and to We continue to provide learning opportunities to eliminate bias and increase celebrate our successes. Input and feedback from employees and our employee cultural competency. In 2018, 64% of managers in our Upstream organization networks’ community of practice, provide valuable feedback. There are four SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and 80% of front line leaders in our Downstream organization completed an employee-led networks currently at Suncor, with more networks forming. unconscious bias training course. INNOVATION Indigenous awareness web-based training (WBT) and classroom“In my career I have had the good fortune of working based learning sessions These programs are intended to increase knowledge and understanding of for, and with, a number of great female leaders and PERFORMANCE DATA cultural differences and to build a corporate culture that supports Suncor’s professionals. I cannot imagine how much poorer Indigenous Relations Policy. At the request of our employees and several organizations, Suncor’s Indigenous awareness WBT is publicly available in the world would be if it had been denied their APPENDICES English and French on suncor.com. The training has been helpful in raising talents and contributions. I know my professional awareness about the history and experiences of Indigenous Peoples in Canada, as well as changing perceptions. world would be much poorer, without question.” – Daniel Burt, senior engineer GHG LCA SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS Community and industry partnerships We explore and review opportunities to sponsor and support programs that improve the employability of identified groups. Examples include: Suncor’s support CEO MESSAGE for Women Building Futures, sponsorship of Young Women in Energy, and an event hosted by our Supply Chain Management division, which provided ABOUT OUR REPORT immigrants with an understanding of the energy industry and how to look for employment opportunities in the industry. With support from a dedicated Indigenous workforce development adviser, we are STRATEGY AND working across our business, and with communities and industry partners, to GOVERNANCE Employees at our Sarnia refinery showing their support for International Women’s Day – hands up for the increase our workforce representation of Indigenous Peoples, as well as support the letter “W”. advancement and retention of Suncor’s Indigenous employees. OUR BUSINESS In 2019, our employee networks organized and participated in numerous internal This includes providing meaningful work experiences to Indigenous postand external inclusion and diversity events. Employees wrote I&D-related stories secondary students through our Summer Aboriginal Student Program in Canada, for newsletters, participated in panels, organized and attended learning sessions and supporting career development for Indigenous employees through an CLIMATE CHANGE over the lunch hour, attended workshops and conferences, participated in focus Indigenous mentorship program. groups and awareness days including International Women’s Day, National We are corporate members of the following external organizations: ENVIRONMENT Indigenous Peoples Day in Canada, Pink Shirt Day, Orange Shirt Day, and World Mental Health Day. • Canadian Board Diversity Council (CBDC) Activity highlights for these networks include: • 30% Club of Canada SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Aboriginal Employee Network (AEN): The network has been operating since • Canadian Council on Diversity and Inclusion 2015, and currently has more than 700 members. It has: • Catalyst INNOVATION -distributed more than 3,000 Moose Hide pins across Suncor in support of the • Indigenous Works national Moose Hide Campaign, which encourages Indigenous and nonPERFORMANCE DATA Indigenous men to stand up against violence toward women and children • Pride at Work Canada -developed and shared cultural insights, short presentations for employees and In 2019, Suncor introduced Yammer – a company-wide internal social networking leaders to use, to help build awareness of Indigenous cultures and history tool. Employees are using Yammer to share their thoughts on inclusion and APPENDICES respect for diversity. Yammer is a great way to listen to different perspectives and -expanded participation in events across the country during National participate in honest and authentic conversations. Indigenous Peoples Day and Awareness Week • Downstream Workplace Inclusion Network (WIN): Starting in 2017, WIN has grown to more than 630 members. It has hosted nine cross-cultural competency workshops and produced four newsletters with topics on inclusion, belonging and diverse backgrounds, perspectives, ethnicities, and life experiences. • Projects I&D Committee: has been active since 2018, and has hosted lunch ‘n learn sessions on cultural awareness, managing multicultural and multigenerational teams, and Indigenous awareness. • Oil Sands Women’s Network: organizes lunch and learns and networking opportunities, and is expanding its mandate. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE Student volunteers from our Summer Aboriginal Student program at a Calgary Indigenous Awareness Participants of the Women Building Futures program. ENVIRONMENT Week event. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS TO Creating a great place to work for everyone includes attracting Indigenous FURTHER INTEGRATE I&D students and female employees to our company. We offer a Summer Aboriginal INNOVATION Student Program and support dedicated programs for women in the trades. Women Building Futures Suncor Heavy Equipment Operator and Heavy Equipment Technician program PERFORMANCE DATA The Summer Aboriginal Student program Suncor is working hard to attract and recruit motivated women to work at Suncor provides Indigenous students with meaningful work experience across our Suncor mine operations. Our partnership with Women Building Futures (WBF) operations in Canada every year from May to August. helps us find women with these qualities. APPENDICES In 2013, Suncor approached WBF to create and deliver a program that would help Early talent (students and new graduates) engage women in the workplace and build a pipeline of female heavy equipment In 2018, we hired more female candidates into student and new graduate roles, operator candidates. from 29% in 2017 to 32%. The program was designed to provide participants with essential safety certification, productivity awareness, and workplace culture training to prepare them to enter a three-month paid co-op term to become heavy equipment operators at the Millennium site. During the co-op term, participants receive ongoing training and coaching from WBF and Suncor to support learning and cultural integration. Upon successful completion of the program, employment assistance and job retention support are provided to ensure long-term success for the graduate. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Inclusion and diversity | 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indigenous workforce development CEO MESSAGE We foster collaborative relationships and partnerships with communities, external organizations, educational institutions, and Suncor leaders and employees to ABOUT OUR REPORT co-create initiatives and practices that increase our workforce representation of Indigenous Peoples, as well as support the advancement and retention of STRATEGY AND Suncor’s Indigenous employees. We recognize we can GOVERNANCE continue to do more work in this area, and continue to listen, learn and engage with others to make positive changes. OUR BUSINESS Our Indigenous workforce development adviser works directly with Indigenous communities in Alberta’s CLIMATE CHANGE Wood Buffalo region to understand community needs and initiatives, share information on Suncor’s workforce needs, and collaborate with others to ENVIRONMENT strengthen the employment readiness of potential Women Building Futures program touring a Suncor site. Indigenous candidates. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2014, Suncor and WBF launched their first Through the WBF program, Suncor hired 30 female The adviser also provides insights, advice and customized program for Millennium site. As of heavy equipment operators in our Oil Sands Indigenous wisdom to Suncor leaders and teams February 2018, four classes have graduated and the operations and eight in Fort Hills, and four heavy across the enterprise, to help them build trusting INNOVATION fifth program concluded in May 2018. The program equipment technicians in 2017. relationships in local Indigenous communities, support was also extended to Fort Hills, with one class Indigenous inclusion in the workplace, and ensure Suncor, through the Suncor Energy Foundation and completed and the second that began in November people processes, programs and strategies support Community Investment, has been a program partner PERFORMANCE DATA of 2017. Indigenous inclusion. since 2004. To date, our total commitment to WBF So far, this partnership has resulted in 66 women hired has been $3.4 million. APPENDICES at Suncor. Of those women who graduated, 15% were Indigenous. The average wage increase for graduates was 112%, which significantly impacted the lives of the women, their families (including 40 children), their communities and beyond. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE GOVERNANCE Our future will be shaped by how we respond to a number of complex – and sometimes competing – challenges. The amount of energy we require OUR BUSINESS will continue to increase and, if we are to avoid the worst impacts of climate change, we will have to tackle the emissions challenge associated with that growth. CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Our perspective and engagement........................... 54 GHG performance and mitigating emissions.......... 59 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Integrating our GHG performance goal.................. 64 INNOVATION Low-carbon innovation............................................ 67 Carbon risk and energy outlook.............................. 70 PERFORMANCE DATA Resilient strategy...................................................... 75 APPENDICES Carbon policy and regulation.................................. 79 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our perspective and engagement | 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR PERSPECTIVE AND ENGAGEMENT INNOVATION OUR PERSPECTIVE ON CLIMATE CHANGE As a company, we will continue to do our part by taking steps to reduce our own GHG emissions intensity and by developing and investing in emissions-reducing technology that can be applied to other industries. We also encourage dialogue Energy remains the backbone of a modern economy that considers our collective role as consumers of energy, given that 80% of PERFORMANCE DATA and contributes to our well-being. It is required overall carbon emissions occur at the point of consumption. Our future energy system will require commitments from both industrial emitters and individuals. to feed us, build and heat our homes, power APPENDICES Suncor supports the approach outlined in the Paris Agreement, but no one group manufacturing and facilitate transportation. At the or industry alone can limit the global average increase to below 2°C, relative to same time, the science is clear that the world needs pre-industrial levels. To achieve this objective, there must be significant advances in technology, a shift in consumer choice and behaviour, and the development of urgent action to reduce carbon emissions and avoid new energy systems. the worst effects of climate change. All types of energy will be needed and no single solution will meet the challenge. Our energy future will be shaped by a growing population, along with the The pathways to a diversified and robust energy system will require getting the continued need to move people out of poverty, improve health and education, best out of both traditional and new sources of energy. grow food production, and meet transportation trends all within an increasingly digital world. All of these benefits require energy. The challenge is how to best deliver that energy affordably while reducing carbon emissions. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our perspective and engagement | 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS LEADERSHIP IN CLIMATE POLICY • Participating in global energy discussions at the World Economic Forum and the United Nations Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP). Suncor operates in multiple jurisdictions across Canada and internationally, which CEO MESSAGE requires that we work with governments and political parties, Indigenous Peoples, think tanks, universities, and environmental advocacy groups to support the STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT development of smart policies that promote cost and carbon competitiveness. Our ABOUT OUR REPORT support for climate leadership is not tied to any particular government. We seek Advancing the energy dialogue to contribute to the development of effective government policy in support of Transitioning an energy system is as much a social and cultural shift as it is a moving towards a low-carbon economy. technological and economic shift. Through the Suncor Energy Foundation, Suncor STRATEGY AND supports organizations to engage Canadians in meaningful discussions on the Good policy instills confidence in the industry, enables continued prosperity, and GOVERNANCE energy system and the linkages between the environment and the economy. incents investment in technology and innovation that can lower emissions We’re also working with our foundation partners to promote an understanding of globally. We continue to advocate for environmental policies and regulations that the changing energy realities of the 21st century and raise awareness among OUR BUSINESS help us address climate change, including supporting a broad-based price on Canadians of the role their choices and lifestyles play in reducing emissions. carbon. If applied broadly across the economy to producers and consumers, it can be one of a suite of effective market and regulatory mechanisms to lower GHG For years, we have created spaces for collective dialogue where multiple CLIMATE CHANGE emissions while promoting low-carbon innovation. perspectives, experiences and the best minds may inform Suncor’s approach to sustainable energy development. And while we might not always agree on We demonstrate our commitment to support effective, practical and cost-efficient everything, the conversations help us understand what we have in common – a ENVIRONMENT policy design by contributing to: desire for energy to improve quality of life, a healthy environment and vibrant • The development of national low-carbon policies such as the: communities. We do it because we all have a role to play in creating our energy future, we recognize the value of relationships and diverse perspectives, and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY -Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change believe it’s important to listen, understand and learn from other points of view. -Clean Fuels Standard in Canada Examples of these collaborations include: INNOVATION -Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act (GGPPA) which encompasses the • partnering with the Energy Futures Lab, a multi-sector collaboration designed development of the consumer fuel tax and the industrial output based to help shape the energy future and strengthen Alberta and Canada’s position pricing system PERFORMANCE DATA as a global energy leader • The development of provincial low-carbon policies such as: • working with a number of organizations to support reconciliation with -Alberta’s industrial emissions reduction policy, 100 Mt oil sands emissions limit Indigenous Peoples through leadership development and building community APPENDICES capacity including a focus on environmental priorities -Quebec’s cap-and-trade program and Energy Transition Action Plan • bringing together social innovators, funding partners, Indigenous leaders and -Ontario’s Emission Performance System youth, thought leaders, governments and community representatives to explore -British Columbia’s CleanBC Climate Action Plan and Low Carbon Fuel Standards complex community needs that require collaboration to make progress and see lasting change • Supporting Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission in broadening the discussion of carbon pricing into the realm of practical policy application. The commission We seek to engage with partners in an atmosphere of mutual respect. Our brings together economists to inform the critical discussion about the ecofiscal partners are free to publicly criticize our company or industry as they see fit except reform that Canada’s future requires. on specific initiatives in which we’ve agreed to co-operate. We, in turn, are free to counter statements and research by partners if we know it to be contrary to • Supporting the World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a established facts. Simply put, both sides can agree to disagree, while continuing voluntary initiative that aspires to catalyze action toward the successful to work together for the greater good. implementation of global carbon pricing. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our perspective and engagement | 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS And while we might not always agree on everything, TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED we do have a common goal – produce energy to FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CEO MESSAGE improve quality of life and do so in a sustainable way. Since mid-2017, the TCFD has worked to improve standards for carbon disclosure. Suncor supports these activities as a way to improve communication and promote learning with our investors on carbon reduction initiatives and performance. We Over the past year, we have engaged with stakeholders directly, through ABOUT OUR REPORT believe the global context is required to provide a complete picture of operational consultations, meetings, workshops, and conferences. We will continue these performance, strategic planning and risk management. activities as we develop improved climate disclosure and risk management STRATEGY AND approaches. Highlights from 2018 and early 2019 include: GOVERNANCE • Hosted a Ceres*-facilitated stakeholder panel to review our sustainability Suncor supports the desire for consistency and transparency embodied in the TCFD recommendations and sees them as a way to build on our two progress. The stakeholders were asked to provide us with critical feedback on decades of sustainability reporting and environment, social, and governance our approach and progress toward our sustainability goals, including our GHG OUR BUSINESS (ESG) investor engagement. The recommendations provide a useful framework goal. We also asked them for ideas to improve Suncor’s disclosure in line with to describe how businesses are managing climate risk and ensuring corporate the TCFD recommendations. strategies remain resilient in a low-carbon future. CLIMATE CHANGE -The feedback recognized that, while we’ve made progress, we still have There are still many details to work out, particularly around the appropriate work to do to clearly define and disclose our approach to meeting our GHG disclosure channels to ensure we can provide a transparent and fulsome goal. To that end, we have included more information in this report on our ENVIRONMENT discussion on our climate strategy over the long term while recognizing the GHG goal methodology and pathways to reducing our emissions intensity challenges of providing forward-looking information within regulatory financial by 30% by 2030. disclosure requirements. We look forward to working with the task force on SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Met with investor network, Climate Action 100+, to discuss Suncor’s this journey to shape and evolve climate risk disclosure so it meets the needs of governance approach and board oversight, commitment to the Paris both companies and investors and leads to better understanding of what’s Agreement, as well as disclosure in line with the TCFD. required to transition to a low carbon future. INNOVATION • Hosted an Energy Transition Day of Learning workshop in partnership with Aviso Capital/NEI Investments, the Royal Bank of Canada, and Teck Resources. We have provided a table showing the sections of this report that are aligned, PERFORMANCE DATA The workshop, attended by investors and industry leaders, shared the latest fully or in part, with the TCFD recommendations. Improvements made in this information on the energy transition and was designed to reduce polarization report include additional information on our GHG goal methodology and our and promote dialogue on a lower-carbon economy in Canada. engagement with our supply chain. We have also begun developing a 2°C APPENDICES scenario looking beyond 2040 that we will use to test our business strategy. • Participated in a number of events to advance climate policy and sustainable energy development such as the Energy Disruptors conference, Clean Energy Ministerial Meeting, and sustainable finance expert panel roundtables. Over the next year, we expect to host another Ceres-facilitated stakeholder workshop and increase engagement with investors, including the Climate Action 100+ initiative. We look forward to these opportunities to build mutual understanding on the best approaches for Suncor to meet its business objectives and address stakeholder expectations. * Ceres is non-profit organization that works with investors and companies to build sustainability leadership and drive solutions for a healthy global economy. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our perspective and engagement | 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities CEO MESSAGE TCFD recommendation Report section • Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. • Integration of carbon risk into decision making processes ABOUT OUR REPORT • The energy system of tomorrow • Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. • Integration of carbon risk into decision making processes STRATEGY AND • Business strategy for a changing energy future GOVERNANCE Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning OUR BUSINESS where such information is material. TCFD recommendation Report section CLIMATE CHANGE • Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, • Business strategy for a changing energy future medium, and long term. • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor ENVIRONMENT • Facility resilience to extreme weather events • Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, • Business strategy for a changing energy future SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY strategy, and financial planning. • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor • Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate• The energy system of tomorrow related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. • Scenario summaries INNOVATION • Business strategy for a changing energy future • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor PERFORMANCE DATA • Facility resilience to extreme weather events APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our perspective and engagement | 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risk management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. CEO MESSAGE TCFD recommendation Report section • Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. • Leadership in climate policy ABOUT OUR REPORT • Stakeholder engagement • Integration of carbon risk into decision making processes STRATEGY AND • Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. • GHG performance and mitigating emissions GOVERNANCE • Low-carbon innovation • Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated • Integration of carbon risk into decision making processes OUR BUSINESS into the organization’s overall risk management. CLIMATE CHANGE Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. TCFD recommendation Report section ENVIRONMENT • Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line • GHG performance and mitigating emissions with its strategy and risk management process. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. • GHG performance and mitigating emissions • Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and • GHG performance and mitigating emissions INNOVATION performance against targets. • Integrating our GHG performance goal PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 GHG performance and mitigating emissions | 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS GHG PERFORMANCE AND MITIGATING EMISSIONS CEO MESSAGE 2018 GHG PERFORMANCE The emissions intensity of our downstream refining and supply facilities was slightly lower in 2018, driven by efficiency improvements following major In early 2018, Suncor started producing at Fort Hills and production volumes ABOUT OUR REPORT maintenance at the Edmonton refinery and improved refinery utilization rates ramped up steadily throughout the year. This addition to our oil sands portfolio in Montreal and Commerce City. resulted in absolute full-year GHG emissions of 22 million tonnes of CO2e. While the total emissions increased approximately 11% year-over-year, the lower Suncor’s GHG goal is designed to encourage business choices that reduce Suncor’s STRATEGY AND GHG emissions intensity associated with the paraffinic froth treatment (PFT) emissions and the emissions in the global energy system. To support tracking our GOVERNANCE extraction process at Fort Hills helped to reduce corporate emissions intensity by goal progress, Suncor developed a methodology that includes both direct 2% to 0.389 tonnes of CO2e per cubic metre of oil equivalent production. We emissions reductions from our operated assets and indirect reductions from the OUR BUSINESS expect the GHG intensity at Fort Hills to decline further, as the facility operates at use of our products. The data in the GHG performance section reflects our direct steady state design capacity. operations emissions. For more information on the goal methodology, please see the Integrating our GHG performance goal section of this report. The GHG performance* in our other upstream oil sands operations was slightly CLIMATE CHANGE higher than their three-year average. These variations are attributed to a combination of factors such as a larger than usual turnaround event which disproportionately affected production in 2018 and to a lesser extent some ENVIRONMENT modifications to emission calculation methodologies**. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES * All GHG performance values reflect Suncor-operated facilities only and represent 100% of the direct and indirect emissions at these facilities. Data is not broken down by working interest and does not include non-operated facilities. ** In 2018, Suncor revised its absolute GHG calculation methodology to align with the GHG Protocol. We also modified the emissions intensity calculation to reflect oil production emissions net of exported electrical power emissions. This was implemented retroactively to 2013 and also in the forecast to 2023. The result is that overall emissions intensity is more comparable to other crude oil production intensities and does not inflate the values due to cogeneration power emissions. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 GHG performance and mitigating emissions | 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUNCOR-WIDE ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS* actual (1990–2018) and estimates (2019–2023) thousand tonnes CO2 equivalents (CO2e) CEO MESSAGE 30,000 20,000 ABOUT OUR REPORT 10,000 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 0 1990 2000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 OUR BUSINESS Actual and estimated 4,832 7,782 20,535 20,468 20,479 18,739 19,874 21,990 24,112 23,569 23,804 23,415 23,598 CO2e emissions Oil Sands Base plant 3,631 5,564 8,417 8,542 8,685 7,138 8,454 7,868 9,540 9,446 9,327 9,173 8,936 CLIMATE CHANGE Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – – – – 2,147 2,470 2,293 2,330 2,340 2,383 Oil Sands In Situ – – 5,390 5,610 5,619 5,443 5,420 6,282 6,163 6,114 6,221 5,994 6,374 Firebag – – 4,703 4,903 4,991 4,810 4,710 5,330 5,159 5,175 5,258 5,004 5,383 ENVIRONMENT MacKay River – – 687 707 628 633 710 953 1,005 938 963 990 991 Exploration & Production 233 531 1,152 684 568 581 650 615 637 411 628 628 628 Canada NAO 233 531 630 42 20 21 20 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Canada Terra Nova – – 522 642 548 560 630 615 637 411 628 628 628 Refining and Supply 968 1,687 5,406 5,467 5,438 5,411 5,186 4,917 5,132 5,136 5,128 5,111 5,106 INNOVATION Commerce City – – 1,205 1,183 1,101 1,126 1,164 1,125 1,162 1,162 1,164 1,157 1,163 Edmonton – – 1,677 1,694 1,734 1,779 1,794 1,542 1,771 1,747 1,723 1,714 1,703 Lubes – – 399 426 386 420 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A PERFORMANCE DATA Montreal – – 1,172 1,160 1,204 1,143 1,219 1,187 1,197 1,195 1,224 1,224 1,224 Sarnia – – 889 918 918 862 932 982 921 953 937 936 936 Other (including Burrard – – 64 86 95 81 77 80 80 80 80 80 80 terminal, Montreal Sulphur APPENDICES Plant and Pipelines) Biofuels and Renewables – – 170 165 169 166 164 160 169 169 169 170 170 * The GHG benefit of biofuels is that the carbon emitted during end-use combustion came from plants that recently captured CO2 from the atmosphere. Its combustion is considered to be net neutral with regard to carbon emissions. For additional information about this chart and its data please refer to the performance data notes 3,4 and 5. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 GHG performance and mitigating emissions | 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUNCOR-WIDE GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY* actual (1990–2018) and estimates (2019–2023) tonnes CO2e/cubic meters of oil equivalent (m3OE) CEO MESSAGE 0.60 ABOUT OUR REPORT 0.40 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS 0.20 CLIMATE CHANGE 0.00 ENVIRONMENT 1990 2000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Actual and estimated CO2e 0.570 0.402 0.395 0.433 0.407 0.398 0.396 0.389 0.392 0.384 0.383 0.383 0.384 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY emissions intensity Oil Sands Base plant 1.196 0.817 0.493 0.489 0.451 0.455 0.443 0.461 0.483 0.480 0.503 0.470 0.434 Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – – – – 0.259 0.212 0.197 0.209 0.194 0.198 INNOVATION Oil Sands In Situ – – 0.470 0.425 0.389 0.382 0.391 0.401 0.395 0.386 0.392 0.405 0.413 Exploration & Production Canada – – 0.154 0.238 0.251 0.278 0.344 0.340 0.387 0.342 0.295 0.378 0.445 Refining and Supply 0.225 0.193 0.200 0.203 0.199 0.201 0.187 0.183 0.184 0.184 0.183 0.183 0.182 PERFORMANCE DATA Biofuels and Renewables – – 0.668 0.654 0.662 0.654 0.657 0.652 0.668 0.664 0.668 0.670 0.672 * Converting corn into fuel is more energy intensive than turning hydrocarbons into fuel. We are evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair facility to develop lower carbon intensity ethanol. The GHG benefit of biofuels is APPENDICES that the carbon emitted during end-use combustion came from plants that recently captured CO2 from the atmosphere. Its combustion is considered to be net neutral with regard to carbon emissions. For additional information about this chart and its data please refer to the performance data notes 3, 4 and 5. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 GHG performance and mitigating emissions | 62 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUNCOR ENERGY USE AND ENERGY USE* millions of gigajoules ENERGY INTENSITY 400 CEO MESSAGE GHG emissions are closely linked to energy use, 300 with approximately 90% of direct GHG emissions and nearly all indirect emissions accounted for by 200 ABOUT OUR REPORT consumption of energy for operations. Suncor is committed to continuously improving 100 STRATEGY AND energy management and reducing GHG emissions 0 GOVERNANCE as part of everyday operational excellence. Similar 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to the GHG trends, energy use increased in 2018 Oil Sands Base plant 117.30 119.47 99.21 117.56 112.44 with the addition of Fort Hills but total intensity Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 33.80 OUR BUSINESS remained relatively flat. Oil Sands In Situ 89.48 93.27 90.24 92.50 101.43 E&P Canada Terra Nova 8.49 6.87 7.09 8.03 7.39 Refining and Supply 86.18 88.07 85.83 80.42 77.58 CLIMATE CHANGE Biofuels and Renewables 3.45 3.54 3.53 3.49 3.46 Suncor total energy use 304.30 310.40 285.80 302.00 336.10 ENVIRONMENT * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to the performance data notes (#6 – notes on energy consumption). ENERGY INTENSITY* SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GJ/m3 10 INNOVATION 5 PERFORMANCE DATA 0 APPENDICES 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Oil Sands Base plant 6.83 6.30 6.44 6.21 6.67 Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 4.48 Oil Sands In Situ 7.73 7.39 7.45 7.48 7.29 E&P Canada Terra Nova 3.19 3.29 3.69 4.53 4.09 Refining and Supply 3.20 3.20 3.18 2.90 2.88 Biofuels and Renewables 8.93 9.11 9.45 12.41 13.99 Suncor total 6.70 6.44 6.39 6.22 6.23 energy intensity * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to the performance data notes (#6 – notes on energy consumption). SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 GHG performance and mitigating emissions | 63 TABLE OF CONTENTS PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Exploration and production Oil sands base plant mining On the East Coast of Canada, Terra Nova emissions decreased 2% to 0.6 million tonnes CO2e in 2018. While the 2018 emissions intensity decreased 5% to CEO MESSAGE Our Oil Sands base plant upgrader underwent a major maintenance turnaround 0.340 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of oil equivalent, it is above the 2015–2017 average event in 2018, resulting in lower bitumen production and lower energy efficiency. due to natural production declines. Terra Nova is the only East Coast Canada asset Due to this event, absolute emissions from our operations were 7% lower at ABOUT OUR REPORT that Suncor operates. Other international and offshore production interests are 7.9 million tonnes of CO2e but emissions intensity increased by 2% to joint ventures and not within our direct operational control. 0.461 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of oil equivalent over the 2015–2017 average. The higher intensity was partially offset by projects which improved heat STRATEGY AND integration and energy efficiency. Refining and supply GOVERNANCE Suncor’s Refining and Supply assets saw improved utilization rates in 2018 with Fort Hills mining the exception of the Edmonton refinery, which had a major turnaround event that impacted its GHG intensity. This was partially offset by plant improvements, OUR BUSINESS Fort Hills saw first oil in January 2018 and successfully ramped up to full operating including a new process catalyst. capacity by the fourth quarter of 2018, with 94% average plant utilization. This new facility added more than 2.1 million tonnes of CO2e to our overall GHG Total GHG emissions at our downstream facilities fell 2% to 5.1 million tonnes CLIMATE CHANGE emissions. However, the less energy and carbon-intensive extraction process used of CO2e. Emissions intensity held steady at 0.183 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of oil at Fort Hills removes heavy hydrocarbon molecules to create a lighter, higher equivalent which is approximately 5% below the 2015–2017 average intensity. quality bitumen that requires less diluent for shipping. As a result, the 2018 GHG ENVIRONMENT intensity of production was 0.262 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of oil equivalent, and full Renewables and biofuels cycle (well-to-wheels) emissions intensity was similar to the average refined barrel in Suncor is currently a partner in four operational wind power facilities with SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the U.S.* Fort Hills emissions intensity is expected to drop further with a full-year of a generating capacity of 111 megawatts (MW), enough to power about steady state operations. 52,000 Canadian homes. Performance data is reported for operated wind farms only and is not adjusted to reflect ownership share. INNOVATION In situ We’ve been blending ethanol in our retail fuels since 1992 and Suncor’s St. Clair The absolute emissions at our steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) operations ethanol plant is the single largest ethanol production facility in Canada. There increased 16% year over year to about 6.3 million tonnes of CO2e. Following a PERFORMANCE DATA were no notable changes in plant performance in 2018. Absolute emissions were 2017 turnaround season, our In Situ facilities had higher production volumes as 0.162 million tonnes CO2 and emissions intensity was 0.656 tonnes CO2e per m3 well as increased cogenerated power production for export and thus higher oil equivalent. APPENDICES overall emissions. Suncor’s In Situ facility intensity was 2% higher at 0.406 tonnes of CO2e per m3 of oil equivalent than the 2015–2017 average. The intensity increase was due to a higher steam-oil-ratio at Firebag in 2018. * IHS Energy Special Report: Comparing GHG Intensity of the Oil Sands and the Average US Crude Oil. May 2014. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Integrating our GHG performance goal | 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTEGRATING OUR GHG PERFORMANCE GOAL CEO MESSAGE In 2016, we announced a greenhouse gas goal that we will work to harness technology and innovation to set us on a transformational pathway to a low-carbon energy system. We will measure our progress by reducing the ABOUT OUR REPORT total emissions intensity of the production of our oil and petroleum products by 30% by 2030. STRATEGY AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CONTINUOUS GOVERNANCE Implementing & improving Developing and deploying energy efficiency new technologies IMPROVEMENT OF OUR BASE ASSETS We continue to drive energy efficiency at all of our facilities. OUR BUSINESS G goal GH • We are implementing new digital technologies such as operation performance CO2 management (OPM) dashboards at Firebag to measure, review and make 30 CLIMATE CHANGE real-time decisions that improve reliability, reduce energy intensity, and lower % cost and GHG emissions. Investing in Running operations on natural gas Reducing emissions low-carbon power intensity by 2030 us moving to low-carbon fuels • The design of our new facilities leverages operational experience to significantly Ha ENVIRONMENT e rn n ss in Based on a 2014 baseline o e m se t t a o pa g te c th h n io st v a t sy lower energy intensity. For example, in addition to using an extraction w a n o l o g y a n d i n n o er g y y to n a l o w -c a r b o n e technology that removes heavy hydrocarbon molecules at the source, Fort Hills SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY design is highly heat integrated through the use of high efficiency cogeneration, recovery of warm process water, and closed loop cooling for enhanced process heat capture. INNOVATION Implementing This ambitious goal, based on a 2014 baseline year, stretches us beyond our current Baseline CO2 & improving energy technology and know-how, and ultimately aims to alter the trajectory of our emissions 30 efficiency PERFORMANCE DATA absolute emissions, with the intent to make us a producer of low-carbon intensity intensity % Investing in crude and refined products. While our goal will be measured by the reduction of our low-carbon power corporate emissions intensity by 30%, the goal is also intended to embed lowAPPENDICES GHG goal carbon thinking into the day-to-day activities and decisions of our employees. emissions The goal is driving operational, energy and fuel efficiency improvements, intensity accelerating the development and implementation of new technologies and Running operations on natural gas encouraging the evaluation of potential low-carbon business opportunities. moving to low-carbon Operational metrics are part of the corporate scorecard and are critical to meeting fuels the goal. The initiatives required to meet the goal cascade into annual Developing performance targets. and deploying new technologies We are targeting emissions reductions in four key areas. 2014 2030 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Integrating our GHG performance goal | 65 TABLE OF CONTENTS INVESTING IN LOW-CARBON POWER DEVELOPING AND DEPLOYING Our GHG goal is also driving us to seek and evaluate new business opportunities NEW TECHNOLOGIES CEO MESSAGE in our value chain and within the evolving energy system. Our goal will require us to go beyond today’s capabilities, and we are aggressively • All of our oil sands facilities use cogeneration, and we are a net exporter of working on new technologies that lower the costs and carbon emissions of our power to Alberta’s electricity grid. By producing both industrial steam and processes and products. ABOUT OUR REPORT electricity through a natural gas-fuelled process, cogeneration is the most • We are participating in the Government of Alberta’s research and analysis of a energy-efficient form of hydrocarbon-based power generation. The GHG potential bitumen partial upgrading program to improve the GHG profile of oil intensity of the power produced from Suncor’s cogeneration units is STRATEGY AND sands crudes. approximately 75% below that of an average coal-fired power plant and 30% GOVERNANCE below a combined-cycle natural gas facility. The excess power from our • We are amplifying our climate actions through: cogeneration facilities combined with our wind energy, significantly contribute to -technology collaboration efforts through Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation OUR BUSINESS reducing the overall GHG intensity of Alberta’s electricity grid. Alliance (COSIA) • We are progressing a project to replace the GHG intensive coke-fired boilers -focused investments in clean technology funds such as Evok Innovations with cogeneration or natural gas boilers at our Oil Sands base plant. In addition CLIMATE CHANGE -advancing the work of the Clean Resource Innovation Network (CRIN), an to providing the facility with steam and hot water needed for our operations, the cogeneration option could export up to 800 MW of low GHG intensity industry-led group created to leverage the oil and gas industry’s strengths in electricity to the provincial grid in Alberta*. large-scale heavy industrial collaboration with the potential to export to ENVIRONMENT other industries globally • In addition to our current partnerships in wind power, we continue to evaluate renewable energy investments that deliver economic, environmental and social • Advancing new in situ extraction technologies that incorporate injected SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY hydrocarbon solvents such as propane or butane that are expected to reduce benefits. We also are continuing to explore the opportunity to develop our first utility-scale solar photovoltaic facility in Alberta. emissions from in situ facilities. INNOVATION • Directly investing in technology companies like Enerkem Inc. and LanzaTech. MOVING TO LOW-CARBON FUELS In some instances, the development and deployment of these technologies We continue to look for low-carbon opportunities in our operations and evaluate will take us beyond 2030 and we are looking at longer term technologyPERFORMANCE DATA new business opportunities in renewable fuels. aspirational goals to motivate decision-making. More details about some of • We are considering fuel switching from high to low carbon sources in our the technologies and innovations we are advancing can be found in the APPENDICES processes such as the proposed coke-fired boiler replacement project at base low-carbon innovation section. plant which would replace coke combustion with natural gas. • We continue to invest in renewable fuels including our 2019 investment in Enerkem Inc. which manufactures biofuels and renewable chemical products from household garbage that would otherwise be landfilled. We are evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair ethanol plant to increase the quality of our products to develop lower carbon intensity ethanol. * This project has not been sanctioned and is subject to climate policy clarity. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Integrating our GHG performance goal | 66 TABLE OF CONTENTS GOAL METHODOLOGY Suncor actions and/or investments that reduce emissions outside of operational fence lines will be captured as indirect credits Suncor’s GHG goal is intended to improve decision-making and our methodology is specifically designed to encourage business choices that will reduce emissions in • Indirect emissions are not directly emitted by our operations but are required to CEO MESSAGE the global energy system. To support this change, we have established principles produce our products and include the electricity, hydrogen, or steam that we that guide the implementation of the goal. The goal should: import from third-party suppliers. In addition to this, our low-carbon products ABOUT OUR REPORT can help reduce indirect emissions within the energy system. For example, the • Drive real emissions reductions in the energy system both within and external cogeneration power we generate for Alberta’s electricity grid displaces to Suncor’s operations. high-carbon sources of power. STRATEGY AND • Encourage new, lower intensity production as part of our evaluation of new The goal will adjust to account for changes in asset mix GOVERNANCE projects. Embedding the GHG goal and carbon price assumptions within our asset development execution model enables a rigorous process to promote the • We have developed a methodology for asset acquisitions or divestitures that selection of efficient assets and technology for any new oil sands, offshore, does not benefit or hinder our ability to meet our goal. OUR BUSINESS downstream and renewable projects. • Lead to additional emissions reductions and will not be met by changing our CLIMATE CHANGE product sales mix or through acquisition and divestment. For example, reducing the sales volume of premium synthetic crude could reduce Suncor’s direct emissions but would simply shift emissions downstream and not result in ENVIRONMENT emissions reduction overall. Similarly, buying low carbonor selling high carbon-intensity assets simply transfers ownership and does not reduce global atmospheric emissions. If we change our product mix or portfolio of assets, we SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY will adjust our goal baseline. To allow us to measure progress against our goal, we have established the INNOVATION following: Suncor tracks the GHG intensity of our production within the facilities PERFORMANCE DATA we operate • The focus of our goal is on the assets we control and operate. As such, we establish the baseline GHG emissions intensity of our operated assets by APPENDICES calculating the direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions of our production. This allows us to identify opportunities for our controlled assets to reduce emissions directly in our operations and also for our products to reduce emissions indirectly within the energy system. We continue to promote safe and efficient production in our non-operated assets. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Low-carbon innovation | 67 TABLE OF CONTENTS LOW-CARBON INNOVATION CEO MESSAGE New technologies and innovative thinking are fundamental to how we do business. In 2018, we invested approximately $635 million in technology development and deployment, and digital technologies as part ABOUT OUR REPORT of a robust strategy to optimize current assets and develop next-generation facilities. STRATEGY AND GHG: TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT & DEPLOYMENT GOVERNANCE DISCOVER DESIGN DEVELOP DEPLOY OUR BUSINESS IN SITU Steam-solvent technologies ES-SAGD (Expanding Solvent Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage) CLIMATE CHANGE Wellbore technologies Solvent + Non-condensable gas coWellbore heating injection pilots (Firebag and Novel subsurface technologies High Temperature MacKay River) ENVIRONMENT Superheat Reverse Osmosis Produced Water Electromagnetic (EASE) TM Treatment Alternative gas co-injection ESISEH TM Well-bore enhancements SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In Situ Multilateral well pilot (Firebag) Demonstration Facility Electric Submersible Pump pilots INNOVATION Flow control devices M-Tool pilot (Firebag) PERFORMANCE DATA MINING Non-Aqueous Extraction Paraffinic Froth Treatment (PFT) APPENDICES UPGRADING & REFINING Partial upgrading Mild thermal cracker technology De-asphalting LEGEND Technology name / grouping Time to implementation Operational 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-10 years SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Low-carbon innovation | 68 TABLE OF CONTENTS LOW-CARBON IN SITU PRODUCTION In the solvent-based processes Suncor is pursuing, a light hydrocarbon solvent such as propane or butane is used as the primary means to mobilize the bitumen. Our current technology for in situ production, steam assisted gravity drainage We are beginning to pilot a suite of technologies referred to as Solvent+, where CEO MESSAGE (SAGD), employs two parallel horizontal wells to recover the bitumen. The top the “+” refers to a range of heating technologies that can be coupled with well distributes steam to heat the reservoir, allowing the bitumen to flow to the solvent injection. These include wellbore heating, superheated solvent injection, lower well where it can be pumped to the surface. One of the challenges of electromagnetic assisted solvent extraction (EASE) and Enhanced Solvent ABOUT OUR REPORT SAGD is that the reservoir is typically heated to 200°C or more to get the bitumen Extraction Incorporating Electromagnetic Heating (ESEIEH™*). If successful, to flow, consuming a significant amount of natural gas, and necessitating large Solvent+ offers the potential for several significant environmental improvements amounts of water handling and treatment for steam production. over SAGD including reducing GHG emissions intensity by 50% to 70%. STRATEGY AND We are advancing a portfolio of in situ technologies to lower the carbon intensity GOVERNANCE of producing bitumen and improve cost competitiveness. We believe the solution ES-SAGD will be a hybrid of the technologies we’re progressing with the aim to reduce Expanding Solvent SAGD (ES-SAGD) is an enhancement of SAGD technology OUR BUSINESS energy and water use, lower capital and operating costs, and improve production wherein a small volume of hydrocarbon solvent is co-injected with steam. The rates and resource recovery. Some of these technologies could be applied to addition of the hydrocarbon solvent is expected to accelerate bitumen production existing facilities or new growth facilities and, if successful, would significantly and reduce steam requirements, process water requirements and greenhouse CLIMATE CHANGE reduce our GHG emissions intensity. gas emissions. An important component of our evaluation of this technology is These technologies could have a significant impact in the following areas: enhancing our understanding of solvent retention and recovery. Pad-scale demonstration commenced in February 2019 at Firebag and its results will ENVIRONMENT • energy use and GHG emissions determine the viability of this technology. • water use and treatment Solvent+ and ES-SAGD technologies have the potential added benefit of lowering SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the carbon composition of the oil through the production process. This raises the • land impacts value of the oil and reduces the full life-cycle emissions intensity. • production rates and resource recovery INNOVATION • capital and operating costs Paraffinic froth treatment • product quality and value Fort Hills uses a paraffinic froth treatment (PFT) to convert bitumen froth PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor works extensively with research organizations and technology providers as generated in the extraction circuit into an upgrader feedstock. In PFT, we well as our own technical experts to identify, evaluate and advance technologies selectively remove the heavy hydrocarbon molecules (the low-value, heavy APPENDICES in our Upstream and Downstream operations. Here are some of the technologies fraction of the mined bitumen) to create a lighter, higher quality-bitumen that we are advancing: requires less diluent to transport and requires no additional upgrading for the downstream processing. The oil sands is the only place in the world that alters Solvent+ the carbon content of oil at the production source prior to sending to the market. Suncor is focused on hydrocarbon solvents as an alternative to steam for bitumen production from in situ reservoirs. Suncor’s current focus on solvent recovery As a result of this partial decarbonization process, our greenhouse gas processes builds on our experience and background knowledge of solventemissions for the average barrel extracted at Fort Hills are on par with the dominated processes, gained from participation in pilots and testing for more average crude refined in the United States** on a full life cycle basis. than 20 years. * TM Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. ** IHS Energy Special Report: Comparing GHG Intensity of the Oil Sands and the Average US Crude Oil. May 2014. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Low-carbon innovation | 69 TABLE OF CONTENTS LOW-CARBON OIL SANDS MINING Collaboration and partnerships TECHNOLOGY Innovation is a process that is best served by inviting the brightest minds and CEO MESSAGE diverse perspectives to collaborate. Non-aqueous extraction Through partnerships with equipment suppliers and research organizations, we Venture capital funding supports entrepreneurs to advance their ideas to are pursuing new technologies to reduce the need for water in bitumen extraction commercialization and build businesses to market their technology worldABOUT OUR REPORT from mining operations. Currently, warm water is used to separate bitumen from wide. An example of this is Evok Innovations, a $100 million technology fund the sands. By replacing that water with an alternative solvent, we have the co-founded by the BC Cleantech CEO Alliance, Cenovus Energy Inc. and potential to significantly reduce tailings, costs, and our GHG emissions. Suncor. Suncor and Cenovus have each committed up to $50 million over STRATEGY AND A demonstration pilot is tentatively planned for 2020. 10 years to develop technologies to help address some of the most pressing GOVERNANCE environmental and economic challenges of our industry. LOW-CARBON INNOVATION IN OUR Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) – brings together OUR BUSINESS DOWNSTREAM BUSINESS Canada’s largest oil sand producers to pool expertise and intellectual property to accelerate technologies and improve the industry’s environmental Since 2006, Suncor has been making a significant impact in Canada’s emerging performance. COSIA’s environmental focus areas attract the brightest minds CLIMATE CHANGE biofuels industry. Our downstream carbon reduction initiatives include alternative from around the world. The NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE is a global competition fuels, fuel switching, energy efficiency and investing in new technologies including: in which teams from around the world, including Canada, are proving their ENVIRONMENT • a coast-to-coast level three high-speed direct current electric vehicle charging technologies can be economically scaled up to transform CO2 into valuable, network spanning more than 50 Petro-Canada stations useful products. • investment in companies focused on biofuel technologies such as LanzaTech Suncor is an active member of the Clean Resource Innovation Network SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Enerkem Inc. (CRIN), which aims to position Canada as a global leader in producing clean hydrocarbon energy from source to end use. The network brings together the • the largest ethanol plant in Canada which provides the ethanol that we blend INNOVATION oil and gas industry, innovators, investors, start-ups, policy-makers, incubators into our gasoline as well as research into lower carbon intensity ethanol and accelerators, researchers and students. It facilitates the connections to • increasing renewable fuel options for our diesel and gasoline blending advance technologies for use in Canada and with the potential for export to PERFORMANCE DATA including investment in hydrotreated renewable diesel (HRD) and fatty acid global markets emphasizing the potential impact that our country can make methyl ester (FAME) to help address global challenges. APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon risk and energy outlook | 70 TABLE OF CONTENTS CARBON RISK AND ENERGY OUTLOOK CEO MESSAGE INTEGRATION OF CARBON RISK INTO OUR Each year, as part of our normal integrated business planning process, we develop price assumptions for a variety of economic variables. This includes both base and DECISION-MAKING PROCESSES alternative case carbon prices that take into account existing regulations and the ABOUT OUR REPORT expected trajectory of those regulations as they apply to our assets. These ES S assumptions are used in the evaluation of all business, acquisition, divestiture, EN STRATEGY AND IV S capital and strategic planning activities. The alternative case takes a much higher IT T T R GOVERNANCE P E CARBON IS A INTERNAL E N view of future carbon prices and serves as a “stress test” which adds confidence M to capital decisions. G O PRINCIPAL RISK CARBON T C PRICE H CAR $ & In addition to carbon price, other factors such as crude oil price and demand OUR BUSINESS BO IENCE CO2 changes over time, are evaluated in business, capital, and strategic planning SIL N processes. Each business is required to consider these material factors and RE & CLIMATE CHANGE demonstrate that it will be able to continue to meet an acceptable rate of return, COST including funding its sustaining capital and enabling Suncor to maintain and grow CO2 its dividend. If the business cannot meet these objectives, it is required to outline ENVIRONMENT the steps needed to achieve this target. AMBITIOUS TESTING STRATEGY Our internal management model for project and asset development incorporates GHG GOAL AGAINST FUTURE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SCENARIOS carbon pricing and our GHG goal prior to a commitment of significant resources, L O S and ensures that all material climate change risks and opportunities are well W EM -C AR ST understood. The process allows for analysis of technical options, but also the BON SY ENERGY INNOVATION regulatory and external stakeholder context to be recognized in decision-making. At an enterprise-wide level, we use scenario planning to assess the resilience of Suncor takes an integrated approach to managing carbon risk and we embed PERFORMANCE DATA our business strategy over the long term. We also test our whole portfolio of carbon into our decision making processes in multiple ways. businesses against our long-term GHG goal to ensure it is achievable. Carbon risk is considered one of Suncor’s principal risks. As such, it undergoes a APPENDICES regular Board of Directors review. This includes reviewing external trends, carbon risk pathways, and Suncor’s plans to mitigate those risks. Carbon risk is also brought forward to the Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development Committee of the board on a quarterly basis for ongoing oversight. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon risk and energy outlook | 71 TABLE OF CONTENTS THE ENERGY SYSTEM OF TOMORROW SCENARIO PLANNING We are starting to see global efforts to reduce emissions through nationally We use three long-term energy futures scenarios to test our business strategy. CEO MESSAGE determined commitments in accordance with the Paris Agreement. Broader All of the scenarios are plausible and could affect our operating environment and technology and policy pathways are necessary to deliver energy to a growing global business strategy in markedly different ways. Under each of these scenarios, population, while at the same time mitigating climate change. Limiting emissions including the one with the most aggressive decline in oil demand, we believe a ABOUT OUR REPORT will be achieved at an energy system-wide level in the most appropriate way for substantial amount of oil will be required for decades as the world gets on track each region or jurisdiction. There are no single or simple solutions to this challenge. to meet its climate ambitions. This view is also supported by forecasts from organizations such as the International Energy Agency and the US Energy In our base case energy outlook, we take the following broad trends STRATEGY AND Information Administration. Meeting that demand at either low, or highly volatile, into consideration: GOVERNANCE oil prices will be a challenge. • Forecasted population growth, the increasing need for energy in developing Each scenario has an implied crude oil price range and climate change regulatory economies and the aspiration for a better quality of life. As such, we see OUR BUSINESS impact. Two of the three reflect the current global aspiration toward reducing the global demand for energy increasing steadily. Much of this increase is carbon emissions; what differentiates the scenarios is the context, pace and scale expected to come from developing countries in Asia, the Middle East, Latin at which that comes about. America and Africa. CLIMATE CHANGE Of these scenarios, “Autonomy” is the scenario we consider best represents • We believe decoupling of economic growth and carbon emissions is required the technology and policy context that would be essential to meet the aspiration to fundamentally change the energy mix. ENVIRONMENT of limiting cumulative emissions to 450 ppm. In 2019, Suncor is currently working • National emissions reduction commitments made as part of the Paris on the development of a 2°C scenario that we can use to test our business Agreement will drive carbon pricing and complementary policy frameworks strategy beyond 2040. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY that are expected to accelerate energy efficiency and emissions reduction The scenarios are used annually by the CEO, the Executive Leadership Team technology and incent broader scale adoption of alternative low-carbon energy. and the Board of Directors to assess business and growth strategy and identify • We expect oil demand will continue to grow until approximately 2040 due to alternative strategic directions. This process continues to be a useful tool for INNOVATION population growth, urbanization and increased living standards, but oil is stress-testing our business on a number of key dimensions, including climate risk. expected to decline as a percentage of the global energy consumption mix. PERFORMANCE DATA • Given natural declines, staying at current production levels, much less meeting increased demand, will require investment in new production from global shale, deep-water and oil sands reserves – a major challenge, given the reduction in APPENDICES capital investment due to depressed commodity prices in recent years. • We expect supply cost will continue to be moderated by industry efforts to optimize production and invest in technological advances. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon risk and energy outlook | 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS SCENARIO SUMMARIES* Autonomy CEO MESSAGE Rapid technological and societal change transforms the energy landscape in Autonomy, supported by a peaceful and collaborative world. Summary: Energy markets impact ABOUT OUR REPORT • Millennial shift – focus on sustainability and collaboration, • Abundant and cost-effective supply of energy coupled with moderation and sustainable urbanization. eventual decline in demand, particularly in transportation, drives oil prices to • Falling costs and improved reliability of clean energy allow developing countries stay low in the long term. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE to bypass large-scale hydrocarbon-based energy infrastructure. • Oil exploration and production slows as investment moves to other sectors, • Natural gas is a transitional fuel for power generation, but after 2030 reducing but not choking supply. increasingly renewable power generation fuels a largely electrified energy system. • High-cost supply falls off fast. OUR BUSINESS • Break through battery technology development supports growth in • Oil is still required and continues to provide a significant share of the world’s electric vehicles. energy need. CLIMATE CHANGE • Oil’s role in geo-politics is substantially diminished contributing to a generally Expected impact on Suncor stable geo-political environment. • No existing assets are stranded. • Stable moderately strong economy. • Existing long-life assets continue to produce, funding their own ENVIRONMENT sustaining capital or modest growth capital requirements for incremental • Carbon-intensive industries face high regulatory costs and requirements. production expansion. • No new export pipelines are built out of the Athabasca oil sands region. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • New oil sands growth projects are challenged and unlikely to proceed. • Oil sands continue to provide a stable dividend base while growth options in other resource basins are considered. INNOVATION • Only the top tier refineries remain profitable – Suncor’s Downstream maintains a focus on reliable, efficient and low-cost operations. PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES * We used three scenarios defined by IHS Markit as the basis for the development of the Suncor scenarios. The IHS Markit Autonomy, Rivalry and Vertigo scenarios have been modified to fit our unique circumstances/needs. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon risk and energy outlook | 73 TABLE OF CONTENTS Rivalry In Rivalry, population growth, urbanization and growing middle class drive energy demand – diverse supply is required to satisfy demand, with intense CEO MESSAGE competition for market share between energy sources. Summary: Energy markets impact ABOUT OUR REPORT • Improving standard of living and greater personal wealth, particularly in China. • High global energy demand fed by diverse energy supply. • Expanding use of advanced technologies increases demand for energy. • Refined products still dominate transportation fuels, but are losing market • Shift of economic power to millennials with the desire and means to address share to alternative fuels. STRATEGY AND pollution and climate change. • Fuel efficiency standards and technological innovation moderate growth in GOVERNANCE • Geo-political landscape remains tense and strong global economic growth refined product demand. shifts global influence. • Oil and natural gas are increasingly costly to produce and the oil price OUR BUSINESS • Technology advancements allow access to greater oil reserves, with continues to trend upwards with some cyclical downturns. unconventional supply growing. Expected impact on Suncor • Natural gas and LNG play a larger role in transportation. • No existing assets are stranded. CLIMATE CHANGE • Strong growth in renewable energy. • High price and market access enable robust oil sands growth and further investment in improved extraction techniques. • Carbon-intensive industries face high regulatory costs and strict standards. ENVIRONMENT • Continued focus on carbon footprint reduction through capital projects, technology development and efficient operations. • Competitive downstream provides robust returns and enables physical SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY integration of oil sands crude. INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon risk and energy outlook | 74 TABLE OF CONTENTS Vertigo Continued conflict and geo-political instability are at the forefront of the world. Vertigo is a world with economic volatility, unbalanced wealth CEO MESSAGE distribution, and overall weaker GDP growth. Summary: Energy markets impact ABOUT OUR REPORT • International trend towards isolation and self-preservation with energy security • Fossil fuels remain the primary source of affordable energy and dominate a key concern. the global energy mix. • Air quality, traffic congestion lead to smaller, higher-efficiency vehicles and • The price of oil recovers from current levels but fluctuates widely with rapid STRATEGY AND some electric vehicle adoption. shifts in demand and supply. GOVERNANCE • Extreme weather events lead to social unrest. • Slower economic growth and technological progress limit the proliferation • Investor risk aversion and tight capital markets constrain both technology of electric and other alternative fuel vehicles; energy mix does not advancement and high capital projects. change significantly. OUR BUSINESS • Pipe-line projects constrained by stakeholder protests and investor risk aversion. • Slower economic growth limits growth in energy, oil and refined product demand. • Unstable, boom/bust energy market. CLIMATE CHANGE Expected impact on Suncor • Environmental progress and climate change mitigation takes a back seat to • No existing assets are stranded. economic concerns. ENVIRONMENT • Long-life assets able to deliver free cash flow through commodity price volatility, enabling Suncor to maintain competitive returns to shareholders. • Integrated model helps smooth oil price cycles. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Growth projects rigorously tested to ensure ability to deliver returns in volatile oil price environment. INNOVATION • Financial strength is leveraged to consolidate assets at the bottom of the cycle. PERFORMANCE DATA SCENARIO SIGNPOSTS Along with scenarios, we also develop and annually update our signposts, which Signposts include changes in global energy demand and supply mix, political and are milestones to identify critical shifts in the external context. The world is in a economic indicators, climate data, policy and consumer trends, and technology APPENDICES constant state of change, sometimes moving faster than we expect. Tracking the advances. Current signposts tell us: pace and direction of the change is an integral part of our scenario work and • the global energy mix shows signs of global demand growth for all forms helps us develop and evaluate strategic alternatives for our business by of energy incorporating both global and Canadian current events, trends and actions. • volatility and uncertainty in geopolitical and global economic environments could hinder the growth of the global economy • technology continues to evolve at a rapid pace, which drives down costs and improves energy efficiencies for producers and consumers alike • economic priorities and geopolitical tensions appear to impede coordination on climate change action SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Resilient strategy | 75 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESILIENT STRATEGY CEO MESSAGE BUSINESS STRATEGY FOR A This acquisition increases our exposure to carbon pricing. However, by increasing our position in Syncrude, we have the opportunity to leverage our relationship with CHANGING ENERGY FUTURE an experienced operator with a strong technology program to further advance ABOUT OUR REPORT The global oil and gas industry is in the midst of a major structural adjustment due energy efficiencies at both our base plant and the Syncrude facility. in large part to technology that opened up new oil supply, such as shale oil, and While often characterized as being the oil basin most vulnerable to a low oil STRATEGY AND reduced the supply cost curve. As the industry adjusts in an effort to emerge demand scenario, the very long operating life and low decline rate of our assets GOVERNANCE stronger and leaner, a focus on where the industry is headed and the key are, paradoxically, a major advantage under a scenario of either declining demand influencers in both the short and longer term is essential. for crude oil or a correspondingly lower oil price environment. Our long-term OUR BUSINESS reserves base presents minimal finding and exploration costs or risk. The nature of OIL SANDS the resource requires high upfront capital investment to develop a project, but Suncor’s Oil Sands operations are a concentrated unconventional oil play. Our once the initial infrastructure is in place, the reservoir can be incrementally CLIMATE CHANGE perspective of the future tells us that now is the time to know where our developed over a long period of time, without exploration risk, or the high capital competitive advantage lies and to play to that advantage. requirements of a new project. We have been an operator in the Athabasca oil sands for more than 50 years Oil sands facilities are more comparable to manufacturing operations. Once ENVIRONMENT and the majority of our production comes from the oil sands. There is strategic operating, they are built to last 40 plus years with a steady output. Production advantage in having a top-tier resource base of some of the highest-quality does not rapidly peak and decline, so each new incremental expansion results in SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reservoirs in the Athabasca oil sands region and substantial scale of physically production growth. Once high upfront capital costs are depreciated, a facility can integrated operations in the region. Furthermore, our largely integrated value continue to operate with low operating costs and sustaining capital requirements chain allows us to extract full value for our resource. while continuing to evaluate energy efficiency opportunities. These characteristics INNOVATION also provide a unique opportunity to advance technologies to reduce emissions Over the past few years, we have increased facility reliability, resulting in Oil Sands given the concentration of assets in the basin. operations cash operating costs falling from $39.05/bbl in 2011 to $25.25/bbl PERFORMANCE DATA in 2018. TRANSPORTATION FUELS IN A CARBON Recent market conditions have provided opportunities to assemble a larger base of reserves. Our acquisition in 2018 of an additional 5% equity position in the CONSTRAINED FUTURE APPENDICES While we expect our upstream crude oil production will continue to supply oil Syncrude joint operation has increased our ownership to almost 59%. This counter-cyclical investment increases our production at a very attractive cost per markets, our downstream and marketing business is more exposed to North flowing barrel relative to a greenfield project of a similar scope and nature. American refined product supply and demand dynamics. Governments at all levels in Canada are seeking to diversify transportation fleets By operating multiple, large oil sands facilities in to use lower carbon intensity fuels and, as a result, the transportation fueling landscape is expected to change over time. Reducing GHG emissions from the this region, we are able to leverage location and transportation sector is arguably one of the toughest challenges, in that logistics synergies between the facilities, allowing us transportation is fundamental to economic productivity and because liquid petroleum fuels are available at a relatively low cost and high energy density. to drive efficiencies and reliability, and optimizing and reducing environmental impact including greenhouse gas emissions. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Resilient strategy | 76 TABLE OF CONTENTS We see demand for gasoline moderating over the next 10 years, as light vehicle While we continue to reduce the emissions intensity of our liquid fuels we are fuel efficiency standards take effect and alternative fuels adoption widens. We see evolving and expanding our current product offering to meet growing customer no near-term demand destruction for distillates in North America. In the longer demand. Through our Petro-Canada brand, we announced construction in 2019 CEO MESSAGE term, we believe diesel will remain the predominant fuel for heavy haulage, of a coast-to-coast electric vehicle fast-charging network spanning more than aviation, marine and rail, and we see demand growth with increasing economic 50 Petro-Canada stations. These sites will provide universal options to charge a activity. Heavy-duty vehicle fuel efficiency standards and biodiesel blending are variety of electric vehicles and will provide a charging experience that is above the ABOUT OUR REPORT expected to offset some of the economically-driven demand growth. current norm in Canada. We have invested in level three direct current fast chargers, a step change technology that is built beyond the needs of today and Enormous strides in fuel efficiency have been made to date through ambitious positioned for the future of charging in Canada. This exciting initiative will enable STRATEGY AND regulation and by consumer uptake of more efficient light-duty vehicles. Between us to learn more about this emerging market as we continue to evaluate options GOVERNANCE 2000 and 2010, fleet emissions in Canada decreased from 193 grams per and respond to the evolving needs of our customers. kilometre to 166 g CO2e/km, a drop of 14%. As the vehicle fleet continues to turn over in the next decade, fleet average emissions are projected to reach 97 g OUR BUSINESS CO2e/km by 2025*. While it is unclear what course the United States will take on OFFSHORE OIL PRODUCTION vehicle efficiency standards, there is technical potential to meet even more Suncor has an interest in every major development offshore of Canada’s east ambitious fuel efficiency standards. The advances in engine and drivetrain coast. Suncor operates Terra Nova and has interests in the Hibernia, White Rose CLIMATE CHANGE technologies, as well as the development and use of lighter weight materials and Hebron projects. We are a non-operating partner in the Buzzard and Golden mean that, on the basis of fuel use per kilometre travelled, the internal Eagle fields in the United Kingdom North Sea and have expanded our options in combustion engine of the future will, we believe, not only be cost competitive, this area through the purchase of a participating interest in the Rosebank ENVIRONMENT but also be very carbon competitive with alternative fuels. pre-development opportunity. We have also recently acquired a participating interest in the Fenja development located in the Norwegian Sea. With diligent In our view, hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles are becoming cost-effective SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY additions to the passenger vehicle fleet and will, along with fuel efficiency management of produced methane, offshore crude oil is generally among the lowest carbon intensity sources of crude globally. standards, contribute to moderating growth in long-term global gasoline demand. However, we believe that cost, carbon competitiveness and consumer INNOVATION convenience mean liquid fuels will remain the primary fuel source of vehicle LOW-CARBON RENEWABLE mobility for many years. POWER GENERATION PERFORMANCE DATA Regardless of the external policy environment, Suncor is taking action to reduce Our energy scenarios tell us that a key pathway towards a lower-carbon energy the emissions intensity of our liquid fuels in several ways. One way is through system is to substantially increase cogeneration and renewable power generation biofuel blending. Suncor owns and operates the largest ethanol plant in Canada, capacity and then electrify a greater percentage of the energy system. APPENDICES which provides the ethanol we blend into our gasoline. Heavy haul trucks, aviation Suncor entered the renewable power generation business in 2002. Since then, we and marine fuels of the future will require advanced biofuel blending. We are have developed eight wind projects totalling 395 MW. Today, we are partners in evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair ethanol plant to increase the quality four operational wind power facilities with a generating capacity of 111 MW. By of our products and develop lower carbon intensity ethanol. We are also developing new renewable projects and subsequently selling down our working increasing biocontent to our diesel and gasoline. interest, Suncor is able to generate profitable returns on investment and create Suncor also monitors technologies being developed by other parties to determine cash flow to support further renewable developments. Suncor has a strong if, and when, an investment in the technology could be applied to our business. In portfolio of renewable power development sites across Canada that will further 2019, we invested in Enerkem Inc., which manufactures biofuels and renewable reduce grid intensity in regions like Alberta and Saskatchewan, which have a chemical products from household garbage that would otherwise be landfilled. In carbon-intensive grid. addition to a financial investment, a number of Suncor employees have been seconded to Enerkem’s facility in Edmonton. We also continue to invest in biofuel technology companies such as LanzaTech. * https://www.pollutionprobe.org/pathways-initiative SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Resilient strategy | 77 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are also exploring the opportunity to develop our first utility-scale solar ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR SUPPLY CHAIN photovoltaic facility in Alberta to complement our experience in developing, Suncor is also more aggressively integrating sustainability into our supply chain. constructing and operating wind power projects. As part of investment CEO MESSAGE Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we are clear that we expect our business evaluation, we assess economic, environmental and social benefits including associates to be aligned with our sustainable development approach and that we Indigenous partnerships in renewables. This activity also generates emission credits will work together to seek ways to reduce environmental impacts, support the that can be used to offset the emissions in our oil sands operations. ABOUT OUR REPORT communities in which we work and collectively contribute to economic growth. The requirement for steam at crude oil extraction, processing and refining facilities To that end, we have taken further steps towards engaging with our suppliers on creates the opportunity for high-efficiency cogeneration that provides steam and their sustainability performance, including: STRATEGY AND power to our facilities and delivers surplus power to the grid at a carbon intensity • identifying sustainability risks and opportunities in our supply chain GOVERNANCE lower than any other hydrocarbon-based generation. For an energy system in transition, the value of cogeneration is high; in addition to providing a reliable, • building collaborative relationships with peers and suppliers low-cost baseload to manage the intermittency of wind and solar power, OUR BUSINESS • embedding sustainability into market activities and supply chain management cogeneration can economically replace coal generation with a much lower carbon and field logistics culture intensity power. Suncor currently has cogeneration units installed at its Oil Sands base plant, Firebag and Fort Hills facilities, and exports low-carbon excess One of our first steps was to review our suppliers’ available sustainability reports, CLIMATE CHANGE electricity generated from these units to the provincial grid. codes of conduct and CDP responses. We assessed the performance of suppliers that make up the top 50% of our annual spend. Through this assessment, we With both renewable and cogeneration capacity, Suncor provides approximately ENVIRONMENT learned that more than 90% of those suppliers publicly report on sustainability, 900 MW to its own sites and exports approximately 400 MW to the Alberta grid. and 42% report to the CDP. As climate regulations are implemented across jurisdictions, renewable power We also kicked off strategic supplier meetings that included sharing sustainability SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY benefits from greater scale which can improve technology, efficiency and improve goals and targets, and how our companies can work together to achieve continuous economics. Equipping wind and solar sites with battery storage to optimize the improvement. This resulted in new prequalification questions that incorporate facility’s integration to the power grid could further improve effectiveness. An multiple sustainability factors including GHG performance and goal-setting. INNOVATION enabling factor will be market design that allows for dynamic interaction between a renewable, but intermittent, power source and baseload sources like cogeneration. For specific requests for proposal (RFP), we are drafting the next version of our sustainability supplemental questionnaire for all potential suppliers responding to PERFORMANCE DATA In 2017, we took the first steps in the regulatory process to potentially replace the Suncor RFPs. This enhanced supplemental questionnaire is expected to launch coke-fired boilers with cogeneration units* at our Oil Sands base plant. In addition later in 2019. to providing the facility with steam needed for operations, the cogeneration units APPENDICES may export an additional 800 megawatts (MW) of electricity to the provincial grid, Lastly, as we know collaborative relationships will help us advance sustainable equivalent to roughly 7% of Alberta’s current electricity demand. Should the procurement, we are in the planning stages to host a supply chain sustainability project proceed as planned, construction is targeted to begin in 2020, with forum with suppliers and service providers in the fourth quarter of 2019. This commissioning of the cogeneration units expected to commence by 2023. work will enable us to further explore opportunities with current and potential partners and create more environmental and social impact opportunities within Suncor and the market. * This project has not been sanctioned and is subject to, among other items, climate policy clarity. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Resilient strategy | 78 TABLE OF CONTENTS FACILITY RESILIENCE TO EXTREME Precipitation, droughts and wildfires WEATHER EVENTS Most of Suncor’s operated facilities are not in stressed watersheds where the availability of water, or severe restrictions on water withdrawals, could CEO MESSAGE Suncor assesses specific risks to its physical assets in light of various potential compromise our ability to operate. Limits to oil sands water withdrawal during operational hazards to which those assets may be subject, including the risk of winter low flow periods are managed through on-site water storage where facility extreme weather events, which are possible in the course of operations in the ABOUT OUR REPORT design permits. Our Commerce City refinery is located in a water-stressed region areas where we operate. Suncor manages these risks through facility design and and a potential curtailment of water supply would require bringing in water by operational procedures. We also maintain, where appropriate, insurance for pipeline or truck. Water management is a priority at Suncor, driving industrydamage to, or loss of, assets as well as production interruption. STRATEGY AND leading innovation at our facilities to reduce, recycle, reuse and return water. GOVERNANCE Temperature extremes There is also a risk of seasonal flooding in certain areas in which Suncor operates, which we manage through contingency plans to protect facilities that include Many of Suncor’s facilities routinely operate in an annual temperature range of OUR BUSINESS backup generators and pumps to drain critical operating units and equipment. -40 to +40°C and facilities are built to withstand extreme weather events. Prolonged periods of extreme cold could force these facilities to shut down for Suncor’s oil sands facilities are located within Canada’s boreal forest and wildfires periods of time to ensure worker safety and prevent undue stress on equipment. pose a risk to our operations and the communities nearby. To mitigate this risk, CLIMATE CHANGE Prolonged periods of extreme heat may lead to production cuts if adequate supply we manage our production facilities in line with FireSmart guidance. We have of cooling water is not available. Suncor’s refineries in Montreal and Sarnia have detailed emergency preparedness and response plans in place to ensure access to extremely large bodies of cooling water, so are far less exposed to this risk. emergency situations resulting from wildfire risks are managed effectively. ENVIRONMENT Suncor also partners with other operators and the Regional Municipality of Hurricanes and icebergs Wood Buffalo in mutual aid agreements to collectively manage emergencies. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Suncor’s Terra Nova installation, off the coast of Newfoundland, operates on the edge of the Atlantic windstorm area, which is subject to hurricanes and icebergs. The risk of hurricane season is managed through a continuous weather tracking INNOVATION service that monitors storm systems in the North Atlantic. There is also a risk in the region of floating icebergs causing damage to our installations. This risk is managed through the design of facilities and a continuous monitoring system PERFORMANCE DATA tracking iceberg locations. Where the course of an iceberg cannot be altered, an emergency response system allows for the floating platform to be disengaged and APPENDICES moved to safer water, protecting the asset and mitigating environmental risks but resulting in production disruption. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon policy and regulation | 79 TABLE OF CONTENTS CARBON POLICY AND REGULATION CEO MESSAGE CARBON POLICY AND IMPACTS ON SUNCOR Impact of Canadian climate change regulations Since the ratification of the Paris Agreement, the focus of governments globally is Our carbon price outlook assumes the current carbon price will rise to $100 ABOUT OUR REPORT on the technology pathways and policy frameworks required to achieve a stable per tonne on an increasing percentage of our emissions, by 2040. As most of and responsible transition to a low-carbon energy system at the same time as our facilities are currently regulated under various carbon pricing regimes, the meeting the continued rising global demand for energy. impact of our outlook is built into our planning assumptions. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Based on the outlook for new emissions regulations, we have updated our Canadian federal government cost estimates. The production weighted average after-tax cash cost per The federal government’s Pan-Canadian – Framework on Clean Growth and Climate barrel of global production over the period 2019 to 2028 has increased from OUR BUSINESS Change requires each province to implement a carbon pricing policy with an overall 2018 and is now estimated at an average of $0.70 per barrel.* stringency equivalent to a minimum price of $20 per tonne in 2019, rising to $50 per tonne over the next four years. Provinces and territories that do not comply are CLIMATE CHANGE subject to a federal carbon pricing backstop. Provinces and territories that Alberta volunteered to accept the federal plan may use the revenue as necessary for the In April 2019, Alberta elected a new provincial government that has eliminated unique circumstances of their region, including protecting carbon-intense, tradethe consumer portion of Alberta’s carbon tax and reduced overall tax on industry. ENVIRONMENT exposed industries. Involuntary provinces with policies that were viewed to be However, for the remainder of 2019, Alberta’s industries will continue to be inadequate are subject to the federal backstop. In these jurisdictions, carbon revenues regulated under the Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation (CCIR) at the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY are generally collected from two streams: current economy-wide price of $30 per tonne. Starting in 2020, Alberta industries will be regulated under a yet-to-be-developed Technology Innovation and Emission • a consumer-facing carbon tax on all fossil fuels where the majority of the Reduction Fund program (TIER). The construct of the TIER is expected to be carbon revenues collected are returned to their citizens in the form of a rebate, INNOVATION modelled after the previous Specified Gas Emitters Regulation (SGER) that was in not their provincial governments place from 2007 to 2017. Similar to the SGER, the TIER will apply to facilities that • to protect the competitiveness of the industrial sector, an output-based pricing emit greater than 100,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide (or equivalent) per year. It will PERFORMANCE DATA system for industrial facilities that emit above 50 kt CO2e or more per year, with require carbon emissions intensity reductions from industrial operations by 10% per the ability to opt-in for smaller facilities year relative to a historical baseline. Electricity generators will be required to meet a “good as best gas” output based standard similar to the current CCIR. Regardless APPENDICES The federal government is consulting with industry on how best to use the carbon of the methodology (i.e. SGER, CCIR or TIER) Suncor continues to support carbon revenues to help industry reduce their emissions. pricing policies designed to mitigate the competitiveness impact on trade exposed sectors like oil and gas, while continuing to accelerate emissions performance improvements. Given that there is no universal approach to carbon pricing around the globe, we recognize that leading policy includes a carbon price. The Oil Sands Emissions Limit Act includes a precedent-setting 100 Mt emissions limit** by 2030 on oil sands development. As a limit on emissions, rather than production, it allows production to grow as long as the total emissions of the sector remain under the limit. The emissions limit is expected to encourage the innovation required to reduce both carbon and cost in the oil sands industry. * Regulatory changes in 2018-19 contributed to the modified cost per barrel. Additional information on the Output Based Allocation for Upgrading under Alberta’s Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation (CCIR) was the largest contributor to the year-over-year changes. Carbon emissions policy development remains in flux with a high degree of uncertainty. ** Emissions from the production of power through cogeneration are excluded from this limit, as is an incremental 10 Mt of upgrading capacity. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Carbon policy and regulation | 80 TABLE OF CONTENTS Ontario U.S. GHG regulations In June 2018, Ontario withdrew its participation in the WCI cap-and-trade The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) has established a rule program in favour of introducing its own Emission Performance System intended mandating that all large facilities (defined as facilities emitting greater than CEO MESSAGE to meet the overall stringency of the federal backstop. In the interim, Ontario has 25,000 tonnes of CO2e per year, which includes Suncor’s refinery in Commerce become an involuntary province subject to the Federal backstop. Suncor’s Sarnia City, Colorado) must report their GHG emissions. The mandate of the U.S. EPA is ABOUT OUR REPORT refinery and St. Clair ethanol plant are both regulated facilities under the Federal under review by the current administration. In June 2017, the withdrawal of the out-based pricing system (OBPS) and free emission receive emissions allowances, U.S. from the Paris Agreement was announced. The current administration has a measure intended to maintain sector competitiveness. Suncor will work with the also overturned a number of decisions made by the previous administration. STRATEGY AND provincial government to explore solutions that achieve the required outcomes. Efforts have also been made at the state level to adopt legislation requiring GOVERNANCE entities to report on GHG emissions. Suncor continues to monitor these Quebec developments. The outcome of these changes in approach to GHG emissions is currently unclear and the impact on Suncor, including its Commerce City, Suncor’s refinery in Quebec is regulated under a cap-and-trade program linked OUR BUSINESS Colorado refinery, is unknown at the time of publication. to the Western Climate Initiative (WCI). Regulated refining facilities receive an allowance allocation that aligns with a benchmark performance and takes into CLIMATE CHANGE account competitiveness in a trade-exposed context. Fuel suppliers are required to purchase allowances to cover the tailpipe emissions of all fuel sold, the cost of which is expected to be largely passed to the consumer, thus acting as a carbon ENVIRONMENT price on fuel consumption. Transportation fuel policies in Canada SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Transportation emissions are approximately 25% of total emissions in Canada. Jurisdictions across the country are considering policy mandates and incentives INNOVATION for alternative fuels, as well as major public transit and urban planning initiatives intended to reduce the carbon intensity of transportation. British Columbia’s Renewable and Low Carbon Fuel Requirement Regulation PERFORMANCE DATA requires fuel suppliers to meet a provincial fuel pool carbon intensity target through blending incremental renewable fuel or investing in alternative fuels APPENDICES infrastructure. Federal and provincial renewable fuel standards mandate blending of ethanol into gasoline, and blending biodiesel into diesel. In addition, the federal government has recently proposed implementing a national Clean Fuels Standard, which remains under development. Carbon policy and regulation | 81 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE Our core mission is to be trusted stewards of valuable natural resources. Guided by our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and through OUR BUSINESS operational excellence and bold innovation, we strive to manage and minimize impacts on the environment and improve performance. CLIMATE CHANGE Air quality.................................................................. 82 ENVIRONMENT Water performance and stewardship...................... 85 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Tailings management................................................ 88 Land and reclamation............................................... 92 INNOVATION Biodiversity................................................................ 97 PERFORMANCE DATA Caribou recovery and conservation......................... 101 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Air quality | 82 TABLE OF CONTENTS AIR QUALITY AIR EMISSIONS* thousands tonnes/year 90 CEO MESSAGE Suncor works to reduce air emissions from our operations. Our focus for air quality management 60 is centered on air emissions (pollutants and ABOUT OUR REPORT greenhouse gases) and odours, and we are 30 committed to maintaining and improving air quality near all of our operations. STRATEGY AND 0 GOVERNANCE Our Annual Air Pollutant and Greenhouse Gas 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Emissions Reporting Standard provides a structured Oil Sands Base plant 47.25 47.26 43.69 48.37 50.91 mandatory process for continual improvement of Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 6.67 OUR BUSINESS emissions reporting processes. Oil Sands In Situ 3.54 3.33 3.23 3.20 3.75 E&P Canada Terra Nova** 2.64 2.71 2.35 4.84 4.09 In 2018, total Suncor-wide absolute air emissions Refining and Supply 14.24 13.56 15.68 14.64 13.76 CLIMATE CHANGE (nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and volatile organic Biofuels and Renewables 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.40 compounds) increased by approximately 13% Suncor total air emissions 68.40 67.40 65.50 70.29 79.54 compared to 2017. This increase is primarily ENVIRONMENT attributed to the commissioning and ramp-up of * Air emissions include SO2 , NOX and VOC emissions. For additional notes regarding this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 – notes on other air emissions). the Fort Hills project. ** The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity was due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline for a large part of 2017 and 2018 when compared to ~100% operational in 2016. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AIR EMISSIONS INTENSITY* kg/m3 INNOVATION 2.25 1.50 PERFORMANCE DATA 0.75 APPENDICES 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Oil Sands Base plant 2.75 2.49 2.84 2.56 3.02 Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 0.88 Oil Sands In Situ 0.31 0.26 0.27 0.26 0.27 E&P Canada Terra Nova** 0.99 1.30 1.22 2.73 2.26 Refining and Supply 0.53 0.50 0.58 0.53 0.51 Suncor total air 1.51 1.40 1.46 1.45 1.47 emissions intensity * Air emissions include SO2 , NOX and VOC emissions. For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 – notes on other air emissions). ** The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity was due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline for a large part of 2017 and 2018 when compared to ~100% operational in 2016. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Air quality | 83 TABLE OF CONTENTS SULPHUR DIOXIDE SO2 EMISSIONS INTENSITY* kg/m3 Over the last five years, there is an overall downward 1.50 CEO MESSAGE trend in sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions intensity. This trend is due to reliable operations, fewer plant 1.00 upsets and increased use of alternative fuels in place ABOUT OUR REPORT of petroleum coke. Preventative maintenance on SO2 scrubbers caused the annual fluctuations in 0.50 intensity trends. STRATEGY AND The approximately 10% decrease in SO2 emission 0.00 GOVERNANCE 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 intensity in 2018 is due to increased production from Oil Sands Base plant 0.97 0.67 0.84 0.67 0.81 upstream facilities, including Fort Hills. Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 0.00 OUR BUSINESS Oil Sands In Situ 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 Refining and Supply 0.22 0.20 0.28 0.27 0.24 Suncor total SO2 0.51 0.38 0.47 0.42 0.38 CLIMATE CHANGE emissions intensity * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 – notes on other air emissions). ENVIRONMENT NITROGEN OXIDES NOX EMISSIONS INTENSITY* kg/m3 The overall trend in nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions 1.50 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY intensity over last five years, is relatively stable. The increase in NOX emissions intensity in 2018 is 1.00 INNOVATION primarily due to the ramp-up of Fort Hills, and increased production at our in situ sites, Firebag and 0.50 MacKay River. PERFORMANCE DATA 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 APPENDICES Oil Sands Base plant 1.06 1.00 1.10 0.97 1.13 Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 0.59 Oil Sands In Situ 0.23 0.21 0.21 0.20 0.21 E&P Canada Terra Nova 0.90 1.00 1.16 1.23 1.21 Refining and Supply 0.15 0.14 0.14 0.12 0.12 Suncor total NOX 0.61 0.58 0.56 0.55 0.59 emissions intensity * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 – notes on other air emissions). SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Air quality | 84 TABLE OF CONTENTS VOLATILE ORGANIC VOC EMISSIONS INTENSITY* kg/m3 COMPOUNDS 1.50 CEO MESSAGE Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions intensity is stable for our in situ, and refining and supply 1.00 businesses. There is an increasing VOC trend for oil ABOUT OUR REPORT sands due to changing methodology of measuring 0.50 emissions across our oil sands mining operations. The main contributor to the increase in VOC emission STRATEGY AND intensity is due to Fort Hills coming online. 0.00 GOVERNANCE 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The considerable fluctuation within our Terra Nova Oil Sands Base plant ** 0.71 0.82 0.94 0.91 1.08 operations is due to a hydrocarbon blanket gas and Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 0.30 OUR BUSINESS recovery system being offline due to an unplanned Oil Sands In Situ 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 outage and maintenance. E&P Canada Terra Nova*** 0.09 0.31 0.06 0.79 1.04 Refining and Supply 0.16 0.16 0.16 0.15 0.16 CLIMATE CHANGE Suncor total VOC 0.38 0.44 0.44 0.50 0.50 emissions intensity * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 – notes on other air emissions). ENVIRONMENT ** Oil Sands Base estimation accuracy is greater than /10% and limited by currently accepted methodology and measurement instruments. *** The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity was due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline for a large part of 2017 and 2018 when compared to ~ 100% operational in 2016. It is noted that there was an error in total VOCs reported for Terra SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Nova in the 2018 report. The miscalculation that occurred in the storage and handling of emissions is now corrected & reported in this 2019 report. AIR QUALITY MONITORING Alberta ODOUR MONITORING INNOVATION Suncor is a member of the Wood Buffalo • Parkland Airshed Management Zone IN THE RMWB Environmental Association (WBEA). The WBEA • Alberta Capital Airshed, through involvement Suncor consistently engages with community PERFORMANCE DATA operates environmental monitoring programs to in the Strathcona Industrial Association stakeholders, government and other external agencies monitor ambient air, land and human exposure in the on odours, to discuss best practices and odour Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB) in • Alberta Clean Air Strategic Alliance management strategies – and regularly organizes APPENDICES northeast Alberta – providing ambient air quality • Environmental Monitoring and Science Division meetings between industry and community members data and a real-time air quality index (updated (EMSD) of Alberta Environment and Parks to discuss their concerns. We’re also engaged in hourly) which is available to the public. researching and testing new methods and We also support air monitoring via the following Ontario technologies to monitor fugitive emissions. airsheds/organizations that monitor and report air • Clarkson Airshed Study, through participation quality – ensuring timely availability of results to the in the Clarkson Airshed Industrial Association public and regulatory agencies: • Sarnia Lambton Environmental Association Montreal • We work with the Service de l’environnement de la ville de Montréal by providing ambient air quality monitoring data SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Water performance AND stewardship | 85 TABLE OF CONTENTS WATER PERFORMANCE AND STEWARDSHIP CEO MESSAGE Suncor is committed to the responsible development of the oil sands. How we manage water is critical to us as a company, to neighbouring Indigenous communities and to our stakeholders – it’s also crucial to achieve our ABOUT OUR REPORT vision and commitments for faster reclamation and mine closure. STRATEGY AND Our use of water is guided by water stewardship 2018 SUNCOR FRESH WATER USE AND INTENSITY GOVERNANCE principles that focus on: In 2018, our fresh water consumption was 46.52 million m3. This increase can be attributed to the Fort Hills • water conservation start up. At our oil sands Base plant we continue to optimize wastewater recycle rates to decrease fresh water OUR BUSINESS withdrawal from the Athabasca River. • reuse and recycle FRESH WATER CONSUMPTION* • return of treated wastewater to the watershed million m3 CLIMATE CHANGE 60 We continue to invest in water treatment research and development, including participating in industry collaboration, academic research and 40 ENVIRONMENT piloting new technology. Suncor also plans on extending our commitment to 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY water stewardship by setting a new long-term water goal. This builds on learnings from our previous 0 water goal, the success of our water-management INNOVATION 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 strategy and input from Indigenous communities. Oil Sands Base plant 18.30 16.60 20.10 15.18 14.94 Our expectation is that the new goal will reflect our Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 25.28 PERFORMANCE DATA water requirements and the need to maintain Oil Sands In Situ 1.86 1.67 1.33 1.17 1.05 healthy, clean watersheds. Refining and Supply 10.92 17.28 14.42 5.10 4.35 Biofuels and Renewables 0.93 0.94 0.93 0.95 0.90 APPENDICES “Water management is essential Suncor total fresh water consumption 30.80 35.90 36.80 22.40 46.52 to our operations and the well* For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#8 – notes on water use and return). being of our environment, so we’re taking steps to steward sustainable water practices in our business.” – Anita Selinger, specialist, water treatment SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Water performance AND stewardship | 86 TABLE OF CONTENTS FRESH WATER CONSUMPTION INTENSITY* Over the last few years, we have also seen a m3/m3 reduction in fresh water use at our oil sands Base 2.00 plant due to optimizing wastewater recycle, and CEO MESSAGE return to the environment. Approximately 88% of the water used by our mining and extraction operations in 2018 was recycled tailings water. 1.00 ABOUT OUR REPORT In situ At our Firebag in situ site, approximately 96% of the STRATEGY AND 0.00 water used is recycled. The make-up is drawn from GOVERNANCE 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 recycled wastewater from our oil sands upgrading Oil Sands Base plant 1.06 0.87 1.31 0.80 0.89 and utilities operations, surface run-off water Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 3.35 collected within the facility boundary and from OUR BUSINESS Oil Sands In Situ 0.16 0.13 0.11 0.09 0.08 groundwater wells. Refining and Supply 0.41 0.63 0.53 0.18 0.16 Biofuels and Renewables 3.66 3.68 3.68 3.79 3.67 While at our MacKay River in situ facility, close to CLIMATE CHANGE 100% of the water is recycled and MacKay River has Suncor total fresh water 0.68 0.74 0.82 0.46 0.86 consumption intensity zero liquid discharge. The majority of make-up water * For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#8 – notes on water use and return). comes from groundwater, and it’s important to note ENVIRONMENT most of this water is too high in salt and mineral WATER STEWARDSHIP East Coast Canada content to be used for potable water or agriculture. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS The only fresh water consumed in our offshore Downstream operations is for cooking, drinking, showers and Water conservation other domestic purposes. In our East Coast Canada Our refineries use fresh water for heating and INNOVATION Mining and extraction operations, water is either produced offshore cooling. While water use has remained relatively flat, through desalination, or is transferred via vessel from there have been local initiatives that have resulted in Our oil sands Base plant is licensed to withdraw up to St. John’s, Newfoundland. more efficient water use. 59.8 million m3 of water annually from the Athabasca PERFORMANCE DATA River – about 0.3% of the river’s annual average flow. At our Edmonton refinery, approximately 33% of We continue to operate well below our water license, Reuse and recycling the total water withdrawn in 2018 was recycled APPENDICES withdrawing less water than we’re licensed to do so, Mining and extraction wastewater supplied from the municipal Gold Bar even as our production levels increase. Wastewater Treatment Plant – significantly reducing The first major phase of our oil sands water strategy the amount of fresh water withdrawn from the We have a separate water license allocation of up involves sending treated tailings water from our oil North Saskatchewan River. to 39.3 million m3 of river water annually for the sands Base plant to our in situ water network. There, Fort Hills project. Fort Hills fresh water consumption the tailings water is used as a make-up water supply. Suncor’s Commerce City refinery uses both city intensity is high due to ramp-up of the site. Fort Hills The result is a system designed to allow up to water and collected groundwater for steam is building up water inventory for recycling. As we 10,000 m3 (or four Olympic-sized swimming pools) of production and cooling, as well as to wash out the better understand our operational water use and tailings water per day, to be used as in situ make-up natural contaminants in crude oil, like salts and efficiency at Fort Hills, we will continue to explore water, instead of being stored in our tailings ponds. minerals, to prevent corrosion in our processing units. opportunities to further reduce water use. Taken Since 2010, we have reused 10.7 million m3 of Much of this water is recycled for reuse at our facility, together, the Base plant and Fort Hills allocations tailings water in our in situ facility. and the remaining portion is treated and discharged represent about 0.5% of the Athabasca River’s to a local waterway, Sand Creek, under a permit annual average flow. issued by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Water performance AND stewardship | 87 TABLE OF CONTENTS RETURN OF TREATED RESEARCH AND In May 2019, Suncor was named JWN Energy Excellence Awards champion in the Operational and WATER TO WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT Project Excellence – Oil Sands Category for the Water CEO MESSAGE The primary source for make-up water for our As Suncor continues to lead and innovate in Technology Development Centre. mining and extraction operations is the Athabasca water treatment, we share the lessons learned River. In 2018, our oil sands Base plant withdrew and technologies with our industry peers, through High temperature reverse osmosis ABOUT OUR REPORT about 15.7 million m3 of water from the Athabasca Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). produced water treatment River, while returning 2.2 million m3 of treated water By doing so, we are confident we can reduce the back into the river. regional, operational footprint and better protect Suncor has partnered with Devon Energy and STRATEGY AND Suez Water Technologies and Solutions, with funding natural water resources. GOVERNANCE As part of our mine closure plan, we are currently support from Emissions Reductions Alberta (ERA), investigating ways to safely return treated tailings in a project that develops high temperature reverse water to the environment. We are piloting this Water Technology Development osmosis (HTRO) membranes suited for SAGD OUR BUSINESS through our demonstration pit lake (DPL) – now Centre (WTDC) treatment conditions. If successful, a high temperature known as Lake Miwasin – using a closed loop The Water Technology Development Centre membrane plant could reduce the energy required and system where we maintain control of the water (WTDC) is an example of our industry collaboration. infrastructure for the SAGD water treatment process. CLIMATE CHANGE over a number of years and once it meets regulatory The $145 million WTDC, attached to Suncor’s Firebag criteria, and upon government approval, expect Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD) central Commerce City wastewater to allow water from Lake Miwasin to be naturally processing facility is now operational. ENVIRONMENT treatment facility released to the environment. Suncor and its partners will use the facility to test In 2017, our Commerce City refinery operationalized The DPL is part of our aquatic closure technology multiple water technologies concurrently, enabling the a $65 million upgrade to our existing wastewater SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY development program, designed to ensure we can partners to conduct more pilots than each could on treatment facility, leveraging a technology called successfully reclaim mine sites. The DPL project their own, while sharing the risks and costs. This will membrane ultrafiltration to treat and filter the water. incorporated the permanent aquatic storage structure allow operators to speed the development and The facility is one of the first in North America to use INNOVATION (PASS) fluid tailings treatment process as the first step implementation of new water treatment technologies, this technology in treating refinery wastewater streams. to accelerating the process, to establish a lake capable ultimately shortening the current eight-year time of supporting a full ecosystem of aquatic life. An frame required to field test technologies and move PERFORMANCE DATA aquatic cover will now be established on the treated them to commercial application. tailings and operated in the same way that is planned APPENDICES for the full-scale closure drainage system. “The WTDC allows the partner Pit lakes are a necessary part of successful closure and reclamation plans, and are considered a best companies to test more practice in mining industries around the world. technologies than each could on There are a number of pit lakes in Alberta that were created from former coal mine pits, which are now their own, while sharing the risks used for recreational fishing, swimming and continue and costs of development.” to demonstrate naturally colonized fish and staging – Brad Sobey, manager operations areas for migratory birds. The additional research and technology development understanding derived from this work is expected to help ensure the oil sands pit lakes are viable features in the closure landscape. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Tailings management | 88 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Up close view of oil sands tailings management technology, TROTM. TAILINGS MANAGEMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION Tailings are a mixture of water, sand, clay and residual hydrocarbon, and are the Fluid tailings treatment capacity was increased in 2018 by commercially by-product of the hot water extraction process used to separate the oil from the implementing our permanent aquatic storage structure (PASS) fluid tailings sand and clay. Tailings are stored in engineered dam systems called tailings ponds, treatment process. This has allowed for a significant reduction in untreated fluid PERFORMANCE DATA designed to settle out the solid particles from the water. tailings inventory at Base plant operations. Additionally, in the next few years, another tailings pond will be removed from Base plant operations because of our Water is continuously recycled from the tailings ponds back into the extraction PASS technology. APPENDICES process, reducing withdrawal of fresh water from the Athabasca River and other sources. Although sand separates quickly from the tailings, smaller particles of clay and silt remain in suspension and form fluid tailings which in the past could take “As a result of what we’ve heard and learned, our decades to separate. approach to tailings management has evolved over New technologies are accelerating the separation process. Over the past several the years and it will continue to evolve in the future.” years, Suncor’s holistic TRO™* approach has allowed us to: – Blair Penner, director, EH&S Regulatory Mining, Extraction & Upgrading • reclaim a tailings pond, Wapisiw Lookout • make another one trafficable through the use of coke capping technology • convert a third tailings pond to a fluid tailings treatment area * TM Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Tailings management | 89 TABLE OF CONTENTS BASE PLANT As a new mine in the oil sands region, the project has the opportunity to apply the knowledge acquired from past mining, tailings and reclamation operations As our mining operations have expanded, the volume of fluid tailings has increased. while not being burdened by legacy constraints. CEO MESSAGE However, with the implementation of TRO™* in 2010, fluid tailings volumes at site have remained steady and we’re now working to decrease the inventory. Suncor currently has about 300 million cubic metres of fluid tailings. Through shared research, experience, expertise and ABOUT OUR REPORT TAILINGS financial commitments, we are able to investigate million m3 400 new tailings technologies faster. We anticipate this STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE resource-sharing through COSIA will improve Fluid tailings inventory (million m3) tailings management now and at future oil sands 300 OUR BUSINESS mine operations. 200 TAILINGS DIRECTIVE CLIMATE CHANGE To ensure fluid tailings volumes are managed appropriately, the Government of Alberta released the Tailings Management Framework in 2015, which is intended ENVIRONMENT 100 to ensure fluid tailings are in a ready-to-reclaim state within 10 years of the end-of-mine life. In 2017, the Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) finalized a new oil sands directive called SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 0 the Fluid Tailings Management for Oil Sands Mining Projects (Directive 085). This 2014 2018 2022 2026 2030 2034 2038 2042 regulation includes tailings management plan application and tailings performance Year ending Total actual reporting requirements aligned with the government’s Tailings Management INNOVATION Total approved profile Framework. At the end of the 2018 reporting period Base plant had 273 million m3 of untreated fluid tailings, which is In 2015 and 2016, Suncor was invited to work with Indigenous communities, 37 million m3 below the approved FT profile. Base plant also had 119 million m3 of water stored for recycling in PERFORMANCE DATA our tailings facilities. the AER and other stakeholders to support the development of Directive 085. To meet the new requirements, Suncor requested permission and received APPENDICES approval in 2017 to add treatment capacity to our TRO™ operations at FORT HILLS Base plant. Meanwhile, Fort Hills received approval in 2019. Both updated plans Fort Hills, operated by Suncor, ramped up earlier than anticipated and started are based on what we’ve learned through our implementation of TRO™ and from producing bitumen in 2018, achieving average utilization of 94% in the fourth members of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). quarter of the year. Suncor is treating fluid tailings from the start of operations with extraction thickeners and enhanced beach capture to reduce the amount RAISING THE BAR: TAILINGS COLLABORATION of fluid tailings and minimize further treatment requirements. As a member of COSIA, Suncor is sharing details of our tailings technologies with Fort Hills tailings operations feature an out-of-pit tailings area with plans to other member companies. In return, we are given access to technologies that transition to below-grade tailings treatment once space is made available in the others are using to manage their tailings. Highlights in 2018 included: first mining area. The peak fluid tailings inventory at Fort Hills is expected to be • 17 new projects started below 130 million m3. This represents a significant change in fluid tailings management compared to industry demonstrated inventories. • 189 contributed technologies • 77 active projects, with a cost of approximately $260 million * TM Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Tailings management | 90 TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor is working to reduce the size of our environmental footprint. Tailings reclamation is a story of ongoing collaboration, learning and innovation. CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT Lake Miwasin STRATEGY AND Lake Miwasin, previously known as GOVERNANCE demonstration pit lake (DPL), is part of our closure technology development Tailings first placed in Pioneered TRO™ program that is designed to ensure we OUR BUSINESS Pond 1 (now Wapisiw Involves sand dumps, fluid transfer can successfully reclaim mine sites. This Lookout, surface and storage systems and dedicated project employed the PASS fluid tailings reclaimed in 2010) disposal areas to treat & dewater treatment technology as the first step to CLIMATE CHANGE fluid tailings using a flocculant. establish a lake capable of supporting a full ecosystem of aquatic life. ENVIRONMENT 1967 1993 2010 2017 2018 2018+ SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION Consolidated Tailings Fluid Tailings Treatment Permanent Aquatic Storage Technology (DDAs and coke capping) Structure (PASS) Process PERFORMANCE DATA Involved the addition of sand Builds on TRO™*, with dedicated Builds on TRO™ with same components. Treat with and coagulant to capture disposal areas (DDAs) and placement of flocculant and addition of a coagulant to improve fluid tailings. petcoke for surface access to install water quality. Increases speed of processing fluid APPENDICES wick drains that dewater the tailings. tailings and reclamation timing. Proved ineffective for our current mines due to material requirements. * TM Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Tailings management | 91 TABLE OF CONTENTS COKE CAPPING TECHNOLOGY In addition to using these experts, an independent external review board called the Mine Development and Reclamation Review Board (MDDRB) reviews and critiques Thanks to breakthroughs that have come from research and development, Suncor ongoing design work several times a year. The review board is comprised of CEO MESSAGE continues to make progress in tailings management. Following the surface internationally recognized experts in their field. The board also reviews our annual reclamation of Pond 1 (now known as Wapisiw Lookout) in 2010, we began performance report for each of our operating ponds and associated dams. Lastly, creating a trafficable surface on Pond 5, with a reclamation technique called coke designs must be approved and licensed by dam safety engineers at the Alberta ABOUT OUR REPORT capping. Thanks to teamwork and dedication, Pond 5 can now support heavy Energy Regulator in accordance with Alberta’s Dam & Canal Safety Directive. equipment – more than two years ahead of what we had planned. Once designs are approved, we exercise caution during construction by ensuring The coke capping technology we developed and commercially deployed at Pond 5 STRATEGY AND our facilities are constructed in ways that strictly adhere to the appropriate design involves placing a geofabric/geogrid on a tailings pond and then placing petroleum GOVERNANCE specifications. This is completed through administering Suncor’s Resident coke (a byproduct of upgraded bitumen) to create a solid surface. Giant straws, Engineers Quality Assurance Program, which monitors and provides technical called vertical strip drains, are added to dewater the fluid tailings. In the future, we oversight during construction. OUR BUSINESS will spread sand over the coke to allow placement of a soil cover and vegetation (trees and shrubs).This is the first full-scale soft tailings cap of its kind in the industry. In addition, Suncor’s Dam Safety Engineer has technical oversight of the performance of all dams during and after construction. Geotechnical instruments Originally, Suncor anticipated completing the cap on Pond 5 in 2019. However, CLIMATE CHANGE are placed in the structures at strategic depths and locations during the based on how well the dewatering had already progressed, an opportunity to construction and operating phases to monitor facility health. We use the data we mobilize a team to install the rest of the cap allowed for the pond to be fully obtain to monitor the integrity of the structures during all phases of the tailings ENVIRONMENT trafficable in 2017. facility lifecycle. Now that the cap is complete, settlement will continue and Suncor will work to Suncor’s tailings facilities are actively operated and monitored as part of a understand how to apply this technology to further improve our operations. In SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY disciplined tailings facility management system. In addition, Suncor’s supporting addition, we will share our lessons learned with other oil sands operators Dam Safety Management System incorporates continuous monitoring, rigorous through COSIA. third-party reviews, government inspections, and collectively form the process INNOVATION required by Alberta’s Dam & Canal Safety Directive. DAM SAFETY Suncor manages a robust dam safety program, protecting the integrity of tailings PERFORMANCE DATA dam structures through extensive checks and balances for design, construction and monitoring, including a series of internal and external reviews. APPENDICES We employ specialized experienced engineers, referred to as geotechnical engineers of record, for each tailings facility and/or dam structure. These individuals are qualified to lead the design work of each area, and work in collaboration with internationally experienced design consultants, referred to as geotechnical designers of record. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Land and reclamation | 92 TABLE OF CONTENTS LAND AND RECLAMATION CEO MESSAGE Alberta’s oil sands lie under 142,000 km2 of land. Only about 3%, or 4,800 km2, of that land could ever be impacted by the mining method of extracting oil sands. The remaining reserves that underlie 97% of the oil ABOUT OUR REPORT sands surface area are so deep they are recoverable only by using drilling (in situ) methods that require significantly less surface land disturbance relative to mining. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Once an oil sands facility is no longer productive, Fort Hills regulations require the operator to decommission OUR BUSINESS AND RECLAIMING LAND the operation and reclaim the site. Fort Hills officially began production in 2018. As Suncor works on three primary areas to minimize our new mines are developed, the disturbance footprint impact in the boreal region: increases significantly; however, Suncor continually CLIMATE CHANGE 2018 PROGRESS ON looks for opportunities to minimize our footprint 1. Reducing the impact of our operations on RECLAMATION and progressively reclaim areas no longer required land resources through scientific research and for production. ENVIRONMENT best management practices, while also working Base plant with neighbouring companies to reduce the Since Suncor began operations at Base plant in 1967, Even though Fort Hills is newly in production, cumulative effects of development. the project has disturbed 22,224 cumulative hectares reclamation activities have already begun. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of land in the Athabasca region. As of 2018, we have 2. Accelerating the pace of reclamation of As of 2018, Fort Hills has completed 19 hectares of cumulatively reclaimed approximately 10% of the disturbed lands, including the reclamation of terrestrial reclamation1 and 16 hectares of wetlands total land disturbance including 2,275 hectares of tailings ponds. and aquatic reclamation1, as well as 241 hectares INNOVATION terrestrial reclamation and 48 hectares of wetland of temporary reclamation1. 3. Preserving biodiversity by working internally and aquatic reclamation. and with industry peers and multi-stakeholder Suncor planted approximately 18,000 tree seedlings PERFORMANCE DATA We planted approximately 310,000 tree and shrub in 2018 at a habitat compensation lake (also known organizations on initiatives to conserve and reclaim seedlings in reclamation areas at Base plant in 2018; habitat for birds, mammals, fish and other species. as “No Net Loss Lake”), completing the reclamation bringing the total cumulative seedlings planted to initiated in 2015. In total, we have planted APPENDICES End land use is an important priority throughout the close to 8.3 million. In addition, Indigenous 75,000 tree and shrub seedlings in approximately life cycle of a project, from planning through to community members, Indigenous Co-op students 23 hectares at No Net Loss Lake. project closure and reclamation. and Suncor employees planted approximately 4,000 aquatic plants (from 15 different species) Progressive land reclamation takes place once the along the shores of Lake Miwasin. disturbed land is no longer part of active operations; this includes mine and tailings areas, roads, plant facilities and buildings, wells and pipelines. Our “Continual improvement in oil sands reclamation practices is one challenge is to reduce the size and duration of our footprint to facilitate the return of biodiversity and to part of our overall vision of responsible development that ensures sustain the function of nearby natural ecosystems. a healthy environment for today and tomorrow.” – Christine Daly, senior advisor, sustainability 1 Reclaimed lands have not been certified as such by government regulators. For further details on what we mean by reclaimed, see the legal advisories section of this report. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Land and reclamation | 93 TABLE OF CONTENTS LAND USE AT OIL SANDS* The University of Waterloo led the Nikanotee fen cumulative hectares hydrological feasibility modelling, in partnership with 40,000 the Cumulative Environmental Management CEO MESSAGE Association (CEMA). Suncor funded the design and 30,000 construction of the fen. Along with Teck Resources and Imperial, we are funding ongoing research and 20,000 ABOUT OUR REPORT monitoring of the constructed site. 10,000 Our findings thus far reveal that the water table is STRATEGY AND stable, that the fen is storing carbon (a key function 0 GOVERNANCE of peatlands) and that the fen system supports native 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 vegetation species and wildlife habitat – even a Total land disturbed 23,704 23,757 23,613 23,960 33,772 Oil Sands Base plant 22,072 22,157 22,179 22,205 22,224 denning bear in the winter of 2018. OUR BUSINESS Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 9,768 The Nikanotee fen is now a joint industry project, Oil Sands In Situ 1,632 1,600 1,434 1,755 1,780 contributed by Suncor to other members of COSIA. Total land reclaimed 1,920 2,154 2,140 2,239 2,621 CLIMATE CHANGE Wapisiw Lookout * Land disturbed represents the total active footprint of our oil sands operations which includes cumulative hectares (ha) for areas cleared of vegetation, soil disturbed, ready for reclamation, soils placed and permanently reclaimed. The area reported as land reclaimed is a subset of the total From 1967 to 1997, Wapisiw Lookout – originally ENVIRONMENT active footprint and the area of non-reclaimed land for the reporting year. For further details on the definition of reclaimed, see Advisories. For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#10 – notes on land disturbance and reclamation). named Pond 1 – received tailings from production for storage. As production increased over these SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Firebag In 2013, Suncor completed construction of a years, so did the pond. With closure operations three-hectare fen, named the Nikanotee (pronounced beginning in 2007, the pond was transformed into In 2018, an 11.5 hectares area was permanently Nee-ga-no-tee; Cree word for “future”) fen, fed by a a 220-hectare (544 acres) watershed, feeding into a reclaimed1 at the Firebag project; bringing the total INNOVATION man-made 32 hectare watershed, located at our oil thriving marsh wetland habitat. area reclaimed to just more than 20 hectares. We sands Base plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta. The also planted approximately 33,000 tree and shrub project is the culmination of more than 10 years of seedlings at various borrow pits and well pads. PERFORMANCE DATA collaborative research. The achievement established Suncor as one of the first companies in the world to RECLAMATION PROJECTS complete reconstruction of this type of wetland. We APPENDICES Suncor continues to conduct progressive reclamation completed this work in co-operation with a number on areas that are no longer needed for oil sands of university researchers and consultants from across operations. Suncor is also conducting research with the continent. the intent to enable a better return to equivalent “Fens are the dominant wetland type in the boreal land capability from an ecological, temporal and forest so we wanted to see that they could be cost perspective: re-created when we reclaim the land,” says Lisa Bridges, reclamation specialist – biodiversity, Nikanotee fen Upstream. “All our results so far indicate that it is in Wetlands are an important part of reclamation fact possible for oil sands mines to build a fen that efforts. To date, close to 50 hectares of wetland and functions similarly to a naturally occurring fen.” lake reclamation1 have been completed by Suncor. Wapisiw Lookout located at Base plant. 1 Reclaimed lands have not been certified as such by government regulators. For further details on what we mean by reclaimed, see the legal advisories section of this report. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Land and reclamation | 94 TABLE OF CONTENTS “From vegetation monitoring, Lake Miwasin is part of our closure technology SUNCOR’S MULTI-PHASE development program that is designed to ensure we we know that the trees are can successfully reclaim mine sites. This project RECLAMATION PROCESS CEO MESSAGE Developing a mine reclamation performing at higher-than-forest employed the permanent aquatic storage structure (PASS) fluid tailings treatment technology as the first and closure plan industry standards and that step to establish a lake capable of supporting a full ABOUT OUR REPORT Before developing a new mine, we develop life-of-mine shrub density has increased, ecosystem of aquatic life. closure plans and mine reclamation plans that identify which means that plants are In August 2018, Indigenous Elders and Suncor’s how and when mine-disturbed areas will be reclaimed. STRATEGY AND Indigenous co-op and summer students participated These plans are updated regularly through the life of GOVERNANCE growing naturally from nearby in planting vegetation around the lakeshore. The the project, where we can update to include new seed sources. It’s rewarding to planting list included culturally-significant wetland developments and technology into the closure plan. plants, such as ratroot, sweetgrass and sweet gale, OUR BUSINESS see Wapisiw Lookout flourish.” recommended by Indigenous Elders and knowledge The Alberta government must authorize reclamation plans for all new projects, and authorizes updated – Lelaynia Wells, reclamation specialist – holders through the Suncor-sponsored Culturally plans as they are developed. forestry, Upstream Significant Wetland Plants Study. This was an CLIMATE CHANGE opportunity for Indigenous communities to see that Mining oil sands requires digging up to 80 metres Since Suncor became the first oil sands company to their input is improving reclamation outcomes, to below the surface, creating a mine pit that is usually reclaim a tailings pond to a trafficable surface, continue sharing knowledge about the species being filled in with overburden and/or tailings from the ENVIRONMENT Wapisiw Lookout has transformed from a field of planted, and to see the progress of Lake Miwasin. extraction process. Before mining, we salvage soils and grass into a young forest and wetland. suitable overburden that sit over the oil sands deposit. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The soil is used immediately, when land is available for Canadian toads, boreal chorus frogs and wood frogs, “With this improved approach, reclamation; or is stockpiled for future use. the three species of amphibians in the Fort McMurray we believe we can create a In the past, there was a lag time of many years INNOVATION region have been seen at Wapisiw. Canadian toads – a species listed as “may be at risk” in Alberta – and fully functioning lake in a between when soil and overburden were removed and land reclamation could begin. We are working to boreal chorus frog eggs have been observed, reclaimed boreal forest close that gap so disturbed areas become available PERFORMANCE DATA indicating that both sexes of these species are able to locate Wapisiw and are choosing to breed at the site. ecosystem decades sooner than soon after they are created, through a process known as progressive reclamation. Deer, fox, coyote, moose, grouse, bald eagle, black with other reclamation options.” APPENDICES bear and numerous other wildlife species have also – Rodney Guest, director, water and Developing an in situ reclamation visited the area or call Wapisiw Lookout home. closure, Upstream and closure plan Similar to a mine, we also develop conservation, Lake Miwasin In May 2019, members of the First Nations and Métis reclamation and closure plans for land disturbed by As part of our mine closure plan, we are currently community were invited for the Lake Miwasin / our in situ operations. A relatively recent regulatory investigating ways to safely return clean, treated tailings Constructed Wetland Treatment System workshop. requirement, each in situ facility is now required to water to the environment. We are piloting this through The workshop provided an opportunity for additional complete a project-level conservation, reclamation our demonstration pit lake (DPL) – now known as Lake community input on the proposed research and and closure plan (PLCRCP) and to update it every Miwasin. This system is a closed loop system where we monitoring projects for the community led monitoring five years. This integrated approach to conservation, maintain control of the water over a number of years; (CLM) program for the Lake Miwasin project. reclamation and closure planning and execution once it meets regulatory criteria, and upon government provides a project-level plan for achieving equivalent approval, we expect to allow water from Lake Miwasin land capability and long-term, sustainable to be naturally released to the environment. environmental outcomes after closure. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Land and reclamation | 95 TABLE OF CONTENTS Following the Alberta Energy Regulators Specific The regulator will issue a reclamation certificate Other land disturbance challenges Guidance, in situ facilities report on land disturbed when equivalent land capability has been achieved. As a matter of course, we undertake remediation at and reclaimed. While in situ wellpads may be used Land capability must consider the physical, chemical our downstream retail sites where required. CEO MESSAGE for longer than previously thought, reclamation of and biological characteristics of the land, including: Remediation is done in conjunction with upgrades to depleted borrow pits is the focus at Suncor’s in situ • topography facilities and tanks at existing operations as well as at facilities. Reclaimed borrow pits will provide a matrix ABOUT OUR REPORT sites facing closure. We also conduct remediation at of uplands, wetlands and lakes, reflective of the • drainage our oil sands facilities where required. local boreal forest. • hydrology STRATEGY AND INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS GOVERNANCE CERTIFICATION OF • soils AND RECLAMATION RECLAIMED LANDS – • vegetation RESEARCH AND MONITORING OUR BUSINESS A COMPLEX ISSUE In 2009, the Government of Alberta implemented a reclamation reporting system that gives the public Suncor participates in several research and monitoring Some people question why so little land disturbed by a clear understanding of the progress being made projects that are helping us understand the impact of the oil sands industry has been certified as development on the boreal forest, and the steps we CLIMATE CHANGE “reclaimed” by the regulator. There is an expectation during the reclamation process. The oil sands information portal (OSIP) is a one-window source can take to improve our reclamation efforts. by the regulators and stakeholders alike that reclaimed land must be shown to be on a path to for information; the public portal has both an Among these are projects that support native tree, ENVIRONMENT interactive map display and a data library. shrub and aquatic species that are an ecologically achieving the final closure outcome, which is, for our operations in the Wood Buffalo region, a locally and culturally important component of boreal SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY common, self-sustaining boreal forest. There are a LAND DISTURBANCE forest ecosystems: number of assessment points along that path, In situ land disturbance • In the Culturally Significant Wetland Plants specifically related to vegetation success. Approximately 97% of Canada’s oil sands surface is Study, we partnered with Elders from five INNOVATION First Nation communities to develop a list of recoverable using in situ technology, which results in a footprint similar to conventional oil production. In 10 significant wetland plants, to grow and plant situ operations disturb only about 15% of the land in reclamation. PERFORMANCE DATA required for traditional mining operations. • The Industrial Research Chair in Forest Land As the oil sands industry grows, the ratio of land Reclamation is expanding its early success in APPENDICES better understanding forest canopy development being disturbed by development is expected to decline as reclamation continues to increase. and working to improve tree growth during forest stand initiation and development. The However, in situ oil sands projects, along with oil and program is also developing recommendations for gas exploration, forestry and other industrial activities, establishing more spatially diverse site conditions do have an impact. The associated roads, seismic lines, and forest communities. power corridors and pipelines leave linear paths that cause forest fragmentation and can negatively impact • The Industrial Research Chair in Terrestrial wildlife habitat. Borrow pits for clay and gravel are Restoration is examining the root growth of required for the construction of these facilities, but are boreal forest tree and shrub species, to provide typically available for progressive reclamation early in knowledge of boreal forest ecosystems that can be the life of the project. incorporated into reclamation and closure plans. Planting at Lake Miwasin, formerly known as demonstration pit lake. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Land and reclamation | 96 TABLE OF CONTENTS • The Long-Term Plot Network, established in Suncor has adopted learnings from the Faster Forests 2000, collects soil, tree, and vegetation data from program and incorporated them into our operations. permanent plots every five years. The data is used This practice has allowed us to address historical CEO MESSAGE to explore long-term trends in soil properties, forest disturbances that were not otherwise revegetating. productivity, and plant community composition in oil sands mining reclamation areas. Oil Sands Vegetation Cooperative ABOUT OUR REPORT Part of a larger, continent-wide initiative, the Boreal The Oil Sands Vegetation Cooperative was initiated Monitoring Avian Productivity and Survivorship by oil sands mining operators in 2009 to collect STRATEGY AND program is advancing our understanding of avian native shrub seeds efficiently and collectively. The GOVERNANCE population dynamics and diversity in reclaimed and objective of the seed collection program was to disturbed habitats in the Athabasca oil sands region. provide seedlings the companies needed to complete Through ongoing monitoring, the program is their annual reclamation programs, as well as to OUR BUSINESS evaluating disturbance effects on avian habitat establish a long-term native seed bank to address quality and assessing reclamation designs to help future revegetation requirements faced by the guide our reclamation work. industry as a whole. Since 2009, the seed collection CLIMATE CHANGE program has grown to include in situ operations. Human health and wildlife risk assessment research and monitoring continued in 2018 to The vegetation co-operative has also evolved to ENVIRONMENT ensure mining and in situ-disturbed lands are collaboratively conduct research to support the Suncor employees at Lake Miwasin. reclaimed in a manner that prevents health risks storage, germination, nursery growing, and planting to people and wildlife. The Faster Forests program of seedlings grown from the seed collected by the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY program. Examples of this research include: The Faster Forests program is designed to address Tailings technologies collaboration improving seed longevity in storage, germination of forest fragmentation by strategically planting trees in native shrub species, vegetative propagation of INNOVATION As a company committed to accelerating disturbed areas across the oil sands region. boreal shrubs, and measuring the success of shrubs environmental performance improvements, In 2018, close to 300,000 trees and shrubs were grown from the cooperative’s collected seed. Suncor shares details on our tailings management PERFORMANCE DATA planted, bringing the total number of trees and shrubs work with members of Canada’s Oil Sands In the first decade since its inception, seed collected planted since 2009 to approximately five million. Innovation Alliance (COSIA). by the vegetation co-operative has played a major Planting trees and shrubs native to the area is a major role in supporting Suncor’s current reclamation APPENDICES In return, we gain access to technologies that other focus of the program. These seedlings will help programs by providing the seed that is necessary to member companies are using to manage existing reclaimed oil sands exploration sites establish forest grow healthy trees and shrubs, and in supporting tailings ponds. ecosystems and become integrated with surrounding Suncor’s future reclamation programs by banking forests more quickly than areas reclaimed with grass enough seed to grow millions of seedlings for species, as was done in the past. multiple tree and shrub species. The result: greater ecological integrity and biodiversity. Berry-bearing shrubs such as blueberry and Saskatoon are important to Indigenous communities and wildlife. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Biodiversity | 97 TABLE OF CONTENTS BIODIVERSITY CEO MESSAGE Suncor is committed to supporting biodiversity. Wherever we operate, our commitment is the same: protect wildlife from harm, keep our people safe, and return the natural habitats of the sites we disturb. ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor’s oil sands, in situ and mining operations are located in diverse landscapes, Once a landform is considered ready for reclamation and will no longer be used for home to ecosystems comprising a variety of plants and animals. Our reclamation active operations, final landform contouring can progress. Suncor constructs closure STRATEGY AND planning and execution efforts focus on improving the landscape biodiversity drainage features and places reclamation soils. We incorporate surface variability GOVERNANCE outcomes so we can return the natural diversity of plants and animals at the end and wildlife habitat features to encourage biodiversity in the final landscape. of an operating area’s life. We plant locally sourced tree, shrub and aquatic seedlings are planted and the OUR BUSINESS Biodiversity considerations are included in the environmental impact assessments soil is fertilized directly at the seedling roots to help the young plants during early (EIA) that are required at all our major operations before their construction. development years. The reclaimed areas are then monitored to ensure the new Biodiversity risk is determined during the EIA phase and is typically driven by forest, lakes and wetlands mature into a healthy, self-sustaining ecosystem. CLIMATE CHANGE regulations and discussions with relevant stakeholders, including the applicable regulatory authority. HABITATS PROTECTED OR RETURNED ENVIRONMENT We also collaborate with Indigenous communities, industry peers and multiIn 2018, we planted approximately 250,000 trees and shrubs at various Suncor stakeholder organizations on research and monitoring initiatives to conserve reclaimed sites. This brings the total number of seedlings planted since 1976 to and reclaim habitats for wildlife. approximately 8.5 million and includes: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • five tree species In northern Alberta, remote cameras monitor • 10 shrub species INNOVATION wildlife activity in the forested areas around our • 14 aquatic plant species oil sands in situ and mining operations and PERFORMANCE DATA Reclaimed areas in our oil sands operations planted in the 1980s are now seeing reclaimed sites. In 2018, these cameras recorded second and third-generation conifer seedlings take root under mature planted trees – a positive sign of regeneration within a healthy forest. Another indicator more than 23,000 sightings of 20 wildlife species. APPENDICES of success is the increase in wildlife returning to reclaimed lands. In the same areas, acoustic recording units recorded seven species of bats over 10,000 hours Over 50% of the oil sands area around Fort of monitoring, and targeted wildlife surveys McMurray is covered in wetlands – mostly fens identified more than 88 species of birds and and bogs. To date, we have successfully created three species of amphibians in 2018. open water wetlands, marshes, and a fen. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Biodiversity | 98 TABLE OF CONTENTS Species spotted on our reclamation areas include: • Birds: Five listed migratory bird species (western tanager, sora, Cape May warbler, and barn swallow), two species of raptor (American kestrel, northern CEO MESSAGE harrier), and sharp-tailed grouse have been observed “lekking” (spring mating dance) on our reclaimed lands. ABOUT OUR REPORT • Mammals: Grey wolf, coyote, lynx, red fox, moose, mule deer, white-tailed deer, snowshoe hare, muskrat, otter, beaver, and small mammals; black bears have also used our reclaimed areas for denning. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE • Amphibians: Boreal chorus frogs, wood frogs, and Canadian toads use our reclaimed areas for breeding. Black bear recorded as part of the photographic monitoring program. OUR BUSINESS Suncor’s operations are proximal to globally listed species at risk (IUCN Red list) which breed, live and migrate through the region. We track observations of these WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT species and report them to the appropriate provincial or federal regulator. Wildlife management in the oil sands CLIMATE CHANGE The objective of Suncor’s wildlife management program in the Regional Type Common name IUCN Ranking Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB) is to minimize human-wildlife conflicts Birds Barn Swallow Least Concern and wildlife habituation and conditioning, while maintaining a healthy wildlife ENVIRONMENT Canada Warbler Least Concern population and diversity. Common Nighthawk Least Concern We regularly consult and collaborate with Alberta Environment and Parks’ (AEP) Peregrine Falcon Least Concern SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Alberta Energy Regulator’s (AER) wildlife biologists and local fish and Short-eared Owl Least Concern wildlife officers. Western Grebe Least Concern INNOVATION Yellow Rail Least Concern Suncor applies the following priorities to mitigate for wildlife conflicts: Olive-sided Flycatcher Near threatened 1. Promote respect for wildlife and their habitat Horned Grebe Vulnerable PERFORMANCE DATA • Wildlife cameras placed in our environmental buffer zones monitor wildlife Rusty Blackbird Vulnerable activity to help us make sure we aren’t impeding their movement. Whooping Crane Endangered APPENDICES • Personnel on site are encouraged to report all wildlife sightings using Mammals Wolverine Least Concern Suncor’s online wildlife reporting tool or by calling security. Northern Myotis Near threatened Little Brown Myotis Endangered • We create buffers around active den sites to prevent disturbance of Amphibians Northern Leopard Frog Least Concern denning animals. Western Toad Least Concern 2. Reduce risk of human-animal encounters through managing attractants Arthropods Yellow-banded Bumble Bee Vulnerable • Wildlife-proof waste bins are used on site to keep bears and other wildlife from getting in the habit of eating food waste on site. All Suncor personnel in our operating areas are instructed to use the wildlife-proof bins for all food waste, to avoid keeping food or food waste in truck boxes, and not to litter. • Regular human-wildlife conflict prevention inspections monitor compliance to Suncor wildlife programs, including waste management. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Biodiversity | 99 TABLE OF CONTENTS 3. Provide education to workers to promote proper behaviours • Wildlife training is mandatory for all personnel at our operating sites in the RMWB. CEO MESSAGE • We routinely issue safety bulletins, posters and alerts to heighten awareness if and when wildlife encounters become a concern. ABOUT OUR REPORT • Members of the wildlife team attend employee talks to discuss wildlife programs and wildlife safety. STRATEGY AND • Suncor regional standard RGS0029A (Wildlife standard) is a resource GOVERNANCE available for workers on all RMWB operating sites. 4. Apply aversion conditioning methods and tools to resolve humanOUR BUSINESS wildlife conflicts • Suncor contracts wildlife specialists during bear season to respond to wildlife CLIMATE CHANGE reports and help workers reduce the risk of wildlife encounters. • Suncor works with the applicable regulatory authority to address humanFreddy the hawk and Clementine the owl were introduced to an area where up to 740 ravens were roosting. wildlife conflicts, as required. ENVIRONMENT The final day of the pilot saw that number reduced to less than 30. Bird protection program Bird management pilot program: In December 2018, Suncor introduced a 30-day SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Suncor is committed to minimizing interactions between birds and the processpilot program at Base plant to test the effectiveness of falconry to reduce the number affected ponds required for its operations in the oil sands through: of ravens roosting in Upgrading operations during the winter months. When roosting, ravens produce excess amounts of excrement that build up in operating INNOVATION • annual assessment of ponds and sumps to determine potential wildlife risk areas, creating numerous potential health and safety concerns for workers. • adoption and refinement of deterrent methods A third-party company brought birds of prey into targeted areas, a natural form of PERFORMANCE DATA • monitoring for bird contacts wildlife management during which a hostile environment is created and ultimately deters ravens from using Upgrading areas for roosting. • searching for bird mortalities APPENDICES Suncor has submitted a final report to AEP and pending review, may allow for Suncor is a member of the Oil Sands Bird Technical Team (OSBTT), a team additional licences for this type of project in the future. involving the collaboration of regional industry members and regulators that generates and shares knowledge to help reduce harm to and mortalities of birds resulting from potential risk of bird contact with harmful substances at oil sands WORKING WITH STAKEHOLDERS sites. OSBTT develops research studies and initiatives to address any potential gaps Culturally Significant Wetland Plant study in current regional monitoring protocols used. Suncor, Alberta Innovates and local Indigenous communities have been working The knowledge gathered by OSBTT can be applied to inform and improve current together since 2014 to identify culturally significant plants and learn how to grow monitoring procedures and research into bird interactions in the oil sands region. and establish them on reclaimed lands in the Wood Buffalo Region of northern We use a combination of radar-linked deterrents, non radar-linked deterrents and Alberta. This collaboration focuses on integrating values and traditional knowledge physical deterrents to discourage birds from landing on tailings and other from Elders and members of the surrounding communities with western science to process-affected ponds. We closely monitor our deterrents and attend to any guide and enhance reclamation activities within Suncor’s operations. affected birds in consultation with Alberta Environment and Parks (AEP). SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Biodiversity | 100 TABLE OF CONTENTS COSIA’s land environmental priority area is focused on reducing the footprint intensity and impact of CEO MESSAGE oil sands mining and in situ operations on the land and wildlife of northern Alberta. ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor worked collaboratively with other COSIA members to develop the COSIA land environmental priority area (EPA) performance goal, an intensity-based metric STRATEGY AND that measures the amount of in situ surface land disturbance per area of reservoir GOVERNANCE accessed. Collaboratively, COSIA organizations are working toward the goal of reducing their operational footprint intensity by 10% by 2022. OUR BUSINESS In addition, Suncor led development of a COSIA land challenge focused on finding new technologies that support approaching zero land disturbance exploration. The COSIA land challenge was released in Q1 2017. Several new technology ideas CLIMATE CHANGE and proposals have been received to date. At least one proposal was advanced in Q4 2017 to the pilot stage. ENVIRONMENT Culturally significant sweetgrass used for Lake Miwasin vegetation. Alberta Biodiversity Conservation Chairs Suncor is part of the COSIA-sponsored Alberta Biodiversity Research Chairs program, We invited Elders and Indigenous community members to help design the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY which intends to fast track biodiversity science and support on-the-ground research Culturally Significant Wetland Plants study and its objectives by attending on the environmental impact of development in the boreal forest of northern Alberta. meetings, sharing knowledge, spending time together on the land, and visiting a INNOVATION greenhouse. Co-operation between Suncor and the neighbouring Cree, Dene and The current program includes two research chairs at the University of Alberta Métis communities has helped strengthen our relationships, while allowing for which cover three integrated research themes: inclusion of different perspectives on ecological reclamation considerations. The 1. How do we measure successful restoration of biodiversity? PERFORMANCE DATA study will run until 2020 and we will share learnings with all participants so they can grow and establish these plants in their own communities. 2. How will climate change alter our ideas about what elements of biodiversity are most important and plausible to conserve and restore? Suncor is demonstrating the value of early, consistent and responsible engagement APPENDICES 3. What is the value of created wetlands in their function and sustainability? with local communities. The Culturally Significant Wetland Plants study is resulting in more meaningful and collaborative insights that guide reclamation planning and closure outcomes, while enhancing mutual trust and respect. Alberta Conservation Association (ACA) Boreal Habitat Conservation Initiative COLLABORATION ON BIODIVERSITY Suncor has partnered with Alberta Conservation Association (ACA) Boreal Habitat It’s becoming increasingly important for the oil sands industry to work together Conservation Initiative since 2002. This award-winning initiative helps protect to address the cumulative impacts of development on wildlife and biodiversity. intact boreal forest and wetlands, ensuring the larger boreal forest ecosystem One way we do this is through our participation in Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation remains undisturbed and biodiversity is preserved. Alliance (COSIA). Beginning with the successful pilot project at Winagami Lake northwest of High Through COSIA, we work on a wide range of projects aimed at environmental Prairie, Alberta – home to more than 200 species of birds, and important to footprint reduction, accelerating reclamation and preserving biodiversity. fisheries and wildlife – Suncor has worked with ACA to secure approximately 9,800 acres of ecologically sensitive land across Alberta. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Caribou recovery and conservation | 101 TABLE OF CONTENTS CARIBOU RECOVERY AND CONSERVATION CEO MESSAGE Suncor and Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) member companies are initiating and applying leading-edge habitat restoration projects to repair fragmented habitat, and are testing new technologies to ABOUT OUR REPORT avoid and/or minimize future exploration disturbance footprint in northeastern Alberta. STRATEGY AND Woodland caribou are adapted to life in the boreal forest. They are a non-migratory GOVERNANCE subspecies that require large expanses of habitat with low densities of predators, like wolves, and are usually found in small numbers. OUR BUSINESS COSIA’S CARIBOU PROJECTS Complex combinations of natural and human-caused factors have had a direct CLIMATE CHANGE effect on woodland caribou by creating landscape change and indirectly increasing predation. Due to the decline in caribou populations resulting from these changes, they are listed as threatened under Canada’s Species at Risk Act. ENVIRONMENT Within the boreal forest, landscape change has altered and contributed to a fragmented landscape. This often leads to increased populations of deer, moose, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY elk and their predators. Given the low numbers of woodland caribou in the boreal forest, any increased predation pressure can have devastating effects. As an operator in the boreal forest, Suncor has a role to play in contributing to INNOVATION caribou recovery and conservation, and we’ve developed a strategy, working with our industry peers and other stakeholders through organizations such as Woodland caribou recorded as part of the photographic monitoring program. PERFORMANCE DATA COSIA, to mitigate our impact on caribou. This means regular consideration of caribou-focused objectives at both the local and landscape levels and includes things such as: APPENDICES • incorporation of under-pipe crossings along above-ground pipelines at in situ projects • reclaiming disturbed areas to accelerate recovery of caribou habitat SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Caribou recovery and conservation | 102 TABLE OF CONTENTS Algar project PINPOINT NEAR-ZERO DISTURBANCE In collaboration with COSIA, Suncor completed a multi-year caribou habitat SEISMIC PROGRAM restoration program to repair fragmented habitat within the Algar region of CEO MESSAGE Today the oil sands industry uses the low-impact seismic (LIS) approach to gather northeast Alberta in 2015. sub-surface geological information, which guides oil sands in situ reservoir The Algar project was completed through an integrated regional approach, with planning and production. Trees are cleared in a grid of criss-crossing lines that are ABOUT OUR REPORT COSIA companies working together to repair fragmented habitat across 570 km2 two to three metres wide and enable seismic equipment access. The LIS approach of the Algar region, a portion of the East Side Athabasca River (ESAR) caribou is an example of an oil sands innovation developed during the last decade to range, outside of their actual licence areas. support environmental performance improvement, since historical seismic lines STRATEGY AND were up to 10 metres wide. Creation of the COSIA Land Challenge and GOVERNANCE Monitoring of vegetation and wildlife response has been underway since the development and piloting of near-zero oil and gas exploration tools, like the completion of the restoration program. Learnings gained and the science Explor PinPoint technology, demonstrates the oil sands industry’s drive for the developed from the Algar project has been shared across COSIA member next step-change in environmental footprint reduction. OUR BUSINESS company participants in the Land Environment Priority Area, to inform similar restoration programs undertaken since and those planned in the future. To strive to meet the COSIA Land Challenge, Suncor executed the PinPoint Near-Zero Disturbance Seismic Program in partnership with Explor in 2017 CLIMATE CHANGE Regional Industry Caribou Collaboration (RICC) (2D pilot), and Explor and Alberta Innovates (government) in 2018 (3D pilot). Suncor is a member of the COSIA Regional Industry Caribou Collaboration (RICC). By using a hand-portable tool to apply individual source points during a series ENVIRONMENT of pilot tests of Explor’s innovative PinPoint technology, the PinPoint Program RICC members work collaboratively across tenure and lease boundaries with acquired ultra-high density seismic imaging without the need to clear trees. academia, the Government of Alberta and the Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring These results demonstrated that high-quality seismic data can be obtained SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Institute (ABMI) Caribou Monitoring Unit on an ongoing basis to co-ordinate safely and with near-zero footprint, at least on a small-scale. industry restoration of disturbance in priority areas and to find new research opportunities to improve how we restore habitat and understand the biodiversity PinPoint Program results suggest that Suncor may one day be able to INNOVATION throughout the RICC study area. non‑destructively acquire seismic at a commercial-scale and thus deploy seismic programs aligned with caribou recovery and conservation objectives. The RICC study area covers approximately 85,000 km² and is focused on two The results have been shared with COSIA participants in the Land Environment northeastern Alberta caribou ranges: the ESAR and Cold Lake boreal woodland PERFORMANCE DATA Priority Area to support environmental performance improvement in the oil caribou ranges. sands region, and technology validation and optimization continues. APPENDICES COSIA Zero Footprint Exploration Challenge Suncor envisioned and collaboratively led development of the COSIA Land Challenge for zero footprint exploration (a.k.a seismic) to support caribou conservation by avoiding and/or minimizing new disturbance required for in situ project development. It was designed to address landscape change caused by the creation of seismic lines that contribute to the fragmentation of the boreal forest and subsequent caribou population declines through increased predation. Caribou recovery and conservation | 103 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE We work hard to build and maintain relationships with local communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders, and meaningfully consider their OUR BUSINESS issues and concerns about our operations and the effects of proposed development. Creating vibrant communities requires developing trust, and collaborative and proactive relationships. CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Stakeholder and Indigenous relations.................... 104 Community investment............................................ 108 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social goal................................................................. 113 INNOVATION Strengthening relationships.................................... 114 Partnering with Indigenous youth.......................... 117 PERFORMANCE DATA Partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities....................................................... 120 APPENDICES Improving Indigenous workforce development..... 123 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Stakeholder and Indigenous relations | 104 TABLE OF CONTENTS STAKEHOLDER AND INDIGENOUS RELATIONS CEO MESSAGE The trust and support of stakeholders and Indigenous communities are valuable to Suncor and foundational to successful energy development. ABOUT OUR REPORT Stakeholders and Indigenous communities are the Relationship building and authentic discussion are • Improper payments policy individuals and groups who could be affected by essential, as well as more formal engagement or STRATEGY AND • International security policy our operations or who could, through their actions, consultation processes. For example, we regularly GOVERNANCE affect our business. Examples include: take part in community advisory meetings with • Harassment and violence-free working several Indigenous communities. environment • landowners and community residents OUR BUSINESS Participating in multi-stakeholder forums and Suncor’s Stakeholder Relations and Canadian • trappers engaging on issues of national interest are also vital. Aboriginal Relations policies are reviewed every three • governments This includes work with Ceres, a sustainability years to incorporate learnings and reflect evolving CLIMATE CHANGE non-profit organization that works with investors and societal expectations and external context. • regulators companies to build leadership and drive solutions. Suncor supports the Truth and Reconciliation • non-governmental organizations and We also contribute to Canada’s Ecofiscal Commission, ENVIRONMENT Commission’s call to action for the corporate sector environmental groups which aims to shape policy to encourage economic to adopt United Nations Declaration on the Rights activities that support mutual benefits such as job • community investment partners of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) as a framework for SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY creation, investment and innovation. its relationship with Indigenous Peoples in Canada. • business groups As part of Suncor’s Operational Excellence To implement this framework, Suncor is committed • customers and suppliers Management System (OEMS), we have tools and to meaningfully engage with communities, listen, INNOVATION frameworks to align us in using a consistent have open dialogue about our historical relationships • employees approach to relationships with stakeholders and and deepen relationships. We also engage with PERFORMANCE DATA We work hard to build and maintain relationships Indigenous communities, whether it is local Indigenous thought leaders, in efforts to build our with local communities, Indigenous Peoples and engagement or involvement in national forums. knowledge and understanding on UNDRIP. stakeholders, and meaningfully consider their issues These tools and frameworks outline Suncor’s APPENDICES and concerns about our operations and the effects 1,113 responsibilities and commitments, and provide a of proposed development. This includes working mechanism for us to consider the needs, interests together to mitigate potential social, environmental, employees and concerns of stakeholders and Indigenous and economic impacts, and ensuring that local participated in a cultural experience communities, and to incorporate them into our communities benefit from development. business decisions. They are implemented via OUR APPROACH Those affected by Suncor’s business have a right to standards and guidelines and are supported by procedures, practices and tools. $703 million spent on direct purchases from be informed about our activities, participate in a POLICIES Indigenous businesses in 2018 transparent engagement process and be involved Our Human Rights, Stakeholder Relations and 30+ where the issues and opportunities affect them. Canadian Aboriginal Relations policies outline our Input and feedback on our activities and decisions commitments and key beliefs with respect to are necessary and stakeholders and Indigenous communities are asked how they wish to be consulted. stakeholders and Indigenous communities near our Petro-Canada branded retail sites operations. Other related policies include: owned and operated by First Nations across Canada SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Stakeholder and Indigenous relations | 105 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESPONSIBILITIES AND INTEGRATED INDIGENOUS Lake Miwasin COMMITMENTS RELATIONS GOVERNANCE Reclamation and closure isn’t just about returning the land, but doing so in a way that considers the CEO MESSAGE All Suncor employees and contractors engaged We recognize the need to embed our approach to concerns and knowledge of the local communities in activities under our operational control are stakeholder and Indigenous relations across the that will use the land. Lake Miwasin (previously responsible for applying these policies. Managers organization. One of the ways we’re doing this is ABOUT OUR REPORT referred to as demonstration pit lake), represents a are also responsible for promoting our beliefs and through an integrated Indigenous relations collaborative effort with seven local Indigenous principles underlying these policies in joint ventures governance structure. The structure helps connect communities in the Wood Buffalo area and another not operated by Suncor. work across the organization. STRATEGY AND step change on our reclamation and closure journey. GOVERNANCE Suncor’s chief executive officer is accountable to Suncor’s Indigenous relations governance structure is Lake Miwasin is part of our closure technology the Board of Directors for ensuring that Suncor’s made up of three interconnected groups which each development program that is designed to ensure we Stakeholder Relations and Canadian Aboriginal play a role in ensuring our activities are coordinated OUR BUSINESS can successfully reclaim mine sites. This project Relations policies are implemented. and advancing strong, co-operative relationships with incorporated the permanent aquatic storage structure Indigenous Peoples in Canada. They include: Beyond commitments outlined in the policies, we (PASS) fluid tailings treatment process as the first CLIMATE CHANGE also have agreements with Indigenous communities • VP Forum: focused on strategy and linked to step to establish a lake capable of supporting a full near our operations. These agreements address how a subcommittee of Suncor’s most senior ecosystem of aquatic life. we work together on a range of matters from executive team During the planning phases and throughout ENVIRONMENT project consultation to realizing the benefits from • network: focused on planning and implementation implementation we engaged with local our industry through commercial and business and linked to Suncor’s work with communities and Indigenous communities. opportunities, as well as supporting skills/employment SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the implementation of the social goal and training programs. An Indigenous engagement workshop, held in • multidisciplinary teams: environment and April 2018, provided the group of Elders, community regulatory, workforce development and members and technical reviewers a chance to learn INNOVATION Our policies outline our business development more about Suncor’s tailings treatment and closure commitment to authentic, These groups meet regularly to ensure priorities are technologies, as well as the opportunity to provide input into the program. PERFORMANCE DATA meaningful relationships with established and advancing. The governance structure also aids in ensuring information, approaches and In August 2018, Indigenous Elders and Suncor’s stakeholders and Indigenous best practices are shared across levels and locations. Indigenous co-op and summer students participated APPENDICES Peoples and communities in in planting vegetation around the lakeshore. The Canada. Building and OUR APPROACH IN ACTION planting list included culturally-significant plants, such as ratroot, sweetgrass and sweet gale, We believe relationships are best maintained through maintaining long-term and recommended by Indigenous elders and knowledge open communication, authentic engagement and holders through the Suncor-sponsored Culturally mutually beneficial relationships being involved in and part of community. This allows Significant Wetland Plant Study. This was an us to listen and engage with local stakeholders and is at the core of these policies. opportunity for Indigenous communities to see how Indigenous community members. their input is improving reclamation outcomes, to continue sharing knowledge about the species being planted, and to see progress. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Stakeholder and Indigenous relations | 106 TABLE OF CONTENTS In May 2019, members of the First Nations and Métis “As neighbours with the Suncor Sarnia refinery, we feel that increased community were invited for the Lake Miwasin/ Constructed Wetland Treatment System workshop. involvement and collaboration on projects, plus the involvement of CEO MESSAGE The workshop provided an opportunity for additional refinery staff at community events and functions, strengthens that community input on the proposed research and monitoring projects for the community led monitoring relationship and adds Suncor to that Circle of Aamjiwnaang. We ABOUT OUR REPORT (CLM) program for the Lake Miwasin project. know Suncor understands what it means to be part of the community.” A community member, Seth Kragnes, an Indigenous – Sharilyn Johnston, environment coordinator with the Aamjiwnaang First Nation STRATEGY AND student at Sister Mary Phillips School in Fort McMurray, GOVERNANCE also selected the name of the lake through a naming contest. ‘Miwasin’ means ‘nice/beautiful’ in Cree. The Aamjiwnaang Environment Department was SUPPORTING PROCESSES fully engaged in the development of a remediation In the coming year, the constructed wetland Beyond direct consultation and engagement activities, OUR BUSINESS project. Their input directly influenced aspects of treatment system will be fully constructed and will several internal processes ensure that we are aware the work, including air quality management and work alongside Lake Miwasin in treating the water, of and understand the interests and concerns of species-at-risk plans. That project is now fully stakeholders and Indigenous communities, and are CLIMATE CHANGE so that we can study the potential for returning implemented and progressing well. water back to the environment. considering those views in our operations and business “In the Aamjiwnaang community, relationships are planning. These processes include: The project team also hit the spotlight after being foremost. Each year the community holds the ‘Circle ENVIRONMENT • Our strategic issues management process (SIMP), announced as our first-ever Spirit Award recipient of Aamjiwnaang’, where neighbours reaffirm their at Suncor’s 2018 President’s Operational Excellence which works to proactively identify, monitor and commitment to caring for and protecting each Awards (POEA). manage key environmental, economic and social SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY other,” says Sharilyn Johnston, environment issues considered most critical to Suncor, coordinator with the Aamjiwnaang First Nation. The award was designed to reflect the heart of stakeholders and Indigenous communities. operational excellence, key behaviours, values and We also came together to develop a work plan that INNOVATION • Suncor’s Asset Development and Execution Model culture that we want to foster at Suncor. Mark Little, is aligned with the annual priorities set out by Chief president and chief executive officer, had the honour (ADEM), where consideration for stakeholders and and Council, including shoreline softening efforts, of presenting this award. Indigenous communities’ concerns, and potential PERFORMANCE DATA development of a traditional medicine garden, and impacts, are integrated into early project planning establishing a fund for entrepreneurs in the “The project has shown a deep level of crossstages, before engagement occurs and/or final Aamjiwnaang community. functional collaboration, and introduced a step business decisions are made. APPENDICES change in how we work with Indigenous groups and We look for opportunities to engage in the Sarnia other stakeholders,” explained Mark at the POEA • Our annual materiality review which identifies key community meaningfully, where we can both sponsor gala. “They demonstrated excellent stewardship of issues of concern for stakeholders and Indigenous initiatives and support our employees to get involved. Suncor resources and transparency, and achieved communities, and includes information learned from Examples include the annual Earth Day community great project results overall.” ongoing engagement and feedback from Suncor’s clean up and Little Native Hockey League tournament regular multi-stakeholder forum with Ceres. that Aamjiwnaang hosted in Mississauga this year. New ways of engaging in Sarnia By remaining focused on community needs and In 2018, we continued to look for new ways to engage priorities, we have been able to increase collaboration and work differently with communities near our Sarnia and strengthen relationships, creating more refinery, including the Aamjiwnaang First Nation. opportunities to work together and make positive community changes. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Stakeholder and Indigenous relations | 107 TABLE OF CONTENTS EVALUATING THE Suncor is also certified at a gold level in the Expanding partnerships Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB) EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) program. In 2017, Suncor signed two significant business agreements with First Nations communities. In CEO MESSAGE ENGAGEMENT PAR is Canada’s only certification program focused Quebec, Suncor purchased a 41% equity interest in on best practices in Aboriginal relations. Monitoring PetroNor, a petroleum products distributor across the ABOUT OUR REPORT As part of our OEMS, the Stakeholder Relations The certification process includes external James Bay and Abitibi-Témiscamingue regions that is Framework includes: assessment from community members of an owned and operated by the James Bay Cree. organization’s performance in four key areas: • guidelines and processes to ensure engagement In Alberta, Suncor, Fort McKay First Nation and STRATEGY AND employment, business development, community planning and practice is annually reviewed and Mikisew Cree First Nation purchased a 49% interest GOVERNANCE investment and community engagement. measured against performance metrics, and that in Suncor’s East Tank Farm Development, a strategic those learnings are applied to future engagement infrastructure asset in the Wood Buffalo region. OUR BUSINESS “Suncor has demonstrated that Both of these agreements are examples of new • a grievance mechanism that enables us to receive, investigate and respond to complaints from they are willing to put in the ways for business and First Nations to work together as partners. CLIMATE CHANGE stakeholders and Indigenous communities that effort to continue learning and may arise from direct and/or indirect impacts associated with Suncor’s operations growing in this area. They are Beyond Wood Buffalo ENVIRONMENT Beyond our policies and management system, we a role model for positive and Suncor has been operating in the Wood Buffalo region of Alberta since 1967. We’ve been part of the monitor the evolvement of our stakeholder relations progressive Aboriginal relations community and building relationships for a long activities using several processes, including the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and more importantly, they time. While we’ll continue to do so, we know that Indigenous Relations Governance structure and SIMP. we need to broaden our focus to our other operating have a continuous improvement areas. As we continue to implement our social goal, INNOVATION Results philosophy and focus.” we’ll look to increase opportunities with communities The way the world views energy development has and our key partners across our operations, including fundamentally changed. Expectations are increasing, – J.P. Gladu, president and CEO, CCAB through the work of the Suncor Energy Foundation. PERFORMANCE DATA and the legal and regulatory context continues to evolve and become more complex. We believe our social performance is as important as our WHAT WE ARE DOING APPENDICES environmental and economic performance. DIFFERENTLY In 2016, we built on the learnings from the strategic Social goal environmental performance goals established in 2009 and released our first social goal. Since then Setting goals is one way to motivate us to look we’ve been focused on implementing this goal differently at how we do business and work with meaningfully, which is aspirational, bold and others. Another way, is to reflect and encourage designed to challenge and stretch our organization, positive changes to the way we think and act to culture and behaviour. increase the participation of Indigenous Peoples in energy development. It is not the work of a small group at Suncor but the work of all of us. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Community investment | 108 TABLE OF CONTENTS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT CEO MESSAGE Within Suncor’s vision to be trusted stewards of valuable natural resources, we have the opportunity, and responsibility, to help build a better future. ABOUT OUR REPORT Since Suncor began operations in the oil sands more than 50 years ago, this “This strategy positions us for our next phase of commitment has been embodied in our work with communities across our STRATEGY AND operations, including within the efforts of the Suncor Energy Foundation. growth and learning, as we continue to build on GOVERNANCE the strength of our roots while innovating for the OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT STRATEGY OUR BUSINESS future. By leveraging our strengths as an integrated Society is facing complex challenges that are impacting the overall well-being of each of us – socially, economically and environmentally. This requires innovative, energy company and coming together with others, sustainable solutions and contributions from all of us. CLIMATE CHANGE we can find and realize opportunities for long-term Suncor, and our private, non-profit, charitable organization, the Suncor Energy solutions that benefit communities, our company, Foundation (SEF), seek to provide investments that create value for society, and ENVIRONMENT for our business, by addressing community issues of mutual interest to Suncor and future generations.” in a way that seeks solutions and benefits all. Our vision is to create a better – Lori Hewson, director, community investment and social innovation world with the communities in which Suncor operates, and with those who are SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY courageously seeking solutions and making a positive difference in society. As SEF marked its 20th year in 2018, Suncor community investment and SEF A PORTFOLIO APPROACH INNOVATION completed a strategy refresh with input from community leaders, partners and Our community investment and SEF approach has grown from being primarily Suncor leaders and employees. The updated strategy is focused on three areas, responsive to short-term community requests to one where we are also working or pillars: with and of communities, by coming together in partnership and learning for the PERFORMANCE DATA common good through a corporate social innovation approach. 1. Strategic funding priorities: making donations and investing in the work of others in three areas: Indigenous Peoples, energy future, and community resilience. All parts, from philanthropic donations to relationships that contribute to APPENDICES transformational change, are important for community strength and well-being. 2. Community presence: being present and engaging locally in our operating This portfolio approach to our investments supports lasting change in communities, areas, including supporting employee community engagement through the as well as helping Suncor and SEF continuously learn and bring knowledge and SunCares program. insights back to shape our own business. 3. Social innovation capacity: continuing to build and support social “When we have a clear understanding of all the elements of a system – including innovation capacity in others, and within Suncor, through CI and SEF-led who’s involved, the roles they play, and how impacts are felt – we can be strategic programs and initiatives. with our investments and better ensure they support positive community The strategy centres on four phases that underscore continuous observation, change,” says Hewson. relationship building, learning and evaluation. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Community investment | 109 TABLE OF CONTENTS OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Energy collaboration Here are a few examples of the community investment strategy in action across Meeting society’s energy challenges today and tomorrow is all about making partners and systems, reflecting our objectives, beliefs and operational model and informed choices. That’s why Suncor and SEF are investing in an evolving set of CEO MESSAGE what we’re learning. initiatives to collaborate on the energy future we’ll all share. Our goal is to leverage our strengths as an energy company and be a catalyst for an inclusive ABOUT OUR REPORT Creating a shared future national dialogue that will enable Canada to use our energy resources wisely and pave the way for a sustainable energy future. Through donations and the further development of relationships with the Banff Centre, Ashoka Canada, the Tamarack Institute, Reconciliation Canada Alberta Ecotrust, a SEF partner, has been working to enhance capacity and STRATEGY AND and the Turtle Island Institute, community investment and SEF are working to collaboration across environmental non-governmental organizations (ENGOs). GOVERNANCE support reconciliation and the national social innovation eco-system. Building off their 2014 Mapping What Matters research, in 2018 their work extended to include a growing focus on climate conversations that shift narratives As a few examples of the organizations funded by community investment and OUR BUSINESS and foster generative conversations toward a low-carbon energy future. SEF, each of these organizations has strengths in leadership development programming, complexity and adaptability. As a result they are elevating SEF also renewed support to the Energy Futures Lab (EFL) in 2018, and their next conversations about community development and reconciliation. phase. EFL 2.0 will deepen their work in Alberta and explore how to extend CLIMATE CHANGE lessons and learning to a national level. “Strong leaders who can navigate complexity are essential for building resilient communities that can adapt and thrive through change,” says Eric Axford, EVP “Ongoing climate and energy debates have left Canada polarized in a myriad of ENVIRONMENT and chief sustainability officer, and Chair of the SEF Board. ways. Meanwhile, much of the rest of the world is racing to a new energy future that will reshape politics, economics, and cultural dynamics around the world,” Recently, Pat White, a Suncor team member and former vice-president of human says Alison Cretney, managing director of the Energy Futures Lab. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY resources, began a five-month secondment with Reconciliation Canada. She has focused on developing frameworks for reconciliation action plans in organizations “There are enormous opportunities for those able to advance solutions. How we and corporations, including Suncor. These action plans will facilitate the cultural respond as a nation will shape Canada’s competitiveness and attractiveness as a INNOVATION shifts required to advance and sustain reconciliation. place to invest for decades, and impact our social and cultural fabric.” “This has been an incredibly valuable opportunity to share learnings and Through connections that started and were nurtured at the SEF Gathering, PERFORMANCE DATA experiences to work together on what’s possible,” says Pat. “Personally, I have a Student Energy, another SEF partner, recently hosted their first Indigenous youth much deeper sense of the truth of our collective history and impacts, and the energy summit, SevenGen. It brought together 200 Indigenous and nondeep importance of reconciliation for all of us.” Indigenous youth from across Canada to explore how to unite communities, build APPENDICES relationships and break social barriers in the energy conversation. “Through SEF support, our hope is more leaders “The goal is to engage youth in climate and energy topics and equip them with the confidence to be part of the larger conversation in the country,” reflects have the opportunity to develop the perspectives Cory Beaver, a Mount Royal University student, member of the Stoney Nakoda and capabilities needed to create connections and First Nation and co-chair of the summit. spark a bright future for all Canadians.” “We’re not just doing this for the next couple of years. We want to fight for a better reality for our children, and our grandchildren and future generations,” – Eric Axford, EVP and chief sustainability officer, and Chair of the SEF Board adds summit co-chair Disa Crow Chief, a member of the Siksika First Nation. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Community investment | 110 TABLE OF CONTENTS Powerful voices COMMUNITY PRESENCE Working toward strong, sustainable communities takes the effort of many voices, In 2018, Suncor and SEF continued to support many local initiatives in with a variety of perspectives and experiences. communities near our operations. CEO MESSAGE With that in mind, SEF hosted its fourth Gathering in May 2018. Approximately To mark the 20th anniversary of the foundation, SEF worked with Suncor regional 155 funding partners, social innovators, government and community representatives, leaders to provide a one-time donation of $20,000 in each community. These funds ABOUT OUR REPORT Indigenous youth, thought leaders and Suncor team members attended the were directed to local community organizations chosen by leaders and employees. two-and-a-half-day event, which explores complex community needs that require • Burrard: Crossroads Hospice Society and Junior Achievement BC collaboration to make progress and see lasting change. The Gathering provides a STRATEGY AND forum for participants to: • Mississauga: Riverwood Conservancy GOVERNANCE • connect existing work and initiatives • Edmonton/Strathcona County: Youth Empowerment and Support Services and Boys and Girls Club of Strathcona County OUR BUSINESS • take a system-wide view • East Coast: Iris Kirby House, First Light St. John’s Friendship Centre, • explore a variety of perspectives Bridges to Hope and Choices for Youth CLIMATE CHANGE • strengthen partnerships • Wood Buffalo: Northern Lights Health Foundation in support of Willow The 2018 event focused on storytelling, community resilience and diverse Square and the Fort McMurray Recovery Centre collaboration. The theme: “There is No Us and Them: the Nature of Paradox.” ENVIRONMENT • Sarnia: Pathways Health Centre for Children and St. Clair Child and It allowed for deeper reflection on some of the challenges and opportunities Youth Services experienced when groups work for change. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY “Coming together we recognize the value of diversity, and the creative tension that Suncor and SEF also continued to support a variety of other initiatives in 2018, including the ones highlighted below. comes along with that. The role of the Gathering is to bring everyone together to spark innovation and to see what new possibilities emerge,” says Lori Hewson. INNOVATION Wood Buffalo For the first time, a group of participants were also invited to act as witnesses. In recognition of the opening of Fort Hills, we announced a number of Mike Lickers, Suncor senior advisor Indigenous relations, says the role of the PERFORMANCE DATA investments to support the community going forward: witness is traditional in Indigenous West Coast ceremonies. Riverside Continuing Care facility in Fort McKay: Announced in spring 2018, “Those who agree to witness are responsible for ensuring the community knows and opened in the summer, the Riverside Continuing Care facility is supported by APPENDICES of the event and they vouch for the integrity of the ceremony for future reference. Fort Hills. The centre is a place for Elders to visit with family and friends and share This is not an easy task, or one taken lightly. Witnesses may be called upon to their teachings while staying in their community. remember what happened, who said what and so on,” explains Mike. Fort Hills ambulance donation: Fort Hills partners donated an ambulance to the The Gathering had nine witnesses represented by three community partners, community of Fort Chipewyan and Nunee Health. This ambulance will support the four young Indigenous leaders, and two Suncor team members. health and welfare of the Fort Chipewyan community. Reflecting on her role as witness and the impact of the 2018 Gathering, Public and Indigenous Health mobile health vehicle: this gift from SEF to the Alexia McKinnon, associate director, Indigenous leadership at the Banff Centre Northern Lights Health Foundation will help purchase and retrofit a medical remarked, “What I will be taking with me and sharing is the generosity of spirit, vehicle to serve rural areas of the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. of us as human beings to show up and do the work that we do. In essence we’ve been invited to co-create, to start our stories from the beginning and Canadian Mental Health Association (Centre for Excellence in Recovery weave them together.” and Peer Support initiative): SEF and the Fort Hills partners provided a gift to the Canadian Mental Health Association, to support an exciting new project for a walk-in centre built to assist local residents in getting access to mental health resources, a recovery college and a school of peer support. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Community investment | 111 TABLE OF CONTENTS Calgary In 2018 SEF’s relationship with Riverwood expanded to support their work on responding to the key calls to action from the Truth and Reconciliation Calgary Public Library: Connected to the opening of the new central library, Commission and looking to incorporate Indigenous knowledge into the LEADS SEF announced support for Indigenous programming and cross-cultural learning CEO MESSAGE program and their organization. Riverwood also began using Suncor’s Aboriginal opportunities throughout the library network. This includes funding to support: awareness web-based training module to help remove barriers and biases and • the Elders’ Guidance Circle space in the central library deepen knowledge within their organization. ABOUT OUR REPORT • the hiring of program interns to ensure Indigenous populations are engaged in service design and evaluation Montreal STRATEGY AND Youth Fusion: If we want youth to feel they can be the future innovators in • the development of Indigenous language resources, including an online GOVERNANCE energy fields, we must start supporting them at an early age. Youth Fusion learning platform exposes youth to different careers in science, technology, engineering and math • Indigenous cultural initiatives, such as a speaker and a performance series (STEM) but also provides the necessary tools to experiment and learn directly OUR BUSINESS through a variety of mentors. • ongoing focus on creating spaces for Indigenous culture and art in libraries across the city Canadian Indigenous School Engagement: This is an initiative that works with CLIMATE CHANGE the Inuit, Cree, Mohawk, Innu and Mi’gmaq Indigenous communities. In Quebec, This supports the library’s goal of being an inclusive gathering place for all Calgarians. Youth Fusion is working with more than 4,400 Indigenous youth, aged 7-to-18, in remote Cree and Inuit communities, as well as in Mashteuiash, Kahnawake, ENVIRONMENT Denver Gesgapegiag and at the Indigenous Student Centres of John Abbott and Dawson Boys and Girls Club: As a long-time supporter, we proudly partner with the Colleges in Montreal. Suncor Boys and Girls Club facility in Commerce City. This space provides young SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY people with a safe and accessible opportunity to learn, grow and develop in Sarnia education and career development, character and leadership development, Lambton College: Lambton College’s mission is to provide career-focused education health and life skills, technology, the arts, and sports fitness and recreation. INNOVATION that serves the needs of students, industry and the community of Sarnia-Lambton. In the fall of 2018 Lambton College officially opened its new Centre of Excellence in Edmonton Bio-Industrial Technologies. SEF support helped purchase new equipment that will PERFORMANCE DATA Linking Generations: Created in 2004, Linking Generations, provides mentored provide students with valuable hands-on learning experiences. and structured visits aimed at building relationships between seniors and youth The Lambton’s College Indigenous Outdoor Learning and Gathering Space is also in the community. The program brings the generations together so they can share APPENDICES supported by SEF. It will honour Indigenous traditions and promote First Nations, their knowledge and life experiences, and encourages volunteering and social Inuit, and Métis culture. It will welcome people of all backgrounds, beliefs, and responsibility in youth. ages into an inclusive space to celebrate Lambton College’s diverse population. Mississauga St. John’s The Riverwood Conservancy: The Riverwood Conservancy Leadership in Community Sector Council of Newfoundland and Labrador: Funding Environmental Achievements through Diversity and Skills (LEADS) program, is a supports the implementation of an earning-by-doing model to help increase skills-based environmental education program for secondary students grounded in capacity for innovation and change in the community sector. the Ontario secondary school curriculum. It provides hands-on learning to more than 1,500 students each year. Memorial University – Centre for Social Enterprise: Funding supports the first MBA in Social Enterprise and amplification of other social innovation initiatives. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Community investment | 112 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUNCARES: INSPIRING EMPLOYEE “It’s wonderful that Suncor provides an outlet for COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT employees to give time to support the needs of CEO MESSAGE Volunteerism and community engagement have long been part of how our others – I’m proud to be part of a community that employees contribute to the community. Through our SunCares employee program, we support the causes that are important to employees in the following ways: cares for one another.” ABOUT OUR REPORT • Volunteering: providing tools and resources to help our employees find – Dana Moon, production control engineer volunteer opportunities, either as an individual, or as part of a Suncor team. STRATEGY AND Employees can also track their volunteer hours and receive SunCares rewards In 2018, more than $5.4 million was contributed to community organizations GOVERNANCE from Suncor or SEF for every hour volunteered, up to $1,000 per year. These across Canada and the United States. This included $2.7 million in donations from rewards can then be donated to any community organization of choice. employees, and another $2.7 million from SunCares rewards and the corporate • SunCares rewards and grants: Suncor and SEF provide a number of grants to donations provided by Suncor and SEF. OUR BUSINESS support our employees’ engagement in their communities, including leadership Community investment and SEF also began user experience research in late 2018, rewards for those who serve in a leadership role with a non-profit organization, to better understand how Suncor can continue to increase community giving and CLIMATE CHANGE bereavement grants, and humanitarian and post-secondary matching grants. engagement, and improve the employee experience with the SunCares program. In 2018, the SunCares program saw a number of changes. These enhancements “It’s about what’s meaningful to local employees and communities, and what makes are part of an ongoing evolution of SunCares designed to support employee ENVIRONMENT sense for their particular area,” says Joanne Manser, senior advisor, community choice in giving and encourage regular community engagement. They include: investment at Suncor. “SunCares is changing the face of our community support • Expanded humanitarian grant matching program: Employees can now and, more than ever before, giving every employee an opportunity to help make SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY receive a match for any donation made to a humanitarian organization at any their community even better.” time of the year, up to a total of $1,000 yearly. INNOVATION • SunCares Community Giving Networks (SCGNs): We introduced a CANADIAN OLYMPIC AND PARALYMPIC year-round regional giving model in mid-2018, to provide more choice and GAMES SUPPORT flexibility and expand on the previous giving campaign model. SCGNs are Through our Petro-Canada brand, we are a long-time supporter of the Canadian PERFORMANCE DATA employee-driven networks that empower employees to connect, lead and Olympic and Paralympic movement. Our current sponsorship agreement extends engage in their communities, and provide tools and processes to enable this. our support for Canadian Olympic and Paralympic athletes, coaches and their Network volunteers plan and execute a variety of flexible, inclusive giving families through to 2024. APPENDICES activities that meet the needs of their unique business area, employees and local community. Our involvement in the Canadian Olympic movement is a journey that began in 1987, when Petro-Canada organized and sponsored the torch relay for the 1988 • Changemakers program: Conceptualized in 2018 and launched in early 2019, Olympic Winter Games in Calgary. We are proud to continue our support of the the Changemakers program recognizes and celebrates Suncor’s community Canadian Olympic and Paralympic Teams and the Coaching Association of Canada. changemakers – those employees who positively impact community throughout the year in significant ways. Annually, five changemakers are selected through a Petro-Canada’s Fuelling Athlete and Coaching Excellence (FACE™) Program has nomination process to choose a community organization to receive a one-time supported more than 3,000 athletes on their way to the Olympic and Paralympic gift of $20,000 from Suncor or the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF). Games. Every year, 55 promising athletes from across Canada are awarded a $10,000 FACE grant, shared with their coaches, to help them along their journey. As a result of these changes, the rate of decline in employee giving observed over the last five years has begun to slow. We also saw an increase in the number of We believe one of the best ways to support Canadian athletes is to help their community organizations supported by Suncor employees in 2018, to 1,377. biggest fans – their families. We continue to support a Canadian ticketing program that will help ensure family members have the opportunity to see their athletes Additionally, the total number of employee volunteer hours recorded increased by compete in person at the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo in 2020. over 30%, to 73,259 hours. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Social goal | 113 TABLE OF CONTENTS SOCIAL GOAL CEO MESSAGE Our relationship with Indigenous communities over the past 40 years has been a journey. We know that earning the trust and support of Indigenous Peoples and communities is foundational to our business. ABOUT OUR REPORT There is much we can learn from Indigenous Peoples and communities. By listening and being willing to learn from one another, we can uncover mutual interests and STRATEGY AND Strengthening build authentic relationships. GOVERNANCE relationships We know there is still work to be done, and we are making progress. Many initiatives are underway to embed our approach to Indigenous relations across all OUR BUSINESS areas of our business. In 2016, we announced a social goal as part of our larger Social goal sustainability goals. The social goal is a declaration of our intent to do things differently – to choose Partnering Partnering Partnering Partnering CLIMATE CHANGE a new path that focuses on strengthening relationships with Indigenous Peoples with with with with Indigenous Changing the way Indigenous Indigenous Indigenous and communities starting within Suncor. For us, that path is about working youth youth we think and act businesses businesses ENVIRONMENT together and creating more opportunities for greater involvement in the energy to increase the participation industry, so the social and economic benefits from Canada’s resources are shared of Indigenous Peoples in energy development more fully. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The goal outlines four areas to focus on through 2025 and beyond, where we can work together to advance greater participation of Indigenous Peoples and Improving Indigenous INNOVATION communities in energy development. We continue to assess how to advance the workforce development goal and will refresh components as we learn and grow in our understanding and awareness. PERFORMANCE DATA Permission to use this Blackfoot concept of the Medicine Wheel was granted by Elder Casey Eagle Speaker Suncor’s social goal infographic reflects a medicine wheel. It is important to recognize there are many APPENDICES different versions of the medicine wheel, and not all Indigenous Peoples make use of the wheel. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Strengthening relationships | 114 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT An attendee at the Indspire event in Calgary. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STRENGTHENING RELATIONSHIPS INNOVATION Strengthening relationships with Indigenous Peoples and all Canadians, starting within Suncor. PERFORMANCE DATA We can do more to learn about the history and experiences of Indigenous Peoples, ABORIGINAL AWARENESS TRAINING so we can better understand one another and change the way we think and act. Aboriginal awareness training is a key way we’re enabling every employee at APPENDICES We commit to providing our employees with training and opportunities to participate Suncor to learn more about the history and experience of Indigenous Peoples in cultural experiences. We aim to measure changes in understanding and in Canada. behaviours – within Suncor and through the work of the Suncor Energy Foundation’s Since 2015, Suncor has offered a web-based training module to ensure every key partners like Indspire, Bridges Social Development and Reconciliation Canada. employee can have a basic level of awareness about the history and experiences of Indigenous Peoples. We developed our training with input and guidance SUPPORTING INITIATIVES from partners such as Reconciliation Canada and our own Indigenous employees. Strengthening relationships is a priority for Suncor, and we have designed many The training features their stories and perspectives, which has made the supporting initiatives to enable our employees along the way. We’re focusing on information and messages more relatable. four key areas: By the end of 2018, 95% of all employees at a director level and above, and 1. Increasing awareness 56% of employees company-wide, had completed Aboriginal awareness web-based training. Additionally, 40% more employees completed the training 2. Building understanding in 2018 as compared to 2017. 3. Shifting attitudes 4. Changing behaviours SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Strengthening relationships | 115 TABLE OF CONTENTS After requests from Suncor employees and a number of community partners “It opens up conversations, breaks stereotypes and who wanted to share the training within their organizations, we made the web-based training module broadly available (free of charge) on Suncor.com increases people’s comfort to ask questions. This is CEO MESSAGE in the spring of 2017. an opportunity for everyone to promote Indigenous We also offer a more comprehensive classroom session for employees that awareness and inclusion across the company; I call ABOUT OUR REPORT expands on the awareness created through the web-based training. It builds understanding about the historic and current relationship between Indigenous them ‘reconcili-actions.” Peoples and all Canadians through storytelling and meaningful discussion. – Shantel Stotschek, a contracts systems administrator at Suncor and member STRATEGY AND In 2018 more than 1,100 employees participated in classroom training. of the AEN GOVERNANCE Employees who’ve taken the training have given some great feedback. A participant in the Introduction to Aboriginal awareness classroom training reflected “I always The AEN recently introduced a series of cultural insight slide decks company-wide thought I had an understanding of the history of Indigenous Peoples in Canada. covering various topics, including the significance of medicine wheels, smudging OUR BUSINESS After today, I now know there is so much I do not know.” ceremonies, and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission report. These are being used by employees in a variety of ways, including sharing knowledge at the beginning of meetings. CLIMATE CHANGE ABORIGINAL EMPLOYEE NETWORK Suncor’s Aboriginal Employee Network (AEN), now known as Journeys, is our employee resource group that supports advancing Indigenous inclusion at Suncor. CULTURAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES ENVIRONMENT With more than 700 members, the network is structured around four focus areas We are creating opportunities for employees across Suncor to participate in called circles. cultural learning experiences. These experiences enable direct engagement and cultural exchange between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Aboriginal Awareness Circle specifically supports cross-cultural sharing by increasing awareness and understanding of Indigenous experiences within Suncor. We are working with partners, including those who manage Suncor offices and For instance, the AEN distributes a regular e-newsletter and shares cultural facilities, to establish policies that allow for the incorporation of Indigenous INNOVATION ceremonies and cultural events on our premises. This includes work with insights, maintains a page on Suncor’s intranet that highlights a wide variety of topical resources (books, movies, websites, music and podcasts), and hosts lunch Brookfield on a new smudging and pipe ceremony policy in our Calgary office. PERFORMANCE DATA and learn sessions. In early August 2018, Suncor and the Fort Chipewyan Métis partnered to offer AEN ambassadors also attend cultural and community events. In 2018, this approximately 20 Suncor leaders in the Wood Buffalo region an opportunity to included the Indspired Youth Experience and awards and gala in Winnipeg, the visit the community and participate in a fishing day. APPENDICES Calgary Folk Fest where Suncor sponsors the Great Spirits Indigenous program, “For me it provided a much clearer understanding of the challenges the community and pow wows and Treaty Days throughout areas where Suncor operates. faces due to its remoteness – things like food, housing and education that many of us take for granted,” reflected Stephen Young, a project director at Suncor. “I also gained a better understanding of the concerns of oil sands development and the impacts it can have on their community.” For a number of years we have also regularly offered Rediscovery’s First Contact activity to leaders and employees. This cross-cultural learning opportunity is a way of experiencing how different values, customs and social traditions can sometimes lead to misunderstandings, particularly during first contact between peoples. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Strengthening relationships | 116 TABLE OF CONTENTS Brent Janke, senior vice president of regional services at Suncor, shared, “It was MEASURING OUR PROGRESS an emotionally powerful event and experience. It dispelled myths and answered We’re measuring culture shifts in a number of ways along the journey. One questions, and also showed it’s possible for peoples who have dramatically CEO MESSAGE way to measure awareness building and changing attitudes is through the different experiences to come together and chart a path to understanding. It was number of participants attending the online and classroom-based Indigenous an opportunity to connect as human beings, and build community.” awareness training. ABOUT OUR REPORT In 2018, we introduced another cultural experience, the KAIROS Blanket Exercise. Conducting pre and post-surveys gives us an understanding of changes in The KAIROS Blanket Exercise is a unique, interactive and participatory history thinking. We’re also starting to use developmental evaluation frameworks to lesson developed in collaboration with Indigenous Elders, knowledge keepers and assess the effectiveness of our work, to look for shifts in perception, attitudes STRATEGY AND educators. It covers more than 500 years in a 90-minute experiential workshop and behaviours, as well as identify emerging opportunities. GOVERNANCE that aims to foster understanding about our shared history as Indigenous and non-Indigenous Peoples. OUR BUSINESS “It was incredibly emotive, CLIMATE CHANGE gave me more empathy and the moving on and around the ENVIRONMENT blankets helped to make it real. I feel I entered with a good SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY foundation and understanding of the history, and there was INNOVATION still so much I learned.” – Jodi Drake, a human resources director at Suncor PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Partnering with Indigenous youth | 117 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Youth participants at Indspire. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PARTNERING WITH INDIGENOUS YOUTH INNOVATION • Banff Centre: Indigenous Leadership programs at Banff Centre provide leaders Partnering with Indigenous youth to develop an opportunity to gain a better understanding of how to establish a strategic their leadership potential. direction for their communities and organizations, implement that plan PERFORMANCE DATA through focused effort, and measure performance. Our partners and youth have taught us that organizations and programs rooted • Bridges Social Development: Works with Indigenous youth in southern in culture and reconciliation lead to pride in self and culture. Today’s youth are APPENDICES Alberta to find their purpose and voice while developing community tomorrow’s leaders – that’s why we’re focused on building stronger connections leadership opportunities. with Indigenous youth. • Learning Through the Arts: Works with Indigenous students in the Regional Through the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF), we are supporting our partner Municipality of Wood Buffalo to use arts and culture as tools to understand organizations working towards innovative solutions for Indigenous communities curriculum and has significantly improved graduation rates in the region. such as youth engagement, cultural opportunities and leadership/education programs to provide pathways towards a successful future. • Right to Play: Promoting Life Skills in Aboriginal Youth (PLAY) program is guided by an Indigenous community development model. PLAY partners work with SUPPORTING INITIATIVES communities to build capacity through multi-faceted programming, training and one-on-one support of community mentors. It starts with partners who share our vision. Through the SEF strategic funding priority, we believe we can be a catalyst, working with others, and connecting and • Student Energy: SevenGen 2019 was the first Indigenous Student Energy supporting our communities. Some partners leading change in community include: Summit which brought together 200 Indigenous and non-Indigenous youth from across Canada to explore how to unite communities, build relationships • Actua: Inspires youth in Indigenous communities across Canada to see science, and break social barriers in the energy conversation. technology and math as a potential career path by using connection to culture and communities. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Partnering with Indigenous youth | 118 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT OF FUTURE Learning together INDIGENOUS LEADERS In 2018 Suncor again had the opportunity to host a group of Indigenous youth from the Siksika Nation at our office in Calgary. CEO MESSAGE Each year, Suncor and the SEF, with community partners, host a variety of initiatives which bring Indigenous youth and Suncor team members together for shared Each student was paired up with a Suncor employee from the Aboriginal learning and support for youth to discover their leadership skills. Employee Network, and they spent the day learning from each other. The youth ABOUT OUR REPORT shared details about living in a First Nation community, and Suncor team members Spaces to share traditional knowledge reflected on what it takes to be part of the Suncor team. STRATEGY AND In recognition of the start-up of the Fort Hills project, Suncor presented authentic, This initiative was organized by Suncor’s Indigenous and community relations GOVERNANCE handmade 18-foot teepees to five schools in the Regional Municipality of Wood and human resources teams, in partnership with Bridges Social Development and Buffalo. Traditionally the teepee was the home of nomadic Indigenous Peoples, the SEF. and it is symbolic of traditional Cree and Dene teachings. OUR BUSINESS Bridges is a non-profit organization founded for the purpose of capacity-building “There was an opportunity to help ‘walking in two worlds’; Indigenous methods and training for professional and youth leaders in various communities, including and western methods,” says Joy Flett an Indigenous and community relations First Nation communities like Siksika. The Suncor Energy Foundation has been a CLIMATE CHANGE advisor at Suncor. “The teepee creates opportunities for community members, supporter of Bridges since 2011. teachers, youth and community partners to engage in meaningful teachings of Indigenous heritage and culture.” Indspiring youth and educators ENVIRONMENT Indigenous peoples of the plains use 15 teepee poles to create the structure; Suncor and the SEF have a long-standing relationship with Indspire, an each pole having a distinct meaning. These teachings include: obedience, respect, Indigenous-led registered charity whose vision is to enrich Canada humility, happiness, love, faith, kinship, spiritual cleanliness, thankfulness, sharing, through Indigenous education and by inspiring achievement. This includes a SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY strength, good child rearing, hope and protection. number of scholarships and bursaries supported by Suncor and Petro-Canada. To ensure the knowledge and teachings would be understood, the youth of the The youth participants who join us are selected by their communities because INNOVATION region cut and dried their own teepee poles. “Every time a pole is added, a rope they are considered future leaders. In 2018 the Winnipeg trip included visits to goes around binding that pole into place,” says Joy. “That rope is a sacred bond, the Canadian Human Rights Museum and Red River College, along with the binding all the teachings together until they are all connected. This has been a Soaring Indigenous Youth Empowerment Gathering where participants explored PERFORMANCE DATA great way for us to share opportunities for traditional knowledge holders to pass post-secondary and career options. down traditions to Indigenous youth.” “There were countless connections and memories made on this trip for everyone,” APPENDICES recalls Sheila Innes, general manager of Indigenous and community relations at Since oral history is the basis for knowledge to be Suncor. “I came away with many learnings, including a much greater awareness of the challenges, but also the huge possibility and opportunity ahead – for youth, handed down through generations, the teepee communities, and all of us as Canadians. The future looks bright.” provides a cultural space for Elders to come and talk to youth about medicines and traditions. Since 2003, Suncor has also brought more than 275 Indigenous students to the Indspire awards as part of a multi-day experience called the Indspired Youth Experience. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Partnering with Indigenous youth | 119 TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor and the SEF also support the Indspire National Gathering for Indigenous The IYAC is an opportunity for Suncor and Indigenous youth to share, listen, reflect Education. The annual conference brings together more than 800 educators and and act on issues of mutual interest that are impacting communities and the lives of community partners from across Canada to take part in a variety of workshops Indigenous youth. Aligned with our social goal, it also supports young Indigenous CEO MESSAGE and presentations focused on the success of K-12 Indigenous students. leaders in developing their leadership potential while providing opportunities to participate in the energy system. The IYAC will act as a consultative group for the “Indigenous education is a reciprocal process that includes cultures, traditions, SEF, Suncor and the VP Aboriginal Forum. ABOUT OUR REPORT and histories and engages students, staff, parents, and community partners to collaborate for student success,” says Roberta Jamieson, president and CEO of Indspire. “Achieving success in Indigenous education is critical for the future MEASURING OUR PROGRESS STRATEGY AND of Canada. The National Gathering is a place where educators and partners can In 2018, we measured year-over-year increases in two areas: GOVERNANCE share their experiences and work together to improve the educational outcomes.” 1. The number of opportunities for youth leadership training and experiences In addition to the conference, participants also take part in the Guiding the Journey: 2. The number of opportunities for Suncor employee and youth interactions OUR BUSINESS Indigenous Educator Awards. The awards recognize individuals for having innovative and impactful teaching practices, advocating for resources and culturally-based We continue to evaluate our measurements to ensure we are driving positive curricula, and helping Indigenous students reach their full potential. outcomes with respect to supporting Indigenous youth leadership potential. CLIMATE CHANGE Future years may include further use of storytelling, to demonstrate how we are Indigenous Youth Advisory Council supporting the progress of Indigenous youth. In 2012, Suncor created its first Aboriginal Youth Engagement Strategy. Ongoing learnings continue to measure much of this work, which is shared ENVIRONMENT The strategy is focused on addressing the inequities Indigenous youth face. through our engagement with our SEF transformative community partners. We also continue work with our own employees through the Aboriginal Employee Building on the strategy, an idea for an Indigenous Youth Advisory Council (IYAC) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY emerged from discussions with several young Indigenous leaders, including those Network (AEN), including the AEN ambassador program. The program is designed to create meaningful interactions between ambassadors representing a broad who had attended previous SEF gatherings and participants from the Summer cross-section of our Indigenous employees and youth in schools and communities. Aboriginal Student Program. The group worked together extensively in 2018 to help INNOVATION create draft terms of reference for the council and how they could work together. IYAC consists of 10 young leaders between the ages of 18 and 30 from PERFORMANCE DATA communities near Suncor’s operations. On February 20, 2019, the IYAC formally opened with a pipe ceremony at the Suncor Energy Centre. IYAC members, Elders from Suncor’s operating communities and Suncor leaders were all present. APPENDICES An Indigenous knit scarf. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities | 120 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT Petro-Canada station owned and operated by the First Nations band NK’MIP. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PARTNERING WITH INDIGENOUS BUSINESSES INNOVATION AND COMMUNITIES PERFORMANCE DATA Increase revenue to Indigenous businesses and communities. APPENDICES PETRO-CANADA RETAIL AND Mutually beneficial business relationships between Suncor and Indigenous communities leverage our Petro-Canada brand and communities’ goals for WHOLESALE SITES economic development. Over the last several years, we have successfully grown relationships and expanded business development opportunities with Indigenous communities “There is significant pride in the community including through Suncor’s Petro-Canada brand. ownership of this [Petro-Canada] station and the Petro-Canada began partnering with First Nation business owners in 1997. In 2018, four new retail sites opened, bringing the number of Petro-Canadareturn on investment that we are able to put back in branded retail sites owned and operated by First Nations across Canada to more the community, including creating new full time than 30. One new wholesale site was also opened, for a total of nine First Nation owned or leased wholesale sites. jobs. All revenues are utilized for growth and for As part of our ongoing efforts to deepen relationships with station owners and programs and services offered to our membership. communities we hosted owners in Calgary for a business conference in early We are very proud of the legacy it is creating.” 2019. The conference was a chance to take a moment to celebrate together, – Chief Rosanne Casimir, from Tk’emlups te Secwepec in British Columbia, while also sharing learnings and best practices from across the country. where one of the sites is located SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities | 121 TABLE OF CONTENTS We want to continue to work together with our partners as well as expand these In 2018, Suncor spent $703 million with efforts and increase our business with Indigenous communities because it makes good economic sense – for Suncor and for Indigenous Peoples across Canada. 83 Indigenous businesses, including 24 new CEO MESSAGE suppliers. This exceeded the spend target INCREASING INDIGENOUS SUPPLIER-SPEND seven years ahead of our goal. ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor has a long history of working with Indigenous suppliers and communities, including in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB). Indigenous In 2018, this meant establishing the first Indigenous business engagement companies provide a broad range of services and expertise to help us run our strategy in our Downstream business. As a result, we doubled the amount we STRATEGY AND business, including lodging, supplying materials like pipes and truck tires, and spent in 2017 saw a year-over-on Indigenous business spend within Downstream. GOVERNANCE providing expertise to help us maintain information technology systems. “We’ve found by opening doors and building relationships with Indigenous Suncor defines an Indigenous business as a company owned and operated, either businesses, we’ve become aware of many companies that can provide competitive OUR BUSINESS wholly or in part (i.e., greater than or equal to 51%) by an Indigenous community or services which meet our safety and quality standards,” says Dean Wilcox, vice entrepreneur. This is in line with the Canadian Council of Aboriginal Business (CCAB) president of Suncor’s Edmonton refinery. “This is a win-win as we obtain the and Northeastern Alberta Aboriginal Business Association (NAABA) definitions. services, and the income supports Indigenous businesses and communities.” CLIMATE CHANGE In 2015, as part of our social goal we set a target to spend $600 million annually We also know we can’t do this alone. Together with our suppliers, contractors, with Indigenous businesses by 2025. and sub-suppliers we are looking for opportunities throughout our value chain, ENVIRONMENT and encouraging others to get engaged. This is part of our standard evaluation We have also spent more than $5 billion with Indigenous suppliers since 1999. processes when awarding contracts. This includes both direct spend and indirect spend where non-Indigenous suppliers sub contract to Indigenous suppliers. In 2018, Mark Little also stepped forward to co-chair the Canadian Council for SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Aboriginal Business, the national Aboriginal Procurement Champions program. Though we are proud of this achievement and proud of the many Indigenous The effort is designed to challenge companies to engage more Indigenous businesses we have partnered with to make this happen, our efforts are not only INNOVATION businesses in their supply chains. about the dollars we spend. More important is how we work together and we know there is still a lot of work to do here. “I believe there are a lot of companies out there who want to engage but don’t know where to start. That’s where the Champions program comes in,” says PERFORMANCE DATA Our future business development efforts will include working with Indigenous Mark Little, president and chief executive officer. businesses to focus on capability and capacity development. We also remain focused on building awareness and capability within our own teams so Working with Indigenous businesses and communities is essential to creating APPENDICES engagement with businesses and communities is thoughtful, continuous and – mutually beneficial partnerships, and it is one thing Suncor can do to contribute ultimately – a part of Suncor culture. to economic reconciliation with Indigenous Canadians. This is aligned to the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) and We also want to apply what we’ve learned over the last 20 years more consistently the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Call to Action for corporate Canada. across our businesses, so more Indigenous entrepreneurs and communities have the opportunity to participate in and benefit from our operations. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities | 122 TABLE OF CONTENTS COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINING OPPORTUNITIES In 2017, Suncor signed two significant business partnerships with First Nation Relationships are essential to advancing business opportunities. Meaningful CEO MESSAGE communities, the East Tank Farm Development and Petro-Nor. participation requires the ability to understand each other’s motivations, strengths and limitations. It can also require the willingness to have challenging conversations The signing of these agreements was the result of many years of relationship in an authentic and respectful way. This kind of dialogue is important to having building, hard work, and discussions to identify and understand areas of mutual ABOUT OUR REPORT long-term, mutually beneficial relationships. interest. Through the process, we developed greater understanding and trust – and we worked collaboratively to achieve this. Our approach focuses on listening, being transparent and honest about the opportunities that exist, and being fair and firm when explaining decisions – STRATEGY AND These partnerships demonstrate a positive evolution in our long-term relationships no matter the outcome. GOVERNANCE and new ways that we are working together with communities. We continue to look for new mutually-beneficial opportunities to engage communities across While we monitor our supply chain spending and want to continue to grow our our business. work with Indigenous businesses, we are also mindful that it must be done in the OUR BUSINESS right way. We will continue to be commercially responsible and ensure agreements PLANNING FOR LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS are of benefit to all parties involved, and not simply focused on achieving a set dollar value or target. Suncor’s engagement with Indigenous suppliers is part of the CLIMATE CHANGE Suncor has developed Joint Business Development Plans (JBDPs) with key way we do business for procurement opportunities across Canada. communities in RMWB. The JBDPs provide structure on how we work together and collectively focus on key objectives. These plans include annual work plans ENVIRONMENT that help Indigenous communities to direct efforts where there is a possibility to increase business, and that help Suncor track suppliers’ capabilities. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Improving Indigenous workforce development | 123 TABLE OF CONTENTS IMPROVING INDIGENOUS WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT CEO MESSAGE We’re improving Indigenous workforce development through hiring, retention and advancement of Indigenous employees across our businesses. ABOUT OUR REPORT Our focus on advancing Indigenous workforce participation is strengthened by Indigenous workforce development advisor the numerous collaborative partnerships and relationships we continue to build STRATEGY AND Our Indigenous workforce development advisor works directly with Indigenous with Indigenous communities, leaders and teams within Suncor, and external GOVERNANCE communities in Alberta’s Wood Buffalo region to understand community needs stakeholder groups and agencies who share similar goals. We recognize we have and initiatives, share information on Suncor’s workforce needs, and collaborate to more work to do in this area, and continue to listen, learn, and engage with strengthen the employment readiness of potential Indigenous candidates. OUR BUSINESS others to make positive changes. Fort McKay First Nation (FMFN) is one of many communities the advisor works with. Noma Mangena, a member of FMFN’s Skills, Employment and Training (SET) SUPPORTING INITIATIVES CLIMATE CHANGE committee, reflects, “It’s helped make us aware of near and long-term Summer Aboriginal Student Program employment needs, find out about career and job fair information sessions and The Summer Aboriginal Student Program (SASP) supports our social goal of scholarship opportunities, and connect job seekers with Suncor team members.” ENVIRONMENT building greater mutual trust and respect with Indigenous Peoples in Canada and aligns with our belief that today’s youth are tomorrow’s leaders. This program The advisor also provides insights, advice and offers Indigenous students an opportunity to gain valuable work experience at SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY one of our locations. It is open to Indigenous students who are starting or Indigenous wisdom to Suncor leaders and returning to a post-secondary program on a full-time basis in September. teams across the enterprise, to help them build INNOVATION In 2018, participation in the program grew trusting relationships with local Indigenous 400%, from 17 students in 2017 to 72 students. communities, and ensure people and workplace PERFORMANCE DATA Students worked in roles in many areas of Suncor, processes, programs and strategies support including Sarnia, Edmonton, St. John’s, Calgary Indigenous inclusion. APPENDICES and Wood Buffalo. Greater Aboriginal Participation Partnership (GAPP) Here are a few reflections from participants: In 2018, an opportunity was identified to work collaboratively with key contractors to facilitate and provide contractor employment opportunities for “It felt great to be a part of the team, and to see the difference that I was able Indigenous Peoples in the Rural Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB). to make in a short period of time. I learned so much, and working here has opened my mind to new possibilities that I never thought I could be a part of.” In partnership with Ledcor, CEDA, the Athabasca Tribal Council, Rupertsland – Sarnia participant Institute and Keyano College, we developed a pilot, the Greater Aboriginal Participation Partnership (GAPP). “For once I did not feel ‘used’ or a ‘token’ at a company. I felt valued as an employee and there was never a question of that.” – Wood Buffalo participant Twelve participants have been recruited to the five-week program, which, through work at either Ledcor or CEDA, provides an introduction to the business skills and technical training needed for specific roles in the oil and gas industry. Suncor SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Improving Indigenous workforce development | 124 TABLE OF CONTENTS provided project management, facilitation, and Indigenous workforce Aboriginal Employee Network development expertise to support the pilot. The Aboriginal Employee Network is an employee resource group developed by Following the pilot, evaluation of the GAPP’s performance indicators will determine and for Suncor employees wanting to play a part in advancing Indigenous CEO MESSAGE how this initiative could be converted to a more sustainable and ongoing program. inclusion and creating a safe and supportive workplace culture for Indigenous employees. The network has grown to more than 700 Aboriginal and nonABOUT OUR REPORT Indigenous mentorship program Aboriginal members since its launch in the summer of 2015. The network is structured around four focus areas being advanced by small work teams called Suncor’s Indigenous mentorship program creates opportunities for shared learning circles. Each circle has five to eight members from across Suncor’s businesses who among Indigenous and non-Indigenous employees, while supporting career STRATEGY AND meet regularly to develop programs and initiatives: development and success. It contributes to an inclusive environment and positive GOVERNANCE work experiences, and provides learning opportunities for those wanting to 1. Aboriginal Community Circle: build a community of support for Indigenous increase their knowledge of Indigenous culture, history and lived experiences. employees at Suncor OUR BUSINESS The program is rooted in “friendship, guidance, direction and support,” and 2. Aboriginal Outreach Circle: develop a pool of Suncor ambassadors to visit focuses on four aspects of well-being in the workplace: mental, emotional, Indigenous communities, with a focus on youth spiritual and physical. We reviewed the program in 2018, with a 2019 goal to CLIMATE CHANGE 3. Aboriginal Advisory Circle: create a way for Indigenous employees to advise increase participation and bring together more western and Indigenous ways of Suncor on how the company works with Indigenous Peoples knowing in the program. 4. Aboriginal Awareness Circle: to increase awareness and understanding ENVIRONMENT within Suncor of Indigenous experiences “My time in the program was very good. We built SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY trust and community as we shared many stories about our heritage, cultures and families and how INNOVATION we speak to these.” – Dwayne McLeod, senior advisor in tailings PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND INNOVATION GOVERNANCE In today’s complex and rapidly changing world, it will take new technologies and innovative thinking to further reduce our environmental OUR BUSINESS footprint. Suncor’s approach to innovation includes not only technological innovations to change our methods and processes of extraction and production but it also includes an innovative mindset to work with and CLIMATE CHANGE learn from others. ENVIRONMENT Our approach to technology and innovation......... 126 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In situ technologies................................................... 130 Mining technologies................................................. 133 INNOVATION Reclamation technologies........................................ 135 PERFORMANCE DATA Upgrading and refining technologies..................... 136 Renewable technologies.......................................... 137 APPENDICES Digitalization............................................................. 138 Collaboration............................................................. 140 Social innovation...................................................... 143 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our approach to technology and innovation | 126 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION We take a balanced approach to technology development, focusing on continuous improvement technology INNOVATION (step-change improvements in existing processes) and strategic technology (game-changing, disruptive). PERFORMANCE DATA In 2018, we invested approximately $635 million in technology development and Our technology development efforts largely focus on four specific outcome areas deployment and digital technologies as part of a robust strategy to optimize in environmental impacts and cost management: current assets and develop next-generation facilities. APPENDICES 1. In situ 2. Mining and tailings 3. Upgrading and refining 4. Closure SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our approach to technology and innovation | 127 TABLE OF CONTENTS Learn more about the technologies we are advancing in each of these areas: TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT & DEPLOYMENT CEO MESSAGE DISCOVER DESIGN DEVELOP DEPLOY IN SITU ABOUT OUR REPORT Steam-solvent technologies ES-SAGD (Expanding Solvent Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage) Wellbore technologies STRATEGY AND Solvent+ GOVERNANCE Wellbore heating Non-condensable gas coHigh Temperature injection pilots (Firebag and Novel subsurface technologies Superheat Reverse Osmosis MacKay River) Produced Water Electromagnetic (EASETM) OUR BUSINESS Alternative gas co-injection Treatment Well-bore enhancements ESEISHTM In Situ Multilateral well pilot (Firebag) Demonstration Facility Electric Submersible Pump CLIMATE CHANGE pilots Flow control devices M-Tool pilot (Firebag) ENVIRONMENT MINING Paraffinic Froth Treatment Froth Treatment Tailings (PFT) Non-Aqueous Extraction SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Water Technology Development Centre (WTDC) INNOVATION Autonomous Haulage System (AHS) UPGRADING & REFINING PERFORMANCE DATA Partial upgrading Wastewater treatment Membrane Ultrafiltration Mild thermal cracker technology De-asphalting APPENDICES RECLAMATION Demonstration Pit Lake PASS (Permanent Aquatic Storage Structure) Nikanotee Fen LEGEND GHG (greenhouse gas) Water Land Safety Area of impact Technology name / grouping Time to implementation Operational 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-10 years 10+ years SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our approach to technology and innovation | 128 TABLE OF CONTENTS COLLABORATION IN Evok Innovations • Kelvin: uses the collective intelligence of human observation and sensor information to improve TECHNOLOGY Suncor is a co-founder of Evok Innovations, along critical decisions, enabling physical systems to with the BC Cleantech CEO Alliance and Cenovus CEO MESSAGE In some cases, we lead development and deployment optimize and operate themselves Energy to accelerate early-stage technologies. of new technologies on our own. In most areas, • Metabolik Technologies: developing an however, we collaborate through consortiums or Evok is a Vancouver-based fund that offers a unique ABOUT OUR REPORT efficient and scalable bioremediation platform with third parties. Collaboration is a key enabler to approach to innovation, combining the pace and that enables microbes to reduce the concentration the oil sands industry’s efforts to develop and deploy creativity of a Silicon Valley startup with the experience of naphthenic acids and other components found new technologies. and insight of industry insiders. They drive innovation STRATEGY AND in oil sands tailings ponds by deeply understanding industrial challenges, GOVERNANCE COSIA leveraging a global network of entrepreneurs to find • Mosaic Materials: utilizes metal-organic solutions, and providing the investment, mentorship, frameworks to selectively remove impurities Suncor leads or participates in many technology OUR BUSINESS and market access to accelerate deployment for game such as CO2 from gas mixtures for a range of studies and projects through Canada’s Oil Sands changing results. applications; from life support systems on Innovation Alliance (COSIA), an alliance of companies representing 90% of oil sands production. By focusing submarines to the emissions of power plants Through the partnership, Evok invests in a global CLIMATE CHANGE on five environmental priority areas – greenhouse portfolio of innovative companies to address the • Opus 12: developing a device that recycles CO2 gases, land, tailings, monitoring, and water – COSIA most pressing and environmental challenges of the into cost-competitive chemicals and fuels brings people together to face specific environmental oil and gas industry. An important feature of Evok ENVIRONMENT • Osprey Infomatics: enables industrial customers challenges in an attempt to shorten innovation is the access provided to the end customers timelines across the oil sands industry. To date, COSIA’s to reduce operational costs and mitigate (Suncor and Cenovus) at an early stage in the life combined efforts have involved: environmental and safety risks through intelligent SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of the start-up companies. visual monitoring. The company’s cloud platform • $1.4 billion portfolio of nearly 1,000 technologies Since 2016, Evok has funded 12 technology is powered by artificial intelligence and integrated companies: with industrial sensors and systems INNOVATION • 294 current, active projects • DarkVision Technologies: new ultrasound-based • Quidnet Energy: leverages mature oil and gas • Suncor participating as a COSIA member company imaging technology for delivering ultra-high technology to develop wells into energy storage in the NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE PERFORMANCE DATA resolution 3D models of oil and gas wells facilities for large-scale renewables integration • Suncor is currently leading 88 COSIA studies and and grid management • Ekona Power: a new solution to produce Joint Industry Projects including the Water APPENDICES industrial scale hydrogen that is both cheap and • Rotoliptic Technologies: developed a Technology Development Centre which began clean by converting natural gas into hydrogen, revolutionary method to move high viscosity operations in June clean power and pure CO2 that can be easily fluids with high solids content. Its pump design storied or used dramatically improves fluid transfer efficiency and pump durability, resulting in increased • Expeto Wireless: offers a software-based productivity, reduced downtime and lower total platform that removes barriers to digital cost of ownership transformation, by providing enterprises with their own private, agile and scalable cellular • Syzygy Plasmonics: develops chemical networks but deploy it like Wifi – globally reactors to provide a low-cost, low-emission hydrogen production system for light and • HARBO Technologies: developed the world’s heavy-duty transportation smallest and lightest containment system for marine oil spills SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Our approach to technology and innovation | 129 TABLE OF CONTENTS Clean Resource Innovation Network STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS • LanzaTech: a biofuels firm based in the United States that is advancing a proprietary Suncor is an active member of the Clean Resource AND PARTNERSHIPS gas phase fermentation technology to recycle Innovation Network (CRIN), which aims to position CEO MESSAGE Suncor also monitors technologies being developed waste gas and greenhouse gas emissions into Canada as a global leader in producing clean by external parties to determine if, and when, an low-carbon fuels and chemicals. hydrocarbon energy from source to end use. investment by us could make sense to advance a ABOUT OUR REPORT • Academic partnerships: Suncor is a long-time The network brings together oil and gas industry technology and adapt it for our business. This supporter of research and program work at professionals, innovators, investors, start-ups, involves funding outside companies whose leading Canadian universities. policy-makers, incubators and accelerators, technology ideas align with the needs of our STRATEGY AND researchers and students to advance technologies operations or businesses. GOVERNANCE DIGITALIZATION aimed at improving our economic and This type of technology development is carefully environmental performance. We’re already extensively using information managed to ensure it provides economic and OUR BUSINESS environmental benefits to Suncor. It is a key strategy technology in our business but the increasingly digital The network focuses on creating the connections for in a world of fast-changing products and services. world brings new and exciting opportunities. As part our resource sector to advance technologies for use in of our approach to innovation, we are harnessing Canada and with the potential for export to global CLIMATE CHANGE Examples of investments include: digital technology in areas such as improved data, markets emphasizing the potential impact our country • Emerald Technology Ventures: a global advanced analytics and automation to help improve can contribute to help address global challenges. leader and investor in emerging industrial the safety, productivity, reliability and environmental ENVIRONMENT performance of our operations. technology investments. • Enerkem Inc.: a company which manufactures SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY biofuels and renewable chemical products from household garbage that would otherwise be landfilled. INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 In situ technologies | 130 TABLE OF CONTENTS IN SITU TECHNOLOGIES CEO MESSAGE We are advancing a portfolio of in situ technologies with the potential to lower the carbon intensity of producing bitumen. ABOUT OUR REPORT NEXT GENERATION IN SITU “We are advancing a portfolio of “We believe these technologies, if successful, would STRATEGY AND allow oil sands-derived oil to have GHG intensities at GOVERNANCE EXTRACTION in situ technologies to lower the or below the average North American barrel,” says Technology and innovative thinking have enabled Gary. “In our view, a likely solution will be a hybrid of profitable, sustainable oil sands development over carbon intensity of producing the many innovative approaches and technologies OUR BUSINESS the past five decades. Our industry is now addressing bitumen and improve the cost we are currently evaluating.” different challenges – to decrease greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water consumption and land competitiveness.” Technology and innovation will help shape the future CLIMATE CHANGE of energy production and consumption. We take a impacts. Within this context, we believe the – Gary Bunio, general manager, Oil Sands, portfolio approach – advancing multiple technologies development and deployment of new technologies strategic technology, Upstream at any given time, with the understanding that not all have key roles to play in the continued development ENVIRONMENT of them will be a success. The technologies profiled and growth of our oil sands production. We are using what we have learned implementing in this Report on Sustainability reflect only a portion SAGD over the past 20 years to progress a range of Suncor’s current technology for in situ production, of the many initiatives our teams are currently SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY technologies that offer the potential to deliver steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD), employs working to understand and advance. significant improvements in the following areas: parallel pairs of horizontal wells to recover the Suncor works extensively with research organizations, bitumen. The top well distributes steam to heat the • energy usage and GHG emissions INNOVATION technology providers and universities, as well as with reservoir, allowing the bitumen to flow to the lower • water use and treatment our own technical experts to identify, evaluate and well where it can be pumped to the surface. advance early stage technologies. Our current areas PERFORMANCE DATA • production rates and resource recovery One of the challenges of SAGD is the energy of focus include: requirement. Using steam, the reservoir is typically • land impacts • wellbore technologies, including flow heated to 200°C or more to get the bitumen to flow. APPENDICES • capital and operating costs control devices The generation of the required steam necessitates large amounts of water handling and treatment • product quality and value • steam enhancements, including various additives while consuming a significant amount of natural gas Our initial piloting and simulation results of these • solvent-based recovery processes that generates greenhouse gas emissions. technologies indicate there is significant potential for • novel subsurface recovery processes beyond In 2016, we announced a greenhouse gas goal that GHG emissions reductions for existing facilities steam and solvents aims to harness technology to reduce the total (brownfield) and up to 50% or more for new growth emissions intensity of the production of our oil and facilities (greenfield). In addition, we anticipate the petroleum products by 30% by 2030. To help meet downstream emissions associated with refining the that goal we need to develop and deploy technologies product will be reduced. These technologies may that go beyond today’s SAGD. deliver a lighter, lower carbon-intensity crude oil, resulting in less diluent required for transportation and further reducing the lifecycle GHG emissions for these technologies. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 In situ technologies | 131 TABLE OF CONTENTS SOLVENT+ Solvent+ wellbore heating ESEIEH™ Suncor is focused on solvents as an alternative to This is a variant of Solvent+ wherein the primary To advance the EASE (Solvent+ EM) technology, we steam in recovering bitumen from in situ reservoirs. mode of heat addition to the process is in the have done extensive work over the past six years CEO MESSAGE Our current focus in solvent recovery processes builds horizontal section of the solvent injection well. The through the Enhanced Solvent Extraction on our experience and background knowledge, leading wellbore heating technology under Incorporating Electromagnetic Heating (ESEIEH™) ABOUT OUR REPORT gained from participation in experiments going back consideration uses electric resistive heating (ERH) field pilot at our Dover site. more than 20 years. which relies on highly resistive metals to generate This field pilot is a project that has been supported heat when current is passed through them, similar to In the solvent-based processes that Suncor is by a consortium of partners. In addition, Alberta STRATEGY AND a toaster wire. pursuing, a light hydrocarbon solvent such as Innovates has agreed to support the pilot with a GOVERNANCE propane or butane is used as the primary means to Suncor is currently planning an ERH pilot with $1.5 million dollar contribution. mobilize bitumen. The increased temperature of the operations expected to begin in 2020. ESEIEH™ uses wells configured in horizontal pairs OUR BUSINESS reservoir maximizes recovery efficiency. much like a SAGD operation. With the ESEIEH™ Solvent+ superheat process, steam is replaced by electromagnetic Currently, Suncor is advancing, to the pilot phase, a suite of solvent technologies referred to as Solvent+, This is a variant of Solvent+ wherein the primary heating and solvent. CLIMATE CHANGE mode of heat addition to the process is at the surface where the “+” refers to a range of heating We anticipate having results from the ESEIEH™ pilot technologies that can be coupled with solvent through the heating of solvent well beyond its in 2020 that will allow us to more fully evaluate the injection. These include: vapourization temperature. Once superheated, the ENVIRONMENT commercial potential of the Solvent+ EM technology. solvent is added to the reservoir through the solvent • wellbore heating injection well. In Situ Demonstration Facility SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • superheated solvent injection Solvent+ electromagnetic (EASE) The In Situ Demonstration Facility (ISDF) will be a • electromagnetic heating place where we can optimize and test our Solvent+ Also known as electromagnetically assisted solvent INNOVATION If successful, Solvent+ offers the potential for technologies. This facility will be flexible in its extraction (EASE), this is a variant of Solvent+ several significant environmental improvements design enabling Suncor to pilot and test multiple wherein the primary mode of heat addition to the over SAGD including: heating options process is in the reservoir through the use of PERFORMANCE DATA • reduction in GHG emissions intensity by 50% electromagnetic (EM) energy. Suncor expects to test electric resistive heating (ERH) to 70% and superheat in the first phase of the ISDF. We Much like a microwave oven, this process directly APPENDICES anticipate a second phase that would test the EASE • elimination of process water heats the water in the reservoir which in turn heats technology once the current ESEIEH pilot is completed. and refluxes the solvent in situ. • reduction in the surface footprint The current project schedule has site preparation near • reduction in transport diluent requirements MacKay River beginning in 2019 with first production in early 2022. • reduction in carbon content of produced oil • potential to unlock additional resources SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 In situ technologies | 132 TABLE OF CONTENTS STEAM ENHANCEMENTS Non-condensable gas co-injection Suncor expects that most of the current wellbore enhancement technologies will be ready for While Suncor is pursuing solvent-dominated recovery Later in life, mature SAGD reservoirs exhibit declining commercial deployment in a one to four-year time technologies for future growth, steam is the driving production and increasing steam-to-oil ratio (SOR). CEO MESSAGE span. The current focus includes: recovery mechanism for our existing operations and Suncor piloted Non-Condensable Gas co-injection near-term growth opportunities. (NCG) to divert steam from aging wells to newer • electric submersible pump (ESP) reliability ABOUT OUR REPORT wells with lower SOR. Methane is co-injected with The steam enhancements technology portfolio • flow control devices (FCDs) steam to reduce the SOR while maintaining encompasses all improvements to the SAGD recovery production and pressure. • wellbore heating process including the addition of solvent, nonSTRATEGY AND condensable gases and chemical additives as well as This technique reduces environmental impact by • well integrity GOVERNANCE improvements to start-up processes. These technologies optimizing steam demand at our facilities while offer the potential for achieving meaningful reductions reducing energy intensity and CO2 emissions. Electric submersible pump (ESP) OUR BUSINESS in GHG intensity and water usage rates. reliability The pilot projects at Firebag and MacKay River Suncor continues to advance this program through have shown encouraging results, prompting larger ESPs are used extensively in Suncor SAGD operations. simulation, piloting and demonstration. The current technology demonstrations at both fields. The Improving the lifespan of the pumps greatly improves CLIMATE CHANGE program focus includes: expanded demonstrations at MacKay River and maintenance and reliability costs, avoids lost production Firebag are currently in operation. and reduces GHG emissions. We are focused on • ES-SAGD ENVIRONMENT improving the ESP reliability through joint industry Suncor is also examining the use of NCG co-injection • Non-condensable gas Co-injection collaboration and are on schedule to pilot two wells in early in the SAGD life to improve recovery in certain late 2019. types of reservoir. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ES-SAGD Flow control devices Expanding solvent SAGD (ES-SAGD) is an WELLBORE ENHANCEMENTS enhancement of SAGD technology wherein a small Controlling where steam is allocated to the reservoir INNOVATION Improving the reliability of SAGD assets creates volume of hydrocarbon solvent is co-injected with allows us to improve steam distribution along the well. opportunities to be more efficient with oil recovery steam. We expect the addition of the hydrocarbon This improves steam efficiency and well reliability by while using less energy and water. PERFORMANCE DATA solvent to accelerate bitumen production and reduce preventing catastrophic steam breakthroughs. steam requirements of the recovery process – resulting Suncor is advancing a portfolio of wellbore Flow control devices (FCDs) are designed to provide in a net reduction in process water requirements and enhancement technologies that aim to reduce costs, the ability to control the steam allocation and drive APPENDICES greenhouse gas emissions of 15% or greater. improve safety and reduce the GHG footprint of improved conformance. Suncor is focused on our SAGD operations through improved wellbore A key component of our evaluation of this technology enhanced designs that improve FCD reliability reliability and efficiency. is enhancing our understanding of solvent retention and functionality and we have been successful in and recovery. In addition to extensive laboratory These technologies are typically field tested at developing the Suncor M-Tool to further improve studies and reservoir simulation, Suncor is conducting existing SAGD operations but are readily adaptable the efficiency and reliability of the devices, as well a commercial scale demonstration. to our growth projects irrespective of whether steam as reduce costs through design simplification. or solvent recovery process are employed. This pad scale demo commenced in February 2019 The M-Tool is currently being piloted at Firebag, with at Firebag and will be key in determining the viability encouraging preliminary results. We are also working of this technology. with industry partners to allow this improved design to be tested and deployed across the in situ space. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Mining technologies | 133 TABLE OF CONTENTS MINING TECHNOLOGIES CEO MESSAGE DECARBONIZATION Decarbonization is a strategic focus area for FROTH TREATMENT TAILINGS technology development in Suncor – reliable, less Suncor is committed to developing technologies that energy-intensive processes will be needed to realize Froth treatment tailings ABOUT OUR REPORT will allow us to produce crude oil from our oil sands the benefits. An example of this is our Paraffinic management projects at a supply cost and with an environmental Froth Treatment process we have deployed at our Bitumen production from mineable oil sands consists footprint (production through refining and STRATEGY AND Fort Hills mine. The result could be a higher value of a number of process steps that increasingly improve consumption) at or below that of conventional oil. GOVERNANCE crude oil delivered at a lower cost and with a lower the purity of the bitumen stream. One of these This could be achieved in part through the selective environmental impact from wells to wheels. steps – called ‘froth treatment’ – uses a light decarbonization of our oil sands products. hydrocarbon to help remove most of the remaining OUR BUSINESS What does decarbonization mean? NON-AQUEOUS EXTRACTION water and minerals from the bitumen froth generated in the primary extraction circuit. This step makes the Through partnerships with equipment suppliers and Bitumen is a complex mixture of compounds, resulting ‘diluted bitumen’ suitable for upgrading. CLIMATE CHANGE research organizations, such as Innotech Alberta including heavy hydrocarbon components that (a subsidiary of Alberta Innovates), we are pursuing The removed water and minerals become part of a require significant upgrading and refining before they new technologies in surface mining and bitumen tailings stream known as froth treatment tailings can be used as gasoline, diesel, or other fuels. ENVIRONMENT extraction. These could reduce the need for water (FTT). The FTT consists of water, sand, various Upgrading refers to processes that increase the ratio in bitumen extraction, thereby reducing tailings, minerals and residual hydrocarbons. The mineral of hydrogen to carbon in these heavy components; simplifying mining and the reducing overall cost of phase consists of various compounds, which include SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY one way to achieve this is by rejecting a portion of our operations. regular sand, a variety of rare earth elements (REEs), the carbon from the bitumen. This ‘decarbonization’ and other minerals. The hydrocarbons are present in could result in: Currently, we use warm water to separate bitumen the form of bitumen and trace light hydrocarbon. INNOVATION from the sands. If we could replace it with an • higher value bitumen-derived crude oil while alternative solvent, we could significantly reduce water Safe and effective management of this FTT stream – simultaneously permanently removing carbon, usage, the need for tailings ponds, and potentially, our both short and long-term – requires that any potential PERFORMANCE DATA sulphur and impurities from the global fuel system greenhouse gas footprint by reducing operating revenue value of the FTT stream is protected. At the • less diluent required for transportation and temperatures and simplifying our overall process. same time we need to ensure that the material is decreases the downstream processing hydrogen stored in a way that is compatible with long term APPENDICES We are currently undertaking various lab and pilot and energy requirements resulting in lower closure outcomes. scale testing using solvents to prove we can extract greenhouse gas emissions bitumen effectively without water, and produce a dry Through COSIA, Suncor is actively involved in various • increased pipeline capacity mixture of sand and clays from this process that programs to measure the environmental impact of could be returned to the mine for reclamation. FTT, and to develop strategies for safely storing the material. These programs are an example of This work includes evaluating many process options successful industrial collaboration on environmental to develop an optimal design for a demonstration performance improvement. pilot tentatively planned for 2020. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Mining technologies | 134 TABLE OF CONTENTS Suncor is further developing ways to use the natural AUTONOMOUS HAULAGE While Suncor is the first company in Canada to bio-activity observed in the tailings containment deploy the equipment, this technology is used areas to mitigate the impact of the FTT constituents. SYSTEMS (AHS) commercially in mining environments across CEO MESSAGE Several process options are also being evaluated to In early 2018, we announced we are proceeding with Australia, the United States and Chile. recover FTT constituents that could cause long-term the phased implementation of autonomous haulage Evaluations have shown the technology offers many geochemical effects prior to placement of the systems (AHS) at company-operated mines. We ABOUT OUR REPORT advantages over existing truck and shovel operations, material in the final closure landscape. now have AHS-enabled trucks running at the North including enhanced safety performance, better Steepbank site and AHS implementation began at In parallel with the activities around long-term operating efficiency and lower operating costs. the Fort Hills site in 2019, ramping up through 2020. STRATEGY AND closure for FTT related materials, Suncor continues Over the next five years, we expect to deploy more The implementation of AHS will change roles and GOVERNANCE to evaluate methodologies to unlock the economic than 150 autonomous haul trucks in the full required skill sets for some employees at Suncor’s potential of the valuable minerals in these streams. program, which will be one of the largest operations over time. A staged approach to Many daily-use items like rechargeable batteries and investments in autonomous vehicles in the world. deployment will allow the company to deliberately OUR BUSINESS magnets; require elements that are naturally focus on each mining area and apply lessons from enriched in the FTT stream. If processes could be Autonomous haul trucks operate using GPS, wireless one to the next. developed to recover these elements cost-effectively, communication and perceptive technologies. The CLIMATE CHANGE trucks operate predictably and employ a suite of then this could shift the thinking on FTT from it being a waste stream to it being a potential resource safety features like prescribed route mapping and for several decades. obstacle detection systems. They also reduce ENVIRONMENT interaction between people and equipment which decreases incident rates and injury potential. Trucks PARAFFINIC FROTH SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY used to support Suncor’s operations are designed to TREATMENT (PFT) operate in either an autonomous or manual mode. Our Fort Hills mine uses a paraffinic froth treatment INNOVATION (PFT) to convert bitumen froth generated in the extraction circuit into an upgrader feedstock. In PFT, we selectively remove part of the asphaltenes (the PERFORMANCE DATA low-value, heavy fraction of the mined bitumen) to create a lighter, higher-quality bitumen that requires less diluent to transport by pipeline and no APPENDICES upgrading requirements, leaving us more flexibility for downstream processing. As a result of this partial decarbonization process, our greenhouse gas emissions for the average barrel extracted at Fort Hills are on par with the average crude refined in the United States. Haul truck at Millennium Mine. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Reclamation technologies | 135 TABLE OF CONTENTS RECLAMATION TECHNOLOGIES CEO MESSAGE Pit lakes are a necessary part of successful closure We’re aggressively working to accelerate the pace of progressive and reclamation plans and are considered a best reclamation of disturbed land at our mining and in situ locations. practice in mining industries around the world. ABOUT OUR REPORT There are a number of pit lakes in Alberta created from former coal mine pits and are now used for INNOVATION IN LAND PASS recreational fishing and swimming. They continue to STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE RECLAMATION Built upon the processes currently used in our TRO™, demonstrate naturally colonized fish and staging Suncor has developed permanent aquatic storage areas for migratory birds. Nikanotee fen structure (PASS), a fluid tailings treatment process to Throughout the Lake Miwasin project, engagement Now more than six years after completing the significantly increase the amount of fluid tailings we OUR BUSINESS with Indigenous communities is a major focus for us. Nikanotee (pronounced Nee-ga-no-tee; Cree word for can treat in a more sustainable manner. We are working to collaborate with communities “future”) fen, the ongoing research and monitoring PASS combines the TRO™ process with the addition on the research and monitoring program so we can CLIMATE CHANGE are showing that the fen continues to progress. The of a coagulant to improve the quality of the water learn from each other. Before construction work fen (a form of wetland area that is a highly productive expressed from the treated fluid tailings. The began, we invited Elders from a neighbouring and diverse ecosystem) is remaining wet through the treatment process allows us to rapidly dewater the community to perform a blessing on the land of the ENVIRONMENT seasonal weather cycles, water quality is good and fluid tailings as the clay particles adhere to the demonstration lake. plants are growing and spreading naturally. flocculant, safely expressing most of the trapped In August 2018, Indigenous Elders and Suncor’s Suncor was one of the first companies in the world water and providing an effective means for creating SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indigenous co-op and summer students participated to complete reconstruction of this type of wetland. a lake that achieves our closure plan, and do so in an in planting vegetation around the lakeshore. The This work was completed in co-operation with a accelerated timeline. planting list included culturally-significant wetland INNOVATION number of university researchers and consultants To validate this closure concept, we have constructed plants, such as ratroot, sweetgrass and sweet gale, from across the continent. a demonstration pit lake, now called Lake Miwasin Indigenous elders and knowledge holders Located at our Oil Sands base plant near that contains PASS-treated fluid tailings and has an recommended these plants through the SuncorPERFORMANCE DATA Fort McMurray, Alberta, our three-hectare fen is aquatic cover established in 2018. The project is sponsored Culturally Significant Wetland Plants Study. fed by a man-made 32-hectare watershed. The planned to be monitored and adaptively managed In May 2019, members of the First Nations and Métis APPENDICES project is the culmination of more than 10 years for the next 15 years. community member were invited for the Lake Miwasin/ of collaborative research. Constructed Wetland Treatment System workshop. The University of Waterloo led the fen hydrological Lake Miwasin The workshop provided an opportunity for additional feasibility modelling, in partnership with the Now known as Lake Miwasin, Suncor’s community input on the proposed research and Cumulative Environmental Management Association demonstration pit lake (DPL) is part of our aquatic monitoring projects for the community-led monitoring (CEMA). Suncor funded the design and construction closure technology development program designed (CLM) program for the Lake Miwasin project. of the fen. Along with Teck Resources and Imperial, to ensure we can successfully reclaim mine sites. we are funding ongoing research and monitoring The DPL project incorporated the PASS fluid tailings of the constructed site. treatment process to accelerate the process to establish a lake capable of supporting a full The Nikanotee fen is now a joint industry project, ecosystem of aquatic life. An aquatic cover has been contributed by Suncor to other members of COSIA. established on the treated tailings and operated in the same way we have planned for the full-scale closure drainage system. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Upgrading and refining technologies | 136 TABLE OF CONTENTS UPGRADING AND REFINING TECHNOLOGIES CEO MESSAGE Much of this water is recycled for reuse at our facility, Suncor’s upgrading and refining operations provide an important link and the remaining portion is treated and discharged between our Canadian resource base and the energy market. to a local waterway, Sand Creek, under a permit ABOUT OUR REPORT issued by the Colorado Department of Public Health Suncor processes crude oil into high-quality refined We are also evaluating the integration of a and Environment. products consumers require. We continue to look for de-asphalting step as a form of decarbonization, STRATEGY AND In 2017, the Commerce City refinery implemented opportunities to minimize the environmental impact to reject asphaltenes to make an even lighter and GOVERNANCE a $65 million upgrade to our existing wastewater that results from the extraction and production of oil, more valuable crude product for the market. treatment facility, leveraging a technology called and manufacturing and distribution of fuels. This opportunity would be a variation of the membrane ultrafiltration to treat and filter the water. OUR BUSINESS paraffinic froth treatment process used at our Fort The facility is one of the first in North America to use PARTIAL UPGRADING Hills site, in which a more valuable crude oil is made this technology in treating refinery wastewater streams. CLIMATE CHANGE TECHNOLOGY for refining, with reduced GHG intensity. “Membrane ultrafiltration removes particles from Suncor currently uses two upgrading processes: wastewater down to approximately 0.08 microns in WASTEWATER TREATMENT size,” explains April Maestas, director of engineering, • coking/thermal cracking: which heats bitumen ENVIRONMENT to the point where it cracks into a vapour stream FACILITY AT COMMERCE CITY Downstream, at Suncor. “That’s about 1,000 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair.” and a byproduct called ‘coke’ Many industrial processes use water and petroleum SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY refining is no different. Our Commerce City refinery Ongoing and future construction phases of the • hydrotreating: where hydrogen is added to uses both city water and collected groundwater for wastewater treatment facility will enable us to strive to remove sulphur and blended for shipments steam production and cooling, as well as to wash out continuously improve our environmental performance to refineries INNOVATION the natural contaminants in crude oil, like salts and on wastewater treatment and discharge. Both processes require significant energy. minerals, to prevent corrosion in our processing units. PERFORMANCE DATA Reducing the temperature and pressure in our processes APPENDICES could decrease emissions at production and refining. We are advancing technology development in low-temperature thermal cracking to examine the potential for bitumen to be partially upgraded to a transportable and marketable product. This would increase value by decreasing the amount of diluent required to transport this new bitumen product, and lower GHG intensity from extraction to the end-user. This would also avoid the need for a complex upgrader. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Renewable technologies | 137 TABLE OF CONTENTS RENEWABLE TECHNOLOGIES CEO MESSAGE We take a holistic view at low-carbon innovation. ABOUT OUR REPORT ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING NETWORK STRATEGY AND Suncor, through its Petro-Canada brand, is building a GOVERNANCE network of electric vehicle (EV) fast charging stations across the country. OUR BUSINESS Petro-Canada stations will offer DC fast chargers which support a broad selection of vehicles. The chargers can provide up to a 200 kilowatt charge – CLIMATE CHANGE enough to provide an 80% charge to most EVs in less than 30 minutes. The units are capable of 350 kilowatt charging with future upgrades. ENVIRONMENT More than 50 EV stations will be located along the Trans-Canada highway at strategically located SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Petro-Canada stations from Nova Scotia to Petro-Canada electric vehicle charging station in Milton, Ontario. British Columbia. Construction began in 2019 with sites opening over 2020. INNOVATION BIOFUELS • In 2019, we invested in Enerkem Inc., which A test site is currently operational in Milton, Ontario. We take a holistic view at low-carbon innovation manufactures biofuels and renewable chemical “When we first launched, we initially had four and also have a focus on GHG reduction in our products from household garbage that would PERFORMANCE DATA to five customers a day, but those numbers have downstream business. Since 2006, Suncor has been otherwise be landfilled. In addition to a financial quickly begun to multiply. I am eager to learn making a significant impact in Canada’s emerging investment, a number of Suncor employees have APPENDICES more about electric vehicles and charging because biofuels industry and we continue to work to reduce been seconded to Enerkem’s facility in Edmonton. I believe this will be a part of Canada’s mobility emissions intensity of liquid fuels. Our downstream • We own and operate the largest ethanol plant in future,” says Milton Petro-Canada gas station carbon reduction initiatives include alternative fuels, Canada which provides the ethanol we blend in operator, Mathi Valautham. fuel switching, energy efficiency and investing in our gasoline. We are evaluating optimization new technologies. work at our St. Clair ethanol plant to increase the Some of these initiatives include: quality of our products to develop lower carbon intensity ethanol. • Investments in companies focused on biofuel technologies such as LanzaTech. • Increasing biocontent to our diesel and gasoline through hydrotreated renewable diesel (HRD), fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) and ethanol; all forms of renewable fuels. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Digitalization | 138 TABLE OF CONTENTS DIGITALIZATION CEO MESSAGE Suncor continues to implement new digital technologies across the enterprise. Today, we’re increasingly harnessing digital technology capabilities to help improve the safety, productivity, reliability and environmental ABOUT OUR REPORT performance of our operations. STRATEGY AND A more digital environment means higher-quality GOVERNANCE and faster decisions, and increased transparency, collaboration and efficiency. OUR BUSINESS RELIABILITY AND PROCESS SAFETY CLIMATE CHANGE Advanced analytics Suncor is implementing advanced analytics to improve ENVIRONMENT personal and process safety, asset reliability, operations optimization and environmental performance. Representing a broad range of solutions, advanced SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY analytics allows for sophisticated data mining that produces deeper insights into patterns and trends across our assets and workforce. INNOVATION An example of this work is the application of analytics of process hazards analyses to support the PERFORMANCE DATA focus on quality and prioritization of improvement opportunities. As a result, we can make faster, more proactive decisions and system changes that can APPENDICES prevent incidents. We expect this increased ability to make evidence-based predictions should improve reliability, reduce maintenance costs and optimize facility throughput. We have used drones to support several operational areas in conducting visual inspections and surveys within operating plants and executing new projects. “With the rapid advances in drones and remote sensing technologies, we’ll continue to see an increasing number of useful applications for diverse areas of our business.” – Mike Teshima, director, digital innovation and development SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Digitalization | 139 TABLE OF CONTENTS With the new OPM dashboards, field supervisors Implementation at three additional downstream are able to review performance indicators and assets is planned for 2020, and we are evaluating calculations, understand performance gaps, and help other uses for the devices. These include internal CEO MESSAGE the supervisors make real-time decisions to improve inspection of confined space, fugitive emission energy intensity performance. The results from monitoring and leak detection. process changes are seen instantly and easily ABOUT OUR REPORT measured and reported, resulting in cost and STREAMLINING PROCESSES emissions improvements. WITH ROBOTIC PROCESS STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE IMPROVING SAFETY AUTOMATION We continue to explore more opportunities using Remote sensing technologies robotic process automation (RPA). OUR BUSINESS Opportunities to reduce safety risks are always a priority, and remote sensing technologies provide To date, we have employed RPA for high-volume, solutions that are quick, safe and cost-efficient. rule-based and routine work. We currently have CLIMATE CHANGE 19 bots operating across the company in Finance, • Drones are used in our operations to assist with Human Resources, Supply Chain and Field Logistics, equipment inspection, maintenance and Environment Health & Safety, and Maintenance and turnaround planning, and earthworks surveying. Reliability, with several more bots in development. ENVIRONMENT Their use has resulted in reduction of safety risks by decreasing worker exposure to hazardous tasks, These new automation solutions are helping e.g. survey crews working in remote areas, and the streamline our business processes, making it easier SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Upgrading operator pictured with the wireless badge and personal gas improvement of operations and project outcomes. for our employees to get their jobs done so they detector, part of Suncor’s Safety and Productivity Solution. can focus on higher-value work. • Wireless employee monitors allow us to remove INNOVATION We see intelligent business process automation obstacles that may inhibit an employee’s work and Connecting frontline staff as a key digital enabler to deliver high-value empowers us to provide faster emergency response. We are connecting frontline staff to digital business transformation. PERFORMANCE DATA The devices are equipped with sophisticated gas solutions – enabling maintenance and operations detection monitors, which can detect hazardous workers to create, and have access information in levels of certain gases or solvent vapours. This the field. These initiatives will enhance safety and APPENDICES allows us to identify dangerous conditions and productivity by facilitating better and immediate move employees out of those areas to secure data-based decisions that improve our operations. locations. The monitors are also equipped with a An example of this is the use of operation man down and panic button that can be used in performance management (OPM) dashboards at our an emergency. Firebag facility. Until the introduction of OPM, most Wireless employee monitors have been implemented energy intensity updates for day-to-day decisionat three sites, and the data is used to perform makers were only available on quarterly scorecards, analytics for lower-level safety exposures and to help and field supervisors did not have access to real-time us identify plant integrity issues – enabling us to performance in the field. respond to issues, both in real time and proactively. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Collaboration | 140 TABLE OF CONTENTS COLLABORATION CEO MESSAGE We all have a role to play in creating our energy future. Moving forward requires deep conversations – with stakeholders, governments, community members and industry partners, among others. And while we might not ABOUT OUR REPORT always agree on everything, the conversations help us understand what we have in common – a desire for energy to improve quality of life, a healthy environment and vibrant communities. STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS WITH We have entered into several successful partnerships with ENGOs in recent years. These OUR BUSINESS Through the Suncor Energy Foundation we work ENVIRONMENTAL organizations include: deeply with partners and communities to provide NON-GOVERNMENTAL investments that create value for society, and for our Ceres CLIMATE CHANGE business, by addressing community issues of mutual ORGANIZATIONS (ENGOs) Ceres mobilizes a network of investors, companies interest in a way that seeks solutions and benefits We engage with a wide variety of groups and and public interest groups to accelerate and expand everyone. Our vision is to create a better world with individuals to seek input. Some of the relationships adoption of sustainable business practices and ENVIRONMENT the communities in which Suncor operates, and with we form are with those who are openly critical of oil solutions to build a healthy global economy. Suncor those who are courageously seeking solutions and sands development. We have these conversations has been a Ceres member company since 2007. We making a positive difference in society. because we think it’s important to listen and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY have worked closely with a diverse stakeholder group understand other perspectives and share knowledge Examples of these collaborations include: assembled by Ceres to discuss our overall sustainability and insights. We find value in thinking about things strategy, including reporting, risk analysis and issues • the Energy Futures Lab, a multi-sector collaboration differently and this often leads to new ideas, joint INNOVATION management. This Ceres stakeholder panel encouraged designed to help shape the energy future and problem-solving or different ways of working with us to develop our first set of environmental strengthen Alberta and Canada’s position as a our stakeholders. performance goals. PERFORMANCE DATA global energy leader • In 2015, Ceres reviewed our draft sustainability • working with a number of organizations to Environment of mutual respect goals and provided feedback. support reconciliation through leadership We seek to engage with ENGOs in an atmosphere of APPENDICES • In 2017, Ceres reviewed and provided feedback development, building community development mutual respect, although this does not mean either capacity and taking a systems approach side is co-opted by the other. Our ENGO partners are for Suncor’s 2017 Climate Report: Resilience free to publicly criticize our company or industry as Through Strategy. • bringing social innovators, funding partners, they see fit except on specific initiatives in which thought leaders, government and community • In 2018, Suncor hosted a Ceres-facilitated we’ve agreed to co-operate. We, in turn, are free to representatives, and Indigenous youth together stakeholder panel to review our sustainability counter statements and research by ENGO partners if for events like The Gathering, which provide a progress. The stakeholders were asked to provide we know it to be contrary to established facts. Simply forum to explore complex community needs that us with critical feedback on our approach and put, both sides can agree to disagree, while require collaboration to make progress and see progress toward our sustainability goals including continuing to work together for the greater good. lasting change our GHG goal. We also asked them for ideas to improve Suncor’s disclosure in line with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Collaboration | 141 TABLE OF CONTENTS Boreal Leadership Council (BLC) Wood Buffalo Environmental The AWC-WPAC actively promotes, fosters respect, and plans for an ecologically healthy watershed by Boreal Leadership Council (BLC) is composed of Association (WBEA) leading conservation groups, First Nations, resource building relationships, sharing information, and CEO MESSAGE The Wood Buffalo Environmental Association is a companies and financial institutions, all of which informing planning and policy decisions that affect collaboration of communities, environmental groups, have a stake in the future of Canada’s boreal forest. the Athabasca River watershed. industry, governments and Indigenous representatives As a member of the BLC, we are a signatory to the ABOUT OUR REPORT that has developed and implemented an integrated Boreal Forest Conservation Framework. We are and intensive program on air and terrestrial monitoring INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS committed to implementing this national vision in the region. Through the Environmental Science and We also participate in industry organizations that work STRATEGY AND through our own sphere of activity and have Monitoring Division of Alberta Environment and to improve the industry’s environmental, social and GOVERNANCE submitted an action plan to council members Parks, the WBEA monitors air quality in the Regional economic performance. These organizations include: outlining our priorities and focus areas. Municipality of Wood Buffalo, 24 hours a day, Suncor sponsored a BLC project to look at how 365 days a year, and shares the information collected Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation OUR BUSINESS with stakeholders and the public. Indigenous Peoples are working to protect the Alliance (COSIA) woodland caribou. The review looked at tools, COSIA is an alliance of oil sands producers focused CLIMATE CHANGE data, practices and governance structures used Alberta Association of on accelerating the pace of improvement in by Indigenous Peoples, including: Conservation Offsets (AACO) environmental performance in Canada’s oil sands • Indigenous knowledge Suncor is a member of the Alberta Association of through collaborative action and innovation. Through ENVIRONMENT Conservation Offsets which is a non-governmental COSIA, participating companies capture, develop and • habitat identification collaboration among a number of diverse entities share innovative approaches and best thinking to • populations monitoring and interests sharing an interest or expertise in the improve environmental performance in the oil sands. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY field of conservation and biodiversity. This group COSIA represents 90% of oil sands production in • other aspects of caribou conservation is working on a provincial offsetting policy. Canada, focusing on five environmental priority areas: INNOVATION Suncor also participated in a working group looking • tailings at understanding and implementing free, prior and Athabasca Watershed Council (AWC) informed consent (FPIC) in Canada. We continue to • water The Athabasca Watershed Council is a multiPERFORMANCE DATA work closely with the BLC on this important issue. stakeholder, not-for-profit watershed planning and • land advisory council (WPAC) that was formed in • greenhouse gases APPENDICES ENVIRONMENTAL August 2009. To provide timely credible information MULTI-STAKEHOLDER about the Athabasca Watershed, the council • monitoring works with: WORKING GROUPS COSIA is accelerating innovation and environmental • academia performance through a continued focus on We believe working with stakeholders to understand collaboration and transparent exchange. their environmental concerns is the best way to • industry develop programs to monitor the environment and • environmental and stewardship groups to develop a better understanding of environmental limits. We are a member of: • various levels of government • communities and citizens SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Collaboration | 142 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION Clean Resource Innovation Oil Sands Community ADVOCACY COALITIONS Network (CRIN) Alliance (OSCA) We value and advocate reaching out to diverse PERFORMANCE DATA The Clean Resource Innovation Network is a Building on the work of the predecessor Oil Sands stakeholders to generate constructive dialogue about group of forward-thinking oil and gas industry Developers Group, the Oil Sands Community Alliance energy development. Since 2013, we have continued APPENDICES professionals, innovators, financiers, policy-makers, aims to help communities in the oil sands region thrive to work with Resource Works, a multi-stakeholder incubators and accelerators, academics and economically and socially. OSCA’s collaborative coalition to encourage broad dialogue on energy and students committed to the success of the approach facilitates engagement, builds relationships resource development in Canada. Through this hydrocarbon energy sector, the people and and creates measurable socio-economic benefits in the partnership, we hope to encourage Canadians from communities it touches, and a strong, carbonfocus areas of Indigenous communities, community coast-to-coast to learn more about the value that our competitive and diversified Canadian economy. well-being, infrastructure and workforce planning. national resource sector brings to their daily lives and the Canadian economy. INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS We are a member of several industry associations. There is strength in having forums for creating alignment and discussing issues. For a list of certain industry associations, please refer to Lobbying and Disclosure. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Social innovation | 143 TABLE OF CONTENTS SOCIAL INNOVATION CEO MESSAGE In addition to technology and digital innovations, The development and progression of Suncor’s The opportunity to learn and incorporate social Suncor also engages in social innovation. Social social goal has required deep commitment and innovation thinking into our business provides the innovation considers the whole system to address work with communities, as well as among teams chance to mitigate future risks, identify new areas of ABOUT OUR REPORT business and community needs. Systems thinking is across Suncor. It is changing how we think and act opportunity and ways of operating, and contribute especially useful to address complex challenges that as a company, and is one example of a successful to society and the communities we’re a part of. cannot be successfully addressed solely by one social innovation in action, one that is creating STRATEGY AND “The size and type of 21st century challenges can often organization or sector. broad and lasting culture change. GOVERNANCE feel overwhelming, but they also give us opportunities “The world, including the environment that Suncor Other examples include the Energy Futures Lab, to work together – and work differently – to adapt and is operating in, is increasingly complex and dynamic,” which the Suncor Energy Foundation and Suncor change our business and, working with others, create OUR BUSINESS says Eric Axford, Suncor’s EVP and chief sustainability have supported since 2015, and new business and sustain a more positive future,” says Eric. officer. “More than ever, it requires a holistic approach. partnerships and models like the East Tank Farm There are lots of definitions of social innovation. In Development agreement and Petro-Nor. CLIMATE CHANGE our view, social innovation helps us to see our place in a system, contribute Suncor’s unique assets and strengths, and work with others to make lasting ENVIRONMENT progress on societal and community needs that impact all of us.” SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE DATA GOVERNANCE Our sustainability performance data provides annual (January 1 to December 31) operational, environmental, economic, health and OUR BUSINESS safety, and workforce data for 2018, with five-year performance trends where possible. Business segment or facility level information is also provided, where possible. Environmental performance indicators CLIMATE CHANGE reflect assets operated by Suncor only, unless otherwise stated. Economic metrics are reported in a manner consistent with our 2018 Annual Report. ENVIRONMENT Footnotes provide additional information for specific boundary conditions, changes in methodology, restatements, and definitions, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY where applicable. Any data point that is accompanied by the (A) symbol has been INNOVATION independently reviewed and assured by Ernst & Young LLP. This can be downloaded from our Report on Sustainability website on the PERFORMANCE DATA Performance Data Page. APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Performance data | 145 TABLE OF CONTENTS PERFORMANCE DATA CEO MESSAGE Our sustainability performance data provides annual (January 1 to December 31) operational, environmental, economic, health and safety, and workforce data for 2018, with five-year performance trends where possible. Business segment or facility level information is also provided, where possible. Environmental performance indicators reflect assets operated by Suncor only, unless otherwise stated. Economic metrics are reported in a manner consistent with our 2018 Annual Report. Footnotes provide ABOUT OUR REPORT additional information for specific boundary conditions, changes in methodology, restatements, and definitions, where applicable. Any data point that is accompanied by the (A) symbol has been independently reviewed and assured by Ernst & Young LLP. This can be downloaded from our Report on STRATEGY AND Sustainability website on the Performance Data Page. GOVERNANCE • Ernst & Young LLP Independent Assurance Statement in Appendix B • All performance data OUR BUSINESS Indicators – Suncor company totals* GRI Standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operational performance (note 4) CLIMATE CHANGE Total upstream and downstream production OG1 45.38 48.24 44.71 48.53 53.95 (A) million m3/yr Upstream processed volumes and net production OG1 162.03 171.63 152.40 171.21 215.07 (A) ENVIRONMENT million BOE/yr Upstream processed volumes and net production OG1 25.75 27.29 24.23 27.22 34.19 (A) million m3 OE/yr SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Downstream net production OG1 27.16 27.62 27.23 27.98 26.92 (A) million m3 refined product/yr Ethanol production OG1 412.45 417.91 414.39 407.80 402.00 INNOVATION million litres of ethanol product/yr Wind energy generated OG3 320,720 313,283 106,912 76,589 100,850 MWh PERFORMANCE DATA Ethanol blended into gasoline – 1,000 1,027 1,135 1,117 1,129 million litres Sulphur content of gasoline – 18.70 15.70 15.30 16.20 18.60 APPENDICES ppm Greenhouse gas (GHG) and energy (note 5, note 6) GHG (Scope 1 and 2) emissions 305-1 20,468 20,480 18,739 19,874 21,990 (A) thousand tonnes CO2e 305-2 GHG (Scope 1) emissions 305-1 – – – – 20,577 thousand tonnes CO2e GHG (Scope 2) emissions 305-2 – – – – 1,413 thousand tonnes CO2e GHG emissions intensity 305-4 0.43 0.41 0.40 0.40 0.39 (A) tonnes CO2e/m3 OE GHG (Scope 3) emissions 305-3 1,466 1,549 1,623 1,881 1,525 thousand tonnes CO2e Energy use 302-1 304.3 310.4 285.8 302.0 336.1 million GJ 302-2 * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Performance data | 146 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indicators – Suncor company totals* GRI Standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Direct energy use 302-1 296.0 301.0 276.0 287.9 328.3 million GJ CEO MESSAGE Indirect energy use 302-2 8.24 9.78 10.02 14.08 7.78 million GJ Energy intensity 302-3 6.70 6.44 6.39 6.22 6.23 ABOUT OUR REPORT GJ/m3 Air emissions (note 7) STRATEGY AND Total emissions 305-7 68.40 67.40 65.50 70.29 79.54 thousand tonnes GOVERNANCE Total emissions intensity 305-7 1.51 1.40 1.46 1.45 1.47 kilograms/m3 SO2 emissions 305-7 23.10 18.40 21.10 20.51 20.50 OUR BUSINESS thousand tonnes SO2 emissions intensity 305-7 0.51 0.38 0.47 0.42 0.38 kilograms/m3 CLIMATE CHANGE NOX emissions 305-7 27.80 27.90 24.90 26.64 31.81 thousand tonnes NOX emissions intensity 305-7 0.61 0.58 0.56 0.55 0.59 ENVIRONMENT kilograms/m3 VOC emissions 305-7 17.50 21.10 19.50 23.14 27.23 thousand tonnes SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY VOC emissions intensity 305-7 0.38 0.44 0.44 0.50 0.50 kilograms/m3 Water use (note 8) INNOVATION Water withdrawal 303-1 149.27 142.47 162.18 105.07 144.69 (A) million m3 PERFORMANCE DATA Surface water withdrawal 303-1 116.36 118.92 124.78 74.90 106.88 million m3 Groundwater withdrawal 303-1 2.10 2.72 2.51 2.26 3.13 million m3 APPENDICES Municipality/city/district water withdrawal 303-1 3.49 4.27 4.22 4.20 4.12 million m3 Treated wastewater withdrawal 303-1 1.29 1.51 1.37 1.60 1.52 million m3 Industrial run-off water withdrawal 303-1 26.03 15.05 29.30 22.10 29.04 million m3 Water withdrawal intensity 303-1 3.29 2.95 3.63 2.16 2.68 (A) m3/m3 Water returned 306-1 101.22 97.46 105.12 65.99 77.44 million m3 Water consumption – 49.14 45.33 57.19 39.07 67.24 million m3 Water consumption intensity – 1.08 0.94 1.28 0.81 1.25 m3/m3 * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Performance data | 147 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indicators – Suncor company totals* GRI Standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fresh water consumption – 30.80 35.90 36.80 22.40 46.52 million m3 CEO MESSAGE Fresh water consumption intensity – 0.68 0.74 0.82 0.46 0.86 m3/m3 Land disturbance and reclamation (note 10) ABOUT OUR REPORT Total land approved for development 304-1 46,995 47,085 48,734 48,734 66,905 cumulative hectares STRATEGY AND Total land disturbed 304-2 23,704 23,757 23,613 23,960 33,772 cumulative hectares GOVERNANCE Total land reclaimed 304-3 1,920 2,154 2,140 2,239 2,621 cumulative hectares Waste (note 9) OUR BUSINESS Total waste generated 306-1 2,513 2,391 2,148 2,123 2,487 thousand tonnes CLIMATE CHANGE Hazardous waste generated 306-2 2,299 1,992 1,982 999 983 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste incinerated 306-2 3.11 2.38 3.60 3.54 4.14 thousand tonnes ENVIRONMENT Hazardous waste deep well injection 306-2 2,185 1,980 1,963 985 958 thousand tonnes SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Hazardous waste landfilled 306-2 1.80 5.70 12.01 7.25 6.16 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated 306-2 109.28 4.09 3.15 3.27 15.04 thousand tonnes INNOVATION Non-hazardous waste generated 306-2 214 399 167 1,124 1,503 thousand tonnes PERFORMANCE DATA Non-hazardous waste incinerated 306-2 1.13 1.56 0.69 0.09 0.17 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste deep well injection 306-2 1.21 0.80 0.87 986.85 1,315 thousand tonnes APPENDICES Non-hazardous waste landfilled 306-2 197 383 161 135 179 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated 306-2 14.22 13.92 4.27 1.62 9.71 thousand tonnes Waste recycled, reused or recovered 306-2 88.72 135.00 123.00 71.00 96.18 thousand tonnes Environmental compliance (note 11) Environmental non-compliance 307-1 – – 5 4 7 # Environmental regulatory fines 307-1 – – 275 413 282 thousand CND$ Significant spills 306-3 – – 0 0 0 # * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Performance data | 148 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indicators – Suncor company totals* GRI Standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Economic (note 14) Revenues and other income 201-1 40,490 29,680 26,968 32,079 38,986 CEO MESSAGE $ millions Operating, selling and general expense (OS&G) 201-1 9,541 8,607 9,150 9,245 10,573 $ millions ABOUT OUR REPORT Employee costs 201-1 3.40 3.30 3.40 3.20 3.30 $ billions STRATEGY AND Royalties and taxes paid 201-1 5,259 1,805 105 1,489 1,695 $ millions GOVERNANCE Community investments 201-1 27,246 26,346 33,800 26,557 28,980 $ thousands Distribution to shareholders 201-1 2,267 2,565 2,889 3,069 3,230 OUR BUSINESS $ millions Economic value retained 201-1 23,396 16,677 14,789 18,249 23,488 $ millions CLIMATE CHANGE Enterprise value 102-7 66 67 89 89 76 $ billions Capital and exploration expenditures 201-1 6,961 6,667 6,582 6,551 5,406 ENVIRONMENT $ millions Political donations 201-1 96 15 3 0 0 $ thousands 415-1 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Purchases of goods and services – 11,951 12,797 11,905 11,636 10,622 $ millions INNOVATION Canada – 10,915 11,178 10,632 10,842 9,917 $ millions Local businesses and suppliers 204-1 4,920 4,504 3,732 3,615 4,257 $ millions PERFORMANCE DATA Indigenous supplier-spend 204-1 463 599 445 521 703 $ millions APPENDICES Community investments (note 15) Total contributions to charitable, non-charitable and community groups 201-1 27,246 26,346 33,800 26,557 28,980 $ thousands Value of cash donations 201-1 23,745 24,425 22,843 25,466 27,843 $ thousands Value of time donations 201-1 798 408 83 800 161 $ thousands Value of in-kind donations 201-1 214 382 10,873 291 1,137 $ thousands Value of management cost donations 201-1 1,384 988 953 994 1,143 $ thousands Value of external resources leveraged 201-1 1,105 143 744 232 945 $ thousands Suncor’s donation to the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) 201-1 19,530 4,500 10,164 16,600 18,455 $ thousands * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Performance data | 149 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indicators – Suncor company totals* GRI Standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Suncor Energy Foundation/Suncor Energy Inc. disbursements (distribution by funding priority): CEO MESSAGE Community Resilience 201-1 – – – – 6,411 $ thousands Indigenous Peoples 201-1 – – – – 4,618 $ thousands ABOUT OUR REPORT Energy Future 201-1 – – – – 3,402 $ thousands STRATEGY AND SunCares Employee Program 201-1 4,538 4,146 4,663 3,638 2,822 $ thousands GOVERNANCE Place Based Priority 201-1 4,342 6,627 8,603 9,041 9,089 $ thousands OUR BUSINESS Building Skills and Knowledge 201-1 5,381 5,321 3,978 4,529 – $ thousands Collaborating for a Shared Energy Future 201-1 2,087 2,219 1,848 0 – $ thousands CLIMATE CHANGE Cultivating Community Leaders 201-1 3,719 3,051 2,442 4,109 – $ thousands ENVIRONMENT Inspiring Innovation 201-1 3,890 3,443 3,183 4,271 – $ thousands SunCares Employee Program SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Employee participation 201-1 – – – 27 26 % Organizations supported 201-1 – – – 1,271 1,377 INNOVATION # Value of corporate donations 201-1 – – – 1,668 2,822 $ thousands PERFORMANCE DATA Value of employee personal donations 201-1 – – – 1,313 2,719 $ thousands Volunteer hours 201-1 – – – 80,706 73,259 APPENDICES # Health and safety (note 12) Employee lost-time injury frequency 403-2 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 # per 200,000 hours worked Contractor lost-time injury frequency 403-2 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.02 # per 200,000 hours worked Employee recordable injury frequency 403-2 0.37 0.27 0.24 0.30 0.30 # per 200,000 hours worked Contractor recordable injury frequency 403-2 0.50 0.56 0.38 0.45 0.41 # per 200,000 hours worked Fatalities 403-2 3 0 0 1 0 (A) # * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Performance data | 150 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indicators – Suncor company totals* GRI Standards 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Workforce (note 13) Suncor employees 102-7 14,425 13,235 13,243 12,649 12,626 CEO MESSAGE # Full-time employees 102-8 14,056 13,042 12,888 12,389 12,317 # ABOUT OUR REPORT Part-time employees 102-8 108 97 121 111 98 # STRATEGY AND Temporary/casual employees 102-8 261 96 252 149 211 # GOVERNANCE Long-term contractors 102-8 3,231 2,663 757 809 559 # Unionized workforce 102-41 32.4 34.5 34.6 32.8 33.2 OUR BUSINESS % Women 405-1 25.1 23.4 24.5 23.8 23.2 % CLIMATE CHANGE Men 405-1 74.7 75.7 75.5 76.2 76.8 % Aboriginals/American Indians 405-1 1.5 1.6 1.9 3.0 3.1 ENVIRONMENT % Visible minorities 405-1 10.4 10.3 12.6 14.7 12.6 % SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Persons with disabilities 405-1 0.5 0.5 0.8 0.7 0.7 % Women in management 405-1 21.7 22.4 20.1 19.0 20.4 INNOVATION % New employee hires PERFORMANCE DATA Male new employee hires 401-1 72.8 70.7 77.0 76.9 69.7 % Female new employee hires 401-1 27.2 29.3 23.0 23.1 30.3 APPENDICES % Employee turnover 401-1 5.0 7.6 7.0 5.8 6.0 % Male employee turnover 401-1 4.9 6.5 6.4 5.4 5.8 % Female employee turnover 401-1 5.4 11.3 8.9 7.1 6.8 % Percentage of basic salary Management 405-2 96 96 96 96 96 % Professional 405-2 95 97 97 97 97 % Business support 405-2 104 103 103 102 103 % Operations 405-2 98 100 100 100 100 % * Please refer to the corresponding notes in Appendix A for additional notes about the performance data. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE ABOUT OUR REPORT STRATEGY AND APPENDICES GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS Appendix A: Performance data notes..................... 152 Appendix B: Independent assurance statement..... 161 CLIMATE CHANGE Appendix C: Advisories............................................ 164 ENVIRONMENT Appendix D: GRI and SASB....................................... 168 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 152 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX A: PERFORMANCE DATA NOTES CEO MESSAGE NOTES ON PERFORMANCE DATA FOR SUNCOR’S 2019 REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT OUR REPORT 1. Overview Performance data provided throughout our Report on Sustainability in tables and graphs includes social, environmental and economic indicators from the 2018 reporting year with 5-year trends, where feasible. Economic data is reported in a consistent manner with our Annual Report. These notes provide additional details on boundary STRATEGY AND conditions, and changes in methodologies, definitions, business segment structure changes or changes to historical data. We also implement our own internal guidelines GOVERNANCE and definitions for data gathering and reporting. OUR BUSINESS 2. Reporting boundaries Environmental and social performance data is collected and reported for all facilities operated by Suncor (100%, not adjusted for Suncor’s ownership share), and our joint venture interests operated by other organizations are not included. Facilities are subject to annual planned and unplanned maintenance activities, which may CLIMATE CHANGE impact consistent year-over-year trends. Facilities that are purchased subsequently operated by Suncor in the middle of a reporting year are pro-rated based on the date of operatorship. ENVIRONMENT 3. Summary of business segments and operations included in performance data: a. Suncor-totals reflect consolidation of data where relevant and applicable. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY b. Upstream (Oil Sands Base) include Millennium and North Steepbank mining, extraction and integrated upgrading facilities, integrated Poplar Creek cogeneration facility (owned and operated by Suncor as of 2015), and associated infrastructure for these assets, but does not include Syncrude. INNOVATION c. Upstream (Fort Hills) d. Upstream (Oil Sands In Situ operations) data includes oil sands bitumen production from Firebag and MacKay River operations and supporting infrastructure. PERFORMANCE DATA e. Upstream Exploration & Production (E&P) includes: • E&P Terra Nova FPSO vessel situated off the east coast of Canada. APPENDICES • E&P North America Onshore (NAO) natural gas assets operated by Suncor. Assets were significantly divested from 2013–2015 and in 2018 Suncor sold its mineral land holdings in north-eastern British Columbia to Canbriam Energy Inc. • Additional information about our E&P business can be found at www.suncor.com. f. Downstream (Refining and Supply) includes refining operations in Montreal, Sarnia, Edmonton, and Commerce City Colorado. Suncor previously operated a lubricants business in Mississauga, Ontario, which was sold on February 1, 2017. 2017 performance data reflects this sale. Other assets include a petrochemical plant and sulphur recovery facility in Montreal, and product pipelines and terminals in Canada. Additional information about our downstream business is available at www.suncor.com. g. Renewables includes wind power facilities operated by Suncor, and in graphs are reported with the St. Clair ethanol plant, located in Ontario. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 153 TABLE OF CONTENTS 4. Notes on operational performance and production a. See “Advisories”, as barrels of oil equivalent and cubic metres of oil equivalent may be misleading indicators of value. CEO MESSAGE b. Oil Sands Base production is gross sweet and sour synthetic crude oil associated with mining, extraction and upgrading and includes unprocessed volumes. This may be different than production reported in our Annual Report. ABOUT OUR REPORT c. Fort Hills production is partially upgraded bitumen associated with the Paraffinic Froth Treatment Process (PFT). d. In Situ production is net bitumen sales associated with total plant saleable product. STRATEGY AND e. East Coast (Terra Nova) production is total amount of product sold, not flaring or internally produced fuel. GOVERNANCE f. Refining & Supply net production is reported on a business unit level, where transfers between our facilities have been removed from facility production totals. g. St. Clair ethanol plant production is ethanol produced and converted to cubic metres of oil equivalent, on an energy basis. OUR BUSINESS h. Wind energy production is in megawatt hours, from Suncor operated wind facilities, (100% – not adjusted for ownership). i. Our refineries that blend ethanol into gasoline are Sarnia, Montreal, Commerce City and Edmonton. CLIMATE CHANGE 5. Notes on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ENVIRONMENT 5.1 GHG emissions factors Emissions factors allow us to estimate GHG emissions from a unit of available activity data (e.g. quantity of fuel consumed or product produced). The metric we use in our Report on Sustainability for reporting GHG emissions is metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). This common unit for reporting GHGs represents volumes SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of gases that have been studied to have an impact on the global atmosphere. CO2e means that individual GHGs have been multiplied by their assessed global warming potential (GWP) compared to carbon dioxide (CO2). This report (and our 2014–2018 Reports on Sustainability) uses the 100-year GWPs issued by the Intergovernmental INNOVATION Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) fourth assessment report (2007), which aligns to several jurisdictions of GHG reporting, including Environment Canada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The major impacts of using the GWPs issued by the IPCC’s fourth assessment report are that emissions from methane increase slightly due to an increase in the GWP PERFORMANCE DATA factor from 21 to 25. Emissions from nitrous oxides (N2O) decrease slightly with that factor decreasing from 310 to 298. Other GHGs have also had their GWPs adjusted but have little to no material impact on our total GHG emissions. APPENDICES 5.2 Measuring potential GHG emission sources As an integrated energy company spanning multiple jurisdictions, sectors and operations, we use several different externally developed and publicly accepted emission factor protocols to develop facility-specific emission calculation methodologies. We select the appropriate protocol for the site-specific fuel type and composition, emission source, facility or jurisdiction being considered. As required by regulators and verified by external auditors, we use internationally accepted GHG protocols and methodologies in determining our overall emissions profile. In addition to using fuel-specific emission factors, some GHG emissions are calculated using processor equipment-specific consumption rates in units such as ‘run-hours’ and not fuel volumes. Many of our sites have complicated processes that require specific emission factors and methodologies to accurately calculate their emissions. Primarily, our sites use protocols and methodologies that are required by their operating jurisdiction. However, if no prescribed methodology is required, it may be necessary to use a combination of standardized methodologies at a single facility due to site and sector-specific details that may not be completely covered by a single standard or regulation. On occasion, more accurate emission factors – measured, calculated from compositional data, or manufacturer-supplied – may be available for specific equipment. These are used whenever and wherever appropriate to ensure we gather the best quality data and use the most accurate measures. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 154 TABLE OF CONTENTS Specific emission factors are calculated from actual measured data rather than applying generic estimated default factors as frequently as possible. In other cases, such as when calculating indirect emissions from externally purchased electric power, we use factors primarily from site-specific factors if available, secondarily where prescribed by regulation and finally, from published emission factors for remaining emission sources. CEO MESSAGE Due to the unique nature of each site, we have more than 1,400 standard emission factors in our Environmental Information Management System that are applied at different sites. This number does not include thousands of additional factors that are calculated daily for different fuels and sites based on fuel composition analysis. ABOUT OUR REPORT These factors give us real-time gas composition and resulting carbon content. 5.3 The role of regulation in GHG reporting STRATEGY AND Many jurisdictions have, or are in the process of developing, prescriptive regulations that specify which factors can be used. For example, the EPA and regulators in GOVERNANCE Western Climate Initiative jurisdictions such as Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia all required operators to use specified factors for the 2018 reporting year. Alberta requires large emitting facilities to use the standard methodology and emission factors in the Carbon Competitiveness Initiative Regulation (CCIR) submission. Each of our sites that report through the CCIR successfully generated positive (approved) verifications for the 2018 reporting year at a reasonable level of assurance. OUR BUSINESS 5.4 GHG standard practices and methodologies CLIMATE CHANGE External agencies have developed industry-accepted standard methodologies that operators can choose to use in the absence of prescribed methods. The standard practices and methodologies we follow are widely accepted, well researched and documented so that the numbers produced are verifiable by governments and third parties, and are consistently applied from year to year. ENVIRONMENT A partial list of these standard methodologies and guidance documents includes: • American Petroleum Institute Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, 2009 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006 • US EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule INNOVATION • IPCC fourth assessment report 2007 • World Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 2004 PERFORMANCE DATA • Environment Canada Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990–2007 Report 2009 APPENDICES • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories • Western Climate Initiative (WCI) Design for the WCI Regional Program, July 2010 • National Renewable Energy Laboratory Life Cycle Assessment of Hydrogen Production via Natural Gas Steam Reforming • Alberta Quantification Methodologies for the Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation and the Specified Gas Reporting Regulation (Version 1.1) • O. Reg. 452/09: Guideline for Quantification, Reporting and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2018 • Regulation respecting mandatory reporting of certain emissions of contaminants into the atmosphere 2018 • Environment Canada Facility Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program: Canada’s Greenhouse Gas Quantification Requirements 2018 • Environment Canada National Inventory Report, 1990–2016 • Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers: Guide Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions, April 2003 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 155 TABLE OF CONTENTS 5.5 Additional GHG notes a. Forward looking GHG estimates are based on current production forecasts and methodologies and users of this information are cautioned that the actual GHG emissions and emission intensities may vary materially. Please see Advisories. CEO MESSAGE b. GHG emissions data from 1990 and 2000 do not include Suncor’s U.S. operations, or legacy Petro-Canada facilities, and only include business areas in operation during these years. These data points have been provided for historical comparability, consistent with previous sustainability reports. ABOUT OUR REPORT c. GHG emissions are calculated using facility-specific and referenced methodologies accepted by the relevant jurisdictions each facility is required to report GHG emissions to. Methodology has been followed where a jurisdiction has a prescribed one and if none exist then the most applicable and accurate methods available are STRATEGY AND used to quantify each emission source. GOVERNANCE d. Suncor-wide emissions intensity uses net production, which is the sum of net facility production minus all internal product transfers. The resulting net production is our Suncor product sales to market. The sum of the business unit GHG intensities therefore will not equal the Suncor-wide intensity. OUR BUSINESS e. In situ (MacKay River) indirect emissions methodology reported since 2014 include electricity purchased from the grid, purchased electricity and steam from the third party TransCanada cogen. Firebag cogeneration units are owned and operated by Suncor and therefore all cogen emissions contribute to total direct emissions including emissions associated with generating electricity that is sold to the AB grid. CLIMATE CHANGE f. Absolute (total) GHG emissions are the sum of direct and indirect emissions. g. Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions are from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting company. Refining & Supply direct emissions do not deduct CO2 ENVIRONMENT transfers to third parties, such as the food and beverage industries. h. Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are energy-related emissions that are a consequence of our operations, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY company (e.g. purchases of electricity, steam, heat, and cooling). The indirect energy calculation methodology credits operations for electricity exported to external users and/or other Suncor facilities. Emissions are calculated based on actual supplier data where possible and published literature where supplier data is unavailable. INNOVATION i. Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions include hydrogen purchased from third-parties and CO2 volumes sold from our facilities to third-parties for further processing, and can fluctuate annually depending on supplier demand. This is consistent with provincial government reporting requirements. Additional scope 3 emissions include: • aviation (commercial and charter) PERFORMANCE DATA • facilities (Suncor Energy Centre, East Canada and USA) APPENDICES • ground transportation services for employees and contractors • licensed fleet vehicles on site • lodges j. Annual variance in indirect (Scope 3) emissions from 2016–2018 is attributed to the following: • reporting more information (more complete data set than 2017) • emission factors were updated for consistency • scope changes • actual data instead of estimated k. 2018 Scope 3 inventory improvements allowed Suncor to report a more representative number and 2017 data has been restated for better alignment with the new calculation methodologies. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 156 TABLE OF CONTENTS l. Suncor’s GHG goal is designed to encourage business choices that reduce Suncor’s emissions and the emissions in the global energy system. To support tracking our goal progress, Suncor developed a methodology that includes both direct emissions reductions from our operated assets and indirect reductions from the use of our products. The data in the GHG performance section reflects our direct operations emissions. Direct and indirect CO2e emissions are included for this report. No credit CEO MESSAGE is taken for GHG reductions due to internally generated performance credits, purchased offsets, ethanol lifecycle GHG reductions or wind generated offsets. 6 Notes on energy consumption ABOUT OUR REPORT a. Total energy is equal to the sum of direct and indirect energy. Electricity that is produced and sold to the provincial grids by oil sands and in situ cogeneration units and operated wind farms is converted to an equivalent amount in GJs and deducted from total energy use. STRATEGY AND b. Direct energy is primary energy consumed on-site by Suncor operated facilities. GOVERNANCE c. Indirect energy includes imported electricity, steam, heating and cooling duty from third parties. The indirect energy calculation methodology credits operations for electricity exported to external users and/or other Suncor facilities. OUR BUSINESS d. The energy intensity of renewables business is based on energy input for ethanol production with wind energy production deducted from that total energy input. CLIMATE CHANGE 7 Notes on other air emissions a. Graphs associated with SO2 and NOX emissions intensity only include facilities that are material sources of these emissions for our business. Oil Sands estimation accuracy for VOC emissions intensity is greater than +/10% and limited by currently accepted methodology and measurement instruments. ENVIRONMENT b. Other air emissions include SO2, NOX and VOC emissions. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY c. The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity in 2018 was mainly due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline from January to October. The hydrocarbon blanket has been operational since November of 2018. d. The increase in Terra Nova’s VOC emissions and emissions intensity was due to the hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system being offline for a large part of 2017 INNOVATION and 2018 when compared to ~ 100% operational in 2016. It is noted that there was an error in total VOCs reported for Terra Nova in the 2018 report. The miscalculation that occurred in the storage and handling of emissions is now corrected and reported in this 2019 report. PERFORMANCE DATA e. Air emissions include point and non-point sources. f. We report to the Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory and the US Toxic Release Inventory annually and additional information on our performance can be APPENDICES found through these reporting mechanisms. 8 Notes on water use and return a. Freshwater consumption and intensity graph: water withdrawal and consumption only includes facilities that are material sources of freshwater consumption for our business. Oil sands Base plant and Fort Hills in this graph do not include industrial runoff water, which is subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Withdrawal and consumption including industrial runoff volumes are shown in the performance data tables of our Report on Sustainability. Water measurement and estimation methodology on select Refining & Marketing operations is greater than +/10% uncertainty. b. Oil sands freshwater withdrawal and consumption graph: the methodology for this graph does not include industrial runoff volumes. Withdrawal and consumption including industrial runoff volumes are shown in the performance data tables of our Report on Sustainability. c. Water consumption is the total water withdrawn minus water returned and reflects quantity of water used and not returned to its proximate source or no longer available in its original form. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 157 TABLE OF CONTENTS d. Freshwater consumption intensity is the volume of water consumed (m3) per volume of hydrocarbon produced (m3). e. Oil sands base mining water withdrawal includes surface water, groundwater and industrial run-off water as per regulatory withdrawal licences and are subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Water returned is comprised of treated industrial waste-water and runoff from non-process areas that gets collected, diverted CEO MESSAGE and eventually discharged to the environment (destination is the Athabasca River). f. In Situ water withdrawal includes licenced groundwater wells, treated wastewater and industrial run-off water. ABOUT OUR REPORT g. East Coast operations water withdrawal includes freshwater (transferred by vessel from St. John’s domestic water system) bunkered to the FPSO potable water tanks for domestic use on the facility. It also includes topside seawater intake flow used for process cooling and water injection for production purposes. STRATEGY AND h. Refining & Marketing surface water withdrawal sources and return destinations vary by refinery facility location. GOVERNANCE i. Fresh water consumption increased due to the start up of Fort Hills. Fort Hills is building up water inventory for recycling. As we better understand our operational water use and efficiency at the site, we will continue to explore opportunities to further reduce water use. OUR BUSINESS 9 Notes on waste management CLIMATE CHANGE a. Waste volumes are dependent on site activities or periodic equipment maintenance and may fluctuate annually. b. In situ waste that is sent to deep well injection is primarily related to blowdown from our SAGD operations at Firebag consisting of concentrated water impurities that accumulate during the steam generation process. This boiler feed water is intentionally wasted from the boilers to avoid concentration of impurities during continuing ENVIRONMENT evaporation of steam. Deepwell disposal methods of this nature are safe, viable and part of normal operating parameters and our operations are within the disposal limits for these waste streams (regulated by the Alberta Energy Regulator). Our operations also have exceptionally high water recycle rates, above regulated levels. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY c. Total waste generated increased in 2018 due to increased non-hazardous waste generated from construction at Burrard Terminal, increased production at in situ sites, and the commissioning and start up of Fort Hills. INNOVATION 10 Notes on land disturbance and reclamation/tailings a. Total land approved for development is consistent with the Government of Alberta’s Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act (EPEA) approved footprint for PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor’s Base Plant operations, Fort Hills and our Firebag and MacKay River in situ operations, as mapped by GIS internally. Meadow Creek East is approved but not yet included. APPENDICES b. Total land disturbed represents the total active footprint of our Base Plant mining operations, Fort Hills operations and approved in situ projects, which including the cumulative hectares (ha) for areas cleared of vegetation, soil disturbed, ready for reclamation, soils placed and permanently reclaimed. The categories used are consistent with reporting to the Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) in the annual reports. c. Land reclaimed is land that is no longer being used for mine or plant purposes or in situ production purposes and has been permanently or temporarily reclaimed. This value is a subset of the total active footprint. Reclamation is presented as a cumulative number, therefore the total number of hectares reported from year to year may increase depending on whether reclamation has occurred or whether re-disturbance of previously reclaimed areas was required. Permanently reclaimed lands have met the authorized plans for soil placement and re-vegetation but have not been certified by the Alberta Energy Regulator. d. Total volume of untreated fluid tailings total inventory at the end of the 2018 reporting period Base plant had 273 million m3, which is 37 million m3 below the approved fluid tailings profile. Base plant also had 119 million m3 of water stored for recycling in our tailings facilities. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 158 TABLE OF CONTENTS 11 Notes on environmental compliance a. New in 2018, we have improved the environmental compliance metrics we report on a company-wide level, which better align with our internal tools, processes and metrics and also to Global Reporting Initiative Standards. Our focus is always in incident prevention, and all spill events are recorded and investigated. Root cause is CEO MESSAGE determined and remedial actions are implemented to minimize risk and chance of recurrence. Historical environmental compliance metrics using this improved methodology aren’t available; however, prior year environmental compliance information is accessible in past versions of our Report on Sustainability. ABOUT OUR REPORT b. Environmental non-compliance data aligns with our Risk Matrix (defined by Suncor) and guiding principles for managing risk and reflects at minimum an event triggering a regulatory exceedance or non-compliance, resulting in a regulatory investigation and administrative actions and/or more stringent penalties imposed on Suncor. STRATEGY AND c. Environmental regulatory fines also align to our Risk Matrix, and reflect financial penalties levied by the Regulator or the Courts and paid in the reporting year as a GOVERNANCE result of a regulatory non-compliance or exceedance. Includes administrative penalties, but not enforcement tickets. d. Significant spills reflect unplanned or accidental release of material whose impact off property takes longer than 7 months to remediate, or on property one year or more OUR BUSINESS to remediate or reclaim. These could be into the environment or into a location that does not usually contain the material, as specified by geographical regulation. e. Our enterprise wide environmental compliance metrics help identify incidents with our the greatest environmental and regulatory risk. The intent of these metrics is to learn from environmental incidents in order to prevent reoccurrence and promote the consistent enterprise-wide application of appropriate mitigations. CLIMATE CHANGE f. The sum of fines paid during the reporting period was due to Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment (CDPHE) Compliance Advisory documenting the 2018 Annual Air Program Inspection findings. ENVIRONMENT 12 Notes on health and safety SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a. Since 2014, health and safety data reported for Upstream Terra Nova represents our E&P business segment, including North America Onshore. This reflects the significant divestments in our conventional natural gas business since 2013. b. Since 2014, Downstream Refining & Supply health and safety data includes our St. Clair ethanol plant. Our U.S. operations use the Occupational Health and Safety INNOVATION Administration (OSHA) definitions to classify their injuries, which differ slightly from Canadian standards. c. Lost time injury is a work related injury that results in lost days from work. Fatalities are included in lost time injuries. Frequency is calculated as the number of lost PERFORMANCE DATA time injuries multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full time for one year) divided by the actual exposure hours. This tells us how many workers who are injured for every 100. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. APPENDICES d. Recordable injury frequency is the number of recordable injuries (including medical treatment, restricted work access and lost time) multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full time divided by the actual exposure hours). This tells us how many people are injured for every 100 workers in a calendar year. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. e. Beginning in 2018, the health and safety data reflects the new regional organizational structure for Suncor’s operations in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB). This now reflects health and safety data for Suncor’s Fort Hills Operations and the Regional Services organization: a team which provides support services to Suncor’s assets in the RMWB. f. Contractors refer to any organization, company or individual who provides goods and/or services to Suncor. g. Fatalities are reported for employees and contractors (excluding prime contractors). The prime contractor for a work site is (a) the contractor, employer or other person who enters into an agreement with the owner of the work site to be the prime contractor, or (b) if no agreement has been made or if no agreement is in force, the owner of the work site. Prime contractors have full care, custody and control meaning they manage their own work and are responsible for maintaining safe working environments. Tragically 3 employees and two prime contractors were fatally injured in 2014. In 2017, a contract worker was fatally injured when inside an excavation. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 159 TABLE OF CONTENTS 13 Notes on workforce a. New employee hires are any externally hired regular full-time or part-time employee whose permanent start date falls within the reporting period. CEO MESSAGE b. Employee turnover is the percentage of employees who leave Suncor under any circumstance in the reporting year. Only terminations are included for full-time and part-time employees. ABOUT OUR REPORT c. Suncor employees include regular full-time, regular part-time, students, casuals or temporary employees. Leaves, other than long-term disability, such as maternity, paternity, personal leave, as well as short-term disabilities, are considered active and are included. d. Beginning in January 2015, as part of an overall cost management program that began in 2014 accelerated by a low crude price environment, Suncor reduced the STRATEGY AND size of our workforce primarily through our contract workforce, not backfilling attrition for non-critical positions, and employee reductions. GOVERNANCE e. Long-term contractors are individual workers engaged as a Contractor to support short-term, variable work. OUR BUSINESS f. Unionized workforce data is only applicable in areas where there is a unionized environment. g. Certain operating regions prohibit collecting information on gender; therefore diversity data may not be reflective of our entire workforce due to data availability. Workforce diversity is calculated based on information provided voluntarily by employees. Indicators referring to ethnicity and disability reflect only those employees CLIMATE CHANGE who consented to release of this information. h. Management is classified as front-line leaders, mid-level leaders, members of the management committee or members of the corporate committee. ENVIRONMENT 14 Notes on economic performance SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a. Select economic figures have been calculated according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For complete disclosure of our financial information, see our 2018 Annual Report. b. OS&G expenses are subject to historical restatements due to reclassifications within our income statement. Employee costs are reported in our Annual Report under INNOVATION Operating, Selling & General and include salaries, benefits and share-based compensation. Typically a portion of employee costs are capitalized as part of fixed assets. c. Royalties and taxes paid include monies remitted to government, including income, property, and other taxes, Crown royalties, and lease bonuses and rentals. PERFORMANCE DATA d. Under GRI Standard 201-1, economic value retained reflects the direct economic value generated (revenues) minus economic value distributed (operating costs (including employee costs), taxes and royalties paid, distribution to shareholders and community investments). APPENDICES e. Capital and exploration expenditures includes capitalized interest. f. As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Any such contributions will continue to be disclosed in this report. g. Local goods and services spend reflects goods or services purchased in the area of operations. Suncor-wide spend excludes Syria and Libya. h. Indigenous businesses include those with a minimum of 51% ownership by Indigenous individuals or organizations. i. Values reported for Indigenous supplier revenues earned for 2013 include GST. Beginning in 2014, values reported reflect amounts captured in our enterprise software data management system, minus 5% GST. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix A: Performance data notes | 160 TABLE OF CONTENTS j. Inclusion of contracts in the reporting year is based on the payment date, not the date of services rendered. k. Indigenous supplier spend includes Canadian-wide spend across Suncor’s operations. CEO MESSAGE l. In prior years, the Enterprise Value was mistakenly reported as Market Capitalization, with the difference between the two being that Enterprise Value includes debt and deducts cash and cash equivalents. Going forward, we will continue to report the Enterprise Value. For disclosure on Market Capitalization, see our 2018 Annual Report. ABOUT OUR REPORT 15 Notes on community investments STRATEGY AND a. Since 2014, values for community investments have been calculated by Suncor and the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF). The SEF is audited annually by GOVERNANCE PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). b. Value of Time Donations is reported by employees to Suncor voluntarily. The hours represent hours volunteered during working hours. OUR BUSINESS c. Value of Management Cost Donations from 2014-2018 is for the Suncor Energy Foundation only. d. External resources leveraged represents cash and in-kind value generated as a result of Suncor’s involvement, but which is not a cost to the company (e.g. employee CLIMATE CHANGE contributions through our SunCares employee programs, food donations, and matching donations from other funders). e. The SEF is limited to providing donations to registered Canadian charitable organizations, and Suncor’s contribution to SEF represents donations, operating budget and appropriate allocations to a reserve fund which protects multi-year commitments going forward. Charitable contributions to the community made by the SEF are ENVIRONMENT included in the disbursement values shown by funding priority. f. Suncor launched a new SunCares employee program in 2017, and prior year data is not available. Corporate donations include corporate rewards, grants and the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY value of volunteer time during work hours. Employee personal donations include employee and retiree donations and donations made through the public SunCares Community Impact Portal. INNOVATION g. In 2018, Suncor community investment and the SEF refreshed their strategy with a focus on three new priorities for funding – Energy Future, Indigenous Peoples and Community Resilience. 2018 data represents these new funding priorities. PERFORMANCE DATA APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix B: Independent assurance statement | 161 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX B: INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT CEO MESSAGE Ernst & Young LLP Tel: +1 403-290-4100 ABOUT OUR REPORT Calgary City Centre Web: www.ey.com 2200 – 215 2nd Street SW Calgary, Alberta Canada T2P 1M4 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS Independent Assurance Statement INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Board of Directors and Management of Suncor Energy Services Inc. (Suncor) CLIMATE CHANGE To the Board of Directors and Management of Suncor Energy Services Inc. (Suncor) Scope of our Engagement Our responsibilities included providing limited assurance over a selection of performance indicators as presented in Suncor’s 2019 Report on Sustainability (the Report). ENVIRONMENT Scope of our Engagement Subject Matter Our responsibilities included providing limited assurance over a selection of performance indicators as presented in SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We have performed Suncor’s limitedon 2019 Report assurance procedures Sustainability (the the following quantitative performance indicators as presented in the respective sections of the Report and forReport). the overall performance data tables for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the Subject Matter). Unless otherwise noted, the indicators were assured on a corporateSubject Matter wide basis. INNOVATION • Total upstream and downstream production (53.95 million m3/year) We have performed limited assurance procedures for the following quantitative performance indicators as presented in Upstream •the processed respective volumes sections andReport of the net production and the (34.19 million overall m3 OE/year) data tables for the year ended December 31, 2018 performance PERFORMANCE DATA •(the Subject Matter). Downstream Unless net production (26.92 million mnoted, otherwise 3 refinedthe indicators were assured on a corporate-wide basis. product/year) 3 •►Greenhouse Total upstream Gas (GHG) and downstream Scope (21,990(53.95 production 1 and 2 emissions thousand tonnesmCO million /year) 2 e) APPENDICES 3 •►GHG Upstream emissions processed volumes intensity (0.39 tonnes CO ande/m 2 3 production (34.19 million m net) OE/year) 3 ► Downstream net production (26.92 million m refined product/year) • Water withdrawal (144.69 million m3) ► Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Scope 1 and 2 emissions (21,990 thousand tonnes CO2e) • Water withdrawal intensity (2.68 m3/m3) 3 ► GHG emissions intensity (0.39 tonnes CO2e/m ) •►Employee 3 Waterand Contractor(144.69 withdrawal fatalities million (0 fatalities) m) 3 3 •►Total Water withdrawal land disturbed intensity (Oil Sands m /m (2.68only) Base plant ) cumulative hectares) (22,224 •►Total Employee and Contractor land reclaimed (Oil Sands Base fatalities plant only) fatalities) (0 (2,324 cumulative hectares) ► Total land disturbed (Oil Sands Base plant only) (22,224 cumulative hectares) ► Total land reclaimed (Oil Sands Base plant only) (2,324 cumulative hectares) Criteria Suncor has prepared its performance data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and internally developed criteria (the Criteria). SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix B: Independent assurance statement | 162 TABLE OF CONTENTS Criteria Suncor has prepared its performance data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and internally developed criteria (the Criteria). CEO MESSAGE Suncor Management Responsibilities ABOUT OUR REPORT The Report was prepared by the management of Suncor, who is responsible for the assertions, statements, and claims made therein including the assertions we have been engaged to provide limited assurance over, collection, quantification and presentation of the performance indicators and the criteria used in determining that the information is appropriate for the purpose of disclosure in the Report. In addition, management is responsible for maintaining adequate records and internal controls STRATEGY AND that are designed to support the reporting process. GOVERNANCE Our Responsibilities OUR BUSINESS Our limited assurance procedures have been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. CLIMATE CHANGE Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion. The procedures conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be required in a reasonable assurance engagement and, accordingly, we do not express a reasonable level of assurance. While we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on ENVIRONMENT internal controls and, accordingly, we express no conclusions thereon. This assurance statement has been prepared for Suncor for the purpose of assisting management in determining whether the Subject Matter is in accordance with the Criteria and for no other purpose. Our assurance statement is made solely to Suncor in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY responsibility to anyone other than Suncor for our work, or for the conclusions we have reached in this assurance statement. INNOVATION Assurance procedures We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information and explanations considered necessary in relation to the above scope. Our assurance procedures included but were not limited to: PERFORMANCE DATA • Interviewing relevant personnel at the head office and at various sites to understand data management processes related to the selected performance indicators. • Checking the accuracy of calculations performed – on a test basis – primarily through inquiry, variance analysis and performance of re-calculations. APPENDICES • Checking that data and statements have been correctly transcribed from the corporate system into the Report. • Assessing risk of material misstatement due to fraud or errors relating to the selected performance indicators. • Evaluating the overall presentation of the Report, including the consistency of the Subject Matter. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix B: Independent assurance statement | 163 TABLE OF CONTENTS Limitations of our Work Performed Our scope of work did not include expressing conclusions in relation to: CEO MESSAGE • The materiality, completeness or accuracy of data sets or information relating to areas other than the Subject Matter, and any site-specific information. • Information reported outside of the Report. ABOUT OUR REPORT • Management’s forward looking statements. • Any comparisons made by Suncor against historical data. STRATEGY AND • The appropriateness of definitions for internally developed criteria. GOVERNANCE Independence and competency statement OUR BUSINESS In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the applicable requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). CLIMATE CHANGE Our Conclusion Based on our procedures for this limited assurance engagement as outlined above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter is ENVIRONMENT not, in all material respects, reported in accordance with the relevant criteria. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Ernst & Young LLP INNOVATION Calgary, Canada PERFORMANCE DATA July 17, 2019 APPENDICES SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix C: Advisories | 164 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX C: ADVISORIES CEO MESSAGE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Suncor’s 2019 Report on Sustainability contains certain forward-looking statements and forward-looking information (collectively, “forward-looking statements”) within ABOUT OUR REPORT the meaning of applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements in Suncor’s 2019 Report on Sustainability include references to: that the integrated pillars of sustainability will continue to guide Suncor as it embarks on the next phase of its evolution and that Suncor will harness the possibilities of innovation, technology and digital to become better at what it does; that Suncor will be guided by its purpose, the expected requirements of doing so and that doing so STRATEGY AND will guide Suncor to deliver economic prosperity, improved social well-being and healthy environment for today and tomorrow; the belief Suncor must foster a GOVERNANCE workplace culture where everyone is inspired to be and give their best in order to unleash the full potential of Suncor’s people and the steps Suncor will take to create such a workplace; the belief that through Suncor 4.0, Suncor will be able to stay ahead of the curve relating to the changing energy and business landscape; the belief OUR BUSINESS that Suncor has an important role to play in the transformation of the energy system towards a low carbon economy and that innovation will be critical to its success; that Suncor will continue to innovate at an accelerated level to improve environmental performance and address complex social challenges; statements about Suncor’s social goal, including the expectation that Suncor will continue to expand its efforts in support of the goal and the manners in which it will do so and the factors that CLIMATE CHANGE will allow Suncor to achieve this goal; statements regarding Suncor’s goal to decrease overall GHG emissions intensity of its production of oil and petroleum products by 30% by 2030, including that Suncor can see a realistic path to achieving such goal, the areas of focus to achieve this goal, the factors that will allow Suncor to meet this goal and that the goal will move Suncor toward ultimately bending the curve on the company’s absolute GHG emissions; the potential impact of in situ technology on ENVIRONMENT GHG emissions from operations and the timing of such technologies; that technological advances will help Canada earn the trust needed to be the progressive supplier of choice to the global community; the belief that Canadian energy is some of the most responsible energy on the planet and that the Canada oil and gas industry will remain part of the energy mix; Suncor’s plan to remain resilient and thrive in a low carbon economy and the steps it will take to do so, including through investments in SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY technology development and deployment; Suncor’s belief that a ‘zero incident’ workplace is achievable; the expected benefits from the WTDC being operational; the impacts of properly managing, or failing to properly manage, our priorities (capital discipline, operational excellence, long-term profitable growth and safety) as well as environmental and/or social issues; the belief that Suncor’s focus on operational excellence will help unlock the full value of its resources; that Suncor’s flexible business INNOVATION model will allow it to capture the shift in value between operating segments during periods of market volatility and limit its exposure to crude differentials; that the company’s midstream assets and pipeline commitments will provide operational flexibility to Suncor; that Suncor will be an energy supplier of choice for decades to PERFORMANCE DATA come; that Suncor will become even better at scenario-planning and the expected benefits therefrom; that Suncor can continue to generate strong shareholder value while responsibly producing the energy the world needs; Suncor’s intention to create a new long-term water goal; Suncor’s support of the United Nations SDGs and the actions Suncor will take in connection therewith; expectations for renewable power development, including its potential to contribute to both Suncor’s GHG and social APPENDICES goal, the manner and areas in which Suncor will proceed with such projects including the Forty Mile Wind Power Project, the effect technology will have in the renewables area and the impacts of such development; the potential impact of blending ethanol into gasoline on CO2 emissions; the expected benefits of OEMS; the impact our governance framework has on raising the bar on sustainable project development and the expected benefits of integrating sustainability into our process for developing physical assets; the anticipated benefits from communication with government officials and other stakeholders; the belief that a carbon price signal that incents the right behaviour is effective policy to address the Canadian oil and gas industry’s GHG emissions; the requirements to achieve a unified Canadian energy vision for 2050; statements regarding current and future government regulations regarding GHG emissions and the expected impacts thereof; the belief that the major pipeline projects are critical and will bring responsibly developed Canadian crude oil to new and expanded markets; that construction on the Enbridge Line 3 replacement will commence and that the line will go into service in 2020; the expectation that Suncor will continue to work with stakeholders with respect to market access objectives; statements about Suncor’s long-term goal with respect to inclusion and diversity, including the belief that breaking down barriers will help Suncor improve the way it works together to achieve goals and the belief that a feeling of inclusion will positively contribute to strong employee engagement and business performance; the belief that additional disclosure about the resilience of our business strategy benefits shareholders and stakeholders; that Suncor will continue to be an active partner as the world works to solve this energy and climate dilemma and that Suncor will play an important role investing in technology and innovation to reduce GHG emissions and continue to collaborate with others to help us all move toward a low carbon future; the belief that Suncor and Canada are uniquely positioned to continue to deliver the energy the world needs; the expectation that all types of energy will be needed and no single solution or pathway will meet the challenge and SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix C: Advisories | 165 TABLE OF CONTENTS the reasons for such beliefs; the belief that the amount of energy the world will require will continue to increase and in order to avoid the worst impacts of climate change, collectively the world will have to tackle the emissions challenge associated with that growth by taking urgent action; expectations regarding demand for energy, oil, natural gas, distillates, gasoline, biofuels, diesel and other energy sources as well as the reasons for such expectations; the belief that the number of CEO MESSAGE companies reporting on climate risk will continue growing; that Suncor will continue to take steps to develop a 2°C scenario that looks beyond 2040 to include in its business strategy review and will provide and update on this process next year; the expected requirements to achieve the aims and objectives of the Paris Agreement; the belief that technology and energy innovation has the potential to move emissions reduction from incremental to step change improvement; the belief that Suncor will ABOUT OUR REPORT continue to meet the demand for liquid fuels while reducing carbon intensity and the reason for such belief; the belief that Suncor plans effectively for potential future business environments; expectations relating to increasing low carbon power generation capacity and that it will support our own needs while reducing the carbon intensity of Alberta’s power grid; the belief that a broad-based price on carbon can be a key market mechanism to lower emissions; statements about the TCFD, STRATEGY AND including the expected benefits from disclosure of climate-related financial information and that global context is required to provide a complete picture of operational GOVERNANCE performance, strategic planning and risk management; statements about Fort Hills, including the expectation that GHG intensity will decline further as the facility operates at steady state design capacity and that the less carbon intensive paraffinic froth treatment will result in a GHG intensity of production roughly on par with the OUR BUSINESS average crude refined in the U.S.; estimates of Suncor’s future GHG emissions and emissions intensity; statements about the potential opportunity to develop a utility-scale photovoltaic facility in Alberta; expectations relating to technology and the expected impacts and benefits therefrom, including, amongst others, technology being designed, developed or tested by Suncor and its partners such as in situ extraction technologies, SAGD, Solvent+, EASETM, ESEISHTM, ES-SAGD, non-aqueous CLIMATE CHANGE extraction, thermal-solvent technologies, solvent-only technologies, steam-solvent technologies, high temperature reverse osmosis produced water treatment, mild thermal cracker technology, well-bore technologies, novel subsurface technologies, alternative gas co-injection, froth treatment tailings, drone technology, in situ demonstration facility, SAGD LITE, well-bore enhancements, WTDC, permanent aquatic storage solution, demonstration pit lake, paraffinic froth treatment, autonomous ENVIRONMENT haulage systems, Nikanotee Fen and wastewater treatment membrane ultrafiltration; the belief that the solution to lowering the carbon intensity of producing bitumen and improve cost competitiveness will be a hybrid of the technologies we’re progressing and that some of these technologies could be applied to existing facilities or new growth facilities which would, if successful, significantly reduce our GHG emissions intensity; Suncor’s base case energy outlook, including the trends that are SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY incorporated therein; long-term energy future scenarios used to test Suncor’s business and growth strategy, the trends that shape them and the expected impact of the scenarios on the energy markets generally and Suncor specifically; opportunities for advancing energy efficiency involving Syncrude; the expectation that oil sands facilities, once operating, will last 40 plus years with a steady output and can continue to operate with low operating costs and sustaining capital requirements and INNOVATION provides a unique opportunity to advance technologies to reduce emissions; expectations for fleet emissions and internal combustion engines in the future; expectations relating to hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles; statements regarding the construction and operation of a coast-to-coast electric vehicle fast-charging network, PERFORMANCE DATA including that it will enable us to learn more about this emerging market while continuing to evaluate options and respond to the evolving needs of customers, the timing of the project and the speed in which charges will be able to be delivered; that opportunities are created due to the requirement for steam at crude oil extraction and processing facilities; the impact of scale on renewable power and the belief that equipping wind and solar sites with battery storage could further improve APPENDICES effectiveness; statements about the replacement of coke-fired boilers with cogeneration units, including the expected amount of electricity which will be exported to the provincial grid, the timing associated with this project and the factors expected to impact whether or not this project is sanctioned; the belief that integrating sustainability into our supply chain will act as a driver of change, and the processes that will be used to foster the integration; the expected impact of Canadian climate change regulations and the expectations about the actions and areas of focus of governments around the world as it relates to the transition to a lower carbon system; Suncor’s facility resilience to extreme weather events, including temperature extremes, hurricanes and icebergs and precipitation, droughts and wildfires including the expected impact of Suncor’s mitigation steps to such events; the estimated impact of our carbon price outlook; that Suncor will continue to explore opportunities to further reduce water use; the expectation that the closed loop system at Lake Miwasin will allow water to be naturally released to the environment; statements about COSIA, including the expectation that COSIA will help reduce the regional, operational footprint and better protect natural water resources as well as improve tailings management, its goal of reducing its operational footprint intensity by 10% by 2022; that a high temperature membrane plant could reduce the energy required and infrastructure for the SAGD water treatment process; that another tailings pond will be removed from Base plant operations in the next few years because of PASS technology; the belief that our approach to tailings management will continue to evolve; statements about coke capping technology, including its expected benefits; the expectation that the ratio of land being disturbed by development will decline as reclamation continues to increase; the belief that the Boreal Habitat Conservation Initiative will ensure the larger boreal forest ecosystem will remain undisturbed and biodiversity will be preserved; statements about the SEF and the benefits Suncor expects SEF to deliver; the belief that digital technology will help improve the safety, productivity, reliability and environmental performance of our operations; the SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix C: Advisories | 166 TABLE OF CONTENTS expectation that downstream emissions associated with refining product will be reduced; the expected benefits from ongoing and future construction phases of the wastewater treatment facility at Commerce City; statements about Suncor’s downstream carbon reduction initiatives and their expected benefits; the anticipated benefits from digitization initiatives such as advanced analytics, remote sensing technologies and robotic process automation; CEO MESSAGE Some of the forward-looking statements and information may be identified by words like ‘‘expected’’, ‘‘anticipated’’, ‘‘will’’, ‘‘estimates’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘scheduled’’, ‘‘intended’’, ‘‘believes’’, ‘‘projected’’, ‘‘indicates’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘focus’’, ‘‘vision’’, “mission”, strategy”, ‘‘goal’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘proposed’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘objective’’, ‘‘continue’’, ABOUT OUR REPORT ‘‘should’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘aim’’, “strives”, “would”, “potential”, “committed”, “opportunity” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on Suncor’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions that were made by the company in light of information available at the time the statement was made and consider Suncor’s experience and its perception of historical trends, including expectations and assumptions STRATEGY AND concerning: the accuracy of reserves and resources estimates; commodity prices and interest and foreign exchange rates; the performance of assets and equipment; GOVERNANCE capital efficiencies and cost-savings; applicable laws and government policies, future production rates; the sufficiency of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the availability and cost of labour, services and infrastructure; the satisfaction by third parties of their obligations to Suncor; the development and OUR BUSINESS execution of projects; the receipt, in a timely manner, of regulatory and third-party approvals; assumptions relating to demand for oil, natural gas, distillates, gasoline, diesel and other energy sources; the development and performance of technology; population growth and dynamics; assumptions relating to long-term energy future scenarios; and Suncor’s carbon price outlook. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, CLIMATE CHANGE some that are similar to other oil and gas companies and some that are unique to Suncor. Suncor’s actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by its forward-looking statements, so readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on them. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that could influence the financial and operating performance of all of Suncor’s operating segments and activities include, but are ENVIRONMENT not limited to, changes in general economic, market and business conditions, such as commodity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates; fluctuations in supply and demand for Suncor’s products; the successful and timely implementation of capital projects, including growth projects and regulatory projects; risks SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY associated with the development and execution of Suncor’s projects and the commissioning and integration of new facilities; the possibility that completed maintenance activities may not improve operational performance or the output of related facilities; the risk that projects and initiatives intended to achieve cash flow growth and/or reductions in operating costs may not achieve the expected results in the time anticipated or at all; competitive actions of other companies, including increased INNOVATION competition from other oil and gas companies or from companies that provide alternative sources of energy; labour and material shortages; actions by government authorities, including the imposition or reassessment of, or changes to, taxes, fees, royalties, duties, tariffs, quotas and other government-imposed compliance costs and mandatory production curtailment orders and changes thereto; changes to laws and government policies that could impact the company’s business, including PERFORMANCE DATA environmental (including climate change), royalty and tax laws and policies; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the unavailability of, or outages to, third party infrastructure that could cause disruptions to production or prevent the company from being able to transport its products; the occurrence of a protracted operational outage, a major safety or environmental incident, or unexpected events such as fires (including APPENDICES forest fires), equipment failures and other similar events affecting Suncor or other parties whose operations or assets directly or indirectly affect Suncor; the potential for security breaches of Suncor’s information technology and infrastructure by malicious persons or entities, and the unavailability or failure of such systems to perform as anticipated as a result of such breaches; security threats and terrorist or activist activities; the risk that competing business objectives may exceed Suncor’s capacity to adopt and implement change; risks and uncertainties associated with obtaining regulatory, third-party and stakeholder approvals outside of Suncor’s control for the company’s operations, projects, initiatives and exploration and development activities and the satisfaction of any conditions to approvals; the potential for disruptions to operations and construction projects as a result of Suncor’s relationships with labour unions that represent employees at the company’s facilities; our ability to find new oil and gas reserves that can be developed economically; the accuracy of Suncor’s reserves, resources and future production estimates; market instability affecting Suncor’s ability to borrow in the capital debt markets at acceptable rates or to issue other securities at acceptable prices; maintaining an optimal debt to cash flow ratio; the success of the company’s risk management activities using derivatives and other financial instruments; the cost of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including climate change laws; risks relating to increased activism and public opposition to fossil fuels and oil sands; risks and uncertainties associated with closing a transaction for the purchase or sale of a business, asset or oil and gas property, including estimates of the final consideration to be paid or received, the ability of counterparties to comply with their obligations in a timely manner; risks associated with joint arrangements in which the company has an interest; risks associated with land claims and Aboriginal consultation requirements; the risk the company may be subject to litigation; the impact of technology and risks associated with developing SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix C: Advisories | 167 TABLE OF CONTENTS and implementing new technologies; and the accuracy of cost estimates, some of which are provided at the conceptual or other preliminary stage of projects and prior to commencement or conception of the detailed engineering that is needed to reduce the margin of error and increase the level of accuracy. The foregoing important factors are not exhaustive. CEO MESSAGE Suncor’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the first quarter of 2019 dated May 1, 2019 and its Annual Information Form, Form 40-F and Annual Report to Shareholders, each dated February 28, 2019, and other documents it files from time to time with securities regulatory authorities describe the risks, uncertainties, ABOUT OUR REPORT material assumptions and other factors that could influence actual results and such factors are incorporated herein by reference. Copies of these documents are available without charge from Suncor at 150 6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta T2P 3E3, by calling 1-800-558-9071, or by email request to info@suncor.com or by referring to the company’s profile on SEDAR at sedar.com or EDGAR at sec.gov. Except as required by applicable securities laws, Suncor disclaims any intention or obligation to STRATEGY AND publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. GOVERNANCE NON-GAAP MEASURES OUR BUSINESS Oil Sands operations cash operating costs per barrel is not prescribed by Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). For the year ended December 31, 2018, this non-GAAP measure is defined and reconciled in Suncor’s Annual Report to Shareholders for dated February 28, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2011, this non-GAAP measure is defined and reconciled in Suncor’s Management Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2013 dated February 24, 2014. CLIMATE CHANGE This non-GAAP measure does not have any standardized meaning and therefore is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. This non-GAAP measure is included because management uses the information to measure Oil Sands operating performance, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. ENVIRONMENT RECLAMATION SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Land is considered permanently reclaimed when landform construction and contouring, clean material placement (as required), reclamation material placement and revegetation has taken place. Land cannot be listed under permanent reclamation until revegetation has occurred which is reflective of the approved Reclamation and Revegetation Plans. Suncor has reclaimed a cumulative total of 48.2 hectares of wetlands and lakes. INNOVATION BOEs AND CONVERSIONS PERFORMANCE DATA Certain natural gas volumes have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (boe) on the basis of one barrel to six thousand cubic feet. Any figure presented in boe may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A conversion ratio of one barrel of crude oil or natural gas liquids to six thousand cubic feet of natural gas is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not necessarily represent a value equivalency at the wellhead. Given that the value APPENDICES ratio based on the current price of crude oil as compared to natural gas is significantly different from the energy equivalency of 6:1, utilizing a conversion on a 6:1 basis may be misleading as an indication of value. Cubic metres of oil equivalent and are calculated on the basis of one boe to 0.159 standard cubic metres. As cubic metres of oil equivalent are based on a conversion involving boe, all values are subject to the same limitations as boe, noted above. SUNCOR References to “Suncor”, “we”, “our” and “the company” in Suncor’s 2019 Report on Sustainability mean Suncor Energy Inc., its subsidiaries, partnerships and interests in associates and jointly controlled entities, unless the context otherwise requires. PARTNERSHIPS The use of “partnership” throughout Suncor’s 2019 Report on Sustainability does not necessarily mean a partnership in the legal context. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 168 TABLE OF CONTENTS APPENDIX D: GRI AND SASB CEO MESSAGE GRI CONTENT INDEX This Report on Sustainability has been prepared in accordance with the Core This index describes: ABOUT OUR REPORT option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards with additional use of • which GRI Standards and material topics have been covered in this report the GRI’s Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. We’ve also integrated our commitment and implementation of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles • where to find additional information in this report, other public disclosures, STRATEGY AND throughout the report, and provided corresponding linkages to principles or omissions GOVERNANCE addressed in the table below. • standards that have been externally assured OUR BUSINESS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 CLIMATE CHANGE N/A Principles for defining report content and quality, Throughout this report, we have adhered to the following principles: and the process for sustainability reporting using the • stakeholder inclusiveness GRI Standards. • sustainability context ENVIRONMENT • materiality • completeness • accuracy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • balance • comparability • reliability INNOVATION • timeliness GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 PERFORMANCE DATA Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Suncor Energy Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Operations summary (p. 35) APPENDICES 102-3 Location of headquarters Calgary, Alberta (Canada) 102-4 Location of operations Operations summary (p. 35) 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 Annual Information Form (p. 5) 102-6 Markets served Operations summary (p. 35) 102-7 Scale of the organization Operations summary (p. 35) Performance data (p. 145) 2018 Annual Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Performance data – workforce (p. 145) 6 102-9 Supply chain Economic impact (p. 37) 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting year to the Performance data (p. 145) organization and its supply chain 2018 Annual Report (pp. 27–29) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 169 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach About Suncor (p.11) 7 CEO MESSAGE 102-12 External initiatives Biodiversity (p. 97) Policy engagement (p. 27) ABOUT OUR REPORT Collaboration (p. 140) 102-13 Membership of associations Lobbying and disclosure (p. 32) Strategy STRATEGY AND 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO message (p. 3) GOVERNANCE 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Corporate governance (p. 23) Economic impact (p. 37) OUR BUSINESS Performance data (p. 145) Risk management (p. 25) CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change (p. 53) Sustainability goals (p. 15) ENVIRONMENT Suncor’s Climate Report Ethics and integrity SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Ethical business conduct (p. 43) 1, 2, 6, 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical business conduct (p. 43) 1, 2, 10 INNOVATION Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance (p. 23) Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary of our 2019 Management Proxy Circular PERFORMANCE DATA 102-19 Delegating authority Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019; (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. B-8 to B-9) APPENDICES Additionally, a Strategic Issues Management Process is in place to effectively manage our strategic issues. The process identifies, monitors and manages key environmental, economic and social issues most critical to our business and our external stakeholders and sets up a governance system to oversee the management of the issues. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, We have several senior leadership positions whose roles include sustainability environmental, and social topics oversight in the organization, including but not limited to: • chief sustainability officer (directly reports to the CEO) • general manager, sustainability • general manager, Indigenous & community relations 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, For additional information about stakeholder feedback with our Board of Directors, and social topics refer to our 2019 Management Proxy Circular (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Stakeholder Communications and Shareholder Engagement p. B-7 to B-8) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 170 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2019 (Directors and its committees executive officers, pp. 72–76) CEO MESSAGE 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule C: Position description for independent board chair) ABOUT OUR REPORT 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary, pp. B2 to B3), (Schedule C: Position description for independent board chair, p. C-1) and (Schedule E: Board Terms of Reference, p. E-3) STRATEGY AND 102-25 Conflicts of interest Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate 10 GOVERNANCE Governance Summary – Conflicts of Interest, pp. B-14 to B-15) 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule E: Board Terms of 1, 7, 8 OUR BUSINESS purpose, values, and strategy Reference – Part IV: Mandate of the Board of Directors, pp. E-4 to E-5) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Orientation and Continuing Education, pp. B-12 to B-13) CLIMATE CHANGE Additionally, our Board of Directors receive periodic reports from our Chief Sustainability Officer. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development committee of the board also receives quarterly updates and stewardship on our ENVIRONMENT priority sustainability issues. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance The board completes an annual self-evaluation. For details, see the Suncor Energy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Annual Evaluation Process, pp. B-5 to B-6) Specific information about topics reviewed and action plans that are developed are INNOVATION confidential and not reported. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental The board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 PERFORMANCE DATA and social impacts see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. B-8 to B-9) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes The board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 APPENDICES see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. B-8 to B-9) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics The board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10 see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. B-8 to B-9) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability Our Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, review and approve this report prior to publication. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Issues of concern are elevated through the Strategic Issues Management Process to a 1, 10 senior leadership governance body. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development committee of the board also reviews the effectiveness to which we achieve objectives pertaining to the environment, health, safety and sustainable development. This committee also receives a quarterly update and stewardship on our priority sustainability issues. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 171 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Throughout 2018, key issues remained focused on climate change, water and engagement activities with local stakeholders and Indigenous communities. In depth CEO MESSAGE discussions, goal setting and initiatives to address these issues have been ongoing and will continue to evolve. ABOUT OUR REPORT 102-35 Remuneration policies For more information, see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 10 (Board of Directors Compensation and Executive Compensation, pp. 14–52) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Board of Directors 10 STRATEGY AND Compensation and Executive Compensation, pp. 14–52) GOVERNANCE 102-37 Stakeholders involved in remuneration Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2019 (Advisory Vote on Approach to Executive Compensation, p. 13) OUR BUSINESS Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder and Indigenous relations (p. 104) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Performance data – workforce (p. 145) 1, 3 CLIMATE CHANGE 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder and Indigenous relations (p. 104) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About our report (p. 6) ENVIRONMENT Stakeholder and Indigenous relations (p. 104) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About our report (p. 6) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholder and Indigenous relations (p. 104) Climate change (p. 53) INNOVATION Personal and process safety (p. 41) Water performance and stewardship (p. 85) PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor’s Climate Report Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Report 2018, pp. 26–28 APPENDICES For more information about the entities not covered in this report, refer to the performance data page(s). 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About our report (p. 6) 102-47 List of material topics About our report (p. 6) 102-48 Restatements of information Re-statements of information and associated justifications provided in earlier reports can be found in the notes supporting our performance data table. 102-49 Changes in reporting Significant changes from previous reporting periods in scope, boundary or measurement methods can be found in the notes supporting our performance data table. 102-50 Reporting period January 1 – December 31, 2018 (unless otherwise stated) 102-51 Date of most recent report July, 2018 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 172 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual CEO MESSAGE 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1-866-SUNCOR-1 (1-866-786-2671) or email us at sustainability@suncor.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI Standards ABOUT OUR REPORT 102-55 GRI Content Index The GRI content index as available for download and as an appendix to Suncor’s Report on Sustainability. STRATEGY AND 102-56 External assurance An independent third-party has provided assurance on selected key performance GOVERNANCE indicators for our Report on Sustainability. The assurance report and indicators that were reviewed can be found on the performance data page. GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 OUR BUSINESS 103-1 Management approach for material topics Our management approach to material sustainability priorities in this 2019 Report 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 103-2 on Sustainability are presented in the following sections: CLIMATE CHANGE 103-3 CEO message (p. 3) Corporate governance (p. 23) Policy engagement (p. 27) ENVIRONMENT Economic impact (p. 37) Personal and process safety (p. 41) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Ethical business conduct (p. 43) Inclusion and diversity (p. 46) INNOVATION Climate change (p. 53) Water performance and stewardship (p. 85) PERFORMANCE DATA Tailings management (p. 88) Air quality (p. 82) APPENDICES Land and reclamation (p. 92) Biodiversity (p. 97) Stakeholder and Indigenous relations (p. 104) Suncor’s Climate Report In 2018, 19 grievances mostly related to noise and environmental impacts were documented through our formal grievance mechanism. All of the grievances have been addressed and many have been resolved. Although all have been addressed, some may still be in progress and on their way to being resolved. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 173 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) GRI 200: TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS – ECONOMIC GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 CEO MESSAGE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance data (p. 145) 10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and CEO message (p. 3) 7 ABOUT OUR REPORT opportunities due to climate change Climate change (p. 53) Suncor’s Climate Report STRATEGY AND Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C2) GOVERNANCE 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Report 2018 (pp. 110–114) retirement plans OUR BUSINESS 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Federal (Canada) and Provincial Government funding is publicly reported and available through the Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada. For more information about our public policy participation, visit the following pages: CLIMATE CHANGE Policy engagement (p. 27) Lobbying and disclosure (p. 32) ENVIRONMENT GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Economic impact (p. 37) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Community investment (p. 108) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic impact (p. 37) INNOVATION Partnering with Indigenous businesses (p. 120) GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Economic impact (p. 37) 10 PERFORMANCE DATA Performance data (p. 145) GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 APPENDICES 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethical business conduct (p. 43) Risks related to bribery and corruption related to our foreign operations can be found in our Annual Information Form dated February 28, 2019 (p. 63). 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Ethical business conduct (p. 43) policies and procedures Training specific to the prevention of improper payments is provided on a targeted basis to certain individuals in high-risk jobs and jurisdictions. Certain third party business associates are also provided with anti-corruption training, based on assessed risk. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 174 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 2016 CEO MESSAGE 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Ethical business conduct (p. 43) and monopoly practices No regulatory enforcement actions were initiated for anti-competitive conduct against Suncor in 2018. ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor’s business code of conduct provides that Suncor shall in the conduct of its business (a) avoid all practices and activities that are a violation of any provision of competition law, and (b) support and encourage the maintenance of a STRATEGY AND competitive economy. GOVERNANCE GRI 300: TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS – ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 302: Energy 2016 OUR BUSINESS 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8 Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C8) CLIMATE CHANGE 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Performance data (p. 145) 8 Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C8) ENVIRONMENT 302-3 Energy intensity Performance data (p. 145) 8, 9 Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C8) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Performance data (p. 145) 8, 9 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8 INNOVATION 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Performance data (p. 145) 8, 9 of water Water performance and stewardship (p. 85) PERFORMANCE DATA Suncor’s 2019 CDP Water Response (W1) 303-3 Water recycled and reused Performance data (p. 145) 8 APPENDICES Water performance and stewardship (p. 85) GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites in proximity to protected areas and Performance data (p. 145) 8 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity (p. 97) 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services Performance data (p. 145) 8 on biodiversity Biodiversity (p. 97) 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Performance data (p. 145) 8 Land and reclamation (p. 92) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 175 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) GRI 305: Emissions 2016 CEO MESSAGE 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8, 9 Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C6) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8, 9 ABOUT OUR REPORT Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C6) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C6) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8, 9 Suncor’s 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C6) OUR BUSINESS 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8, 9 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Performance data (p. 145) 7, 8 CLIMATE CHANGE significant air emissions Air quality (p. 82) GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 ENVIRONMENT 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance data (p. 145) 8 Water effluent quality is monitored and reported on. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Unplanned water discharges are rare. We currently report the number of unplanned water discharge events as well as exceedances in our discharge water quality. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance data (p. 145) 8 INNOVATION 306-3 Significant spills Performance data (p. 145) 8 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ Biodiversity (p. 97) PERFORMANCE DATA or runoff Tailings management (p. 88) Water performance and stewardship (p. 85) APPENDICES GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Performance data (p. 145) 8 and regulations GRI 400: TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS – SOCIAL GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint managementSuncor’s workforce at Oil Sands, In Situ, Exploration & Production and Refining & 1, 3 worker health and safety committees Marketing that include operations are represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. These committees address health and safety concerns and provide guidance on required next steps. 403-2 Types and rates of injury and number of workPersonal and process safety (p. 41) 1 related fatalities Performance data (p. 145) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 176 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Standards Description Response, link or additional information UNGC principle(s) GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 CEO MESSAGE 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Inclusion and diversity (p. 46) Performance data (p. 145) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Performance data (p. 145) 1, 6 ABOUT OUR REPORT to men GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous peoples 2016 STRATEGY AND 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of In 2018, Suncor did not have any formal grievances reported in regard to incidents of 1, 2 GOVERNANCE indigenous peoples violations involving Indigenous Peoples. Suncor works with Indigenous communities to address issues and concerns related to the environmental and social impacts associated with our operations. OUR BUSINESS GRI 413: Local communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Stakeholder and Indigenous engagement (p. 104) CLIMATE CHANGE assessments and development programs Partnering with Indigenous businesses (p. 120) GRI 415: Public policy 2016 ENVIRONMENT 415-1 Political contributions Lobbying and disclosure (p. 32) 10 GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the No material fines or non-monetary sanctions were levied on Suncor in 2018 for SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY social and economic area non-compliance with laws and regulations. GRI SECTOR SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES INNOVATION Oil and Gas Sector Specific Disclosures OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves Performance data (p. 145) and production PERFORMANCE DATA OG2 Renewable energy investment Renewables (p. 19) 8, 9 OG3 Renewable energy generation Performance data (p. 145) 8, 9 APPENDICES OG4 Biodiversity assessment and monitoring Biodiversity (p. 97) OG5 Formation or produced water Performance data (p. 145) OG6 Flaring and venting Air quality (p. 82) 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C7) We do not report vented gas. Our operational practices help to limit venting, such as vapour recovery units that are used on some of our storage tanks. All our tanks comply with Environmental Guidelines for Controlling Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds from Aboveground Storage Tanks, CCME, PN1180, as amended or Alberta Energy Regulator Directive 055, where applicable. OG7 Drilling waste Performance data (p. 145) OG8 Fuel content Performance data (p. 145) OG13 Process safety events Personal and process safety (p. 41) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 177 TABLE OF CONTENTS SASB TABLE New this year, we’ve included a table available for download containing topics and issues identified by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) as the most relevant CEO MESSAGE to long-term value creation for the industry we operate in. We value disclosure as a foundational activity for investor engagement and support efforts which seek to drive consistency and comparability of sustainability performance data. Due to the integrated nature of our business, we’ve elected to refer to several SASB Standards including Metals and Mining, Oil & Gas – Exploration & Production, and Oil & Gas – Refining & Marketing. Any values that are classified within the Midstream categorization will be included ABOUT OUR REPORT within the Refining & Marketing section. We’ll continue to evaluate additional SASB metrics for potential disclosure in future reports. Some responses will contain a page number/section that relates to specific content within the 2019 Report on Sustainability which will supply useful information in gathering a full understanding of the company. STRATEGY AND SASB Code Description Response, link or additional information GOVERNANCE Greenhouse Gas Emissions EM-EP-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions 20,576,955 tonnes CO2e EM-RM-110a.1 (2) Percentage methane 2% OUR BUSINESS EM-MM-110a.1 (3) Percentage covered under emission-limiting regulations 0% No emission-limiting regulations were imposed in 2018. Provincial and federal CLIMATE CHANGE methane regulations are effective in 2019. Additional information: ENVIRONMENT • Suncor 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C7) EM-EP-110a.2 Breakdown of gross global Scope 1 emissions: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (1) flared hydrocarbons 551,147 tonnes CO2e (2) other combustion 16,689,685 tonnes CO2e (3) process emissions 1,498,740 tonnes CO2e INNOVATION (4) other vented emissions 9,391 tonnes CO2e (5) fugitive emissions 386,532 tonnes CO2e PERFORMANCE DATA EM-EP-110a.3 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Additional information: EM-RM-110a.2 Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of • 2019 Report on Sustainability (sustainability goals, p. 15) EM-MM-110a.2 performance against those targets APPENDICES • 2019 Climate Risk and Resilience (p. 20, business strategy for a changing energy future) • Suncor 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C7) Air Quality EM-EP-120a.1 Air emissions profile: Additional information: EM-RM-120a.1 • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) EM-MM-120a.1 • Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) • US Toxic Release Inventory EM-RM-120a.2 Number of refineries in or near areas of dense populations Suncor operates four refineries in Edmonton (AB), Sarnia (ON), Montreal (QC) and Commerce City Colorado (USA). SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 178 TABLE OF CONTENTS SASB Code Description Response, link or additional information Energy Management EM-MM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed 340,000,000 GJ CEO MESSAGE (2) Percentage grid electricity 1.47% (3) Percentage renewable 0.59% ABOUT OUR REPORT Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) STRATEGY AND • Suncor 2019 CDP Climate Change Response (C8) GOVERNANCE Water Management EM-EP-140a.1 (1) Total fresh water withdrawn 115,335 megaliters/yr OUR BUSINESS EM-RM-140a.1 (2) Total fresh water consumed 61,672 megaliters/yr EM-MM-140a.1 (3) Percentage recycled We calculate site specific average annual water recycling rate. CLIMATE CHANGE (4) Percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water We do not currently operate in water stressed areas. Additional information on Stress Management water stress management and water related risks in the CDP water response. Additional information: ENVIRONMENT • Suncor’s 2019 CDP Water Response (W1) EM-EP-140a.2 (1) Volume of produced water and flow back generated 42,285 thousand m3 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (2) Water discharged (%) Not reported at this time (3) Water injected (%) Not reported at this time INNOVATION (4) Water recycled (%) Not reported at this time Additional information: PERFORMANCE DATA • 2019 Report on Sustainability (water performance and stewardship, p. 85) • Suncor’s 2019 CDP Water Response (W1) EM-MM-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, There were no incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, APPENDICES EM-RM-140a.2 standards, and regulations standards and regulations in 2018. Additional information: • Suncor’s 2019 CDP Water Response (W2) Waste & Hazardous Materials Management EM-MM-150a.1 Total weight of tailings waste, percentage recycled 2019 Report on Sustainability (tailings management, p. 88) EM-RM-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated and percentage recycled Suncor’s Downstream, Refining and Supply business segment generated 1,016,600 tonnes of hazardous waste in 2018. Approximately 5% of this waste was recycled, recovered or re-used. Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 179 TABLE OF CONTENTS SASB Code Description Response, link or additional information Biodiversity Impacts EM-EP-160a.1 Description of environmental management policies and practices for active sites Additional information: CEO MESSAGE EM-MM-160a.1 • 2019 Report on Sustainability (risk management, p. 25; biodiversity, p. 97) ABOUT OUR REPORT • Suncor’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy EM-EP-160a.2 Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, volume in Arctic, volume There were 0 significant spills in 2018. Significant spills reflect unplanned or EM-MM-160a.4 impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8–10, and volume recovered accidental release of material whose impact off property takes longer than STRATEGY AND 7 months to remediate, or on property one year or more to remediate or reclaim. GOVERNANCE These could be into the environment or into a location that does not usually contain the material, as specified by geographical regulation. OUR BUSINESS Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) EM-EP-160a.3 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or near sites with protected Approximately 50% of Suncor’s oil sands lease areas are within or near caribou CLIMATE CHANGE EM-MM-160a.3 conservation status or endangered species habitat range boundaries as identified within the Recovery Strategy for the Woodland Caribou, Boreal population (Rangifer tarandus caribou), in Canada (2012). ENVIRONMENT The determination considers that the oil sands comprise 96.2% of the total hydrocarbon reserves in FY 2018 and includes two assumptions. 1. Although boreal caribou range does not strictly meet the considerations SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY described for areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat, they should be considered here based on the boreal population of woodland caribou being listed as threatened under Canada’s Species at INNOVATION Risk Act (SARA). 2. Proven and probable reserves are distributed evenly across oil sands lease holdings determined to be within or near surface expression of caribou PERFORMANCE DATA range boundaries. Security, Human Rights & Rights of Indigenous Peoples APPENDICES EM-EP-210a.3 Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence practices with respect to Additional information: EM-MM-210a.3 human rights, indigenous rights, and operation in areas of conflict • 2019 Report on Sustainability (stakeholder and Indigenous relations, p. 104) • Suncor’s Canadian Aboriginal Rights Policy • Suncor’s Human Rights Policy Community Relations EM-EP-210b.1 Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities associated with Additional information: EM-MM-210b.1 community rights and interests • 2019 Report on Sustainability (stakeholder and Indigenous relations, p. 104) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 180 TABLE OF CONTENTS SASB Code Description Response, link or additional information Labor Relations EM-MM-310a.1 Percentage of active workforce covered under collective-bargaining agreements, 33.2% of our workforce is unionized. CEO MESSAGE broken down by U.S. and foreign employees Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) ABOUT OUR REPORT EM-MM-310a.2 Number and duration of strikes and lockouts No work-stoppages occurred in the reporting year due to strikes or lockouts. Workforce Health & Safety STRATEGY AND EM-EP-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 2018 TRIR (employees): 0.3 GOVERNANCE EM-RM-320a.1 2018 TRIR (contractors): 0.41 EM-MM-320a.1 (2) fatality rate 0 OUR BUSINESS (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Not reported at this time (4) average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training for Not reported at this time CLIMATE CHANGE (a) full-time, (b) contract, and (c) short-service employees Additional information: ENVIRONMENT • 2019 Report on Sustainability (personal and process safety, p. 41) EM-EP-320a.2 Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of safety Additional information: EM-RM-320a.2 throughout the exploration and production lifecycle • 2019 Report on Sustainability (personal and process safety, p. 41) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Suncor’s Journey to Zero Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures INNOVATION EM-EP-420a.3 Amount invested in renewable energy, revenue generated by renewable The total capital invested in renewable energy was $2 million CAD, with a total energy sales offset value of $1 million CAD generated. These figures reflect Suncor’s tracking of wind offsets across its enterprise, and PERFORMANCE DATA the subsequent value brought forth through GHG-offset related revenue. EM-EP-420a.4 Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or climate regulation Additional information: APPENDICES influences the capital expenditure strategy for exploration, acquisition, and • 2019 Report on Sustainability (economic impact, p. 37) development of assets • 2019 Climate Risk and Resilience Report (p. 20) Business Ethics & Transparency EM-EP-510a.2 Description of the management system for prevention of corruption and bribery Additional information: EM-MM-510a.1 throughout the value chain • 2019 Report on Sustainability (ethical business conduct, p. 43; risk management, p. 25) • Suncor’s Standards of Business Conduct • Suncor’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Suncor’s Prevention of Improper Payments policy guidance & standard SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Appendix D: GRI and SASB | 181 TABLE OF CONTENTS SASB Code Description Response, link or additional information Management of Legal & Regulatory Environment EM-EP-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy Additional information: CEO MESSAGE EM-RM-530a.1 proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry • 2019 Report on Sustainability (policy engagement, p. 27) Activity Metrics ABOUT OUR REPORT EM-EP-000.A Production of: Total upstream and downstream production in 2018 was 53.95 million m3 (1) oil Additional information: STRATEGY AND (2) natural gas • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) GOVERNANCE (3) synthetic oil (4) synthetic gas OUR BUSINESS EM-EP-000.B Number of offshore sites Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (our operations, p. 35) CLIMATE CHANGE EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (our operations, p. 35) ENVIRONMENT EM-RM-000.A Refining throughput of crude oil and other feedstocks Downstream (Refining & Supply) net production in 2018 was 26.92 million m3 saleable yield/yr Additional information: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145) EM-RM-000.B Refining operating capacity Suncor operates four refineries. Operating capacities are in barrels-per-day: INNOVATION • Edmonton, Alta.: 142,000 • Montreal, Que.: 137,000 • Commerce City, Colo.: 98,000 PERFORMANCE DATA • Sarnia, Ont.: 85,000 EM-MM-000.B (1) Total number of employees 12,626 total employees APPENDICES (2) Percentage contractors 4% of our workforce are long-term contractors Additional information: • 2019 Report on Sustainability (performance data, p. 145)
