2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Contents 3 Our Approach 63 Our People & Partners 4 Message from Our CEO 64 Global Citizenship 5 Governance 67 Commitment to Employees 7 CSR Policies & Statements 70 Human Rights 8 Stakeholders & Materiality 72 Health & Safety 10 Transparency & Ethics 74 Diversity 12 Risks, Opportunities & Impacts 75 Commitment to Customers 14 CSR Awards & Recognition 77 Product Health & Safety 15 Key Performance Indicators 78 Security & Privacy 79 Partnerships 16 Our Operations 17 Environmental Management 81 Reporting 18 Energy Consumption 82 Reporting Parameters 21 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 83 GRI Index 26 Water Management 93 United Nations Global Compact Index 31 Waste Management 94 United Nations Sustainable 34 Supply Chain Development Goals 38 Land & Biodiversity 96 ISO 26000 Index 99 Data Dashboard 99 Energy Data 39 Our Imaging Solutions 101 Emissions Data 40 Product Certifications 107 Water Data 42 Product Life Cycle 111 Waste Data 44 Materials 117 Employee Data 48 Return & Recycle 53 Product Emissions 54 Product Energy Use 55 Packaging 57 Accessibility Solutions 60 Software & Solutions Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 2 Our Approach Citizenship at Lexmark begins with our pledge to provide our customers innovative, high-quality products and services in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. This encompasses our operations, where we deploy cost-effective best practices for energy conservation, wise water use, and waste reduction; and it extends to our support of community, where Lexmark employees are dedicated to creating cleaner, smarter, safer futures where we live and work. We believe that accessible and consistent documentation of our progress drives meaningful exchanges and deeper exploration of these topics. Communication is critical to continually improve as a responsible corporate citizen. We are committed to transparency in running our business as well as in the reporting of environmental and social progress. Click here to contact us. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 3 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Message from Our CEO At Lexmark, our focus on sustainability, corporate social responsibility, community outreach and STEM education is deeply ingrained in our culture. These topics are important to me personally. In my many years as a Lexmark employee, I have seen our efforts in these areas expand and grow in many ways, and as CEO of the company, I will continue to make our global efforts in these areas a top priority. The passion and drive Lexmark employees demonstrate each day as they work to better our products, our communities and themselves is truly amazing and it makes me proud to be a Lexmarker. Lexmark has made tremendous strides in our sustainability and corporate social responsibility initiatives over the years. However, we have much more that we can and will do. Specifically, Lexmark will continue to focus on enhancing and improving our efforts related to the following: • Sustainable product development and design • Actively supporting STEM education initiatives • Actively supporting and participating in community improvement initiatives • Reducing the environmental impacts of our operations • Increasing our use of renewable energy and technologies “The passion and drive • More broadly applying the principles of the circular economy in our manufacturing Lexmark employees operations and product design • Sustainable supply chain demonstrate each day as • Continued product innovation they work to better our Clearly, there will be many challenges along the way, and we will face those challenges products, our communities head-on with transparency and clarity. We will continue to be a thought and action and themselves is truly leader in sustainability and corporate social responsibility, and I will personally amazing, and it makes me challenge the Lexmark team to improve in these areas each day. proud to be a Lexmarker. These are exciting times at Lexmark and I am extremely optimistic about what the —Allen Waugerman future holds, not only for our employees but also for the communities we support. I am very proud of what our employees have accomplished and continue to accomplish each day. It is what draws us together as a company and sets us apart. Allen Waugerman President and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 4 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Governance Governance Lexmark creates innovative imaging services and technologies that help customers in more than 170 countries worldwide print, secure and manage information with ease, efficiency and unmatched value. Industries we serve Recognized as a global leader in innovative imaging and output technology solutions, we leverage our deep industry expertise—in retail, banking, healthcare, manufacturing, education, government and more— to simplify the complex intersection of digital and printed information. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 5 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting We operate our business in a manner that results in a better world by focusing on our people, our planet and the communities in which we live and work. As we strive to maintain best practices for sustainability, Lexmark’s commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) is global in reach, balancing economic, environmental and social concerns. Our respect for these principles applies within our own organization and as it relates Transparency drives to our partners. We extend our commitment even further by developing solutions that enable our customers to achieve their own sustainability goals. On November 29, accountability, assuring 2016, Lexmark International Inc. was acquired by a consortium of investors comprised our stakeholders of Ninestar Corporation, PAG Asia Capital and Legend Holdings. Headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, Lexmark is now a privately held company and is governed by a they can be confident Board of Directors. that Lexmark is being managed responsibly. Good corporate governance for Lexmark goes beyond ensuring that the organization is effective and profitable; a key element to governance is establishing open transparency on the details of the governance structure and composition. Transparency drives accountability, assuring our stakeholders they can be confident that Lexmark is being managed responsibly. Sustainability initiatives are lead by Lexmark’s Corporate Senior Manager of Global Sustainability, John D. Gagel. Mr. Gagel formally reviews and approves Lexmark’s annual CSR report. Lexmark’s Corporate Social Responsibility program management is directed by the Lexmark Corporate Sustainability Department. In addition, a Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Cross-Functional Council, comprised of representation from business areas such as Development, Facilities, Human Resources, Supply Base Management, Supply Chain and Marketing, was formed to continually integrate sustainability into all areas of the business. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 6 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting CSR Policies & Statements Vision and Values Vision and Values Environmental Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Climate Change Policy Lexmark is committed to sustainable excellence in all our business activities, Human rights Human Rights Policy products and services. Human Trafficking and Slavery — Excerpt of Lexmark’s Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Code of conduct Lexmark Code of Business Conduct Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct Quality Lexmark Quality Policy Statement Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 7 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Stakeholders & Materiality Stakeholder engagement is fundamental to determining our direction, not only as a business but also as a global corporate citizen. For this reason, we regularly seek feedback from our stakeholders—employees, customers, and local communities, as well as analysts, the media, regulators and legislators, and suppliers and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)—and then incorporate the information into our material topic prioritization and decision-making processes. We gather information using many methods and with varying frequency. In addition to biannual employee surveys, we collect input on an ongoing basis from the following sources: • Employee forums (internal chat sites • Conference participation, which • Review of and participation in and Diversity Network Groups) provides feedback from NGOs, voluntary and regulatory standards • Customer feedback through face-toanalysts, academia and peer groups • Participation with industry groups; for face meetings, trade shows, Technical • Lexmark Ethics Committee and Risk example, the Responsible Business Support Center calls, and the web Committee feedback Alliance (RBA) (including social media and blogs) • Market research (peer group • Community feedback through active materiality assessments, industry While we group similar stakeholders participation in local organizations trends, global issues and together for purposes of analysis, each • Analyst and press feedback through opportunities for improvement) group has its own range of issues of published reports, articles and • Meetings and briefings with interest. briefings government and regulatory bodies Stakeholder engagement One method of stakeholder engagement that Lexmark uses is involvement in industry coalitions, trade associations, and externally developed environmental and social charters. Prominent groups & organizations • Center for European Manufacturing of Labor and Employment, Philippines) • Alliance Française des Industries du (CRR) • ITI Environmental Leadership Council Numérique (AFNUM) • Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN) • Manufacturing Leadership Council • American National Standards Institute • DIGITALEUROPE • Maquiladora association (Index (ANSI) • Ellen MacArthur Foundation Juarez) • Arbor Day Foundation • Employers and Manufacturers • Mid-America Gay & Lesbian Chamber • Australian Information Industry Association (Asia Pacific) of Commerce Association (AIIA) • European Remanufacturing Council • Responsible Business Alliance • Bundesverband (founding member) (formerly Electronic Industry Informationswirtschaft, • GreenBiz Executive Network Citizenship Coalition (EICC)) Telekommunikation und neue Medien • Information Technology Association of • U.S. Chamber of Commerce (BITKOM) Canada (ITAC) • United Nations Global Compact • Business Imaging Association of • Information Technology Industry • University of Kentucky Center for Australia (BIAA) Council (ITI) Sustainable Manufacturing • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • IT-BPO Tripartite Council (Department Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 8 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting This table summarizes the categories of topics in which our stakeholder groups are most engaged: Stakeholder feedback From there we begin the process of focusing on the most relevant issues and materiality for Lexmark. Lexmark utilizes extensive We identify, value and prioritize all qualitative and quantitative analyses the feedback we gather from our to contribute to business judgments in stakeholders. We believe that a more making strategic and comprehensive perspective contributes operational decisions positively toward our strategic and for the company. We use tactical decisions. We respond to these pairwise comparison key topics of concern by incorporating the analysis in our research feedback into our decision-making process methodology to add and by including them in our materiality clarity to our focus. Our analysis, which ensures proper focus material subjects are moving forward. determined with this enhanced process. Our efforts are prioritized and balanced to maintain alignment with our vision and This allows our values. To be an effective organization, organization to see what we must be able to focus efforts on those is most meaningful to our initiatives that are most relevant and broad set of stakeholders actionable. Our citizenship prioritization and to align our efforts begins by capturing a wide range accordingly. With this of potential key subjects, and then ongoing process and we considering more than 50 subjects continue to monitor for relevant to our stakeholders with regard changing sentiment. to corporate citizenship. This enables us to These material subjects recognize and respect a highly diverse set drive action within our operations. of issues. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 9 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Transparency & Ethics Ethical Business Practices Preventing Corruption All allegations of employee corruption and We believe that ethical behavior is critical Lexmark business operations are regularly fraud are thoroughly investigated by the to the Lexmark's vision, Customers for analyzed for risks related to corruption. appropriate business unit in collaboration Life. All Lexmark employees are expected All locations and operations are included with Human Resources, Internal Audit, to adhere to the policies set forth in the when considering fraud risks. Significant and the Lexmark Legal Department. Lexmark Code of Business Conduct. The entities and processes are specifically Results of such investigations determine Code covers the following topics: personal identified during the review process. disciplinary action and whether the conduct, conflicts of interest, accounting Corruption risk factors are considered in incident requires investigation by outside records, internal controls and audits, the formation of the Lexmark internal audit agencies and formal charges. While complying with laws and regulations, plan, which is reviewed by the Director of incidents of corruption are infrequent, they supplier relationships, customer Internal Audit, the Senior Vice President do occur. In accordance with the Lexmark relationships, information concerning and Chief Information and Compliance zero-tolerance policy toward bribery others and corporate social responsibility. Officer, and the Chief Financial Officer and corruption, Lexmark will dismiss any on an annual basis. The company has employee who commits a nonsystemic, In 2018, all regular, worldwide employees designed and adopted employee and personal-level incident of fraud or and managers acknowledged their supplier codes of business conduct that dishonesty. understanding of the 2018 Code of help to mitigate these risks. Business Conduct confirming that Preventing Anticompetitive Behavior they conduct themselves and Lexmark The annual audit planning process takes Lexmark supports efforts to preserve and business in accordance with the Code’s into consideration high-risk fraud areas foster fair and honest competition in a requirements. Internal Audit, Human such as revenue recognition, inventory, competitive market system. We take care Resources and Legal review the Code of receivables, fixed assets, liabilities/ to ensure that our business practices do Business Conduct on an annual basis. disbursements and employee payables. not violate competition laws (also known Based on the risk assessment for fraud, as antitrust, monopoly, fair trade or cartel Lexmark requires targeted anti-corruption Internal Audit evaluates controls in each laws) which prohibit business practices and anti-bribery training courses that audited area through test steps designed that unreasonably restrict the functioning educate select employee groups about to address fraud risks. of the competitive system. Lexmark risks of corruption specific to their job was not the subject of any claims of functions. Lexmark has a zero-tolerance policy anticompetitive behavior during 2018. towards bribery and corruption among Any officer, director, employee or agent employees and business partners. Monetary Fines acting on behalf of Lexmark who violates We terminate business relationships Lexmark has not been subject to any the Lexmark Code of Business Conduct can with business partners that operate in significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions be subject to Lexmark disciplinary action, an unethical manner. No legal cases for noncompliance of laws and regulations as well as substantial government fines regarding corrupt practices were brought related to accounting fraud, human rights, and/or imprisonment. against Lexmark or our employees workplace discrimination, health and during 2018. safety or corruption during this reporting period. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 10 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Political Contributions and Lobbying Ethics Hotline Lexmark is committed to complying with The Lexmark Ethics Line (1-866-477local laws related to the disclosure of 2029) is a 24-hour, international toll-free political dealings, such as those that telephone number established to assist require reporting political contributions to Lexmark employees with questions about the appropriate state or federal political the Code of Business Conduct or concerns and ethics authorities, and publishing that something improper or a violation the information on their respective of a rule has occurred or might be occurwebsites. No financial or in-kind political ring. A third-party provider operates the contributions have been made in the U.S. Ethics Line. Where local laws allow, the or in non-U.S. countries where we third-party provider of the telephone lines do business. is prohibited from providing a caller’s identity to Lexmark without the caller’s From time to time, Lexmark employs the permission. Calls are directed primarily to services of remunerated attorney and the Internal Audit Director for investiganon-attorney advocates and consultants. tion and review. These advocates provide Lexmark with legislative monitoring services, guidance Marketing Communications on proposed and enacted legislation, and As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, communication of the applicable Lexmark “It is Lexmark’s policy to avoid any misposition on legislation to interested statement of fact or misleading impression parties and stakeholders in any of its advertising, literature, exhibits or other public statements.” Gift and Gratuity Policy No Lexmark employee or member of his It is the joint responsibility of the public reor her family may accept a gift or gratuity lations, marketing or content development from a supplier or prospective supplier. representative preparing the message, However, a promotional gift of nominal and of the technical experts, to verify value (no more than $25 or its equivalent that all statements are true and correctly in other currencies) may be given or acsupported. The accuracy of claims is also cepted in the spirit of commercial politereviewed by our Legal Department and ness. Cash gifts of any kind are prohibited. validated by the Product and Process Quality Assurance Team. We review our Vision and Values compliance with regulations and voluntary Our employees have defined our vision codes concerning marketing communicaand values. We live these concepts every tions annually. Lexmark had no incidents day. More than mere words, these stateof noncompliance with regulations or ments are truly a framework for how we voluntary codes concerning marketing operate. To learn more about our vision communications in 2018. and values, see our Vision and Values page. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 11 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Lexmark’s social and environmental impacts are divided into three focus areas, and are addressed by corresponding product, operational and community initiatives. Product initiatives correspond to the environment and social benefits of the solutions we develop. These solutions help our customers reduce their environmental footprint, meet the accessibility needs of their workforce and operate in a more environmentally responsible manner. We have prioritized our We continue to develop product features and solutions that offer our customers corporate community focus opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of their printing and imaging activities. These efforts are validated by third-party certifications, including the Electronic Product on initiatives that support Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT), a method for consumers to evaluate the effect science, technology, of a product on the environment. For more information, go to www.epeat.net. engineering, and math Operational initiatives encompass all the activities we engage in to reduce our own en(STEM) education vironmental footprint at Lexmark facilities, and to make Lexmark a better employer and improvement, and that business partner through commitments to human rights and fair labor practices. promote diversity. Lexmark has made great progress reducing the environmental impacts of our operations. We are proficient at using our collaboration intranet system, conference calls, Webinars and video conferencing. These tools are being utilized worldwide and have enabled global conversations and increased productivity. We have prioritized our corporate community focus on initiatives that support science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education improvement, and that promote diversity. By concentrating Lexmark’s resources on improvements in these areas, we have made significantly more progress than by focusing on a broader range of issues. At Lexmark, we first make sure that we are complying with local statutes wherever we have operations. Then, we balance and prioritize our approach by assessing what needs to be done and how best to do it to meet the needs of all stakeholders as completely as possible. We continue to make significant strides in these focus areas. In 2017 and beyond, we will look for opportunities to strengthen the environmental and social benefits of our product offerings, improve the efficiency of our operations and deliver additional positive benefits to the communities where we live and work. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 12 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Risks and Opportunities Lexmark maintains a comprehensive and dynamic Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program. Chaired by Lexmark’s Treasurer, and supported by a cross-functional committee of no less than 15 additional company leaders, the objective of Lexmark’s ERM process is to minimize the probability and potential cost of an adverse event impacting the company by collaboratively identifying, prioritizing, addressing (avoiding, accepting, mitigating), and regularly monitoring those risks to which the company is exposed. The committee submits periodic reports to executive management, including the Board of Directors. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) trends have driven Lexmark to evaluate the potential of physical risks and regulatory restrictions for our business and to consider potential opportunities to enhance and capitalize on our product offerings. Through this due diligence, we can help our customers achieve their own environmental sustainability and social responsibility goals. The most important risks and opportunities for Lexmark that are related to sustainability trends include the following: Environmental and Regulatory Matters Climate Change telecommunications failures. Any of these Lexmark operations are subject to The predictions about the impacts of conditions can disrupt business and can numerous laws and regulations; climate change have led lawmakers adversely affect our revenue and financial specifically, those relating to across the globe to take a precautionary condition by increasing our costs and environmental matters that impose approach, proposing and implementing expenses. For each of its sites, Lexmark limitations on the discharge of pollutants new regulations to guide governments, has a business continuity plan that and that establish protocols for the businesses and citizens in their efforts describes the risks of climate change. treatment, storage and disposal of solid to reduce global warming. These and hazardous wastes. regulations can potentially impact all For more information, please see Energy, businesses. Regulations requiring energy Water, Greenhouse gas emissions, Product For more information, please see reductions are motivating consumers energy use and Land and Biodiversity. Environmental Management and and businesses to replace wasteful Land and Biodiversity. equipment with energy-efficient products. Product Opportunities Lexmark recognizes that reducing energy Lexmark offers a wide range of Electronic Waste Obligation consumption is one of the most effective environmentally beneficial and highly The Waste Electrical and Electronic ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, accessible imaging devices that help Equipment (WEEE) Directive issued by a major contributor to climate change. customers print less and meet the the European Union requires producers Lexmark’s environmental policies and accessibility needs of their workforces. of electrical and electronic goods to programs support the reduction of Demand for such products can have a be financially responsible for specified greenhouse gases in our own operations positive financial impact for Lexmark. collection, recycling, treatment and and those of our customers, partners and disposal of past and future products. suppliers. For more information, please see Our estimated liability for these costs Product certifications. involves a number of uncertainties, and Climate change and associated weather we consider certain assumptions and disruptions can affect the operations of all judgments that include average collection organizations. Our operations and those costs, return rates, and product life of our manufacturing partners, suppliers, cycles. Should actual costs and activities and freight transporters are subject to differ from our estimates, revisions to the natural and man-made disasters, such as estimated liability might be required. earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather For more information, please see conditions, environmental hazards, Return and Recycle. power shortages, water shortages and Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 13 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting CSR Awards & Recognition 2019 CSO50 Award for security initiatives 2019 Forbes Best Employers for Diversity 2018 2018 Working Mother Best Companies 100 Best Companies for Dads Bicycling.com 25 Best Companies for Cyclists 2018 Forbes 2018 NAFE Best Midsize Top Companies Employers Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 14 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Key Performance Indicators Water Waste Recycling Emissions Emissions Goal Goal Goal Goal Reduce water withdrawal Maintain a minimum of 75% Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Reduce Scope 3 use phase emissions 8% from 2015 to 2020. recycling rate for waste generated. 10% from 2015 to 2020. intensity 15% from 2016 to 2020. Progress Progress Progress Progress 20% 75% 16% 16% decrease from 2015 recycling rate reduction from 2015 reduction from 2016 Energy Regional manufacturing Return & Recycle Goal Goal Goal Reduce energy consumption Maintain a minimum of 80% of our Increase the reuse of cartridges and 10% from 2015 to 2020. supplies regionally sourced in 2018. supplies collected through LCCP to 60% by 2022. Progress Progress Progress 53% 13% 83% cartridges and supplies reduction from 2015 regional manufacturing returned were reused Product Energy use Materials Materials Goal Goal Goal Reduce product energy use Increase postconsumer recycled (PCR) Increase postconsumer recycled (PCR) for laser products. plastic use to 25% from 2012 to 2020. plastic in branded, in-house technology printers and MFPs to 20% over weight of total plastic by 2020. Progress Progress 96% 21% Progress reduction in sleep power for color laser 27% multifunction products since 2005 For more information, see Previous KPI Progress. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 15 Our Operations For Lexmark, being a responsible neighbor, employer and global corporate citizen is woven into everything we do. It’s part of who we are as individuals and as a corporate community. Operating sustainably is part of Lexmark’s corporate vision and values. Using internationally recognized standards for environmental management at multiple sites helps us maintain focus on setting and achieving specific goals for environmental health and safety. Environmental reporting also helps Lexmark focus on areas of operation where processes may be improved, yielding benefit for the business and communities around us. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 16 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Environmental Management ISO 14001 is a voluntary standard that provides a framework for environmental management. Lexmark-owned and leased facilities have received ISO 14001 certification. These include all of our production locations and some research and development and administration facilities. All facilities that do not hold ISO 14001 certification attest to standard ISO 14001 Certificates conformance and adhere to the Lexmark Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Instructions. Click here for a full list of ISO 14001 Certificates Each Lexmark facility sets site-specific goals for improving its performance within the environmental management system. Environmental goals include reducing energy consumption, improving water conservation, generating less waste, and improving emergency preparedness and response planning. Cross functional teams are established for each major manufacturing and development facility to support these efforts. Lexmark did not incur any fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations in the reporting period. No grievances about environmental impacts were filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 17 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Energy Consumption Lexmark continues to focus on maintaining efficient use of natural resources at our leased and owned manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities, and office spaces worldwide, tracking data since 2005 and meeting aggressive goals. In 2018, we exceeded our 2020 goal to reduce energy 10 percent compared to the 2015 baseline. Total energy reductions Total energy Direct and indirect (Gigajoules) Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 18 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Energy efficiency investments through the years Energy management programs at our Lexmark facilities assess energy usage on site and target projects that contribute to reductions in consumption. We have made several investments that are helping drive down usage worldwide. Lexington, KY, USA Lexmark’s investments in energy efficiency at headquarters have been significant. Our campus features a childcare facility, which received Gold certification for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) from the U.S. Green Building Energy data Council. Click here for detailed energy data Additional projects through the years include: • Upgrades to smart building management controls, including data analytics • Installation of frequency drives on air handling unit motors • Implementation of schedule for air handling units to minimize peak demands • Installation of energy efficient state-of-the-art chillers • Increased insulation on steam piping systems • Installation of a smaller summer boiler for steam • Upgrades to a deaerator tank • Space reductions • Lighting upgrades to more efficient bulbs Over 500 ballasts and 1,600 lamps were upgraded in 2018 providing an estimated annual energy savings of 84,000 kWh, equivalent to $6,000 in electricity and maintenance fees. Cebu City, Philippines The facilities team in Cebu has realized significant energy savings over the years through lighting upgrades and implementation of an operation and preventive maintenance schedule for all major equipment, which minimizes equipment downtime and improves performance, especially for onsite chillers. Variable frequency drives (VFDs) are also installed on 46 air handling units reducing energy consumption. Employees are also encouraged to be energy conscious and turn off lights and equipment when not in use. Approximately 6,750 compact fluorescent tubes (CFLs) are in the process of being replaced by 4,500 LED (light emitting diode) tubes in workstations, laboratories and stairways as part of a multi-year project focusing on lighting upgrades. The saving associated with this replacement is estimated to be 746,496 kWh annually. In 2018, approximately 2,900 additional lights were replaced with more efficient LED bulbs as part of this multi-year lighting improvement project. The estimated savings from the effort in 2018 is 289,732.56 kWh and $41,585.16 annually. Kolkata, India The Kolkata site realized a 100,175-kWh savings in 2018. The outdoor air handling units were regularly cleaned with air and water jets to increase building cooling efficiency. Lighting upgrades over the years have also contributed to energy savings. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 19 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Juarez, Mexico Electricity – The recycling operations building on Lexmark’s indirect energy source the Juarez campus, Lexmark LCCP Lexmark operations use only one indirect Building, is also (LEED) certified Gold. energy source: the driver of its Scope 2 emissions, electricity. We primarily The Juarez campus is highly focused purchase electricity used at our facilities on energy efficiency targets and from local energy providers from continued to improve upon existing local grids. The electricity supplied is projects to garner savings. generated by a variety of nonrenewable and renewable primary-energy sources, • Site facilities maintenance teams including coal, nuclear energy, solar power, continued to reduce energy waste wind power, geothermal energy and through the energy management of hydropower. We estimate the electrical the compressed air systems. power derived from renewable sources in • Preventive and predictive 2018 to be 96,800 gigajoules,1 21 percent maintenance programs are used of the total indirect energy used. The total to detect and correct compressed electrical power used that is derived from air leaks. nonrenewable sources is estimated to be • Energy management of chillers 366,820 gigajoules. resulted in a smaller 350-ton chiller being used in place of a larger 900Natural gas – ton piece of equipment. Lexmark’s primary direct energy source • A schedule for HVAC equipment to Lexmark Scope 1 emissions are comprised be turned off nights and weekends of the following direct energy sources: reduces energy usage when the site is natural gas, diesel fuel and gasoline. not operating. These nonrenewable energy sources are • Fluorescent light fixtures were purchased from local vendors and then replaced with LED in the restrooms. used to generate steam, power backup generators, provide heat to certain Energy awareness and education Lexmark facilities and provide fuel for Lexmark educates employees on leased/owned vehicles. We do not use energy conservation in the workplace, renewable direct-energy sources such encouraging everyone to turn off lights as biofuels (ethanol, for example) or and electronics when not in use. Lexmark hydrogen, nor do we produce renewable initiated a campaign to add or update or nonrenewable primary energy sources signage to remind users of shared spaces for internal use or external markets. to turn off lights when not in use. The use of space heaters, personal refrigerators, and personal printers, which increase 1 850 gigajoules of renewable electrical power sourced energy use, are discouraged. Targets to from wind was purchased for use at the Boulder, CO, reduce energy in the office are included facility, which is included in the total estimated 2018 indirect renewable energy use derived from the area in some of our incentive programs at power grids. Lexmark, providing a monetary incentive for employees when the overall annual energy goal is achieved. Some of our sites promote employee energy awareness through healthy living challenges, which provide monetary incentives for various levels of challenge participation. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 20 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Lexmark is committed to operating responsibly, which includes tracking, reporting and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2015, we established a new baseline for Total GHG emissions business alignment and changes to the reporting boundary, setting a goal for the reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions. We are continuing to see great progress in lowering emissions in our operations as our employees find new and often innovative ways to avoid emissions in everyday processes in the scopes reported. Lexmark met the 2020 goal to reduce emissions by 10 percent from 2015 in 2018. Looking forward, Lexmark will be working toward meeting a mid-term GHG reduction target. To align with a climate change scenario well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, Lexmark targets have been adjusted. Lexmark will be pursuing a more agressive goal of lowering emissions by 37.5 percent by 2030. Lexmark signed the Science Based Targets initiative Scope 1 and 2 commitment letter in support of emissions (Metric tons CO2e) reductions. The separation of Scope 3 emissions from Scopes 1 and 2 allows further work to expand Scope 3 reporting and goal-setting specific to reduction efforts in our value chain. Please see KPIs for information on 2018 progress. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 21 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Emissions reporting Scope 1 emissions Scope 1 emissions (direct) include our use of fossil fuels, refrigerants and fleet vehicle transport based on available data. We use natural gas, diesel fuel and gasoline to generate steam, power backup generators, provide heat to certain Lexmark facilities and provide fuel for leased/owned vehicles. Greenhouse gas Lexmark is committed to the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty aimed at reducing the use of ozone-depleting chemicals. We prohibit the use of such chemicals emissions data in the manufacture and development of our products; however, we use some ozoneClick here for detailed depleting chemicals—specifically refrigerants—for the heating, ventilation and airGHG emissions data conditioning (HVAC) systems that cool our facilities. Lexmark cannot eliminate the use of refrigerants at this time because HVAC systems typically require the use of refrigerants for cooling. Lexmark purchases chillers that use environmentally preferable refrigerants and monitors systems for leaks with stand-alone sensors. In 2018, one reported refrigerant, R-22, had an ozone depletion potential greater than zero, generating 0.02 CFC-11 equivalent metric tons of emissions. In total, 1,356 CO2e emissions were generated due to refrigerant losses, 565 generated by R-22. Scope 2 emissions Our Scope 2 emissions (indirect) consist of electricity used to power operations at our Regulated air sites. We primarily purchase electricity generated by a variety of nonrenewable and emissions data renewable primary-energy sources, including coal, nuclear energy, solar power, wind Click here for detailed power, geothermal energy and hydropower sourced from the local grid. GHG emissions data Scope 3 emissions Lexmark is expanding Scope 3 emissions reporting to improve transparency. We have historically shared our business travel-related emissions and have highlighted our approach to avoid emissions in this category. We concentrate on sustainable resource consumption which naturally lends to emissions avoidance, although we have not been able to share impacts through data disclosure in the past. We will continue to take proactive steps towards emissions avoidance in Scope 3 and capture reductions through data disclosure and goal setting. 2018 Scope 3 emissions reported categories Category 1 Category 7 Purchased Goods and Services Employee Commuting Category 2 Category 11 Capital Goods Use of Sold Products Category 4 Category 12 Upstream Transport End of Life Treatment of Sold Products Category 5 Category 13 Waste in Operations Downstream Leased Assets Category 6 Business Travel Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 22 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Travel and commute emissions commuting options for employees Business travel-related emissions • Lexmark’s manufacturing plant such as ride sharing, transit, and We are conscious of the impact business in Juarez, Mexico, provides bus bicycle travel. travel can have on the environment. At transportation for manufacturing Lexmark we have collaborated with our employees. • Lexmark’s U.S. benefits package vehicle provider and travel partner to includes WageWorks, which calculate miles traveled with Lexmark• Lexmark’s Competence Center in allows commuters taking public owned, -leased, and -rented vehicles. Air Budapest, Hungary, has bike racks transportation to deduct their travel is also tracked through our travel and showers for employees who public transit and parking expenses partner, which has considerably expanded pedal to work, and offers discounted as pretax funds, which can save its scope of reporting. monthly or yearly fares to those who employees between 25 and 40 prefer public transportation. percent. We provide our employees lowerimpact, real-time alternatives such as • Lexmark’s headquarters in Lexington, • Lexmark’s U.S. health and wellness conference calls, Web-based meetings Kentucky, has secure bike storage program promotes healthier lifestyles, and videoconferencing to help avoid and showers, as well as a public bus including sustainability awareness unnecessary travel. We have invested in stop located in the parking lot. Four programs and provides the ability to audiovisual equipment in many conference electric car charging stations are in create challenges, including those locations to provide better communication use at the Lexington campus. Each focused on greener commuting, such through Web-based services. Employees station is equipped with two charging as bicycling to work. are also encouraged to combine business points for registered employees and trips and use public transportation rather clients to use free of charge. Since • Lexmark work-at-home programs than taxis and rental cars. the installation of the electric car are aimed at not only reducing the charging stations, 19.6 metric tons of number of miles commuted, but also Employee commute greenhouse gas emissions have been providing work-life balance for our Lexmark recognizes that fuel used in our avoided, equivalent to the planting of employees. employees’ daily commute generates 517 trees growing for 10 years. GHG emissions and therefore offers the following programs and/or benefits to help • Lexmark's site in Boulder, Colorado, encourage environmentally-preferable works with Smart Commute Metro commuting: North to promote alternative Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 23 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Worldwide logistics, product Supply Chain Innovation Award • Lexmark’s Reverse Logistics and transportation and distribution Lexmark was awarded a ML100 Award Returns operations continue to Physical shipping of products worldwide by Frost & Sullivan’s Manufacturing improve returns processing and the and product handling and storage in Leadership Council in Sustainability capability to reduce the number distribution centers are a necessary part Leadership for outstanding achievement of shipments and mileage, thereby of Lexmark business. We have taken in the Supply Chain Leadership category. reducing energy use related to measures to lessen the environmental Lexmark’s winning project “Best Fitting returned goods. impacts associated with these Pallets Adoption,” focused on optimizing activities, which includes working with the pallet size to accommodate the • Lexmark partners with best-inenvironmentally progressive partners who maximum quantity of product to reduce class Third Party Logistics (3PL) apply innovative ideas, best practices and waste and cost. Successful launch warehouse providers who have a new technologies to their transportation required the team to take several steps, shared sustainability focus. Lexmark’s and logistics processes. Lexmark is including setting a minimum order 3PL providers manage, monitor working to quantitatively report the quantity for distributors, partnering with and execute on targeted goals in impact of product logistics. the Lexmark sales team to convince the sustainability to reduce the use of distributors to accept different-sized electricity, natural gas, propane and Transportation Awards pallets, and implementing a fee per pallet water. They target improving and SmartWay for distributors that wanted to keep a increasing recycling activities. Lexmark has been a U.S. Environmental standard size. They also manage their overall Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay CO2 footprint. registered partner since September 2008. Lexmark drives improvements in SmartWay, a collaborative program warehousing sustainability through the between the U.S. EPA and the freight following distribution initiatives: industry, is chartered to increase the use of energy-efficient vehicles and has • Lexmark makes efforts to reduce the impressive goals to reduce GHGs and space required for warehousing and decrease air pollution. distribution of our products. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 24 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Lexmark drives improvements in Innovative methods of regional manufacturing/customization emissions avoidance sustainability through the following lean Product testing manufacturing initiatives: We test our products throughout their life cycle to ensure high quality. Realizing the • Lexmark uses a late manufacturing/ impact of paper use on the environment, late customization process for medium we are working to lessen this impact in our volume products in our regional print testing. We use “paperless print” for distribution centers to be close to our some testing applications, which allows customers, be flexible and efficient, us to test certain features of our product provide a competitive advantage, without actually printing the page. This and be more sustainable. Some of method of print testing helped us save the benefits to this strategy are a over 900 trees in 2018 and avoid over reduction of space and inventory 97,000 kg of CO2. demand, a reduction of expedited and air freight, better container Service delivery utilization footprint of shipments, a The service team at Lexmark proactively flexible manufacturing system, and identifies issues with devices under customized customer solutions which contract, often providing a fix before a include printer sustainability settings service intervention is required. If a call such as power settings, toner usage is made to our technical service center, and longer life components. priority is placed on resolving the problem via phone versus dispatching a technician. • Lexmark manufactured over 80 In addition to helping maintain customer percent of cartridges in region of satisfaction, our focus on “remote fix” consumption in 2018, maintaining the helps reduce the number of miles traveled high rate of regional manufacturing by our service teams, thus reducing achieved in 2017. Regional GHG emissions. manufacturing improves supply chain efficiency and helps Lexmark respond more quickly to customer needs. 1 Based on the carbon calculator at It also benefits the environment https://www.dhl-carboncalculator.com/ by reducing GHG emissions and providing jobs for people in the regions where our cartridges are used most. Regional manufacturing in Poland provides an example of avoided emissions. In 2018, sourcing in geography eliminated the need to ship an estimated 505 air and ocean cargo containers from Hong Kong, China, to Europe, which would have generated approximately 1,498 metric tons of greenhouse gas.1 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 25 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water Management Lexmark is focused on efficiently managing water usage at our facilities and established a 2020 goal to reduce water withdrawal by 8 percent from 2015, exceeding this goal in 2018 with a 20 percent water reduction. Lexmark is building on this success, setting a 30 percent water withdrawal reduction goal from 2015 to 2030. Water withdrawal m3 Water is used as part of Lexmark operations for three primary purposes: manufacturing and development; heating, ventilating, and airconditioning (HVAC) systems; and sanitation. Our water usage can vary due to the need to control temperature. As external temperatures rise, more water is needed to cool our facilities. While we cannot control the water usage related to external temperature, we can aggressively monitor, control and reduce water withdrawal where opportunities exist. Lexmark has identified four of our reporting facilities to be overall high risk or medium to high risk water locations per the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. This information encourages us to focus on the regions highlighted as having the highest risk and work to reduce or maintain low consumption. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 26 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water management program Through the years, Lexmark has followed our corporate water plan which concentrates on multiple methods of saving water. As Lexmark assesses site water requirements and reporting boundaries, changes may occur on site; for example, designating new contacts for water management, utilizing fresh approaches to awareness of site water usage, and pursuing alternate water sourcing or conservation techniques. Water history • In Lexington, Kentucky, more efficient operations and LCCP production, Lexmark has a long history of water HVAC systems, installation of lowas well as reject water from the projects that have helped reduce water flow plumbing fixtures, upgrades to reverse osmosis equipment in the usage in our operations by over 50 percent piping, reduction in the number of fire main cafeteria was reused for when compared to 2005. pumps, site building reductions, and irrigation. Cooling tower basins were a successful partnership with Suez disconnected and isolated to help • Lexmark Cebu City, Philippines, services have contributed to water prevent water loss from evaporation. focuses on preventive and corrective conservation. In recent years, Lexmark Restrooms located on the production maintenance of the water system, has also reduced impermeable floor were retrofitted with waterless and works to engage employees in surfaces on site by 1,475,000 square urinals. Restrooms in other areas awareness activities to conserve feet through multiple activities, of the plant received retrofits for water and report leaks. Major water including building demolition, waterless mode. projects over the years have included property sale and conversion of the installation of sensor-operated 256,665 square feet of parking space • Installation of bio-safe and clean faucets and toilet bowls and the to green space. waterless urinals, vacuum pressure interconnection of the water supply air-conditioning maintenance between the two buildings on site to • Juarez, Mexico, continues to refine and recycling water within the air reduce water waste. In 2018, repairs processes related to water use on conditioning system contributes to to water pumps on site fixed a major site. In 2018, expansion of the reuse sustained water efficiency at the leak—preventing 720 liters of water infrastructure continued. Water Lexmark facility in Kolkata. from being lost per day. used in HVAC equipment, toner fill Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 27 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water harvesting and reuse Lexmark installed a bioretention and Lexmark’s rainwater retention area has Lexmark values water reuse and rainwater harvesting system in Lexington, some bioremediation value and also acts harvesting and has found ways to Kentucky, in cooperation with Lexington as a retention pond in slowing rainfall implement projects with this focus at Fayette Urban County Government runoff in conditions when excess flow is multiple locations. (LFUCG), EcoGro, Ridgewater, Stantec and discharged to the creek. In the vein of the University of Kentucky. sustainable resource consumption, the Infrastructure upgrades to the waste pavement, rock and soil removed for the water treatment plant continued to While larger in scale than a traditional project was reused or recycled. Existing provide great results at Lexmark’s campus rain garden, the rainwater harvesting pipes and tanks already in place were in Juarez, Mexico. The system generated system acts in much the same way. recommissioned for use in this project to 65,617m3 of water for reuse in other areas, The depression in the ground collects gain further savings. including irrigation, representing 36 rainwater and filters it through a layer of percent of total water used at the facility. sand. Water not needed for immediate Water donation use is stored in one of two tanks—a three Lexmark Cebu, in coordination with the Lexmark employees in Cebu, Philippines, million gallon tank or a 500,000 gallon Bureau of Fire Protection and Filipino continue to make an impact on water tank—for later use. The naturally soft water Chinese Volunteer Fire Brigade, has usage in their community through the is used in Lexmark’s cooling towers, boilers provided water to responding fire trucks rainwater harvesting system they designed or chilled water system on site, reducing during emergencies since 2014. To date, and installed for the Lexmark Gawad the need for chemically treated water in a total of 127 fire trucks were provided Kalinga beneficiaries. The water collected these processes. In 2018, 4 million gallons water to assist with fire emergencies in during rain events can be used by the of water were collected. neighboring communities. In 2018, Lexmark locals for watering plants and cleaning. contributed 1,010m3 of water to fire trucks responding to four fires. How Rainwater harvesting works Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 28 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water quality Lexmark, in partnership with multiple stakeholders including UK Coldstream Research Campus, UK Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Department and LFUCG Division of Water Quality, received a grant to conduct a feasibility study for the installation of an in-stream floatable trash collection system to be placed in a tributary of the Cane Water management Run Creek, an impaired stream, that flows through the Lexmark property in Lexington, Kentucky. Lexmark has long supported creek cleanup efforts, realizing the impact that data trash and waste in the creek has on the quality of water in the watershed. The trash Click here for detailed collection system would float on top of the waterway in an area where trash is known to Water management data accumulate and capture the waste for periodic removal. Water withdrawal Lexmark is concerned with the origin of our sourced water and where it ends up. We understand that access to clean, abundant and affordable water is a critical issue. We also understand that our commitment to responsible use of our water resources and protection of local watersheds helps to ensure that our local communities have access to these water resources. Most Lexmark facilities withdraw water exclusively from municipal water supplies and other water utilities. Water sources Lexmark facility Utility Provider Original Sources of Water* Kentucky River, Jacobson Reservoir and Lexington, Kentucky, United States Kentucky American Water Lake Ellerslie Barker Reservoir, Lakewood Reservoir, Boulder, Colorado, United States City of Boulder Utilities Division Boulder Reservoir and Carter Lake via the Boulder Feeder Canal Junta Municipal de Agua Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico Hueco Bolson, underground aquifer Saneamiento de Juárez Cebu, Philippines Metropolitan Cebu Water District (MCWD) Luyang River Ganges River processed through osmosis Kolkata, India DLF IT Park via local municipality water treatment plant Multiple sources, but water from the Budapest, Hungary Fövárosi Vízmüvek Danube River (from wells located near the river) dominates the supply Pearl River—the biggest river in Shenzhen, China Shenzhen Water Company south China * To the best of our knowledge, none of these bodies of water is recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system. In addition, none supports a particular endangered species of plant or animal, or is considered a nationally or internationally proclaimed conservation area. None of these water sources is significantly affected by Lexmark water usage. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 29 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Water discharge Wastewater from Lexmark operations is primarily discharged to local utility systems for treatment. Water not discharged to the local utility systems is absorbed into the soil when weather demands require care for landscaping, or evaporated from on-site cooling towers. In an effort to prevent negative impacts on the environment, Lexmark has established site-specific pollution prevention plans that encompass compliance with applicable environmental regulations; outline Lexmark’s proactive pollution prevention efforts; and address spill prevention, hazardous waste management, recycling, and water quality. These plans cover multiple pollution routes, including discharges to ground, air and water. Pollution prevention plans are in place at all Lexmark-owned manufacturing and research and development facilities worldwide. Lexmark reported no significant spills in 2017. In an effort to continually improve our processes, we record and investigate all spills—regardless of size or impact—as directed by site IISO 14001 and ISO45001/OHSAS 18001 management systems and other corrective and preventive action programs. Water discharges (whether planned or unplanned) that are destined for the local utility or nearby bodies of water are closely monitored by site facilities and environmental teams that test for water quality. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 30 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Waste Management Sustainable waste management At Lexmark, we’re committed to disposing waste generated by our worldwide facilities in Our goal is to maintain a minimum a safe and responsible manner. Our facilities measure and report our generated waste of 75% recycling1 rate for waste and disposal methods to ensure we are making progress in our overall waste-reduction generated in 2018. efforts. Waste management programs at our offices and manufacturing sites promote recycling and provide guidance to ensure our waste is responsibly managed. Business waste management and recycling programs Lexmark has established waste management and recycling programs at all our facilities worldwide. Each Lexmark manufacturing or research and development facility has a written plan to address the appropriate handling of waste generated at the site. The plan addresses the handling, storage and/or transportation of waste that is considered hazardous and non-hazardous. The wastes are managed according to international best practice and follow all governmental regulations. Lexmark continually works toward reducing the quantity of waste generated. Lexmark decreases our waste production by reducing waste at the source and recycling and treating waste in an environmentally safe manner. Our facilities minimize waste through sustainable operations, lean manufacturing techniques and environmental management programs. Lexmark’s owned manufacturing and development site programs collect, recycle and We achieved a 75% recycling rate reuse these materials: for waste generated in 2018. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 31 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Waste generation and recycling statistics Lexmark generated a total of 13,721 metric tons of waste in 2018, with 96 percent of the waste generated worldwide being non-hazardous. 2 Hazardous waste accounts for approximately 4 percent of Lexmark total waste. The primary hazardous waste materials Waste management are residues from manufacturing and development processes. Hazardous waste that is generated by Lexmark research and development, and manufacturing facilities is data managed by external companies that specialize in the management of hazardous waste. Click here for detailed waste management data. Waste generation by classification Development and production waste management and recycling The development, quality testing and manufacturing of Lexmark imaging devices can result in the generation of unique waste streams. Waste from development and production is characterized as chemical waste (toner, component development and manufacturing), paper waste (print testing) or printers and other electronic components (performance and quality testing). To eliminate hazards to human health and the environment from fires and releases of these waste products, each chemical usage facility provides controls for chemical, petroleum and waste storage tanks. The tanks are installed, operated, inspected and removed according to the specific and applicable governmental regulations. We limit the environmental impact of collected waste by giving it a second life. Chemical waste is primarily processed into usable heat, electricity or fuel through energy recovery. Toner waste is used as an asphalt additive to improve its quality and performance. Paper from print testing is recycled into innovative paper products. Materials from used cartridges are reused or recycled. 1 Recycling includes compost, recycle and reuse disposal methods. 2 Waste data is from 100% of Lexmark’s owned development and manufacturing sites based on square feet. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 32 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Waste recycling Disposal methods for waste are determined through the collaborative efforts of Lexmark and our waste-management partners. Working together, we have identified new opportunities for recycling waste, reducing our usage of incineration and landfill while increasing usage of waste-to-energy recovery where other recycling options are unavailable. Since 2007, Lexmark has increased its waste recycling and reuse rate from 63 percent to 76 percent. In 2018, Lexmark achieved a recycling rate of 76 percent with 12 percent of our total waste reused. Waste treatment by disposal method Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 33 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Supply Chain Responsibility At Lexmark, we work closely with our suppliers to ensure our products and services have a positive impact on people, communities, and the environment. We choose suppliers who share our vision of corporate citizenship and agree to conform to Lexmark’s expectations and standards. We monitor the performance and compliance of our suppliers by analyzing on a regular basis their social, environmental and economic data. Our membership and participation since 2009 in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) has further strengthened our organizational efforts in support of human rights, labor standards, and other corporate social responsibility values. Lexmark has adopted and actively pursues conformance to the RBA Code of Conduct supplemented by the Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct. Fundamental areas of the Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct • Compliance with the laws, rules and regulations of countries of operation or where products are distributed • Adopt and implement the RBA Code of Conduct • Responsible global sourcing through a conflict minerals free supply chain • Allow a social and environmental responsibility audit where supplier manufacturers products Compliance with the RBA and Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct Lexmark works with a multitude of direct and indirect suppliers. All Lexmark suppliers are The RBA Code of Conduct sets forth expected to comply with the RBA and Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct. In accordance performance, compliance, auditing and with RBA guidelines, Lexmark conducts third-party audits for several of our Tier 1 reporting guidelines across five areas suppliers to monitor compliance in these areas. of social responsibility. Supply chain responsibility program at Lexmark The Lexmark Vice President of Global Supply Chain and Planning is the senior person responsible for delivering on our environmental, social and governance (ESG) objectives. At the operational level, the management of Global Sourcing and Supplies Operations has responsibility for implementing the ESG objectives. Lexmark procurement staff have received training in ESG issues related to our procurement processes. Lexmark procurement personnel also have access to a database of supplier information that includes the suppliers' ESG commitments, as well as their performance metrics. All Lexmark staff that engage with suppliers are expected to consider the ESG impacts of engaging with a supplier prior to entering into a relationship with the supplier. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 34 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Sustainability is integrated with the Lexmark supplier selection and retention processes. Our goal is to maintain a minimum of Lexmark provides incentives for suppliers to adhere to RBA guidelines by offering 80% of our supplies regionally sourced long-term contracts, collaborating on production volumes, consolidating suppliers and in 2018. partnering on development projects. Locations Lexmark sourcing teams are encouraged to select suppliers that are near the location where their products will be used—such as near a manufacturing location—when possible. The use of locally based suppliers is both environmentally and financially preferable, resulting in positive local impacts. Lexmark supplies are strategically produced in local economies near our customers. We produce supplies in Poland to meet the needs of our customers in Europe. Lexmark sources supplies for Asia Pacific from China, and our manufacturing plant in Mexico produces supplies for Latin America and North America. Manufacturing products regionally near our distribution centers not only allows our customers to receive needed supplies faster, it provides an opportunity for our customers to recycle their supplies closer to home. We regionally sourced 80% of our supplies in 2018. Key and strategic suppliers Key and strategic suppliers account for a significant percentage of Lexmark total 1 Key and strategic suppliers are those with procurement spending. Based on 2018 spending, the 104 key and strategic suppliers spend over $1 million and goods and/or make up about 44 percent of our purchases.1 services critical to Lexmark operations. Accountability To better understand corporate social responsibility (CSR) risks in the supply chain, Lexmark analyzes the spending behavior of that chain, evaluating basic information (total number of suppliers, geographic spread, and so on), as well as social and environmental aspects such as supplier diversity and environmental factors. These spending analyses are conducted with specially developed data-collection tools and are conducted in collaboration with consultants specializing in supply chain analyses. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 35 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Our spending-analysis process Lexmark and its suppliers so that we can • Verification—Lexmark inspects Over the last nine years, 100 percent document our progress on environmental for compliance through supplier of Lexmark procurement spending was and social initiatives, and helps us explore assessments, operation reviews, risk subject to our spending-analysis process. how we can improve as responsible management and third-party audit Through this process, we have identified corporate citizens. systems. critical suppliers–our high-volume, highspending suppliers, suppliers of critical Conflict minerals • Audit—Lexmark monitors and audits components and unique or sole source Lexmark is committed to responsible its facilities and select partners’ suppliers. Lexmark has over 7,000 global sourcing of the minerals in our facilities by questioning about suppliers, 1.4 percent of which have been products. As a member of the Responsible labor and human rights policies identified as key and strategic.1 Business Alliance (RBA), we perform and procedures to ensure that due diligence to reasonably assure forced, bonded, trafficked, slave or Risk management that conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, involuntary prison labor is not being Less than 1 percent of our suppliers are tungsten and gold) in the products we used. determined to be high risk. Based on manufacture do not directly or indirectly how critical the risk is, Lexmark conducts finance or benefit armed groups that • Training—Lexmark provides training a deeper analysis of economic (cash are perpetrators of serious human rights on the RBA Code of Conduct to management), environmental (weatherabuses in the Democratic Republic of the employees in procurement who have related), and social (war and political Congo or an adjoining country. Lexmark is direct responsibility for supply chain instability) risk factors. also a member of the Responsible Minerals management. Initiative (RMI). RMI’s tools provide These risks are managed in part through Lexmark guidance in responsible mineral • Accountability—Lexmark suppliers are the RBA Code of Conduct. This code sourcing in our supply chain. required by contract to operate in full prescribes best practices related to compliance with laws and regulations, environmental performance in operations, As part of its responsible sourcing including those regarding human human rights (forced or child labor, efforts, Lexmark conducts a country trafficking and slavery in countries freedom of association, International of origin inquiry to determine whether of operation or where products are Labour Organization conventions), working a conflict mineral originated in the distributed. conditions (working hours, layoff practices, Democratic Republic of the Congo or an remuneration), occupational health and adjoining country. Lexmark, as well as its For more details read our Human safety and business ethics (corruption, subcontractors and suppliers, discloses Trafficking and Slavery Statement. anti-competitive practices). To improve its reasonable country of origin inquiry business practices and assist companies in of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold used Diversity identifying risks and driving improvements, in the manufacture of Lexmark products. Lexmark strives to encourage and afford self-audits and site audits are conducted Lexmark also requires a due diligence opportunities to minority suppliers. The in conformance with the RBA Code of declaration identifying the list of smelters Lexmark Supplier Diversity Program is Conduct, laws, and regulations. used within a supplier’s supply chain. founded on Lexmark values of mutual This information must be submitted along respect, corporate citizenship and Demonstrating improvement with the supplier’s due diligence process. integrity. Diverse businesses make up Lexmark requests information from its Suppliers must report the results using a vital segment of the economy, and, suppliers to determine their policies and the RBA template, or Lexmark-approved therefore, supporting diverse businesses principles that protect the environment similar template. Click here for the Conflict are advantageous to our financial and promote social responsibility. We Minerals Report of Lexmark. performance and our community. encourage suppliers to demonstrate continual improvement through the Human trafficking and slavery Our global sourcing efforts with veterancompletion of the RBA Self-Assessment Lexmark has implemented the following owned small businesses helped Lexmark Questionnaire (SAQ) or Lexmark Supplier practices to prevent human trafficking earn the distinction of a Military Friendly Sustainability Questionnaire. and slavery. Our practices and procedures Employer for the fourth year in a row and uphold the human rights and labor policies placement on the Military Friendly Supplier The Lexmark Supplier Sustainability and principles in our supply chain. Diversity Program list. This recognition Questionnaire provides us greater • Standards—Lexmark upholds and resulted from a leading survey by Victory understanding and transparency of the respects international human rights Media that recognizes companies with CSR initiatives of the key suppliers of standards that promote workers’ the strongest job opportunities and bestgoods and services that support our rights, fair-employment opportunities in-class hiring and retention programs operations. The questionnaire input and open channels of communication. for transitioning service members and creates ongoing discussions between Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 36 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting spouses seeking civilian employment. Click here to view our supplier diversity ratings based on our efforts to create sustainable and meaningful benefits for the military Our vision is to create strategic community. partnerships with qualified diverse suppliers. We believe this provides How the supplier diversity program works us the greatest opportunity to Lexmark sets goals annually to increase contracting opportunities for eligible minority develop innovative and costsuppliers. These goals are reviewed to determine if they are attainable and represent a effective business solutions and meaningful contribution to the Lexmark supplier diversity program. Lexmark employees at the same time, strengthen are encouraged to take an active role in supporting the supplier diversity program by our company, customers, and ensuring that diverse-owned vendors are encouraged and given an opportunity to do community. Supplier diversity brings business with Lexmark. different strengths and values and a competitive advantage for What we buy our company. • Construction: New work, additions, alterations or maintenance and repairs services • Manufacturing: Packaging, molded plastics, chemicals • Printing: Labels, business cards • Office Supplies: Furniture, office supplies • Consulting/Professional Services: Photography, translation, environmental consulting Michelle Rawlings services Vice President, • Professional Equipment: MRO/Lab supplies Global Sourcing and Planning, • Administrative Services: Facilities support services, temporary staff services Lexmark • Educational Services: Instruction and training services Who is eligible • All Small Business (including ANCs and Indian Tribes) • Small Disadvantaged Business • Women-Owned Small Business • Veteran-Owned Small Business • HUBZone Small Business • Service-disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business • LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Program requirements • Certification by a third-party agency • The company must be at least 51 percent owned and operated by a United States citizen who is a member of one of mentioned groups Business trade organizations Lexmark is member of DiversityInc and sponsor of the Lexington, Kentucky, Chamber of Commerce and Minority Business Expo. Diverse supplier registration Click here for the Supplier Registration Form. Email the completed form to supplierdiv@lexmark.com. This data will be used to provide a list of diverse suppliers to the appropriate Lexmark decision maker. 1 Key and strategic suppliers are those with spend over $1 million and goods and/or services critical to Lexmark operations. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 37 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Land & Biodiversity Lexmark strives to ensure that our operations do not harm the local environment. Understanding our responsibility to help maintain balance in the natural world, we engage our communities primarily in reforestation programs and watershed protection. Lexmark owns or leases facilities used for manufacturing and research and development in the United States, Mexico, Europe and Asia. An important prerequisite for locating these global facilities includes a thorough understanding of local ecology and biological issues so that we can take a prudent approach to their protection. Consequently, an important part of our worldwide environmental assessment is the use of internationally accepted evaluation tools. As the first step to establishing a facility in the United States or abroad, Lexmark applies the following standards to assess environmental aspects of the site: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) E1527-131 and E1903-11. 2 We also consider the protection status and biodiversity value of those areas where we plan to operate. With the exception of an operational site in the Philippines described A registered Monarch Waystation below, Lexmark does not own, lease or manage operational sites in or adjacent at Lexmark headquarters provides to protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. In a food source and habitat for addition, our activities do not result in significant impacts on biodiversity in these monarch butterflies and other types of areas. We also do not own, lease or manage operational sites in areas where pollinators. For more information habitat restoration has occurred or in habitat protected areas. Finally, Lexmark does visit Lexmark Monarch Waystation. not operate in areas that are known to be protected or home to International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List species or national conservation list species and has no plans to operate in these areas. Lexmark is especially sensitive to the environment in our Philippines operations. Many global organizations recognize the entire country as an area of high biodiversity. The Lexmark Research and Development Corporation (LRDC) located in Cebu, Philippines, is a 30,817 square meter research and development operation. Lexmark employees in the Philippines work diligently to restore habitats near these facilities, focusing on reforestation and watershed protection. Since 2008, Lexmark has planted 136,000 mangrove trees in various coastal and watershed areas of Cebu and over 16,645 tree seedlings in various areas of Cebu. 1 ASTM E1527-13, Standard Practice for EnvironMangroves are beneficial to the environment; they provide shelter and food for sea mental Site Assessments: Phase I Environmental Site Assessment Process, ASTM International, life, stabilize coastlines by reducing erosion, and protect coastal communities from West Conshohocken, PA, 2013, www.astm.org storm surges. 2 ASTM E1903-11, Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessments: Phase II Environmental Site Assessment Process, ASTM International, West Conshohocken, PA, 2011, www.astm.org Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 38 Our Imaging Solutions Lexmark concentrates efforts on the design, manufacture, delivery and use of products that can be employed in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. The Lexmark product portfolio is a dynamic mix of software, electronic data tools, long-lasting hardware, and management services. As our company continues to evolve, our commitment to being a leader in global citizenship through our thoughts and actions remains a guiding principle for our business. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 39 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Certifications Multi-attribute environmental standards Lexmark products are designed to meet or exceed the strict criteria of some of the world’s most prominent standards and certifications. These certifications may require testing, analysis, audit, third-party review, standard declaration or disclosure of business or product information. ISO 14024 Type I Environmental Labeling Lexmark has a long history of designing print systems to meet the Blue Angel standard for environmental performance. The Blue Angel ecolabel, originating in Germany, was established in 1978 and is one the most prestigious environmental certifications worldwide. The Blue Angel criteria are regularly reviewed and revised—the most recent revision being DE-UZ 205, January 2017. The majority of Lexmark print systems announced after October 2012 have been certified. For a list of Lexmark models that are Blue Angel certified, click here. Lexmark pursues other voluntary product environmental certifications worldwide, including China certifications HJ 2512-2012 and HJ/T 424-2017, Korea Eco-label and Taiwan Green Mark. ISO 14021 – Type II Self-declared environmental claims The Eco Declaration (ECMA-370) Formerly known as IT Eco Declarations, ECMA-370 declarations provide objective and comparable environmental information. Lexmark signed the original Industry Voluntary Agreement to Improve the Environmental Performance of Imaging Equipment Placed on the European Market in June 2011, and the updated agreement in April 2015. Manufacturers are required to make product environmental performance data publicly available, such as through The Eco Declaration (ECMA-370). To view Lexmark’s declarations, click here. To request IT Eco Declarations for our laser print supplies, please contact sustainability@lexmark.com. Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool Lexmark is committed to providing our customers products that are environmentally preferable. The Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT®) is one resource used to recognize products that meet this qualification. EPEAT uses the IEEE 1680.2 standard as the basis for assessing imaging equipment. Lexmark supports our customers in their goals of environmental stewardship, energy efficiency and resource efficiency by registering products through EPEAT. We have registered 23 of our products with a Gold rating—the highest rating available—and registered the remaining qualified products with a Silver rating. For a list of these products, click here. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 40 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Energy standards ENERGY STAR® Lexmark is committed to designing energy efficient products and uses ENERGY STAR requirements for imaging equipment as a guideline when developing products. Launched in 1992, ENERGY STAR is the globally recognized program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that awards certification to the most energy efficient models in a product category. The majority of Lexmark products maintain ENERGY STAR qualification year after year. In 2018, over 90 percent of Lexmark-branded products held the latest version of certification—ENERGY STAR V2.0. The ENERGY STAR specification evolves requirements to drive continued energy improvements, and Lexmark seeks recertification to the latest available specification. Lexmark actively participated in the development of the Version 3.0 ENERGY STAR Production Specification for Imaging Equipment, which takes effect October 2019, and has begun testing products to this new version of the standard. For more information on ENERGY STAR and a listing of certified Lexmark products, click here. Energy efficiency metrics trend Product Segment 2010 Energy Efficiency Metric 2012 Energy Efficiency Metric 2016 Energy Efficiency Metric 2018 Energy Efficiency Metric Laser Products1 Fleet Average of 0.153 Fleet Average of 0.104 Fleet Average of 0.077 Fleet Average of 0.052 ENERGY STAR TEC / ipm ENERGY STAR TEC / ipm ENERGY STAR TEC / ipm ENERGY STAR TEC / ipm Fleet Average Annual 28.642 19.469 14.485 9.596 Energy Consumption (MJ / ipm) EC 801 EC 801/2013 is the implementing measure for ErP Lot 26 (Network Standby). As part of this regulation, manufacturers are required to post information about the Network Standby (“sleep”) modes of products, including the available network connections, power consumption in sleep mode for each connection, and the default timeout to sleep mode. To view Lexmark's declarations of product sleep modes, click here. 1 Laser Products Energy Efficiency Metric is the ENERGY STAR V2.0 TEC (Typical Electricity Consumption) divided by the product speed in ipm (images per minute). Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 41 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Life Cycle As part of Lexmark’s commitment to sustainable products, Lexmark has conducted Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) on 76 of its printer and MFP models as of January 2019 and is committed to performing LCAs on future product models. LCAs technically evaluate the environmental phases of the product design, manufacturing, distribution, use and end-of-life of our products. Lexmark is continuing to Environmental Product improve accuracy and transparency of our LCAs by working with an external consultant to include all possible phases of the printer life cycle and ensure our electronics are Declarations counted and scaled accordingly. Click here for all available Environmental Product Declarations. The data from the LCAs is used to create and publish ISO 14025 Type III Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs), which summarize the complex information provided by the assessment. Each EPD conforms to the international standards ISO 14040:2006, ISO 14044:2006 and ISO 14025:2007 and follows the requirements of the Product Category Rules (PCR) for preparing an EPD for Printers and Multi-function Printing Units published by UL Environment (ULE). Lexmark is using the latest edition of PCR published April 23, 2018 for products announced in 2018 and beyond.1 The EPDs are third-party certified for accuracy and completeness. For information on secondary sources used in the Life Cycle Assessments, see Life Cycle Assessments Data. Materials selection Common components Long life components Recycled content, including Energy efficient designs closed loop PCR Design Manufacturing Easy to use collection Compact design programs for reuse End of Life Distribution Efficient packaging designs and recycling Regional manufacturing In-house remanufacture and recycling Use Automatic duplex Energy saving modes High yield cartridges Proactive printer maintenance Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 42 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting LCA knowledge drives process and design improvements The LCA reports have identified the use phase as having the greatest impact in the life cycle of the Lexmark printer—in particular, paper. This learning has shaped Lexmark’s focus on offerings to help customers print efficiently, to optimize print environments and to return hardware and consumables at end of life. Lexmark works to reduce the environmental impact of paper use by testing products to ensure recycled paper may be used—specifically, papers made with 30 percent, 50 percent, and 100 percent post-consumer recycled content. Our expectation is that recycled papers perform as well as virgin paper in our printers. While no official standard exists for office equipment use of paper, Lexmark uses European Standard EN 12281 as a minimum properties standard. To ensure breadth of testing, test paper includes 100 percent recycled papers from North America, Europe and Asia, and tests are conducted at 8-80 percent relative humidity. Testing includes duplex printing. Customers using Lexmark devices have many choices when it comes to environmentally preferable paper. Office paper using renewable, recycled or chlorine-free content may all be used. If we remove the paper impact from the life cycle assessments, then consumables, energy and printer maintenance actions are highlighted as areas for design improvement. In design, Lexmark has dedicated teams working on product energy reductions, consumable sustainability and end of life recycling and remanufacturing, as well as extended longevity of components and proactive printer maintenance. When we compare products gen to gen we see improvements in these areas. Generation comparison of a single function and multifunction product 2 1 Products announced prior to 2018: Product Category Rules for Printers and Multi-Function Further insight: cartridge LCAs Printing Units, UL Environmental Standard, Lexmark also pursues cartridge LCAs to identify areas where improvements can be made Edition 1 (Dec 12, 2012) 2018 announce products and beyond: within the cartridge life cycle. Conducted in accordance with ISO 14040 and 14044, the Product Category Rules for Printers and MultiLexmark LCA cartridge studies showed that recycling a used Lexmark toner cartridge Function Printing Units, UL Environmental reduces the carbon footprint of the cartridges studied by nearly 50 percent over discarding Standard, Edition 2 (April 23, 2018) it in a landfill, consistently confirming the value of the LCCP operations and efforts to 2 Lifetime comparison of total global warming increase cartridge collections. This value excludes paper consumed when printing. potential (kg CO2equivalent) during printer life cycle phases, excluding paper Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 43 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Materials Approach Lexmark’s materials management Environmental Specification. Lexmark's audits select suppliers for compliance approach Product Environmental Specification to the Lexmark Product Environmental At Lexmark, we look at the environmental defines the minimum environmental Specification during the delivery of parts impact of our products throughout their requirements associated with the design, and assemblies. life cycle. We see where we can deliver manufacture and marketing of Lexmark optimal environmental performance by products. The criteria stem from global To support materials management efforts, incorporating innovative circular design regulatory obligations, international Lexmark maintains a materials content concepts and material improvements. treaties and conventions to specific market data collection and management system. demands. The team reviews the Product This system allows our teams to address Our materials management approach is Environmental Specification annually to regulatory issues, communicate with broad, ranging from our focus on materials include the latest regulatory references. suppliers about substances of concern and used and sourced from our suppliers, to respond to customer questions. our active participation in industry trade The Lexmark Product Environmental associations. Specification is available online for access at any time. We also provide it to suppliers Lexmark’s Corporate Sustainability team in contract terms and to material suppliers is responsible for maintaining the Product during the development process. Lexmark Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 44 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Post-consumer recycled (PCR) content Lexmark engineers design our products with a focus on recyclability. Over 90 percent of the materials used in hardware products by weight are recyclable. The majority of these materials are polymers and metals that are formed into components through injection molding or stamping operations. High-impact polystyrene (HIPS) and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) are most often used; however, other plastics such as acetals, polyesters, polyamides and filled or blended versions of these materials are also utilized. Lexmark chooses to offset a portion of our virgin polymer purchases by boldly pursuing recycled options and reuse of parts. Our use of recycled materials ensures that waste formerly destined for landfill has a new destination and purpose, helping protect natural resources and fulfill our sustainability goals. Currently, we favor the use of post-consumer recycled (PCR) materials over the use of biobased materials for durability and recyclability. The metal content in Lexmark printers is dominated by steel products sourced from both recycled and new materials. We see the environmental benefits of reusing metal content with the understanding that recycled metal stock can be used for some—but not all—metal components. Published industry averages indicate that many commercial grades of steel commonly contain between 30 percent and 80 percent recycled content. Lexmark is committed to using these grades of steel where possible. Lexmark’s post-consumer recycled plastics (PCR) journey First post-consumer Up to 40% PCR Up to 60% PCR recycled (PCR) plastic use in plastic use in some plastic in Lexmark some models* hardware models* Optra Series PCR plastic returns Over 90% of to hardware at 4% hardware >5% in one product* PCR plastic* 1994-2002 2008 2009 2010 2012 2014-2015 2016-2018 First PCR plastic in Set 25% average PCR Average PCR plastic cartridges: 2% plastic cartridge goal in cartridges: 18%-21% UL Certified PCR closed loop plastic used for up to 100% PCR parts Average PCR plastic: 12% Plans in place for Average PCR plastic: 10% closed-loop PCR operations Over 90% of Lexmark designed and manufactured cartridges contain PCR plastic * Percent PCR plastic calculated using IEEE 1680.2 methodology by weight of plastics Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 45 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Lexmark continues to expand our circular of Lexmark designed and manufactured economy innovations through our awardtoner cartridges contain at least some winning Lexmark Cartridge Collection post-consumer recycled plastic content. Program (LCCP). Our engineers reclaim feed streams of various types of plastics For PCR that we cannot source through such as ABS, HIPS and polyoxymethylene LCCP, our Lexmark engineers recommend (POM) through this closed loop program. using PCR materials originating from After returning this material to nearclosed-loop recycled electronics when new quality through our in-house possible. Lexmark uses several suppliers An estimated 3,400+ metric tons extrusion and compounding processes, who declare their base resins are sourced of post-consumer recycled plastic was we use this plastic to manufacture new from 100 percent post-consumer waste used in the manufacture of the 2018 toner cartridges. In 2016, Underwriters electrical and electronic equipment branded, in-house technology printers Laboratory (UL) certified our PCR resin (WEEE). Our use of PCR sourced from and MFPs. 2 That’s over 27 percent of for use at a rate of 100 percent for print used electronics provides incentive to the total plastic. cartridge components, making it the first electronics manufacturers and recyclers to UL-certified 100 percent recycled resin continue to grow the circular economy in to be processed in-house. In 2018, we this industry. produced nearly 50 components with up to 100 percent closed-loop PCR plastic. In the future, we would like to incorporate closed-loop recycled materials from our Lexmark is an industry leader in the use of hardware recycling streams into new reclaimed plastic with 21 percent average devices in much the same way we are post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic doing for cartridges. To help prepare for An estimated 580 metrics tons content, by weight, across all new Lexmark this content, Lexmark has been utilizing of post-consumer recycled plastic was branded toner cartridges. Our goal is greater amounts of recycled plastics in our used in the manufacture of the 2018 to increase the post-consumer recycled printers—our latest offerings are qualified Lexmark branded cartridges. That’s plastic content in our toner cartridges to to include up to 60 percent PCR by weight 21 percent of the total plastic. 25 percent by 2022. In fact, 86 percent of plastics.1 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 46 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Regulatory insight Restriction of hazardous substances Lexmark evaluates printers, supplies and packaging for compliance to material restriction directives and legislation. Lexmark complies with the material restriction requirements adopted under the European Union Recast Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS 2). Per the RoHS recast directive, conformance is declared via the CE Mark declarations, which are posted on the Lexmark website: Regulatory Compliance. RoHS 2 restricts the amount of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. These hazardous materials include four metals (lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium) and two brominated flame retardants (polybrominated biphenyl and polybrominated diphenyl ether). Four phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP and DiBP) have been added to the restricted list of substances—restriction taking effect July 22, 2019. Lexmark does not claim RoHS exemptions for cadmium. Lexmark has developed a conformance assurance system for materials restrictions that includes an audit process. Audit results indicating a nonconformance lead to further evaluation, material or component changes if needed, and notification to authorities if products ship with noncompliant parts. Information on conformance may be found in Product Health and Safety. Registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals Lexmark works with our suppliers to ensure compliance with international material restriction regulations such as the European Union Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. REACH seeks to improve public health and the environment by controlling the production and use of harmful chemical substances. Lexmark completed the first steps of REACH in 2008, including preregistration, material review and required communications for the initial release of the Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) candidate list of chemicals. Lexmark continues to monitor REACH developments and the addition of new chemicals to the SVHC list and comply with chemical registration deadlines and legal obligations imposed. More information about Lexmark REACH initiatives is available to customers by request. Please see the REACH position paper for more information. Montreal Protocol In compliance with the Montreal Protocol, Lexmark prohibits the use of ozone-depleting chemicals in the manufacture and development of our products. Toner Safety Data Sheets 1 PCR calculated using IEEE.1680.2 methodology Cartridges deliver toner used in the printing process. Lexmark toners are classified 2 Based on the post-consumer recycled materials according to the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of used in the cross section of Lexmark’s primary Chemicals (GHS). At the cartridge level, Lexmark toners are not classified as hazardous imaging equipment for 2017 Lexmark branded, inchemicals. In the United States, GHS regulations classify toner in bulk container form as house technology. PCR calculated using IEEE.1680.2 methodology. a combustible dust; however, Lexmark toners are not classified as hazardous outside the United States. Lexmark provides Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) for these toners, where applicable safe handling and health analyses can be found. Current SDSs are available on the Lexmark website. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 47 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Return & Recycle Product return & recycle Lexmark continuously seeks new ways to reduce its footprint. While making great strides Our goal is to increase the reuse of in waste reduction at our global manufacturing facilities, Lexmark also provides an cartridges and supplies collected opportunity for our customers to reduce their waste and increase the number of Lexmark through LCCP to 60% by 2022. products that are reused and recycled. By incorporating Life Cycle Assessment results in our product design process, we develop sustainable products that combine high standards of performance, efficiency and environmental stewardship through each life cycle stage. At the end of product life, Lexmark recovers components and parts to reuse or recycle via our customer return methods: the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) and the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program (LECP). Click here for additional information on Lexmark’s product return and recycle programs. Cartridge collection Our extensive cartridge collection network has made Lexmark an industry leader in the recovery, remanufacturing and recycling of used toner cartridges. In 2018, through the efforts of Lexmark customers, more than 40 percent of the total toner cartridges shipped worldwide were returned through the LCCP. In some regions, the return rate was In 2018, 53% of the cartridges and higher. For example, the United States continues to average approximately 50 percent supplies returned were reused. return rates. We estimate the industry average collection rates to be between 20 and 30 percent. Lexmark toner Lexmark toner cartridge cartridge collections collections Year on year growth Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 48 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Extending material life Our products are designed and optimized for a cycle of disassembly and reuse. Lexmark develops innovative processes to divert reclaimed materials from waste streams and cycle them back into new products. Our processes provide the opportunity to reduce waste through the reuse of toner, cartridge components and materials. Last year, 53 percent of the cartridges and supplies returned to Lexmark were reused. We have established a goal to increase this to 60 percent by 2022. Lexmark’s R2 certified recycling plant In 2007 Lexmark established a recycling plant in Juarez, Mexico, to provide customers a place to return their empty laser cartridges for responsible end-of-life reuse or recycling. The LCCP processes approximately 20,000 empty toner cartridges per day and in 2018 Lexmark collected its 100th million cartridge. Select components in empty cartridges are removed and reprocessed for reuse. In the last 14 years, Lexmark has been able to Watch how the LCCP process incorporate more than 59 million pounds of materials recovered through the LCCP into closes the loop. the production of laser cartridges. The LCCP facility complies with the highest industry standards and best practices for environmental responsibility by using a tracking and accountability system to manage all materials recovered. The LCCP plant is a Responsible Recycling (R2) certified facility that safely recycles and manages electronics based upon an accredited, third-party auditor. LCCP has achieved other certifications such as ISO 14001 for environmental management, OHSAS 18001 for Occupational Health and Safety and ISO 9001 for quality management. The 99,000 square-foot facility is also a Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certified building. Cartridge collection around the world Each year, the LCCP prevents millions of Lexmark print cartridges from ending up in landfills. This program encourages our customers to return used print cartridges to Lexmark free of charge so that we can reuse and recycle them. Our collection programs are currently available in over 60 countries, which represent approximately 90 percent of our global market. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 49 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Resource conservation through recycling and reuse Since 1996, Lexmark has reused over 65 million pounds of Lexmark is actively embracing the emerging concept of a recovered cartridge material by converting millions of used toner circular economy—a restorative industrial system focused on cartridges into Lexmark-certified reconditioned toner cartridges. maximizing the utility and value of products and materials The eligible cartridges are disassembled and cleaned, and then while also eliminating waste. Our long-standing support for the the critical components are replaced with genuine Lexmark parts. circular economy is evident in Lexmark’s founding membership Finally, each reconditioned cartridge is tested to assure the same in the European Remanufacturing Council (CER). The CER focuses high quality output and reliable performance as a cartridge with on remanufacturing policy and encourages sustainability and all new components. remanufacturing initiatives. If a returned cartridge is not a good candidate for reconditioning, Our pioneering LCCP provides a great example of it is disassembled in such a way to maximize the materials remanufacturing through resource recirculation of pre-owned recovered for use in secondary products. Examples of materials supplies. In addition to reducing landfill waste, the LCCP given a second life include toner as an asphalt additive to conserves natural resources through reuse and recycling. improve quality and performance, post-consumer recycled plastic When handling used cartridges, we strive for the top levels of integrated into new parts, and photoconductor imaging units the standard environmental hierarchy. Landfill disposal and recoated for reuse. In 2018, over 840,000 photoconductors from incineration are the least desirable options, while recycling our returned cartridges were collected and sent to our facilities in and reuse produce the greatest sustainability benefit for the Boulder, Colorado for recoating and reuse. An additional 230,000 environment. Therefore, Lexmark follows a zero-landfill and zerophotoconductors were recovered from the manufacturing line incineration policy by reusing or recycling cartridges returned resulting in the reuse of 75 metric tons of aluminum. from customers. In 2018, we recycled or reused nearly 8,000 metric tons of plastic, In 2018, LCCP collected 8,145 metric tons of returned cartridges metals and packaging, and were able to materially recycle or from our customers. 97 percent or 7,861 metric tons of materials reuse 100 percent of the reclaimed plastic. Conserving materials reclaimed from our customers' returned cartridges were reused for reuse in our products means fewer raw materials to be mined or recycled. Energy was generated from 3 percent or 283 metric or extracted, thus reducing the impact on the environment. tons of toner waste collected in Brazil, Europe and Asia Pacific. Since 2004, Lexmark has redirected over 123,000 metric tons of Click here for additional information on Lexmark’s LCCP program. material away from landfills using the LCCP. For information on cartridge collection in Europe for medium and large businesses click here. Reclaimed cartridge material disposal in 2018 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 50 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Equipment collection sustainable. Our recycling partners are established a shipping container reuse audited regularly to ensure that they and recycle program with our primary continue to maintain the high level of electronic waste recycling partner. Lexmark offers our customers service and regulatory compliance that we Additionally, wooden pallets are reused environmentally sound choices for disposal expect of our recycling partners. and recycled (damaged pallets are of their end-of-life products. Electronic chipped and used as mulch), and certain waste, including printers that have types of Styrofoam are sent to an extruder reached the end of their usable lives, is for reuse. recycled through our Lexmark Equipment Collection Program (LECP) by specialized Click here for additional information on firms with processes to meet state and Lexmark’s LECP program. Click here to view the R2 certificate. legislative requirements. The firms we choose are committed to recycling Electronic waste recycling by location devices in an environmentally and socially United States responsible manner. Our recycling partners In the United States, we offer the LECP. The primary U.S. and European Lexmark Through this program, customers may North America recycling partner, Sims Recycling Solutions, return any end-of-life Lexmark branded is the world’s largest electronics recycler products to us, and we recycle the Europe and is R2 certified. Lexmark’s recycling equipment at no charge. For business partner in Canada is Global Electric customers who are in the process of Asia Pacific Electronic Processing (GEEP), an ISO installing a large fleet of new Lexmark 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 and R2 products, Lexmark develops customized certified recycler. GEEP works with Lexmark collection strategies. We work in to recycle our consumer and corporate partnership with certified electronicsproducts and their packaging materials. disposal agencies to collect used devices, GEEP provides comprehensive processing mark them for recycling, and arrange for facilities for e-waste designed to them to be sent to the nearest recycling effectively recover materials of electronic facility. Electronic waste legislation equipment. has been proposed in a number of states in the United States. There are 13 Sims Recycling Solutions and Global states and the District of Columbia with End-of-life electronic product recycling Electronic Recycling (GER) handle our enacted extended producer responsibility electronic waste from Mexico. GER is (EPR) legislation that includes printers: Lexmark partners with recyclers that an ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and R2/RIOS™ Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, offer a broad range of services and Certified Electronics Recycler. Our recyclers Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New processing capabilities, are ISO 14001 processed more than 4,600 metric tons of York, North Carolina, Oregon, South certified (the environmental-managementelectronic waste on behalf of Lexmark in Carolina, Vermont and Wisconsin. While system standard), and are certified R2 or the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe the details of the legislation vary greatly e-Stewards. and Asia Pacific in 2018. from state to state, the basic tenet is that the producers of electronic devices are The R2 (Responsible Recycling) Standard The Lexmark service organization works required to collect and responsibly recycle is a comprehensive global criteria for with our recycling partners to reclaim covered electronic devices at the end of e-recyclers and requires responsible parts that can be used to refurbish the devices’ usable lives. management of used computers and printers, which keeps the printers in electronics. This standard is managed service longer and reduces the need A Lexmark printer hardware packaging by Sustainable Electronics Recycling to recycle used hardware. Devices that return program is also in place in the International (SERI). The e-Stewards are returned to Lexmark go through a U.S. Packaging material from Lexmark Standard is a rigorous, internationally process that assesses if they can be hardware including service parts may compliant certification from Basil refurbished for reuse, and if not, they are be returned to Lexmark for recycling. Action Network (BAN) based on ISO harvested for parts that can be used in the Customers may use their new printer’s 14001 that assures full conformance to refurbishment process. packaging material to return their old a comprehensive suite of electronics Lexmark printer or they may return only recycling best practices. Both SERI and Lexmark has additional programs in the packaging material from their printer BAN are working to ensure the electronics place to recycle printer packaging or or hardware to Lexmark. For more details, recycling industry is environmentally other Lexmark hardware. Lexmark has click here. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 51 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Canada Lexmark is a member of Electronic Product Stewardship Canada (EPSC), an organization dedicated to promoting and implementing sustainable solutions for end-of-life electronics. We participate in a number of government-sponsored and industry-supported recycling programs in Canada, which vary by province. All provinces require electronic manufacturers to pay a fee that is used to recycle electronic equipment in those respective provinces. For customers that do not have a provincial recycling program, Lexmark offers product recycling through our Canadian Recycling Partner, GEEP. Click here for more information on printer recycling in Canada. Europe In many parts of Europe, our equipment electronic waste and to minimize the life products to authorized recyclers. take-back strategy is implemented impact to the environment. A primary focus Arrangements with authorized recyclers through country-specific programs that for Lexmark’s Asia Pacific environmental ensure the responsible disposal of are operated in accordance with the work is to support the Australian national electronic equipment to protect the European Union (EU) Waste Electrical and end-of-life electronic equipment and environment and surrounding communities. Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive recycling program. Lexmark has joined (2012/19/EU). Consumers in the EU can a government approved service to offer Click here for more information on take their equipment to locally authorized customers an environmentally responsible equipment recycling in Australia. collection centers or, in some cases, to choice for disposal of their end-of-life local retailers. For EU business customers, printers. Latin America Lexmark has established a fully compliant The infrastructure for recycling electronic logistics system for transporting used In this end-of-life program, all information waste in the regions of Central and products to the nearest storage and technology manufacturers and importers South America is emerging as national sorting facility, where the equipment is are responsible for their shares of actual measures are taken to ensure proper properly processed for recycling. waste collected. Customers return their disposal of end-of-life electronic end-of-life electronic equipment to equipment. Many countries and local Click here to see more detailed LECP and designated collection points from which governments have enacted forms WEEE compliance information. the waste is taken to central consolidation of extended producer responsibility and collection points for recycling by legislation. Lexmark is monitoring Latin Asia Pacific accredited recycling operators. America’s electronic waste legislation and The countries that make up Lexmark’s Asia is working with our recycling partners to Pacific region have enacted regulations The introduction of electronic waste laws set up regional recycling centers to meet mandating electronic waste recycling that in India has resulted in Lexmark working these new requirements. vary from country to country to maximize closely with the Indian Government to the proper disposal and recycling of channel electronic waste from end-ofLexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 52 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Emissions Noise emissions (acoustics) for Blue Angel certification in-house Acoustics is the science of sound and and test innovative solutions to help vibration. Designing products for the reduce unwanted noise and improve the environment includes consideration accessibility of our devices. Lab personnel for sounds in the workplace. Lexmark’s are proficient in test methods for noise environmental design is guided by the emissions under ISO 779, ISO 532B Zwicker Blue Angel standard, and devices meet the loudness, ISO 9296 declaration and the requirements of DE-UZ 205. Blue Angel ecolabel. Learn more here about Blue Angel and Blue Angel-certified Lexmark Lexmark printers offer an ideal Chemical emissions products. combination of efficient performance and Laser printers emit low levels of volatile quiet operation to enhance comfort in the organic compounds (VOCs) due to the Visit ECMA 370/The Eco workplace and to increase productivity. heating of internal components, and they Declaration for product Quiet Mode, featured on many Lexmark produce small amounts of dust (mostly declarations which include products, provides customers the ability paper remnants) as paper moves through chemical emissions and to adjust the sound level of their printer to the printer. Emissions in the workplace acoustics summaries. meet personal preferences. are subject to occupational exposure restrictions established by individual Lexmark product engineers assess countries for specific chemicals. our equipment acoustics and reduce unwanted noise while selectively Lexmark printers are tested throughout incorporating helpful sounds. Our devices the development cycle according to the strive to meet the auditory requirements protocols of the internationally recognized of the 2017 Revised Section 508 of the US Blue Angel ecolabel. Emission results Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended for total volatile organic compounds, (29 U.S.C. 794d). To further enhance the benzene, styrene, ozone, dust and ultrafine accessibility of our offerings, Lexmark particles are compared to the stringent created the Voice Guidance solution to Blue Angel limits set forth in the standard, provide auditory output. Voice Guidance and summary reports of Lexmark product lets individuals with varying levels of emissions are available to customers upon ability use a keyboard to control select request. products, and receive auditory feedback. The voice output is amplified to at least 65 Lexmark owns and operates a Blue dB and is reset automatically after every Angel certified and ISO 17025 accredited use to the default volume level. Users can chemical emission test laboratory. This hear voice prompts through the device's allows us to perform in-house tests for built-in speakers or through their own Blue Angel certification and EPEAT. We headset. also conduct additional tests to gain a better understanding of emissions sources Our ISO 17025 accredited test laboratory and solutions for mitigation. allows Lexmark to perform official tests Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 53 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Energy Use The demand for products that consume less energy, and ultimately result in lower emissions, is ever increasing. Our customers wish to lower their impact on the environment while also reducing operating energy costs. Lexmark invests in developing energy efficient products to not only fulfill our customer’s expectations, but also extend the impact of our environmental efforts far beyond what we can do within our walls. External standards and specifications help Lexmark drive efficient designs. Product families announced 2012 or later meet the energy requirements of ENERGY STAR V2.0. Lexmark is transitioning to the ENERGY STAR V3.0 specification that will take effect in October 2019. Lexmark targets low power consumption in sleep mode. Products announced after 2012 have a power consumption of 4 watts or less, many having less than 2 watts in response to the 2019 EU requirements (European Union EC 801/2013). To further save energy, products either enable Hibernate mode or auto-off when not in use for an extended period. Product Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) confirm that improvements in energy efficiency can have a considerable effect on the use phase. For example, the products announced in 2018 show up to a 50 percent reduction in average Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC) value per print speed when compared to their predecessors. Power savings evolution: sleep power A 91.5 percent reduction in sleep power since 2005! A 96.4 percent reduction in sleep power since 2005! Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 54 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Packaging Packaging designed with the environment in mind Minimum recycled content of We design our packaging with the environment in mind. packaging materials: For every product, the Lexmark packaging team carefully considers the following environmental concerns: • The amount of packaging used • The effects of packaging on shipping Corrugated fibreboard • The types of materials used 35 percent • The recyclability of packaging materials During the design phase, Lexmark engineers determine the shipping requirements of each product. They consider the overall size of the product, its shape, and the included accessories. The overall ruggedness of the printer is another significant factor: the more Molded pulp robust the printer is, the less packaging it requires. Less packaging lowers costs, reduces 100 percent materials disposed in local landfills and ensures that goods are transported in the most efficient manner. These efficiencies result in energy and natural resource savings, and fewer greenhouse emissions. In 2018, package design revisions of the Lexmark MS/MX310, 410, 510 and 610 series toner cartridges resulted in a savings of over 240 metric tons of packaging material. The new design uses 40 percent less material, improves container efficiency during shipping and yielded a cost savings of over $900,000. At Lexmark, we apply this eco-logic not only to printers but also to supplies and service parts. Our packaging materials are derived from both renewable and nonrenewable sources. Those derived from renewable sources include corrugated cardboard boxes, molded pulp cushions and wooden pallets. Those derived from nonrenewable sources include cushions made from expanded polystyrene (EPS) or expanded polyethylene (EPE); polyethylene bags; fasteners such as staples, twist ties and tape; plastic strapping and plastic stretch wrap. Lexmark catalogs the amount of packaging material used with every product to ensure that designs adhere to a minimalist approach and remain highly recyclable. Recycled paper becomes product packaging Protecting our products with re-designed packaging allows us to reuse material and minimize waste. Lexmark supplies-packaging engineers designed a process to create molded pulp cushions composed of used paper. Cost-effective and practical, these packaging cushions not only provide excellent protection for our cartridges during shipping but can also be recycled. They are made from 100 percent post-consumer waste. For our efforts on this project, Lexmark was recognized as a Manufacturing Leadership 100 Award winner (ML 100) in the Sustainability Category. Presented by the Manufacturing Leadership Council, the ML100 Awards honor businesses that shape the future of global manufacturing. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 55 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Supplies packaging with reduced carbon footprint Lexmark packaging engineers design our supplies cartons to reduce their environmental impact while maintaining their structural integrity. The durability of our supplies packaging is put to the test by being shipped twice–once to ensure that the product is safely delivered to the customer; the second to ensure the product is securely packaged in its return trip to Lexmark. Lexmark makes it easy for customers to participate in sustainable practices by using our Watch how Lexmark recycles free Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program to return cartridges and packaging. Lexmark waste paper into pulp that’s also offers recycling of printer packaging. For more information about the Lexmark molded into product packaging. Equipment Collection Program, click here. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 56 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Accessibility Solutions At Lexmark, we want to help our users be more productive. We are therefore committed to developing technologies that work to eliminate physical barriers to workplace success, making common tasks like printing or scanning a document accessible to everyone. We incorporate features that make our products more intuitive, less physically demanding, and easier to use for people of all abilities. Designing for accessibility not only helps individuals with physical limitations be fully productive and successful in their careers, but it also helps address the broader issue of unemployment in the disabled community. One example of our commitment to accessible design is the variety of features offered by the Lexmark CX825dte. It’s one of several Lexmark products that offer individuals with vision, mobility or dexterity impairments a control panel that tilts from horizontal to vertical, paper trays that can be closed with less than five pounds of force, built-in voice guidance navigation with a headphone jack for private listening and raised keypad icons. With the Lexmark CX825dte, all workers can conveniently copy, fax, email and scan. Accessibility innovation at Lexmark is driven by the Lexmark Accessibility Council. The council includes product designers, software engineers, usability experts, solutions designers and publication writers. To determine the best path for future generations of Lexmark incorporates Lexmark products, the council monitors legislation and regulations, conducts research with customers and users, and consults with accessibility experts. features that make our products easier to use Equipped with data from various perspectives, the council works with the Lexmark for people of all abilities. development community to drive product design enhancements in current and future products, making them more accessible for all Lexmark solutions users. By applying Discover the accessibility the principles of universal design to our solutions, the Accessibility Council helps features included in many deliver accessible imaging devices and assistive software solutions so that all Lexmark customers can make the most of their unique skills and abilities in the workplace. Lexmark products. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 57 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Accessibility features and solutions Tactilely discernible numpad On-device guidance Adjustable display Lexmark Accessibility Solution Raised and outlined buttons Large, high-contrast icons, Users can tilt the display to Users can create job tickets with tactile imprints help orient focus cursor and voice optimize the viewing angle. with their computer or visually impaired users. prompts guide users to smartphone while using perform common tasks using assistive technology, such as swipe navigation. the JAWS® screen reader. When they enter a shortcut on the printer’s accessible numpad, their job is released. Accessible height and reach Magnification Paper tray adjustments Headphone jack and Applying universal design prinUsers with limited vision can Users can adjust paper size in volume controls ciples helps accommodate the magnify the user interface the automatic document feedWorkers can listen privately to height, reach and force needs display by 200%. er and paper trays with voice prompts using the headof all users. a fingertip. phone jack. Lexmark Embedded Solutions Expanded interaction options Framework (eSF) Application Users can activate the touch Platform screen with a variety of A variety of solutions are choices, including a stylus supported by voice guidance, or finger. including Scan to Network, Print Release and Forms and Favorites. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 58 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Web content accessibility best practices in the development of improvements in Lexmark’s products. Lexmark web page designs are guided by office equipment, software solutions and WCAG 2.1. Lexmark uses elements of these communications. Original Section 508 Educating the greater Lexmark community guidelines to create web pages that are Standards (2000) and Revised Section Lexmark hosts share sessions on more accessible to visitors with differing 508 Standards (2017) of the United States accessibility topics to educate the greater abilities. Rehabilitation Act, European Standard Lexmark community about the wants and EN301549, and Web Content Accessibility needs of our customers with disabilities. Compatibility with assistive technology Guidelines (W3C WCAG 2.1 AA) are The council works to increase awareness Lexmark includes design features that examples of the many national and and collaboration among the various improve website accessibility for visitors international standards and regulations development test functions, Quality who use screen-reader and screenthat we apply to our designs. Assurance organization, the Usability magnifier software, such as alternative team and Lexmark Technical Support text for images and graphs, list-oriented Consultation with experts representatives. Lexmark is committed to navigation and header tags. The Lexmark Accessibility Council has ensuring that all users can easily learn to established external relationships with use our products in order to achieve their Lexmark strives to create a positive accessible design experts and accessibility goals with a high level of satisfaction. experience for all users, regardless of the analysts, such as the American Printing device used to access our site. For this House for the Blind (APH) and Bluegrass Educating the sales force reason, our site has been designed to Council of the Blind (BCB). We draw on The Lexmark Accessibility Council educates ensure that all devices provide a similar their insights to improve the design of the Lexmark sales force about accessibility user experience. We aim to make visiting future products and solutions. issues so that they can then work with our our site a productive experience for all customers’ purchasing and IT personnel to individuals. Lexmark regularly participates in find the best solutions for their workforces. accessibility conferences, seminars and This education includes participating in To ensure that our products are as screenshare sessions. We send representatives conference calls and hosting webinars for reader friendly as other Internet-enabled to the annual International Technology sales teams. devices, designs for our new web-based and Persons with Disabilities Conference applications are informed by WAI-ARIA sponsored by California State University, Educational material guidelines and attributes. In addition, Northridge (CSUN), and participate in The Lexmark Accessibility Council we are working to make sure that our monthly webinars sponsored by the U.S. regularly refreshes and creates training applications are available to visitors who Access Board. materials and presentations targeted for may have disabled JavaScript. various groups including internal sales, development and technical support teams, Accessibility education and develops educational material for Customer feedback To increase awareness of accessibility external customers. This information is User input challenges and inspire innovation, we maintained and made available on the The Lexmark Accessibility Council seeks host educational sessions on the topic of company’s internal network site. input from customers with disabilities accessibility. We also use online, internal to better understand their unique collaboration tools to encourage informal To aid our customers, we publish our requirements. We visit our customers to discussion and problem solving. product User’s Guides in accessible HTML discuss how our printing and software format. We also publish an Accessibility solutions can increase productivity in the Educating solution designers Guide providing important product workplace. We also meet with them to see The Accessibility Council hosts training accessibility information in a consolidated, how they currently use Lexmark solutions meetings and webinars to inform Lexmark accessible document. In addition, and to hear their ideas and suggestions solution designers about the needs of customers with disabilities can access for future solutions applications. For the disabled community. These meetings Technical Support via phone, chat and example, Lexmark incorporated customer may include information on design email. For questions regarding Lexmark feedback into our latest smart card requirements, methods, and national or accessibility solutions, please contact authentication solution and into our international legal design mandates, and accessibility@lexmark.com. control panels to improve tactility. User involve Lexmark’s global development sites input helps us optimize our accessibility in Lexington, Kentucky; Cebu, Philippines; solutions for continued effectiveness in the and Kolkata, India. The council also relays workplace. the customer information that it collects directly to solution designers to enhance Standards and regulations accessibility, and hosts share sessions with We are guided by current and developing development teams to demonstrate how standards and regulations that prescribe their efforts directly impact accessibility Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 59 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Software & Solutions Lexmark develops software and solutions that improve business processes and benefit the environment by reducing paper consumption and the number of unique electronic devices. The following table lists some of these offerings as well as the key environmental benefit they provide. To see Lexmark's comprehensive software and solutions, please click here. SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Lexmark Offer Environmental Benefit Description Distributed Intelligent Capture transforms the time-consuming and error-prone task of manually Distributed Intelligent Capture Reduce paper consumption processing all types of documents into a fast, effective, automated workflow, enabling digital document usage throughout a process. Ensure 24/7 access to critical document and reports even if your IT system fails or the network goes down. As documents are updated Downtime Assistant Device consolidation throughout the day, they are streamed to your printer or MFP and stored on the secure hard disk. *Hard disk required. Set copy defaults such as duplex printing, paper Eco Settings Reduce paper consumption saver and darkness setting to reduce paper and toner usage and optimize energy efficiency. Lexmark provides a high-speed on-ramp to scan Capture apps Reduce paper consumption paper into document workflow and the leading document management systems. Create bookmarks to image-based forms that Forms & Favorites Reduce paper consumption reside on a server anywhere on the Internet and print the images on demand at any time. Our GHS Label Printing solution enables manufacturers to produce color-printed labels for Reduce paper (label stock) transporting and using hazardous materials. With GHS Label Printing consumption / Ensures color laser printers from Lexmark, time is saved compliance with GHS regulations and waste is reduced by on demand printing, only needed labels. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 60 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Lexmark Offer Environmental Benefit Description Lexmark In-Store Capture's technology designed for retailers and Lexmark’s smart MFP platform In-Store Capture Energy savings streamlines paper-based processes, driving greater efficiency and improving security while reducing energy usage. Lexmark Patient Communication for Healthcare eliminates the need for preprinted stock, Patient Communication Reduce paper consumption clinicians can boost the accuracy of information and patients can easily read, understand and follow health-impacting documents. Lexmark Print and Digital Signage streamlines the signing process. Stores print everything they need and nothing they don’t, in color and in optimized Print and Digital Signage Reduce paper consumption execution order, this cuts costs by eliminating waste and reduces the time it takes to hang and change signs. As many as 40% of pages are printed unnecessarily due to no visibility and control of printing and copying behavior. Lexmark Print Print Management Reduce paper consumption Management eliminates excess printing, allows for better device consolidation and provides user level reporting and controls. RFID Laser Printing for Manufacturing enables consolidated printing and programming to a RFID Laser Printing Device consolidation single Lexmark multifunction device, reducing confusion and increasing the impact of RFID technology. Lexmark Scan Center consolidates all scanrelated functions into one sophisticated yet easyto-use application. This powerful tool enables Scan Center Reduce paper consumption users to review, enhance and index images, then route to multiple destinations using an intuitive, touch screen interface. Banks and financial institutions can achieve timesavings of up to 80% and maintain high data Smart Document Capture for Banking Reduce paper consumption quality by automating the onboarding process while minimizing manual paper handling and distribution. Government agencies can achieve time-savings of up to 80% and maintain high data quality by automating core government processes such as Smart Document Capture for Government Reduce paper consumption application case management and recertification while minimizing manual paper handling and distribution. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 61 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Lexmark Offer Environmental Benefit Description Insurance institutions can achieve time-savings of up to 80% and maintain high data quality by automating core insurance processes such as Smart Document Capture for Insurance Reduce paper consumption new application policyholder maintenance and claims while minimizing manual paper handling and distribution. Capture an image of a printed document and route the image to a predefined personal or Scan to Network Folder Reduce paper consumption public shared network folder. Lexmark’s Supply Chain Document Optimization solutions for manufacturing helps gain visibility, Supply Chain Document Optimization Device consolidation consolidate devices, raise productivity, lower costs and improve compliance. Lexmark's Tamper Resistant Prescription Printing enables printing prescriptions on demand Tamper Resistant Prescription Printing Reduce paper consumption using plain paper. This eliminates expensive and wasteful preprinted forms which must be scrapped with regulation changes. Lexmark’s Testing Assistant solution saves time, reduces costs and supports student achievement. Available from virtually any web browser, Testing Assistant leverages the power Testing Assistant Reduce paper consumption of Lexmark multifunction printers (MFPs) to create test answer sheets, scan and grade completed tests, and export results to virtually any learning management system. The Lexmark Training and Certification solution for manufacturing provides easy access to training materials, tests and pre-populated employee rosters printed directly from a Lexmark Training and Certification Reduce paper consumption multi-function product (MFP). Completed tests are scanned and automatically graded with results linked to the employee record for instant and accurate recording of all employee-training activities. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 62 Our People & Partners Lexmark strives to be the kind of company that communities welcome; the kind of company that people want to work for because we are a company that cares. Volunteerism, charitable giving, education and commitment to diversity are part of the Lexmark culture. This genuine sense of connection makes us stronger as a business and empowers employees, while supporting the areas in which we live. We are pleased to highlight our efforts to have a positive social impact through our relationships with our employees, our customers and the communities in which we live and work. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 63 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Global Citizenship Lexmark strives to be a good corporate citizen in the communities where our employees live and work. We contribute money, equipment, facilities, loaned talent, technical assistance and volunteer support to organizations on a local, national and global scale. Volunteerism is at the core of Lexmark. Our people are passionate about helping others and the environment. Lexmark empowers employees to give their time, talent and resources through programs such as Volunteer Time Off and flexible work policies. Lexmark presents an annual Volunteer of the Year award to an employee who demonstrates excellence in volunteerism. The recipient is selected by the Lexmark Global “Living the Vision” Committee from a pool of nominees across all Lexmark locations. This award is designed to recognize the individual volunteer efforts of our employees and help support the causes that are most important to them. Volunteerism Lexmark supports many organizations globally. From company-wide initiatives to individual and team contributions, Lexmark makes a significant impact in our communities. Volunteerism in Europe, Middle East Volunteerism in Latin America and Africa Volunteerism in North America Volunteerism in Asia Pacific Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 64 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Way Lexmark locations around the globe support United Way by donating funds, employee skills, volunteer and personal time, use of company facilities, communications and promotion. Employees are excited about the opportunity to help and often find enthusiastic ways to encourage others to donate to the cause—activities ranging from care day projects to benefit the local United Way organizations to festivals and sports tournaments raising funds for these organizations. Campaign highlights Boulder, CO Through Foothills United Way's Day of Caring, about 40 employees in Boulder, Colorado, supported the Cal-Wood Education Center by painting, mending fences and resurfacing walkways. Cal-Wood has provided environmental education to school groups, youth and their families since 1982. Lexington, KY Lexmark employees in Lexington, KY, participated in Care Day projects for local United Way of the Bluegrass organizations, donating many hours of volunteer service. Through these projects, volunteers provided services such as gleaning, grounds work/ maintenance, building refresh and organizational projects. Employees in Boulder, Colorado, supported the Cal-Wood Education Juarez, Mexico Center by painting, mending fences and Employees in Juarez, Mexico, organized multiple events to help local schools, nursing resurfacing walkways. Watch here. homes and shelters, bringing joy and meeting the needs of the local community groups supported. Ontario, Canada Lexmark Canada hosted their second Charity Hockey Tournament in 2018. This event raised nearly $11,000 for United Way Toronto & York Region. This event included special guests, a silent auction, raffle for door prizes, children's activities, free giveaways at the door and a 50/50 drawing. Building Homes for the Community Lexmark is a longtime supporter of Lexington Habitat for Humanity, providing sponsorship since 1998. Lexmark has served more than 20 families, investing over $750,000 and over 30,000 volunteer hours to build 23 homes. In 2018, Lexmark employees and retirees contributed approximately 650 hours to help build the Lexmark sponsored home. Since 2006, Lexmark Cebu has partnered with Gawad Kalinga, a Philippine organization with a mission to end poverty. As part of this partnership, Lexmark and our employees have donated time and money to construct homes and meet other community needs in the Lexmark Gawad Kalinga-Miglanilla village. In 2018, Lexmark volunteers completed construction of seven homes, bringing the total number of homes built to 100. Additionally, volunteers helped construct a playground and basketball court. Environment From tree and mangrove plantings to trash collection and cleanup efforts, Lexmark employees invest time to help the environment in the communities where we live and beyond, as well as raise awareness for environmental stewardship. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 65 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting STEM education support Lexmark’s corporate giving continues to focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education. STEM initiatives such as science fairs, site lab tours, Women in Engineering, mentorship, tutoring programs and partnerships with local schools and universities are some of the many ways Lexmark supports STEM education. Lexmark facilities and employee talent are often used for these educational events, providing increased opportunities for the local community to participate. Lexmark and the University of Kentucky partnered together to establish the UK/Lexmark Center for Innovation in Math and Science Education, a place to provide professional development for Kentucky science and math teachers, a lab for fieldwork-based ecology education and a shared meeting room for community outreach. Lexmark has been a longtime supporter of UK’s annual Engineers Day, or E-Day, serving as title sponsor since 2017. The Lexington Youth Science Summit, a popular Kentucky Science Center event, is hosted With our focus on educational by Lexmark. Lexmark and other area businesses provide hands-on demonstrations and excellence—particularly in the areas mentoring for middle and high school students giving them an opportunity to learn more of science, technology, engineering about different areas of science. Students can not only see, but apply real-life science and math—E-Day is a great way applications at this event. for us to show our support, share our passion for engineering, and hopefully inspire the next Contributions generation of engineers. Lexmark must adhere to strict guidelines when providing financial support to help meet community needs. Designated funds make a difference to the organizations receiving —Allen Waugerman these funds and to the individuals receiving services. Lexmark provided financial support Lexmark President and in partnership with the American Red Cross for disaster relief in response to Hurricane Chief Executive Officer Florence and Typhoon Mangkhut. Learn more about Lexmark’s Corporate Giving Program. See also, Lexmark Fast Facts. In-kind gifts Lexmark makes numerous in-kind contributions to nonprofit organizations. In addition to printers and gifts associated with printing, employees collect items for numerous other needs. These collections are not tracked for value purposes but are meaningful contributions for the community. School supplies, food, clothing, health supplies and trees are some of the many items Lexmark has donated. La Fondation MIRA Since 2008, Lexmark Canada has partnered with La Fondation Mira to fulfill its mission: “Whatever is available to all should also be accessible to the handicapped.” Mira is a nonprofit organization that offers free guide dogs and service dogs to people living with visual impairments, physical disabilities and to youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). All of Mira's services are made available free of charge. In 2018, Lexmark’s partnership with La Fondation Mira resulted in the training and provision of 25 guide dogs to enable increased accessibility for individuals with visual or mobility impairments. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 66 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Commitment to Employees Lexmark is committed to promoting a is available for employees to track health, diverse and inclusive business culture wellness and sustainability tasks. Many where employees can reach their full of these tasks are set up in the form of potential. We strive to show continuous fun competitions and personal goals, and progress in the hiring and promotion have monetary rewards. of people with diverse thoughts, experiences and backgrounds, as well as Employee feedback underrepresented groups such as women Twice per year, Lexmark employees and minorities. are asked to respond to a worldwide employee survey which is focused on Lexmark monitors its workforce breakdown engagement in areas such as teamwork, based on gender and race or ethnicity career development, innovation, and in accordance with International Labour manager effectiveness. Facilities in each Organization (ILO) convention No. 111 geography support initiatives that are and No. 100. These include analyses of meaningful to their loyal employees. For underrepresented groups in management example, in Juarez, Mexico, the leadership positions and remuneration. team proactively involved employees in their strategy to be the employer of Employee engagement choice in the city. Based on the feedback Employee engagement is an important they received, a cross-functional team part of Lexmark's community and representing all areas of the site made culture. Two-way conversations are improvements to employee development encouraged, and Lexmark's commitment and work-life balance. to communication is reflected in the Open Door Program, which enables employees Employee development to discuss issues and concerns with Lexmark encourages professional and multiple levels of management. Employees personal growth for all employees. We have many opportunities to be engaged in support continued education to help our corporate social responsibility. Recycling employees become more effective in their and conserving environmental resources current positions and develop skill sets for is common practice for employees at future positions. all of our Lexmark locations. Volunteer activities are frequently available for Development plans are utilized to identify participation and are shared through opportunities and highlight career goals, internal social media. In addition, interests and strengths. Employees are Diversity Network groups and social encouraged to update their career goals groups sponsor activities that welcome and development plans in preparation all employees to join in. Lexmark also has for conversations with their managers a team of environmental advocates that on development and performance. All are focused on promoting sustainability worldwide employees are directed to work activities and education. In the U.S., a tool with their managers to create performance Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 67 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting objectives that support goals on personal, development programs are also offered. laws and regulations. Benefit packages department, business area, and company All employees are required to complete the are available to full-time and part-time levels. Code of Conduct and IT Security programs employees based on the location. each year. Numerous courses are available Employees are also encouraged to globally to help employees learn more Healthcare is also a priority at Lexmark. recruit a mentor who is willing to provide about our business, better understand one Each geography strives to find ways to guidance and support either informally or another, and work more cohesively in an help employees succeed at being the through Lexmark's formal program. international environment. healthiest that they can be. The locations in Cebu, Philippines; Juarez, Mexico; Continuing education opportunities Benefits and compensation Lexington, Kentucky and Shenzhen, China, include a tuition reimbursement program Lexmark and our subsidiaries around the have onsite medical facilities where for external courses and degrees, the world offer benefit plans that are very employees can get healthcare exams requirements and benefits for which competitive in each of the countries in conveniently during the workday. Many vary by Lexmark location. Funding for which we operate. Plans are benchmarked facilities offer their employees recreational external training programs is provided to frequently to ensure that compensation areas or sports leagues where they can develop employees' skills, knowledge and and salary levels remain competitive, participate in friendly challenges and abilities. Retirement planning assistance enabling us to attract and retain quality competitions that promote health and is available through online and on-site employees in each region. fitness. Typical benefits include health workshops offered by our 401(k) partner. insurance, life and accidental insurance, Lexmark is continually evaluating how and dental and vision insurance. Employee Lexmark offers a Technical Rotation we can better support the needs of profit sharing is available in geographies Program in order to recruit and hire top, our employees and their families. Our where it is mandated by law. diverse, entry-level talent and expose employees' feedback gives us insight into them to various parts of the business how we can help add balance to their Across the globe, Lexmark supports while learning technical, business and busy lives and make Lexmark an even employee family life and offers paid leadership skills. better place to work. Part-time employees parental time off options to both women in the United States are eligible for the and men in addition to flextime, which In-house learning opportunities include same benefits (some on a prorated basis) continues to aid new parents. Flexible extensive training in technical and as full-time regular employees. Lexmark's schedules, accommodating Mothers business skills, delivered primarily through competitive benefits program provides Rooms, the options to work remotely resources in various business areas. employees with the opportunity to ensure (where applicable) and on-site or nearby Learning occurs through instructor-led the wellness of their families, and create a child care let parents have positive work courses as well as an extensive library positive working environment. experiences. of virtual classes, which are available at any time through Lexmark's worldwide Every geography provides for variable online learning platform. Leadership health coverage, time off, retirement training, onboarding and company-wide savings, and more in compliance with local Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 68 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting U.S. benefits the company. Employees have open In the U.S., benefit offerings include communication with their management employee spouses, domestic partners and and the time is not tracked. This applies dependents. Lexmark offers transgender to all U.S. employees other than those benefits as well as support and guidelines in California, who continue under the for transitioning employees. Flexible current California Vacation Program due to spending accounts for both health care considerations under California state law. and childcare are available. Assistance for adoption is provided. An interactive Equal pay wellness tool is also available for Lexmark's presence has positive impacts U.S. employees and their spouses or on the economics that surround our domestic partners providing a way to join global locations. We provide competitive challenges and track fitness activities to employee compensation and hire promote physical, mental and financial the majority of our employees from wellness. This program includes incentive surrounding communities. dollars when employees meet their health, wellness and sustainability goals. In Salaries vary at Lexmark, depending upon addition, Geriatric Care Management the location of employment, education Services are offered in the U. S. benefits. level, job function and a number of other factors. Lexmark is committed to The Lexington, Kentucky, location's equal pay for work of equal value. This health and wellness center offers health commitment includes equal remuneration coaching, allergy injection programs, for male and female workers. In support of physical therapy, and wellness and sick this commitment, we contract third-party visits. The Lexington site also has sports agencies to conduct remuneration studies, courts for their employees and offers and we conduct other studies internally. group exercise classes. A subsidized For example, in the U.S. a third party childcare center is also located on-site in performs an analysis to ensure pay equity a Leadership in Energy & Environmental based on demographics. Design (LEED) Gold certified facility. The environmentally beneficial features that A significant portion of Lexmark employees earned this certification are used as an including those in the U.S., Mexico and the educational experience for the children. Philippines-work in locations that have The children learn about water and energy minimum wage laws. Lexmark is committed conservation, local harvest and material to rewarding our employees for their hard reuse, and recycling. work. Compensation plans are frequently benchmarked to ensure that we remain Lexmark is focused on providing ways competitive. Moreover, providing abovefor employees to maintain a healthy average employee compensation has a work-life balance. Flexible work hours for favorable economic impact on the markets most jobs allow employees to enjoy their in which we do business. lives and take care of personal business while optimizing work performance and productivity. Employees have paid time off for volunteering and holidays and vacation. In the U.S., an unlimited vacation policy allows employees to take time off when needed. This empowers employees to make decisions that are best for themselves, their families and Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 69 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Human Rights Lexmark’s commitment to human rights complies with international regulations. Lexmark’s commitment to human rights We have never been cited for any human is outlined in our Global Human Rights rights violations, including the rights of Policy and in the Lexmark Code of indigenous employees or communities Business Conduct. These policies address near existing operations that are likely nondiscrimination, workplace safety, child to be affected by planned or proposed labor, forced labor and human trafficking, future operations. Lexmark maintains a working hours and minimum ages, and good reputation worldwide by ensuring freedom of association and collective that our practices positively impact the bargaining. Lexmark is committed to communities where we live and work. Fully providing a work environment free from 100 percent of our security personnel, harassment or discrimination based on including contractors and third-party race, color, sexual orientation, gender organizations providing security services, identity, national origin, age, disability, are trained in the Lexmark’s policies and veteran status, or for any other unlawful procedures for human rights issues and violation. This policy is driven by our their application to security. Employees respect for the dignity of the individual are trained on policies and procedures and our commitment to treating all that prepare them to address human persons equitably. We investigate all rights in the course of their daily work. An credible complaints of discrimination estimated 6,000 hours were devoted to brought to the attention of management in training global employees on human rights an expedient and non-retaliatory manner. issues, accounting for 99 percent of the Any employee who is found to have global workforce. engaged in harassment or discrimination according to the terms of this policy, or Lexmark respects the conventions of to have misused his position of authority the International Labour Organization in this regard, is subject to immediate (ILO), which promote workers' rights, disciplinary measures, up to and including fair-employment opportunities, and dismissal. Lexmark is committed to public open channels of communication among reporting; however, due to reasons of employees. Lexmark honors its employees’ individual privacy and legal limitations, free choices and complies with all Lexmark cannot disclose information state and federal workplace laws and about specific cases. Actions taken in guidelines, including those associated response to incidents include the review with labor-organizing activities. Works of the incident as well as the development councils are established at some Lexmark and implementation of remedial plans. European locations that require employers to provide company information for review Lexmark upholds the human rights of our and to engage in worker consultation on employees and treats them with respect certain company decisions. Information on as understood by the international the European Works Councils is available community. Lexmark closely monitors our at www.etuc.org. Lexmark employees operations to ensure that our company are covered by collective bargaining Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 70 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting agreements where required by law. At Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct employer. We are committed to equal Lexmark, there has never been a situation and Lexmark's Code of Business Conduct. employment opportunity (EEO) in all areas where employee rights to exercise freedom of our operations. All business activities of association for collective bargaining In our experience, open communication and employment-related activities are has been at risk. and direct engagement between workers administered without regard to race, color, and management are key factors in religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender Other ILO and United Nations Global resolving any workplace issues. Whenever identity, national origin, disability, age or Compact initiatives include the abolition possible, Lexmark typically provides veteran status. For more information click of forced labor, freedom of association, employees with a 30-day notice of here. and prohibition of child labor. These significant operational changes that can initiatives are explained in the Lexmark substantially affect them. In locations New Lexmark employees are required Code of Business Conduct to which with collective bargaining agreements, to understand and abide by the Code of Lexmark and applicable Lexmark suppliers the notice period and provisions for Business Conduct, which addresses EEO are bound. The Code of Business Conduct consultation and negotiation are specified and aspects of human rights relevant to also describes the Lexmark Freely Chosen in the collective agreements. our operations. All employees are required Employment Policy. Our periodic reviews to review the Code of Business Conduct have never found any of our operations to No grievances have been filed through every year. Lexmark requires managers to have significant risk for incidents of forced formal grievance mechanisms about labor be trained on the human rights aspects of or compulsory labor, child labor, or young practices or human rights impacts in the EEO policies. workers exposed to hazardous work. reporting period. All Lexmark operations have undergone human rights review or human rights Equal employment opportunity impact assessments in accordance with Lexmark is proudly an Equal Employment Lexmark's adherence to the Responsible Opportunity and Affirmative Action Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 71 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Health & Safety The health and safety of our employees is a priority for Lexmark. In order to offer workplaces that are free from unsafe equipment, situations and practices, we monitor facilities for safety issues on an ongoing basis. ISO 45001/ OHSAS 18001 are international standards providing requirements for an occupational health and safety management system. Lexmark's 45001/ 18001 OHSAS 18001 Certificates management systems provide a framework for controlling occupational health and safety risks and improving health and safety performance. All Lexmark-owned and Click here for a full list of ISO 45001/ -leased research and development and manufacturing facilities are ISO 45001/ OHSAS OHSAS 18001 Certificates 18001 certified, as is the Shenzhen Asian Customization Center facility. Lexmark has not incurred any fines related to environmental health and safety non-compliance in the last five years. Lexmark employees are involved in setting the objectives for our health and safety management systems. The effectiveness of the Lexmark Safety Program is measured by completion of ISO 45001/ OHSAS 18001 objectives and targets as well as internal audits and senior management reviews. These audits and reviews are conducted in conjunction with the conformance audits required as part of ISO/ OHSAS recertification. We use the findings to improve our internal processes and to promote best practices across our operations. Health & safety data All Lexmark facilities are guided by our corporate environmental health and safety Click here for detailed health & instructions, which define the essential programs that each facility must manage in order safety data to meet the objectives of our environmental health and safety policy. At Lexmark, it is mandatory to develop written programs that ensure legal and regulatory compliance, address safety-critical processes, and protect environmentally critical areas. Any changes to environmental health and safety procedures are communicated to all applicable employees through bulletin boards, corporate intranet postings, electronic communications, handbooks and meetings with managers. In 2014, the Lexmark Facility in Juarez, Mexico kicked off the Siempre Seguro program. The goal of this successful program was to create a Zero Accident culture. Existing safety programs were improved and new ones were added. Ergonomics is one area of continuous focus and improvement. Weekly status meetings and increased engineer training resulted in a 57 percent decrease in ergonomic-related issues from 2015 to 2018. Actions were directed to promote employee participation in accident and workrelated illness prevention. A system for employees to submit safety suggestions and observations was implemented and a prize program is used to promote employee participation. The Performance Bonus program was improved with a safetyleading indicator linked to the results of the weekly safety audits. Improved safety communication, awareness and accountability are a large part of the program. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 72 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting The number of accidents was reduced by 75 percent in 2014. The positive trend continued, and in 2018, Juarez celebrated a year with no accidents. Having a safe work environment is essential for Lexmark. In the United States, Lexmark employees are not represented by trade unions; therefore, no formal work agreements address health and safety. Instead, Lexmark has established health and safety committees at the facility level. The members of these committees represent the interests of all workers. The committees are integral to the operation of the health and safety management systems at each facility, monitoring programs, advising on improvements and collecting employee feedback. Lexmark has corrective action teams that work with personnel from the department or area where nonconformities occur to address nonconformities, monitor and report on progress and determine whether actions are completed. Internal audit teams evaluate the function and effectiveness of actions taken to address nonconformities in the Health and Safety Management System. All employees and contractors with jobs that require health and safety training are offered online, instructor-led, and on-the-job health and safety training annually, and are encouraged to report concerns about health and safety issues. Training requirements are determined by health and safety program managers, as well as employees' direct managers, and are based on job requirements, equipment and materials usage, regulations and other factors. The safety performance of subcontractors is reviewed during initial contract discussions. Subcontractors must have proof that their employees are properly trained and aware of all health and safety aspects of the jobs that they will perform on behalf of Lexmark. Compliance and safety teams conduct inspections on a regular basis. To ensure that action items are tracked and completed in a timely fashion, they document their findings in the 14001/45001 corrective action system (or similar tool). Follow-up inspections verify completion and effectiveness of the actions taken. Best practices are then implemented in other areas or sites. Each Lexmark manufacturing and development facility is required to maintain an emergency preparedness plan as well as an emergency response team. Lexmark complies with applicable local, state and federal regulations for recording and reporting workplace accident statistics. Lexmark continually works toward the goal of an injuryfree workplace. The 2018 reportable injury and illness rate calculated using OSHA injury and illness recordkeeping and reporting requirements was 0.22 injuries per 100 full-time employees, for Lexmark's major research and development and U.S. sales and home offices. This is significantly lower than the electronic assembly manufacturing industry average of 1.1.1 Slip, trip and fall and back strain injuries were most frequently reported. (Minor injuries are excluded from injury rate data.) The annual lost workday rate was 4.50 lost workdays per 100 full-time employees. In calculating lost days, “days” means scheduled workdays and the lost day count begins the day after the accident. Lexmark did not have any reported work-related fatalities and did not have any employees involved in occupational activities with high incidence or high risk of specific diseases. Lexmark does not maintain injury information, injury rate, lost day rate, absentee rate or work-related fatality information for independent contractors working on site. 1 Electronic assembly manufacturing industry average per the Bureau of Labor Statistics 2017 Industry Injury and Illness Summary Data Report. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 73 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Diversity A diverse workforce As a global company, Lexmark’s goal is to have a highly diverse and vibrant workplace that understands and is responsive to the needs of our employees, customers and partners around the world. Lexmark is proactive in making our workplace one that is inclusive and allows each employee the opportunity to bring his or her complete self to work. A unified vision Lexmark Diversity Council is a tiered structure comprised of an Executive Diversity Council and Diversity Advisory Council. Lexmark’s Diversity Network Groups (DNGs) are instrumental in advising and supporting these efforts. Each entity works in partnership with the others to reframe the current initiatives around diversity worldwide. Lexmark’s Diversity Mission Statement is aligned with the ideal future state of diversity at Lexmark. The mission statement encourages our employees to embrace individuality of thought and background as a means of creating success for our workforce, our customers and our stakeholders. These practices help Lexmark operate with one unified vision — using the individual talents of our diverse workforce to their full potential. Respecting diversity fosters good relations within the company as well as in the communities in which we live and work. Mission statement for diversity and inclusion at Lexmark We, the employees of Lexmark, value and respect our individual differences. We foster an open and inclusive environment that not only embraces new and alternative ideas, but seeks them out at all levels. This appreciation of diversity is vital to attract, retain WORKING MOTHER and develop employees to their full potential. A diverse global workforce that mirrors our customers and the communities where we do business will lead to greater success for 100 BEST COMPANIES our customers, our employees and our stakeholders. We each take responsibility to make 2018 this happen. Lexmark’s DNGs are employee groups created to foster a more inclusive environment through networking, employee and community engagement, recruiting efforts and diversity awareness. DNGs are established through a grassroots process whereby employees recruit members, design a mission statement, and develop programming and events to help advance the mission. Each DNG offers a space where employees can benefit from a supportive network as well as celebrate and share their cultures and individuality with others. European diversity charter Lexmark sites in France, Germany, Hungary, and Spain have signed the European Diversity Charter, committing to ban discrimination in the workplace and create diversity. Joining the charter provides benefits such as offering challenges and new opportunities in the field of diversity and sharing knowledge and best practices with other businesses. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 74 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Commitment to Customers At Lexmark, our mission is to deliver unsurpassed service and products that provide unmatched value in the eyes of our customers . To do that, we need to truly understand what our customers value. Like our customers, we value efficiency. We utilize our wide variety of solutions to reduce Learn more about our printing and paper consumption. We partner with our customers to help them make similar reductions by consolidating and optimizing their devices. We work with them to how Lexmark understand their printing needs and offer solutions that will benefit their business the supports customers most. One Lexmark customer reduced its year-to-year total pages by 158 tons, and they included Lexmark’s metrics information in their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in cost savings and report. They noted that they have a reduced need to recycle paper because they aren’t environmental goals. consuming as much. Understanding customer needs Customer understanding is about creating a clear and accurate picture of how customers feel. We employ a range of methods to learn what our customers think about their experiences and the overall partnership with Lexmark. We use both surveys and interviews to measure how well we are meeting specific needs of our customers. This includes understanding a variety of different customer roles, from decision-makers who buy Lexmark products, to others who sell, deliver, manage, support and use our products, services and solutions. While our customer-facing employees support our global customers on a daily basis, our engineers and product designers also visit with customers to better understand their needs. We conduct usage studies in real work environments and hold regular face-toface business reviews to ensure that our technology, people and processes provide the products solutions and services that address our customers' pain points. Customer-focused improvement Continually improving the way we deliver customer experiences requires strong leadership, a clear vision and an intentional approach. Our improvement efforts are focused at the most important customer interactions: moments of truth and pain points. We combine the right people, processes, technology and systems, and collaborate with key stakeholders to ensure that we are driving changes that will enable our employees to better serve Lexmark customers. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 75 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting We conduct customer experience research around a few of the most critical interactions highlighted by our customer journey mapping efforts. Armed with new insights about what was important to customers who buy, deploy and use Lexmark imaging solutions, we engage cross-functional teams to drive initiatives that are designed to deliver enhanced experiences for our customers. We remain focused on meeting our customers’ diverse and dynamic needs, and on delivering differentiated experiences that our customers value and deserve. Anticipating customer needs Our customers' time is valuable and we continually look for ways to increase their productivity. Listening carefully and responding quickly to our customers' needs is important, but we also strive to proactively anticipate and prevent customer problems. We monitor printer fleets for some of the largest companies in the world to detect existing or potential issues before our customers become aware of them. Teams work to find the root causes for problems that customers experience. For complex issues, we bring cross-functional owners together to drive customer-focused improvement into our processes. At Lexmark, our attention to customer needs is fundamental to the way we do business. When we make changes to adapt to the unique needs of our individual customers, we close the loop with them to ensure that our changes are making a difference. Customer-focused employees At Lexmark, our innovative employee performance process worldwide is focused on continuous improvement and improving the experience of our customers. Employees have a discussion with their manager to determine their line-of-site to the customer that helps them focus on rapid and ongoing improvement. These objectives are based on employees' understanding of how their performance connects to the customers and how it is aligned with the strategy of their department and Lexmark. We believe that this focus on improvement and innovation leads to a better experience for all of our customers. We also capture formal feedback from our employees to better understand and continually improve their Lexmark employee experience. We know it takes engaged employees to create engaged and loyal customers. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 76 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Product Health & Safety We prioritize customer and community stages. The individual agencies Sustainability/Environmental, Health health and safety from product responsible for the regulatory marks audit and Safety; Energy; Acoustics; and conception to end-of-life. Lexmark’s our suppliers regularly for compliance. Chemical Emissions. As an example, the internally developed product compliance Any noncompliance or variation notice Product Safety department focuses on engineering tool is used to inform relevant resulting from these audits are promptly the safety of our products throughout parts of our business when certifications addressed within the required compliance the development cycle and investigates and regulations need to be pursued and period and resolved prior to shipping our any reported safety incidents, taking when they will expire or be terminated. products. appropriate action such as recommending design changes or modifications to We comply with worldwide standards Lexmark did not have any recorded health manufacturing processes and procedures. and local laws and test our products in and safety noncompliance or associated The other departments follow a similar laboratories accredited by third-party fines in 2018. approach. agencies. The Regulatory Compliance web page provides additional information Product compliance cross Working together this combined team on Lexmark’s compliance with select functional team ensures our products comply with relevant standards. Lexmark often exceeds Several years ago, Lexmark compliance national and international standards regulatory requirements by pursuing thirdengineers formed a cross functional and ensures the documentation and party voluntary certifications as may be team to share information and develop certification marks needed for devices found in the Product Certifications section. an internal tracking system to drive and are present. In addition, they educate the monitor new and existing compliance development community about design Many of our test labs are certified activities. The team is comprised requirements so the teams will be able or adhere to ISO 17025/ANSI Z540 of representatives from multiple to meet newly introduced or revised standards. This system of certifications departments, each having a different standards. is also used by our suppliers worldwide primary focus. These departments include: at subassembly and finished-product Product Safety; EMC; Fax/Homologation; Product and service information We are committed to providing our customers information about the products and services we provide. Information Type Source Service and service part sourcing, user content, safety/regulatory instructions Tech Library or notices Disposal or recycling information Tech Library, Lexmark CSR report: Return & Recycle Regulatory Compliance web page, Lexmark CSR Report: Materials; Environmental and social impacts Supply Chain; Product Eco Declarations (ECMA 370) Safety Data Sheets Regulatory Compliance web page, Lexmark CSR report: Materials Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 77 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Security & Privacy Lexmark respects the privacy of our Lexmark's ISMS is managed by a chief creation and maintenance of repeatable customers and takes safeguarding their information security officer who is processes designed to respect the rights personal data very seriously. As of the supported by a team of information of individuals and demonstrate effort to publication date, we have received no security professionals. comply with global privacy obligations. customer complaints regarding any loss or misuse of personal information for the Lexmark designs products to meet ISO/ Lexmark invites individuals to make calendar year 2018. IEC 15408 Common Criteria Certification, inquiries related to their personal an international standard on security data. The designated email and postal Security of customer information capabilities. Lexmark is committed to addresses are: Lexmark maintains security measures to validating this design through both privacy@lexmark.com protect personal data against accidental the IEEE 2600 family of standards and Lexmark International, Inc. or unlawful destruction or accidental loss, the U.S.-based National Information Privacy Mailbox alteration, unauthorized disclosure or Assurance Partnership's (NIAP's) Hard 740 West New Circle Road access, in particular where the processing Copy Device Protection Profile (HCDPP). Lexington, Kentucky 40550 involves the transmission of data over a network, and against all other unlawful Lexmark also follows the Federal Click here to sign up for security news and forms of processing. These measures Information Processing Standards updates in our Global Preference Center. ensure a level of security appropriate (FIPS) 140 Publication Series issued to the risks presented by the method of by the National Institute of Standards processing and the categories of data to and Technology (NIST), which outlines be protected, taking into account the state requirements and standards for of the art and the cost of implementation. cryptographic modules, including both hardware and software components. ISO 27001 is an information security Adherence to this standard for hard disk management system (ISMS) international encryption and IPsec networking helps standard that provides a comprehensive Lexmark provide the necessary conditions set of requirements for maintaining to secure information. confidentiality, integrity and availability of data. Lexmark has ISO 27001 Privacy Program certification for its worldwide Managed Lexmark's privacy program, Privacy at Print Services ISMS and its Lexmark Print Lexmark (P@L), is a robust organization Management SaaS offering. Lexmark of over 80 dedicated and part-time services certified under ISO 27001 are employees at both the corporate and provided in accordance with ISO 27001 business unit level. Led by a data standards or alternative standards that protection officer located at Lexmark's are substantially equivalent to ISO 27001. headquarters, the program's mission is the Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 78 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Partnerships Lexmark has formed meaningful partnerships to address areas of need within our communities. Over the years, we have formed positive partnerships with universities, local schools, local aid agencies, nongovernmental organizations and our customers. Understanding the power of teamwork, Lexmark works on joint projects with stakeholders who share our values. For many years, Lexmark has participated in partnerships focused on reforestation initiatives, watershed protection, educational infrastructure improvement, and Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education. Environmental partnerships This partnership extended into the communities; trees have been Lexmark teamed up with planted each year since 2012 to offset the environmental impact PrintReleaf in 2018 to offset associated with the paper consumed during the championships. internal operations and Some examples of carefully chosen planting projects include test printing. The automatic reforestation in areas that have suffered from the negative process measures our paper effects of invasive species, community sports park revitalization, consumption and calculates the equivalent number of trees wetland restoration, tornado devastation and city tree canopy needed to offset the environmental impact. The tree planting is needs. audited by a leading global forestry auditor and certification is provided. Lexmark and Amgen donated nearly 200 drought tolerant plants and 600 tree seedlings to the Growing Works program, a nonThis global reforestation service is now available to Lexmark profit wholesale plant nursery that is the site for a vocational managed print services customers to reduce their overall training program run by Turning Point Foundation in Thousand environmental footprint. They have the opportunity to select Oaks, California. The program helps place people with mental the region of their choice among PrintReleaf's list of geographic health challenges on a path to wellness, providing horticultural areas of need. therapy, employment and job placement in the workforce. In addition, Lexmark donated mature trees that were planted at the Customer partnerships Amgen facility located in Juncos, Puerto Rico, as part of an onLexmark and the PGA of site hurricane restoration project. Lexmark also provided Amgen America have been sharing the employees in California and Massachusetts with native species links together since Lexmark tree seedlings to plant at their homes or in the community in supported the 2008 Ryder Cup celebration of Earth Day. with printing technology and solutions. Our partnership has Lexmark and Grainger have planted nearly 10,000 trees to offset continuously grown, and now paper consumption and in honor of Earth Day. Lexmark manages mission-critical operations to keep the Senior, Women’s and PGA Championships and U.S.-based Ryder Cups In an effort to raise funds for veterans, performing with accuracy and efficiency. Lexmark is on site to Lexmark, Humana, Toyota, Marsh & help set up for the operational needs of each PGA Championship McLennan and GE Appliances came event. On the links, in the back office, and on the front line, together to sponsor an annual stair step Lexmark's hardware and solutions are a driving factor behind the race. Since 2013, the sponsors’ employees IT infrastructure. have raced to the top of the Humana Tower to celebrate health and wellness while supporting various veteran-related charities and organizations. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 79 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting STEM education partnerships Lexmark partners with universities to support STEM education. Lexmark has many partnership initiatives with the University of Kentucky, including acting as sponsor of the UK Engineering Day (E-Day) in 2017 and 2018 after over ten years of involvement with the initiative. Other areas of support include research related to the development of radiofrequency identification (RFID) technology, hosting classes for technical demonstrations, mentoring the #IAmAWomanInSTEM program, engaging with the Million Women Mentors movement, and supporting the student Hackathon event. Lexmark has had a partnership with the University of Tennessee (UT) for over 20 years. Lexmark engineers submit real, relevant mechanical engineering-related design projects to UT, and then student teams define specifications, identify concepts, design a system and build a prototype while working with Lexmark engineers as mentors. In Juarez, Mexico, Lexmark partners with Consejo Regional para el Desarrollo de la Educación y Sustentabilidad (CONREDES), a regional counsel for education and sustainability. The organization aligns workforce development efforts between business and academic sectors. CONREDES arranges industrial site visits for university students, providing them the opportunity to experience plant operations first-hand. Visits to Lexmark have been focused on problem-solving and improvements in areas such as supply chain, facilities, and lean manufacturing processes. Community partnerships Since 1998, Lexmark has funded and built homes with Habitat for Humanity in Lexington, Kentucky. Lexmark employees use their skills to build a home for the organization each year. In addition to the homes that Lexmark sponsors, employees participate in other Habitat projects, including Women Build, a program that provides the opportunity for women from all walks of life to come together to build stronger, safer communities. Employees also help with Habitat construction projects in other cities. In Cebu, Philippines, Lexmark is an active participant in Gawad Kalinga, a Philippine organization with a mission to end poverty, having built 100 homes in the community since 2006. Lexmark also has a longtime partnership with the United Way organization in several locations around the world, and is a major sponsor of the Bluegrass chapter in Kentucky, supplying both monetary and voluntary contributions. Corporate and employee donations are collected and numerous Care Day events are organized to help areas that are in need. Employees at Lexmark Juarez have given generously of their time and financial support to local initiatives through Fondo Unido, the United Way in Mexico, since 2010. For more information on Lexmark's community partnerships, click here. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 80 Reporting For Lexmark, reporting is about more than just compliance with guidelines or regulations, it’s about offering a clear view of our operations and results to everyone because we know that through open communication and dialogue we will continue to move forward together. Measuring and assessing progress toward specific goals is a hallmark of sustainability processes that Lexmark takes very seriously. We are committed to addressing the disclosure needs of our stakeholders and to continually improving our sustainability performance. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 81 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Reporting Parameters This publication is Lexmark’s tenth all data internally. External assurance Environmental metrics are reported using Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was not pursued at this time. Lexmark’s widely accepted parameters and units. report. Annually, we strive to provide a CSR report assesses our operations Using the World Business Council for full account of our CSR and sustainability globally. Unless noted, principles and Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and strategy, and performance in our policies referenced in the report apply to World Resource Institute (WRI) Greenhouse worldwide operations for our many worldwide, company-owned locations and Gas (GHG) Protocol methodology, we track stakeholders across the globe. This to all Lexmark employees. There are no greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our report (January–December 2018) includes restatements of information from previous use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, gasoline updates to key programs and performance reports. and electricity. metrics as well as a transparent assessment of our progress against The metrics and goals in this report are For questions regarding this report, please established goals. The scope, boundary established and measured by Lexmark contact sustainability@lexmark.com. and measurement methods applied in International to deliver a meaningful and this report do not significantly differ accurate description of our performance. from previous reports, the last of which The complex nature of collecting data in was published June 2018. Lexmark was a global manufacturing company with acquired on November 29, 2016, and is multiple sites and facilities presents now privately owned. challenges in compiling consistent and comparable metrics. While this This report has been prepared in report includes consistent metrics in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core most areas, we continue to improve the option. Our reporting is also guided by the standardization of our measurement ISO 26000 international standard and the systems. Our performance metrics cover Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Lexmark-operated facilities. Compact. Lexmark reviewed and verified Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 82 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2018 General Disclosures Lexmark General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Governance International, Inc. Lexmark doesn’t sell Activities, brands, products that are General Disclosures 102-2 Governance products, and services banned in any market worldwide. General Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters Governance Lexington, Kentucky General Disclosures 102-4 Location of operations Governance Delaware Corporation owned by a consortium of investors comprised of Ninestar General Disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporation, PAG Asia Capital (PAG) and Legend Capital Managagement Co Ltd. (Legend Captial) General Disclosures 102-6 Markets served Governance Data Dashboard General Disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organization Employees Information on employees Data Dashboard General Disclosures 102-8 and other workers Employees General Disclosures 102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Lexmark was acquired in Nov 2016 Significant changes to the and is now a privately Governance, General Disclosures 102-10 organization and its supply held company and Supply Chain chain announced the sale of the enterprise software business. Supply Chain, Human Precautionary Principle or Rights Policy, Human General Disclosures 102-11 approach Trafficking and Slavery Statement General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives Our Stakeholders Membership of General Disclosures 102-13 Our Stakeholders associations Statement from senior General Disclosures 102-14 CEO Message decision-maker Key impacts, risks, and Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-15 opportunities & Impacts Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 83 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2018 General Disclosures Values, principles, Transparency General Disclosures 102-16 standards, and norms of & Ethics behavior Mechanisms for advice Transparency General Disclosures 102-17 and concerns about ethics & Ethics Governance General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure Executive Profile General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority Governance Executive-level responsibility for economic, General Disclosures 102-20 Governance environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on Stakeholders General Disclosures 102-21 economic, environmental, & Materiality and social topics Lexmark became Composition of the highest a privately held General Disclosures 102-22 governance body and its Board of Directors company in committees November 2016. The Chair of Lexmark's Board of Chair of the highest Directors is Mickey General Disclosures 102-23 Board of Directors governance body Kantor, Esq. He is not an executive officer of Lexmark. Lexmark became Nominating and selecting Confidentia privately held General Disclosures 102-24 the highest governance ality company in body constraints November 2016. The members of Lexmark's Board of Directors complete a General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest conflicts of interest questionnaire on annual basis. The Board of Directors manages Role of highest governance and directs the General Disclosures 102-26 body in setting purpose, overall purpose and values, and strategy strategy of Lexmark's business. Collective knowledge of General Disclosures 102-27 Board of Directors highest governance body Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 84 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2018 General Disclosures Lexmark became Evaluating the highest a privately held Not General Disclosures 102-28 governance body’s company in applicable performance November 2016. Identifying and managing Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-29 economic, environmental, & Impacts and social impacts Effectiveness of risk Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-30 management processes & Impacts Review of economic, Risks, Opportunities General Disclosures 102-31 environmental, and social & Impacts topics Highest governance body’s General Disclosures 102-32 role in sustainability Governance reporting Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality Collective bargaining General Disclosures 102-41 Human Rights agreements Identifying and selecting Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-42 stakeholders Materiality Approach to stakeholder Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-43 engagement Materiality Approach to stakeholder Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-43 engagement Materiality Key topics and Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-44 concerns raised Materiality Lexmark no longer Entities included in the publicly issues Not General Disclosures 102-45 consolidated financial consolidated financial applicable statements statements. Defining report content Reporting General Disclosures 102-46 and topic Boundaries Parameters Stakeholders & General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Restatements of Reporting General Disclosures 102-48 information Parameters Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 85 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number 2018 General Disclosures Lexmark was acquired on Nov 29, General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting Governance 2016 and is now a privately held company. Reporting January December General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period Parameters 2018 Reporting General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report Parameters Reporting General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle Parameters Contact point for questions Reporting General Disclosures 102-53 regarding the report Parameters Claims of reporting in Reporting General Disclosures 102-54 accordance with the GRI Parameters Standards General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index GRI Reporting General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance Parameters MATERIAL TOPICS: OUR OPERATIONS Environmental Compliance Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary & Materiality Lexmark did not incur any fines Non-compliance with or non-monetary sanctions for Environmental Environmental 307-1 environmental laws and noncompliance with environmental Compliance Management regulations laws and regulations in the reporting period. Significant impacts of Biodiversity 304-2 activities, products, and Land & Biodiversity services on biodiversity Habitats protected or Biodiversity 304-3 Land & Biodiversity restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation Biodiversity 304-4 list species with habitats Land & Biodiversity in areas affected by operations Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 86 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Energy Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Energy consumption within Energy 302-1 Data Dashboard the organization Energy 302-3 Energy intensity Data Dashboard Reduction of energy Energy 302-4 Energy Consumption consumption Reductions in energy Energy 302-5 requirements of products Product Energy Use and services Greenhouse gas emissions Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Direct (Scope 1) GHG Data Dashboard Emissions 305-1 emissions Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) Data Dashboard Emissions 305-2 GHG emissions Emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) Data Dashboard Emissions 305-3 GHG emissions Emissions Data Dashboard Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions Reduction of GHG Greenhouse Gas Emissions 305-5 emissions Emissions Emissions of ozoneGreenhouse Gas Emissions 305-6 depleting substances Emissions (ODS) Nitrogen oxides (NOX ), sulfur oxides (SOX ), and Data Dashboard Emissions 305-7 other significant air Emissions emissions Waste Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Effluents and Water discharge by quality 306-1 Water Management Waste and destination Waste Management, Effluents and Waste by type and 306-2 Data Dashboard Waste disposal method Waste Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills Water Management Waste Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 87 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Waste Effluents and Transport of hazardous Data Dashboard 306-4 Waste waste Waste Water bodies affected by Effluents and 306-5 water discharges and/or Water Management Waste runoff Water Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Interactions with water as Water 303-1 Water Management a shared resource Management of water Water Management Water 303-2 discharge-related impacts Data Dashboard-Water Water Management Water 303-3 Water withdrawal Data Dashboard-Water Water Management Water 303-4 Water discharge Data Dashboard-Water MATERIAL TOPICS: OUR PEOPLE & PARTNERS Anti-corruption Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Operations assessed for Transparency Anti-corruption 205-1 risks related to corruption & Ethics Confirmed incidents of Transparency Anti-corruption 205-3 corruption and actions & Ethics taken Legal actions for antiAnti-competitive competitive behavior, Transparency 206-1 Behavior anti-trust, and monopoly & Ethics practices Customer Health & Safety Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 88 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Customer Health & Safety 100% of our Assessment of the health significant product Customer Health and safety impacts of 416-1 families are assessed and Safety product and service for health and safety categories impacts. Lexmark did not Incidents of nonhave any recorded Customer Health compliance concerning the health and safety 416-2 and Safety health and safety impacts noncompliance or of products and services associated fines in 2018. Requirements for product Marketing and Product Health 417-1 and service information Labeling & Safety and labeling Customer Privacy Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality As of the publication date, we have Substantiated complaints received no customer complaints concerning breaches of Customer Privacy 418-1 Security & Privacy regarding any loss or misuse customer privacy and of personal information for the losses of customer data calendar year 2018. Ethics Management Explanation of the material Transparency 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary & Ethics Lexmark received no significant Economic Financial assistance 201-4 financial assistance from the U.S. or Performance received from government any other government in 2018 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Governance Incidents of nonLexmark did not have any recorded Marketing and compliance concerning incidents of non-compliance for 417-2 Labeling product and service service information or labeling in information and labeling 2018. Incidents of nonLexmark did not have any nonMarketing and Transparency 417-3 compliance concerning compliance concerning marketing Labeling & Ethics marketing communications communication in 2018. Lexmark has not been subject to any significant fines or nonmonetary Non-compliance with laws sanctions for noncompliance of Socioeconomic Transparency 419-1 and regulations in the laws and regulations related to Compliance & Ethics social and economic area accounting fraud, human rights, workplace discrimination, health and safety or corruption in 2018. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 89 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Human Rights Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Labor/ Minimum notice periods Management 402-1 regarding operational Human Rights Relations changes Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance Data Dashboard 405-1 Opportunity bodies and employees Employees Incidents of discrimination Non-discrimination 406-1 and corrective actions Human Rights taken Operations and suppliers At Lexmark, there has never been a Freedom of in which the right to situation where employee rights to Association 407-1 freedom of association Human Rights exercise freedom of association for and Collective and collective bargaining collective bargaining has been at Bargaining may be at risk risk. Operations and suppliers Child Labor 408-1 at significant risk for Human Rights incidents of child labor Operations and suppliers Forced or at significant risk for 409-1 Human Rights Compulsory Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor All of our security personnel are Security personnel trained trained in the Lexmark’s policies and Security Practices 410-1 in human rights policies or Human Rights procedures for human rights issues procedures and their application to security. Lexmark has never been cited Incidents of violations Rights of for any human rights violations, 411-1 involving rights of Human Rights Indigenous Peoples including the rights of indigenous indigenous peoples employees. Operations that have Human Rights been subject to human 412-1 Human Rights Assessment rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on Human Rights 412-2 human rights policies or Human Rights Assessment procedures Labor Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 90 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number Labor Information on Lexmark’s defined benefit plan can be Defined benefit plan found on Lexmark’s Economic 201-3 obligations and other 5500 filing, this Performance retirement plans can be found on FreeERISA by searching Lexmark’s name. New employee hires and Data Dashboard Employment 401-1 employee turnover Employees Benefits provided to fulltime employees that are Commitment to Employment 401-2 not provided to temporary Employees or part-time employees Commitment to Employment 401-3 Parental leave Employees Training and Average hours of training Data Dashboard 404-1 Education per year per employee Employees Programs for upgrading Training and employee skills and Commitment to 404-2 Education transition assistance Employees programs Occupational Health and Safety Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Worker training on Occupational 403-5 occupational health and Health & Safety Health and Safety safety Occupational Data Dashboard 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety Employees Occupational Data Dashboard 403-10 Work-related ill health Health and Safety Employees Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 91 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting GRI Index (continued) GRI Standard GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Location Remarks Omission Number MATERIAL TOPICS: OUR IMAGING SOLUTIONS Innovation Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality The management Management Materials 103-2 approach and its Approach Return & Recycle components Materials Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Recycled input materials Materials 301-2 Materials used MATERIAL TOPICS: PRODUCT COMPLIANCE Management Explanation of the material Stakeholders & 103-1 Approach topic and its Boundary Materiality Product Health Safety, Stakeholders The management Management & Materiality, 103-2 approach and its Approach Product Energy components Use, Product Certifications Supply Chain Responsibility Stakeholders & Management Explanation of the material 103-1 Materiality, Approach topic and its Boundary Supply Chain Procurement Proportion of spending on 204-1 Supply Chain Practices local suppliers Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 92 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Nations Global Compact Index The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated by Lexmark's CEO, Allen Waugerman, “Lexmark International has and will continue to support the principles and initiatives of the United Nations Global Compact.” Below is an index of our reporting against the United Nations Global Compact principles within the content of this 2018 performance update of our Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Principle Description Report Section / Links Number Support and respect protection of internationally Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Human Trafficking 1 proclaimed human rights and Slavery Statement, Supply Chain Make sure business is not complicit in human Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Human Trafficking 2 rights abuses and Slavery Statement, Supply Chain Uphold freedom of association and the effective 3 Human Rights, Human Rights Policy recognition of the right to collective bargaining Support elimination of all forms of forced and Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Human Trafficking 4 compulsory labor and Slavery Statement 5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights, Human Rights Policy Eliminate discrimination in employment and Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, 6 occupation Lexmark Code of Business Conduct CSR Policies & Statements, Corporate Social Responsibility Support a precautionary approach to 7 Policy, Environmental Health & Safety Policy, Climate environmental challenges Change Policy Energy Consumption, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Water Undertake initiatives to promote greater 8 Management, Waste Management, Land & Biodiversity, environmental responsibility Environmental Management, Return & Recycle Encourage the development and diffusion of Products Life Cycle, Materials, Emissions, Energy Use, 9 environmentally friendly technologies Product Certifications, Return & Recycle, Packaging Work against all forms of corruption, including 10 Transparency & Ethics extortion and bribery Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 93 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Lexmark supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and prioritized three goals that align with our business commitments and strategy. Lexmark has many initiatives around the globe focused on water conservation, reuse and watershed restoration. For example, in Juarez, Mexico, a water treatment plant was installed on site to clean and filter water for reuse in site facility operations and manufacturing processes. A rainwater harvesting system was installed in Lexington, Kentucky, to capture storm water for use in site cooling towers. This reduces the need to purchase water and controls excess runoff, preventing erosion and allowing water to naturally enter the groundwater system. Additionally, Lexmark employees participate in an annual creek cleanup on a watershed that is not only a source of drinking water for a nearby community, but also a wildlife habitat for numerous aquatic and terrestrial species. For more details, click here. Lexmark products are designed with the circular economy in mind. Lexmark devices are durable and designed for long-life use. Post Consumer Recycled (PCR) materials are used in both printers and toner cartridges. The Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program makes recycling easy for users. Cartridges are returned to Lexmark’s R2 certified recycling center where they are either remanufactured or materially recycled for inclusion in new products. Lexmark is an industry leader in the use of PCR plastic content in products. Lexmark-owned sites are ISO 14001, ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 certified. Lexmark has global environmental goals in place to minimize our ecological footprint, each site monitors consumption toward these goals. Lexmark participates in a number of worldwide reforestation projects to improve local watersheds and repair damage caused by natural disasters, invasive insects, and deforestation due to human activity. Lexmark employees support land and biodiversity preservation with volunteer efforts such as community, creek and road cleanups, and planting a pollinator garden at the headquarters property along with several rain gardens. Lexmark also provides native tree seedlings at no cost for employees to plant at their homes or in the community. Additionally, Lexmark has coordinated the removal of invasive species in impacted watersheds. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 94 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3 Goal 4 End poverty in all its End hunger, achieve food Ensure healthy lives and Ensure inclusive and forms everywhere security and improved promote well-being for quality education for nutrition and promote all at all ages all and promote lifelong Lexmark’s progress sustainable agriculture learning Global Citizenship Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship, Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship Employee Health & Global Citizenship Safety Goal 5 Goal 6 Goal 7 Goal 8 Achieve gender Ensure access to water Ensure access to Promote inclusive and equality and and sanitation for all affordable, reliable, sustainable economic empower all women sustainable and growth, employment and girls Lexmark’s progress modern energy for all and decent work Water Management for all Lexmark’s progress Annual Creek Clean Up, Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship, KPIs Energy Consumption, Lexmark’s progress Diversity, Benefits Product Energy, KPIs Human Rights, Supply Chain, Diversity, Benefits Goal 9 Goal 10 Goal 11 Goal 12 Build resilient Reduce inequality within Make cities inclusive, Ensure sustainable infrastructure, and among countries safe, resilient and consumption and promote sustainable sustainable production patterns industrialization and Lexmark’s progress foster innovation Global Citizenship, Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress Human Rights, Global Citizenship Return & Recycle, Lexmark’s progress Supply Chain, Diversity Risks & Opportunities KPIs Global Citizenship, PCR, Circular Economy Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 Goal 16 Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably Sustainably manage Promote just, peaceful combat climate change use the oceans, seas and forests, combat and inclusive societies and its impacts marine resource desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress Lexmark’s progress halt biodiversity loss Global Citizenship, GHG Emissions Land & Biodiversity, Supply Chain Cane Run Creek Lexmark’s progress Global Citizenship, Partnerships, Product Life Cycle Goal 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Lexmark’s progress UNGC Index, TonerPave Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 95 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting ISO 26000 Index Subjects Issues References 6.2 ORGANIZATIONAL GOVERNANCE 6.2 Organizational governance Governance 6.3 HUMAN RIGHTS 6.3.3 Due diligence Human Rights, Supply Chain, Human Trafficking 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Human Rights 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Human Rights 6.3.6 Resolving grievances Human Rights 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Human Rights, Human Rights Policy, Diversity 6.3.8 Civil and political rights Human Rights 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Human Rights Fundamental principles and rights at 6.3.10 Human Rights, Supply Chain, Human Trafficking work 6.4 LABOUR PRACTICES Employment and employment 6.4.3 Human Rights, Commitment to Employees, Supply Chain relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Human Rights, Commitment to Employees 6.4.5 Social dialogue Human Rights 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Health & Safety, Commitment to Employees Human development and training in the 6.4.7 Commitment to Employees workplace 6.5 THE ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Water Management, 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Waste Management, Land & Biodiversity, Return & Recycle, Energy Consumption, Energy Use, Emissions Materials, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Water Management, Waste Management, 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Land & Biodiversity, Energy Consumption, Energy Use, Product Life Cycle, Return & Recycle, Packaging Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 96 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting ISO 26000 Index (continued) Subjects Issues References 6.5 THE ENVIRONMENT Climate change mitigation and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Energy Consumption, 6.5.5 adaptation Energy Use, Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Protection of the environment, 6.5.6 biodiversity and restoration of natural Land & Biodiversity, Water Management habitats 6.6 FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Transparency & Ethics 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement Governance 6.6.5 Fair competition Transparency & Ethics Supply Chain, Materials, Energy Promoting social responsibility in the 6.6.6 Consumption, Packaging, Human Rights, value chain Human Trafficking 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Transparency & Ethics, Human Rights 6.7 CONSUMER ISSUES Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7.3 information and fair contractual Transparency & Ethics, Product Health & Safety practices 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety Product Health & Safety Product Health & Safety, Packaging, Waste 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Management, Materials, Product Life cycle, Return & Recycle, Energy Use, Energy Consumption Consumer service, support, and 6.7.6 Product Health & Safety, Commitment to Customers complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy Security & Privacy 6.7.8 Access to essential services Global Citizenship 6.7.9 Education and awareness Product Health & Safety, Commitment to Customers 6.8 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Global Citizenship, Land & Biodiversity, Commitment to 6.8.3 Community involvement Employees, Partnerships Commitment to Employees, Global Citizenship, 6.8.4 Education and culture Diversity Employment creation and skills 6.8.5 Commitment to Employees development Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 97 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting ISO 26000 Index (continued) Subjects Issues References 6.8 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 6.8.6 Technology development and access Commitment to Employees, Global Citizenship 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Commitment to Employees 6.8.8 Health Commitment to Employees 6.8.9 Social investment Global Citizenship Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 98 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Energy Total energy: Operations within organization Total energy: Operations within organization (gigajoules) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 1,492,903 938,486 871,287 884,546 813,635 Total energy intensity: Operations within organization (gigajoules/square foot) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 0.179 0.206 0.189 0.191 0.207 Facility level energy (Scope 1 and 2): Operations within organization (gigajoules) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, U.S. 267,881 256,735 241,309 202,494 Boulder, CO, U.S. 274,088 280,518 324,909 339,953 Juarez, Mexico 245,098 186,282 172,687 156,044 Cebu City, Philippines 44,219 42,337 36,402 30,668 Kolkata, India 12,063 10,686 9,479 7,896 Budapest, Hungary 6,649 5,894 5,593 3,826 Other 88,488 88,835 94,167 72,755 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 99 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Energy (continued) Energy consumption by type/location: Operations within organization (gigajoules) Direct energy by type (Corresponds to 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 emissions) Natural Gas 326,879 284,539 319,685 320,027 Diesel/gas oil 35,007 33,862 39,723 29,988 Total 361,886 318,401 359,408 350,015 Indirect energy by type and location (Corresponds to 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 2 emissions) ELECTRICITY PURCHASED Lexington, KY, U.S. 153,763 142,552 129,559 105,194 Boulder, CO, U.S. 188,224 186,276 185,364 173,986 Juarez, Mexico 121,047 113,157 105,985 100,584 Cebu City, Philippines 40,911 40,302 35,502 30,283 Kolkata, India 9,973 9,973 9,200 7,354 Budapest, Hungary 4,626 3,327 3,284 1,986 Other 58,056 57,299 56,244 44,233 Total 576,600 552,886 525,138 463,620 Energy consumption boundary and accounting methodology Organizational boundary the region and increased for HVAC energy Direct energy consumption includes Reported data covers the 2018 calendar support if higher, or left the same as a natural gas and diesel/gas oil use. We are year. Energy use data represents region otherwise. For leased sites where not currently using renewable fuel sources approximately 100 percent of Lexmark’s no metered data is available, current or generating electricity. 2018 square footage of occupied space. Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Reported data 2015 -2017 has been reSurvey (CBECS) data is used to calculate Indirect energy consumption includes calculated for the Lexmark Enterprise energy for U.S. locations and International electricity purchased for use at Software divesture. Data prior to the 2015 Energy Agency (IEA) data is used to Lexmark locations. base year (including 2005) has not been estimate usage for leased locations in recalculated for divestitures. other parts of the world. All energy use Lexmark uses the World Business Council (direct office use and HVAC support) is for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Data input and calculation methodology assumed to be electrically derived. and World Resource Institute (WRI) Lexmark calculates energy usage for Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) owned and operated sites and fuel Energy intensity is calculated per Lexmark methodology to track GHG emissions, as used in company owned/leased vehicles square footage. well as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, under Scope 1. Data is calculated from diesel, gasoline and electricity. utility bills, onsite refrigerant tracking, maintenance records, site fuel estimates Square footage or rental agency vehicle reports, and other documentation. For leased sites 2015 2016 2017 2018 where metered data is available through 4,545,407 4,602,342 4,633,431 3,928,007 utility bills and other invoices, the data is compared to the average intensity for Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 100 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (Metric tons CO2e) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Direct 28,679 20,857 19,326 21,352 21,134 Scope 2 Indirect 185,223 102,081 94,777 93,892 82,006 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 213,902 122,938 114,103 115,244 103,140 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity (Metric tons CO2e/sq ft) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Direct 0.0046 0.0042 0.0046 0.0054 Scope 2 Indirect 0.0225 0.0206 0.0203 0.0209 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 0.0270 0.0248 0.0249 0.0263 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 101 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Greenhouse gas emissions by scope and type (Metric tons CO2e) Scope 1 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 Natural Gas 17,409 15,288 17,431 17,723 Diesel/gas oil 152 144 95 42 Refrigerants 1,083 1,715 1,285 1,356 Owned vehicles/transportation fleet 2,213 2,179 2,541 2,013 Total 20,857 19,326 21,352 21,134 Scope 2 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 Electricity (purchased) 102,081 94,777 93,892 82,006 Scope 3 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2018 Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1) 251,795 266,474 171,717 Capital Goods (Category 2) 7,114 15,296 20,256 Upstream Transport (Category 4) 21,890* 11,615 10,101 Waste in Operations (Category 5) Negligible Negligible Negligible Business Travel (Category 6) 17,634 17,821 12,256 8,000 Employee Commuting (Category 7) 25,262 15,929 14,525 Use of Sold Products, Direct Emissions 598,008 615,090 528,346 Energy use of product Use of Sold Products, Upstream Transport (Categories 11, 4) Direct and Indirect Emissions, 14,164,318 14,607,209 14,511,763 Including Paper Use of Sold Products, Upstream Transport (Categories 11, 4) Direct and Indirect Emissions, 2,459,408 2,616,667 2,708,032 Excluding Paper End of Life Treatment of Sold Products 2,202 2,356 2,468 (Category 12) Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13) 24,841 22,862 19,254 8,112 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 102 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) GHG consumption boundary and accounting methodology Organizational boundary Mexico; Shenzhen, China; Kolkata, Scope 1 emissions The boundary for GHG emissions covers India; and Cebu City, Philippines. Scope 1 emissions data is received from Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. Leased/owned vehicle reports are site inputs such as onsite refrigerant provided by rental agencies and/or tracking, natural gas utility bills and Scope 1/Direct emissions include the use of site estimations. maintenance records. fossil fuels, refrigerants and fleet vehicle transport based on available data. The Scope 2 emissions boundary Scope 2 emissions represents indirect energy consumption/ Scope 2 emissions are calculated based • Scope 1 fossil fuel data was electrical power purchased for use at on energy usage for all owned and reported by the following Lexmark approximately 100 percent of Lexmark operated sites. Data is calculated from sites: Lexington, Kentucky; Boulder, owned and leased locations using the utility bills or landlord billings where Colorado; Cebu City, Philippines; operational control approach. Data available. For leased sites where metered Juarez, Mexico; Kolkata, India; prior to the 2015 base year will not be data is available through utility bills and Budapest, Hungary; and estimated recalculated. other invoices, the data is compared for U.S. leased offices, representing to the average intensity for the region 87 percent of Lexmark’s 2018 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity is and increased for HVAC energy support square footage of occupied space. calculated per Lexmark square footage. if higher or left the same as a region Scope 1 fossil fuel emissions for U.S. otherwise. For leased sites where no leased offices were estimated using Square footage metered data is available, current current Commercial Buildings Energy 2015 2016 2017 2018 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Consumption Survey (CBECS) data. 4,545,407 4,602,342 4,633,431 3,928,007 Survey (CBECS) data and 2016 eGrid factors are used to calculate energy • Scope 1 refrigerant usage was Data input and calculation methodology and emissions for U.S. locations and reported for Lexington, Kentucky; Lexmark publicly reports GHG emissions International Energy Agency (IEA) data Boulder, Colorado; Juarez, Mexico; that are related to the use of direct is used to estimate usage and emissions Cebu City, Philippines; and Kolkata, and indirect energy through the for leased locations in other parts of the India, representing 84 percent of Carbon Disclosure Project. Using the world. All energy use (direct office use Lexmark’s 2018 square footage of World Business Council for Sustainable and HVAC support) is assumed to be occupied space. Development (WBCSD) and World electrically derived. Resource Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas • Scope 1 vehicle data was provided Protocol (GHG Protocol) methodology, we from sites in the United States, track greenhouse gas emissions, as well Canada and Switzerland; Austria, as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, Germany; Budapest, Hungary; Juarez, gasoline and electricity. Scope 3 GHG emissions Category Description Scope/Methodology Lexmark conducts Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) of our imaging equipment in accordance to ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. The LCAs cover the emissions of our products from raw material extraction and processing through manufacturing and distribution through use and end-of-life and will be used to report estimated emissions for Purchased Goods and Services, as well as Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services other Scope 3 categories. Assumptions and methodology behind our LCAs may be found in our EPDs, which are published according to ISO 14045 and third party verified for completeness and accuracy. A small amount of dot matrix printers and older laser models are not included. 2018 reporting does not include full cartridge impacts; but will be a goal of future reporting. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 103 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Scope 3 GHG emissions (continued) Category Description Scope/Methodology Assessed using average-spend based method and emission factors from Embodied Energy and Emission Intensity Data (3E1D) published by the Category 2 Capital Goods National Institute for Environmental Studies Center for Global Environmental Research. Fuel and energy related Category 3 activities not accounted for in Not applicable to Lexmark at this time. Scope 1 and 2 Emissions calculated using the distance-based method for inbound, Category 4 Upstream Transport outbound and LCCP product logistics impacts in EMEA. *U.S. transport data as calculated through the US EPA SmartWay tool included in 2016 only. Emissions resulting from non-hazardous and hazardous waste disposal at Lexmark reporting locations (see Waste Management section/Waste Dashboard for locations) assessed using the waste-type-specific method where emissions factors are published (approximately 80 percent). The Category 5 Waste in Operations following sources were used: US Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waste Reduction Model (WARM), Version 14, Waste Sector GHG Protocol Calculation Tool, Version 5, October 2013, and David A. Turner*, Ian D. Williams, Simon Kemp, Greenhouse gas emission factors for recycling of source-segregated waste materials (2015). Covers business travel worldwide based on availability of data. 2018 reporting covers data as reported for U.S. (rentals and fleet vehicles), Canada (rentals and fleet vehicles), Kolkata, Cebu, Shenzhen, Juarez, Switzerland, Austria, Germany and Budapest. Air travel is currently reported Category 6 Business Travel for locations worldwide using our primary corporate travel agencies. We estimate that the data not currently reported is minimal. Leased vehicle reports are provided by rental agencies. Travel agency partners provide reports for business travel via air. Estimated using the average data method. When available, average annual working days data was sourced for representative geographies. Vehicle types and average commute distances were primarily based on a U.S. transCategory 7 Employee Commuting portation survey, with inputs from geographies where data existed. The World Resources Institute (2015) GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion, Version 2.6 was used for calculation in 2016. The National Household Transport Survey was used for calculation in 2017 and 2018. Category 8 Upstream Leased Assets Not applicable at this time. Category 9 Downstream Transport Not applicable at this time. Category 10 Processing of Sold Products Not assessed at this time. Calculated as part of the imaging equipment LCAs. Includes some Category 11 Use of Sold Products assumptions for transport within the U.S. that are calculated in the LCAs. Calculated as part of the imaging equipment LCAs. Emissions from End of Life Treatment of Sold Category 12 processing cartridges returned to Lexmark through LCCP are captured in Products Scopes 1 and 2 for Lexmark-owned return facilities. Data included for Lexmark owned space leased to tenants for which the Category 13 Downstream Leased Assets tenant has operational control. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 104 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Category 14 Franchises Not applicable to Lexmark at this time. Category 15 Investments Not applicable to Lexmark at this time. Regulated air emissions (U.S. short tons per year) Methane 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.12 0.11 0.12 0.10 Volatile organic compounds (non-methane) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Boulder, CO, U.S. 4.28 5.06 4.44 2.95 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.31 0.29 0.31 0.23 Juarez, Mexico 34.04 16.60 19.08 22.66 SOx 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.06 0.04 0.05 0.03 Juarez, Mexico 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 NOx 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, U.S. 5.49 5.15 5.52 4.23 Juarez, Mexico 3.15 1.86 1.69 1.41 CO2 2015 2016 2017 2018 Boulder, CO, U.S. 347.90 379.00 428.00 433 Lexington, KY, U.S. 6,038.81 5,895.01 6,317.70 4,988.62 Juarez, Mexico 4,009.65 2,361.45 2,151.11 1,788.49 Particulate matter (PM10) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Boulder, CO, U.S. 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.41 0.39 0.42 0.32 Juarez, Mexico 0.24 0.14 0.13 0.11 Hazardous air pollutants 2015 2016 2017 2018 Boulder, CO, U.S. 0.17 0.27 0.31 0.25 Lexington, KY, U.S. 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 Toxic release inventory (TRI) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Boulder, CO, U.S. 1.89 1.77 1.97 * Registro de Emisiones y 2015 2016 2017 2018 Transferencia de Contaminantes (RETC) Juarez, Mexico 3,113.03 1,831.84 1,667.12 1,381.17 *Data is not available at this time and will be updated when received. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 105 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Emissions (continued) Regulated air emission boundary and accounting methodology Regulated air emissions are reported for An error was identified in the program that our primary research and development calculates Volatile Organic Compounds and manufacturing locations, with the (non-methane), CO2 and Hazardous Air exception of Cebu City, Philippines. Pollutant at the Boulder location. The 2016 data reflects the program change; prior Lexmark monitors regulated air emissions years have not been recalculated. and submits the necessary reports to agencies requesting this information. Meeting our goals to reduce or eliminate toxic release inventory (TRI) chemicals on site, Lexmark works to maintain minimal emissions Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 106 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water Total water withdrawal Total water withdrawal (m3) 2005 2015 2016 2017 2018 1,030,342 459,189 498,338 470,464 366,861 Water reuse (m3) 2016 2017 2018 Juarez, Mexico 33,606 41,714 65,617 Water withdrawal by facility (m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, U.S. 188,421 179,958 177,153 103,543 Boulder, CO, U.S. 96,904 91,809 98,503 96,479 Juarez, Mexico 118,001 166,573 131,259 115,400 Cebu City, Philippines 23,109 26,337 27,286 22,257 (LRDC) Kolkata, India 28,654 29,401 29,322 23,456 Budapest, Hungary 2,976 3,224 3,774 2,539 Shenzhen, China 1,110 1,036 2,324 3,187 Other 14 843 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 107 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water Water withdrawal by source (m3) All areas with All areas water stress Surface water (total) 15,142 15,142 Ground water (total) 0 0 Seawater (total) 0 0 Produced water (total) 0 0 Third-Party (total) 351,719 325,724 Surface water 210,324 Groundwater 115,400 Seawater 0 Produced water 0 Total water withdrawal 366,861 340,866 *All water withdrawn is Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) Water discharge by source (m3) All areas with All areas water stress Water discharge by destination Surface water 0 Groundwater 0 Seawater 0 Third-party water (total) 240,396 Third-party water sent for use to other 1,010 organizations Total water withdrawal 241,406 215,411 *Discharged water is Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) without treatment Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 108 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water (continued) Water discharge by facility (m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, U.S. Sanitary Sewer 94,712 98,925 100,116 75,102 Creek 10,606 10,908 5,826 0 Evaporation/Losses 83,103 70,125 71,211 28,441 Boulder, CO, U.S. Sanitary Sewer 30,681 22,130 37,843 37,465 Use in product/ 66,223 69,679 60,271 58,479 evaporation/losses Landfill 389 535 Juarez, Mexico Sanitary Sewer 118,001 58,486 95,819 77,400 Evaporation 54,636 35,440 38,000 Use in product/losses 53,451 Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) Sanitary Sewer 23,109 26,337 27,286 22,257 Kolkata, India Sanitary Sewer 28,654 29,401 29,322 23,456 Budapest, Hungary Sanitary Sewer 2,976 3,224 3,774 2,539 Shenzhen, China Sanitary Sewer 1,110 1,036 2,324 3,187 Other Sanitary Sewer 14 843 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 109 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Water (continued) Water consumption (m3) All areas with All areas water stress Total water consumption 125,455 125,455 Facilities with Water Stress Water withdrawal Water Consumption Surface water Third-party water Total Juarez, Mexico 0 115,400 38,000 Shenzhen, China 0 3,187 0 Boulder, CO, U.S. 0 96,479 59,014 Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) 0 22,257 0 Lexington, KY, U.S. 15,142 88,401 28,441 Water boundary and accounting methodology Organizational boundary lation methodology allowed for a better Meters are in place in Boulder, Lexington Reported data covers the 2018 calendar estimate of actual water withdrawal at and Juarez for certain water use and/or year. Lexmark calculates water data for all this location, resulting in updated data for discharge activities. owned and operated sites and includes this individual location and total water rea portion of leased spaces as data is ported. New meters were also installed at available. The 2018 water data represents the facility in Boulder, allowing for greater approximately 86 percent of Lexmark’s accuracy in reporting. The 2005 Total Wa2018 estimated square footage of Lexmark ter Withdrawal has not been recalculated occupied space. and represents the reporting boundary and calculation methodology used during Slight changes may occur in the reporting that year. boundary for location changes and/or operational control. Available data for these Wastewater from Lexmark operations locations will be placed in Other . is primarily discharged to local utility systems (sanitary sewer) for treatment, but Water risks have been assessed using the is not metered at many of our reporting Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. locations; discharge to the local utility is assumed to be equivalent to withdrawal. Data input and calculation methodology Prior to 2016 reporting, Lexmark conservaWater was sourced from local municipal tively reported 100 percent discharge of water suppliers, unless reused from anothwastewater to the local utility for Juarez er process on site. and Boulder due to lack of metered wastewater data. Data was available in Boulder Metered readings and utility bills were to allow for the delineation of wastewater used to calculate and/or estimate water discharge details. The reporting of data in withdrawal and water reuse. Water data Juarez began in 2016. was recalculated at the Boulder location between 2013 and 2016 as a new calcuLexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 110 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste Total waste generation enterprise level (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Non-Hazardous 17,238 16,909 19,827 16,986 14,052 13,129 Hazardous 494 565 465 616 569 591 Total 17,732 17,474 20,292 17,602 14,621 13,721 Total waste generation facility level (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, USA 1,988 1,521 1,228 1,253 1,190 1,030 Boulder, CO, USA 3,340 3,083 2,833 3,490 3,059 2,553 Juarez, Mexico, 4,768 5,104 4,815 4,507 4,040 3,771 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 7,533 7,662 11,345 8,132 6,170 6,177 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 104 105 70 144 163 189 (Research & Dev) Non-hazardous waste generation facility level (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, USA 1,984 1,517 1,209 1,235 1,177 1,028 Boulder, CO, USA 3,311 3,057 2,794 3,438 3,041 2,535 Juarez, Mexico, 4,330 4,584 4,425 3,988 3,535 3,249 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 7,530 7,655 11,332 8,124 6,163 6,176 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 83 95 67 125 136 142 (Research & Dev) Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 111 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Hazardous waste generation facility level (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lexington, KY, USA 4 3 19 17 13 2 Boulder, CO, USA 28 26 39 52 17 19 Juarez, Mexico, 438 519 390 519 505 522 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 3 6 13 9 6 1 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 21 9 4 19 27 47 (Research & Dev) 1 LCCP Recycling Plant processes empty toner cartridges from customers for recycle or reuse. This data includes facility operations in addition to cartridge processing. Total waste generation enterprise level by disposal method (with LCCP) (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Reuse 2,085 2,492 5,706 1,936 1,747 1,659 Recycling 11,161 10,680 11,133 10,549 9,088 8,801 Composting 20 13 10 12 10 8 Energy Recovery 1,732 1,626 847 1,527 810 721 Incineration 372 105 136 439 300 347 Deep well injection Landfill 2,188 2,310 2,461 3,139 2,665 2,185 On-site storage Water Treatment 176 248 Total 17,732 17,474 20,292 17,602 14,052 13,721 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 112 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Waste generation for the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) facility (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Reuse 1,928 2,095 5,475 1,923 1,501 1,441 Recycling 5,453 5,348 5,564 5,801 4,381 4,536 Composting Energy Recovery 3 4 6 8 37 80 Incineration Deep well injection Landfill 149 215 300 400 251 120 On-site storage Water Treatment Total 7,533 7,662 11,345 8,132 6,170 6,177 Total non-hazardous waste generation enterprise level by disposal method (with LCCP) (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Reuse 2,084 2,492 5,706 1,936 1,747 1,659 Recycling 11,144 10,672 11,131 10,543 9,074 8,757 Composting 20 13 10 12 10 8 Energy Recovery 1,323 1,206 715 1,402 731 684 Incineration 370 102 134 437 299 344 Deep well injection 1,677 Landfill 2,161 2,270 2,130 2,656 2,191 On-site storage Water Treatment 136 154 Total 17,238 16,909 19,826 16,986 14,052 13,129 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 113 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Total hazardous waste generation enterprise level by disposal method (with LCCP) (metric tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Reuse 1 Recycling 17 8 2 6 15 43 Composting Energy Recovery 408 420 132 125 79 37 Incineration 2 3 1 2 1 3 Deep well injection Landfill 27 39 330 483 475 508 On-site storage Water Treatment 40 94 Total 494 565 465 616 569 591 2018 Non-hazardous waste generation by type (metric tons) General Recyclables Ink/water Construction Batteries Electronic mix or debris scrap other liquid Lexington, KY, USA 160 569 11 1 287 Boulder, CO, USA 302 1474 730 24 0 4 Juarez, Mexico, 1647 1461 134 0.04 8 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 614 5519 43 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 100 42 0.09 33 (Research & Dev.) Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 114 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) 2018 Hazardous waste generation by type (metric tons) Ignitables/ Metals Corrosive Mercury/ Lamps Other solvents Lexington, KY, USA 1 0.06 Boulder, CO, USA 11 0.2 2 5 Juarez, Mexico, 18 0.4 0.2 504 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 0 1 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 1 10 2 1 (Research & Dev.) Hazardous waste (HW) transported, imported, exported or treated under the terms of Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII (Metric tons) HW Transported HW Imported HW Exported HW Treated 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2018 Lexington, KY, USA 17 13 2 17 13 2 Boulder, CO, USA 52 17 18 52 17 18 Juarez, Mexico, 519 505 522 519 505 522 Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, 9 6 1 9 6 1 LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines 19 12 19 19 12 19 (Research & Dev.) Hazardous waste shipped internationally (%) 2016 2017 20178 Lexington, KY, USA Boulder, CO, USA Juarez, Mexico, Manufacturing Juarez, Mexico, LCCP Recycling Plant1 Cebu City, Philippines (Research & Dev.) Waste data is from 100% of Lexmark’s owned development and manufacturing sites based on square feet. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 115 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Waste (continued) Total electronics waste recycling (metric tons) 2018 2018 Voluntary Regulated USA 2957 753 Canada 159 EU 496 Mexico 12 India 2 Asia Pacific 112 142 Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 116 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Employees 2018 Global Workforce Employees % Women New Hires Asia Pacific Total 2,258 50% 232 Europe, Middle East, Africa Total 1,076 39% 140 Latin America Total 2,779 47% 921 North America Total 2,021 24% 88 Total Employees 8,154 41% 1,381 By Job level Employees % Women Vice President 28 25% Director 102 22% Senior Manager 88 30% Manager 748 35% Individual Contributor 7,188 42% Total 8,154 41% By Employment type Employees % Women Full Time 8,108 41% Part time 46 89% Total 8,154 41% Temporary Employees 65 54% Contingent Workers 2,022 37% *35% of contractors reported their gender US Minorities Workplace Management New Hires 16% 16% 23% Worldwide by Age Workplace 30 and under 19% 31-50 65% 51 and over 15% Lexmark’s worldwide minimum age is 18. Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 117 Our Approach Our Operations Our Imaging Solutions Our People & Partners Reporting Data Dashboard / Employees (continued) 2018 Continuing Training & Education Employee Category Number of Employees Average Training Hours Executive Vice President 28 21 Director 102 21 Senior Manager 88 35 Manager 748 35 Individual Contributor 7,188 35 The average number of hours for training is 34.9 for women, 34.7 for men. Averages based on the corporate-level systems that capture employee development activities and do not include formal education supported by Lexmark. 2018 Injury Rate, Ill Health, Lost Work Day Rate, Absentee Rate and Work Related Fatalities by Region Occupational Lost Work Day Work Related Lexmark Location Injury Rate Absentee Rate Diseases Rate Fatalities % % % % % Total Women Total Women Total Women Total Women Total Women Boulder, Colorado 1.59 0% 0.53 0% 41.78 0% 0 n/a Not Reported Juarez, Mexico 0.08 67% 0.04 100% 8.46 50% 0 n/a Not Reported Lexington/U.S. sales 0.31 11% 0.04 0% 1.65 12.5% 0 n/a Not Reported & home offices China TSC 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 n/a Not Reported Cebu, Philippines LRDC 0.04 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 n/a Not Reported Lexmark 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report csr.lexmark.com 118
