Marel – Annual Report 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 1 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CONTENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 3 Chairman’s statement 4 CEO´s review 7 MAREL IN BRIEF 10 Who we are 11 Vision and values 12 Business model 13 Strategy 18 DELIVERING GROWTH 21 Poultry 22 Meat 28 Fish 34 Innova 44 Innovation 45 Global markets and service 49 Global supply chain 54 INVESTORS 57 Shares 58 Financials 64 Investor relations 71 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 73 Corporate responsibility 74 Social 78 Environmental 83 Economic 87 Corporate governance 90 Board of directors 94 Executive team 95 Organizational chart 101 Risk management 102 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 Marel – Annual Report 2018 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Weighing in rough seas? Challenge accepted. When we brought accurate data collection to the fishing grounds with the first motion-compensating marine scales forty years ago, we tipped the scales towards increased efficiency throughout the value-chain. TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 3 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Business as a force for good Global challenges ranging from climate, water and food crises, to poverty, conflict and inequality are in need of solutions that require the combined efforts of the public, private and civil sectors. We are inspired by the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Global Compact’s call to the corporate sector for responsible business operations. Our response is to apply our culture of innovation and collaboration to address some of the societal challenges ahead. Marel’s vision is founded on the strong belief that we can create economic value and have a positive social impact at the same time: In partnership with our customers, we are transforming the way food is processed. Our vision is of a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. in more than 30 countries, and total revenues of EUR 1.2 We are proud of our achievements in 2018. Excellence in operbillion. Quite a contrast to the company’s 45 employees and ations and disciplined capital allocation are the foundation for revenues of EUR 6 million at the time of listing. us to effectively serve our customers and other stakeholders, as well as provide a healthy return to our shareholders. Returning value to shareholders Marel’s remarkable average revenue growth of over 20% per Data-driven from day one year since its listing in 1992 has been fueled by innovation When we brought accurate data collection to the fishing and several strategic acquisitions, made possible by strong grounds with the first motion-compensating marine scales shareholder support. The acquisitions of Scanvægt in 2006 forty years ago, we tipped the scales towards increased and Stork in 2008 were funded with an equity contribution of efficiency throughout the value chain. Marel’s marine scales, EUR 268 million, while the more recent acquisitions of MPS, developed by passionate entrepreneurs at the University of Sulmaq and MAJA in 2016-2018 were financed with support Iceland, introduced data collection to the Icelandic fishing from banking partners, operational results and cash flow. grounds. Using decades of precise data, we’ve continuously developed solutions that ensure quality food at the lowest A review of financial developments over the last 5 years shows cost – to businesses and to the environment. This is a great just how great the company’s progress has been. Revenues example of both the power of numbers, and how our increased by an average of 13% in the past five years and extraordinary and talented team here at Marel use their power earnings per share rose 43% on average yearly. During that in numbers. same period, Marel’s share price also climbed by an average of 27% per year in EUR terms. In 2018, we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the founding of Marel. The listing of Marel’s shares on Nasdaq Iceland in In 2018, revenues increased by over 15% and earnings 1992 was an important milestone in Marel’s progress from a per share by 31%. Operational performance has improved start-up to a leading global provider of advanced processing significantly, with EBIT averaging around 15% for the past systems and services to the poultry, meat and fish industries. three years. The share price rose 15% in 2018 and the number At the end of 2018, Marel had over 6,000 employees, working of shareholders grew from 2,206 to 2,491. TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 4 Marel – Annual Report 2018 In 2018, EUR 28.9 million were paid in dividends to shareholders to purchase of up to 34 million shares, corresponding to 5% for the operational year 2017. In line with our capital allocation of issued share capital. The plan is to announce the final dual and dividend policy, the Board of Directors will propose to listing location at the 2019 Annual General Meeting, following the 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) that shareholders which the execution phase is expected to take up to nine be paid a dividend of around EUR 5.57cents per share, which months. The precise timing will depend on both developments corresponds to approximately 30% of profits for 2018. in Marel’s business and general financial market conditions. A global stage for an international Unique position for sustainable value company creation Although listing on Nasdaq Iceland has served Marel well, Our growth targets are ambitious. We aim to increase revethere have been clear indications for some time now that we nues on average by 12% per year in 2017-2026, capitalizing on are outgrowing the small Icelandic stock market. We are a strong innovation and market reach, complemented by strateglobal company with ambitious growth plans. Furthermore, gic acquisitions and partnerships. even though capital controls in Iceland have been lifted, having Marel’s shares listed in Icelandic krona has proven to be an Marel has both the premises and prerequisites for such obstacle for potential international strategic investors. growth. Our industry is experiencing robust global growth driven by population growth and changing consumer behavior, coupled with secular demands for traceability, food safety, nutrition and sustainability. The value of the consumer market for animal protein is estimated at EUR 1,200 billion annually. Marel, the global leader in food processing solutions, software and services for the poultry, meat and fish industries, had revenues of around EUR 1.2 billion in 2018. In spite of our leading As announced at the AGM in March 2018, Marel engaged indeposition, therefore, our market is still fragmented and there is pendent international advisors to evaluate potential listing alsignificant room for growth and consolidation. ternatives to further advance the company’s global vision and provide continued strong shareholder returns. The objective is Innovation is at the core of our strategy – and in our DNA. A to facilitate trade and ensure fair pricing of Marel shares for the key competitive strength is our long-standing commitment benefit of all shareholders. to research and development, where we invest around 6% of revenues annually, well above the industry standard. Our Primary focus now on Euronext Amsterdam and ongoing investment and strategic focus on exploiting opporNasdaq Copenhagen tunities offered by digitalization and automation have great After thorough analysis of the three options considered, i.e. to potential. Not only are we improving yield and throughput in remain listed on Nasdaq Iceland only, to list both in Iceland the food processing industry, resulting in higher quality prodand on an international exchange, and to delist from Iceland ucts at better value, but also reducing waste and providing full and relist on an international exchange, the conclusion was traceability throughout the value chain. to aim for dual listing of Marel shares in 2019. The optimal listing venue has yet to be decided, but the primary focus is currently on Euronext Amsterdam and Nasdaq Copenhagen. € A total of five exchanges were reviewed with an eye to various aspects such as market depth and sector awareness, access to international investors, analyst coverage, index inclusion, valuation and peer group positioning. Several Marel-specific considerations were also taken into account, such as our The world’s population is expected to rise from today’s 7.6 biloperational presence in these countries, reporting currency, lion to 10 billion by 2050 – an increase of almost one-third. and technicalities such as clearing and settlement mechanics. Active consumers at the same time are expected to rise by 60 We are focused on ensuring a smooth journey for our current million a year, the equivalent of the UK population, as levels of and future shareholders. well-being and purchasing power rise. Together with urbanization and changes in consumer behavior, this is expected Share capital decrease and formal share buyback to increase demand for food by 70% by 2050, a figure which program initiated is practically incomprehensible in view of the planet’s limited To better align the interests of current and future shareholders land, water and other resources. in connection with the dual listing, the Board of Directors convened an Extraordinary General Meeting on 22 November Waste in the food value chain is estimated at around 33%, 2018. There it was proposed to reduce share capital by 53 equivalent to 1.3 billion tons of food lost. This needs to change. million shares and initiate a formal share buyback program Innovation and optimization of food production, together TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 5 Marel – Annual Report 2018 with changes in consumer behavior, are the only solution to Marel’s success is the result of efforts by a united and diverse the enormous challenge of feeding the planet. Marel is at the team of more than 6,000 people around the world, with a forefront in adapting to prevailing trends and needs. In partwealth of process know-how and industry experience. The nership with our customers, we have a unique opportunity to company’s senior management team has a clear vision and create economic and social value at the same time. an excellent execution track record. Earlier this year, the Board of Directors had the privilege of visiting our expanding operOur role in feeding the future ations in Brazil – both our dedicated team in Piricicaba and our We view the future in a positive light. Despite a number of facnew team members from Sulmaq in Guapore – as well as our tors of uncertainty on the horizon, such as geopolitical conoperations in Kansas, USA. It is truly spectacular to experience cerns, trade constraints and Brexit, we are convinced that our at first hand the relentless passion and dedication of our team around the world. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I congratulate the Marel team on the impressive results and achievements of 2018, achieved not least thanks to their dedication and hard work. May I also express our appreciation of the continuing commitdetermined advance in transforming how food is processed ment and support of our shareholders. will continue to provide a strong foundation for long-term sustainable value creation for all Marel’s stakeholders. Ásthildur Otharsdóttir, Chairman of Marel’s Board WHEN WE BROUGHT ACCURATE DATA COLLECTION TO THE FISHING GROUNDS WITH THE FIRST MARINE SCALES FORTY YEARS AGO, WE TIPPED THE SCALES TOWARDS INCREASED EFFICIENCY THROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN. TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 6 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CEO’S REVIEW The year 2018 was yet another excellent one for Marel. We are delighted to report record revenues of EUR 1,200 million representing a 15% year-onyear revenue growth, of which 12.5% was organic. Operational performance was solid with 14.6% EBIT. We have been operating at close to 15% EBIT in the past three years with robust cash flow. The strong cash flow enables us to invest in talent, innovation, infrastructure and global market presence. Operational cash flow was EUR 206 million in 2018, and free cash flow after our extensive investments and payments of taxes and interests amounted to EUR 121 million or over 10% of revenues. Global market leader with blue-chip customer base worldwide We are a global leader in providing advanced solutions and services to poultry, meat and fish processors. Our customer base ranges from small family-owned companies earnings. Our customer base is diverse with the single largest to the largest players in the food industry. Our long lasting customer in any calendar year accounting for less than 5% of customer relationships are due to our strong partnerships in total revenues. transforming the way poultry, meat and fish are processed. Attracting new customers and retaining existing ones is Growth driven by secular trends driven by our constant commitment to service and innovation Population growth, urbanization and technological disruption and being at the customer -for the customer out in the field. are significant trends shaping the world today. We are Today, we have more than 6,000 dedicated team members witnessing the most rapid urbanization and growth of the operating in over 30 countries serving our customers across middle class in history or at around 3-4% annually. These active 180 countries. consumers are seeking and consuming a balanced diet that is rich in vegetables, fruits and proteins. The need for increased We have a healthy mix of revenues deriving from greenfield automation, improved productivity and more innovative projects, modernization and maintenance of our existing solutions to process quality food safely and sustainably, is customers’ installed base worldwide. Maintenance is clearer than ever. We must find ways to do more with less. transitioning from reactive services to more preventative The only reliable solution is for food processors to step up maintenance that include long-term service level agreements, investments and vertically integrate the supply chain. spare parts packages and remote monitoring. Taking a proactive approach with our customers prevents unexpected Marel is at the center point of prevailing trends. With downtime at their production facilities and ensures consistent continuous innovation and complementary acquisitions, we peak productivity. 35% of total revenues derives from recurring have managed to extend our playing field gradually. service and spares business, underpinning our high quality of TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 7 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Last year we successfully launched the ATLAS system, our live Innovation drives transformation bird handling system that achieves new animal wellbeing In 2018, we increased investments in innovation to a level standards while simultaneously increasing the quality of the of 6.2% of revenues compared with 5.6% of revenues for inputs to the factory. Thereby moving our operating window the previous year. The step up was mainly in investments in from serving only the factory level to serving processors all the the overarching Innova software platform that collects and way from post-farm gate to dispatch of the final products. distributes data that improves operational efficiency and ensures full traceability of products throughout the value A sizeable market serving the basic needs chain. The annual retail value of poultry, meat and fish products is estimated to be EUR1,200 billion. With current urbanization We are continuously becoming better and better in utilizing rates, there is a rapid transition from small back-yard grown technologies and realizing synergies across the three industries farming into a fully commercialized approach. Consequently, we operate in. The best example of this is the SensorX, an the underlying demand for new greenfield processing plants X-ray detection system that was initially developed for the fish is high, especially in poultry, pork and fish processing deriving industry and has now become a huge success in the poultry from aquaculture. However, the current annual value of industry by providing bone and contamination free meat for solutions and services to serve the needs within our playing products like chicken nuggets. We are now further mirroring field is estimated to be only EUR 12 billion, of which Marel the SensorX technology into the red meat industry. revenues are EUR 1.2 billion. In addition to detecting bones and other contaminants, the Based on our position as a product pioneer with an extensive SensorX-system is capable of monitoring and blending fat sales and service network around the globe, our target is to and lean muscles with high accuracy and speed to meet continue to grow organically above the market rate. Moreover, the growing demands for “home-style” premium burgers at Marel is at the forefront of consolidating the fragmented affordable prices. market of equipment and solution providers. We have a solid track record in M&A where our primary focus is on closing application gaps to compliment innovation and accelerate the process of becoming a full-line provider to our customers. TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 8 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Are there any structural differences A global scene for a global leader between the three industries? We have had great support from the Icelandic stock exchange Our poultry segment accounts for 53% of total revenues and and our shareholders since listing in 1992. The dual listing of delivered around 18% EBIT in 2018. At the same time the meat Marel shares on an international stock exchange in addition segment accounted for 32% of total revenues with 11% EBIT to its listing in Iceland is on track. It is important for a global followed by Fish with 13% of revenues with around 8% EBIT. leader to have a global stage to support its ambitious growth plan. An international listing and access to a broader investor We frequently get questions from our current and potential base is expected to drive fair day-to-day trading and continued shareholders whether there are any structural differences shareholder returns. between the poultry, meat and fish segments that explain the difference in margins. Management’s view is that there is no Liquid and tradable shares are an important acquisition fundamental difference across the three industries and the currency, as many of our potential acquisition targets are wellgrowth and value drivers are similar. It is all about comparative run family-owned companies. In many cases, the owners of business advantages within the segments. these companies want to stay in this attractive industry and join forces with Marel, a product pioneer with a global sales In poultry, we have been very successful in closing application and service network and strong digital platform. By offering gaps and providing full lines with the speed of 15,000 them Marel shares that are listed on an international stock chickens per hour in a highly automated process. We interlink exchange they can become a part of the Marel growth story the processing steps seamlessly from primary processing to going forward. secondary and further processing to enable our customers to meet various consumer demands. With improved We are in a partnership standardization and modularization, we lower the execution Our team is dedicated and passionate. We are guided every risk in large projects and simplify the modernization and single day by our shared vision and we share the values of maintenance business. This takes focus and time to build up Innovation, Unity and Excellence. We put great emphasis on and is difficult to replicate. being a dynamic workplace with diverse and well-educated team members. For several years, we have run an internal Marel leadership program, where we select talent from across the company worldwide for a general management training in cooperation with universities and consultancies. Many of our senior The task in the meat segment is to standardize and modularize managers come from the ranks of this leadership program, the offering in primary processing and further drive our including two members of the executive team. Since midcustomer value creation by vertically integrating the value 2017, we have also trained more than 500 employees to apply chain from primary to secondary and further processing. In what they learned in “The 7 Habits” to their professional and the fish segment, we have successfully managed to improve personal lives. standardization across our product line and we are already starting to reap the benefits mirrored in higher service and This well-known leadership framework highlights important spare revenues and gradually improving operational margin. paradigms to become more effective through proactive Within the fish segment, we are focusing on closing application behavior, prioritization, time management, empathic listening, gaps in primary processing and further automating all and synergistic thinking. processes in line with what we already accomplished in the poultry segment. This is the journey ahead of us. I would like to sincerely thank our shareholders, customers, partners, and employees for their continued trust and support. We are all in this together! Together, we are transforming the way food is processed. Árni Oddur Thórdarson, Chief Executive Officer TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 9 Marel – Annual Report 2018 MAREL IN BRIEF WHO WE ARE WE ARE UNITED IN OUR SUCCESS MAREL IN BRIEF 10 Marel – Annual Report 2018 6,000 WHO WE ARE MAREL IN BRIEF 11 Marel – Annual Report 2018 VISION AND VALUES UNITED UNDER ONE VISION AND ONE SET OF VALUES In partnership with our customers we are transforming the way food is processed. Our vision is of a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. Marel – Annual Report 2018 BUSINESS MODEL Taking an innovative, high-tech approach has placed Marel in the forefront of the food processing equipment industry. As a leader in the field, we provide advanced equipment and systems for the fish, meat and poultry industries around the world. Our business model is based on maintaining a good balance between our industry segments, business mix and geographical operations. Leading pure-play supplier Clear and focused growth strategy We sell advanced and high-end equipment, solutions and Marel’s playing field is gradually expanding to cover the software to the poultry, meat and fish industries. We serve entire production process from farm to fork and from catch to producers looking to increase the automation of their consumer. This entails a full-line offering of integrated systems, production processes. solutions and software for every step of the production process, available in all relevant geographical areas of our Technology leader industries. We invest around 6% of revenues in innovation support of our strong focus on process and product innovation. Ensuring a Strong culture of innovation seamless operating flow and integrating different applications We are a company defined by our dedication to innovation, boosts overall efficiency and production capacity. as reflected in our extensive investment in research and development. Marel began as an idea at the University of Global reach Iceland in 1977 and innovation is and has always been at We have a dedicated team of about 6,000 employees in over 30 its heart. We invest around 6% of revenues in research and countries around the world. Through the years, we have built development annually, which translated into EUR 74 million a unique sales and service network of over 500 employees in in 2018. global sales and more than 1,000 in global services supporting clients around the world. We also complement our local From the start, Marel has bundled software and equipment presence with a network of over 100 agents and distributors. together. Our approach to innovation is not limited to mechanical engineering to optimize the performance of each Blue-chip customer base worldwide application, but also encompasses integrated technologies Our customer base includes most of the world’s blue-chip and connectivity. Data analytics and software control are food processors in the poultry, meat and fish industries. Our becoming increasingly important. Today, Marel is the focal long-standing partnerships are strong, built on co-operation point of information gathering for global food processing, one and teamwork across industries and geographies. of the most significant value chains in the world. Innova software platform Marel is also known for applying its technology across different We give our customers full control over their production with industries. In 2018, we continued to leverage our strong Innova, our advanced, overarching food production software. innovation investments in one field to successfully develop Designed to optimize production using our high-tech solutions for other protein product groups, across processes equipment lines, Innova software can integrate and increase and geographies. the efficiency of third-party equipment as well. MAREL IN BRIEF 13 Marel – Annual Report 2018 € 1 1250 1000 10% 1000 800 8% EUR million 750 600 6% 500 400 4% 250 200 2% 0 0% 2016 2017 2018 Revenues R&D expenses as % of revenue Three key industry segments Marel Poultry At Marel we focus our efforts on three main production Marel Poultry offers the most complete product range in the industries: poultry, meat and fish. Our teams analyze trends industry and has the largest installed base worldwide. We and anticipate processing challenges, enabling us to stay on provide in-line poultry processing solutions for all process top of market developments and changes in the industries we steps and all processing capacities for broilers, turkeys and serve. ducks. Marel Poultry, Marel Meat and Marel Fish are constantly Marel Meat working on new ways to improve existing processes, increase Marel Meat supplies advanced equipment and systems to the automation and streamline product processing. red meat industry. We focus on slaughtering, deboning and trimming, case-ready and food-service solutions. Following acquisitions of MPS, Sulmaq and MAJA, we are now a full-line supplier from farm gate to finished pack. Marel Fish Marel Fish is the leading global supplier of advanced standalone equipment and integrated systems to the fish industry. We provide innovative equipment, systems and software for processing whitefish and salmon, both farmed and wild, onboard and ashore. MAREL IN BRIEF 14 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Customer focus Our strong and long-standing relationships with our We expect automation in food processing to increase steadily, customers form the bedrock of our business model. We’re especially in emerging markets. This means higher growth here to partner with our customers. Together we innovate and in advanced and high-end segments of the food processing create products that set new benchmarks in the industry and equipment industry. Our expertise in this segment focuses on achieve continuous improvements in line with our customers’ helping customers become more efficient, more sustainable needs. and more profitable. This shared success creates higher margins and better value, both for our customers and for Marel. VERY HIGH-END EQUIPMENT FAST LINE SPEED FAST ADVANCED EQUIPMENT MEDIUM SLOW LOW-END EQUIPMENT NON-AUTOMATED SEMI-AUTOMATED FULLY-AUTOMATED DEGREE OF AUTOMATION Sales and service network Marel’s extensive sales and service network, spread over more We serve a diverse customer base around the world. Our than 30 countries on all continents, is a key competitive edge. professional team of field service engineers ensures the This network is the first line of contact for customers at local uptime and reliability of our large installed base. Service level level. It means first-rate service, consistency and continuity in agreements, a dedicated service commitment and our track our partnership with our clients. We are currently reinforcing record have earned us strong customer loyalty and repeat this network on a regional level to strengthen our connection business. with customers. • Sales and service in over 30 countries • Global sales organization of over 500 employees • Global service organization of over 1,000 employees MAREL IN BRIEF 15 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Customer collaboration As a high-tech provider at the forefront of the industry, we have This example of a ten-year relationship with a customer in the built strong customer relationships based on collaboration and meat industry is a prime example of how we do business. It partnership. Our cooperation with customers in innovation, is also a good reflection of our revenue mix, where greenfield new projects and process improvements further supports our projects, modernization and standard equipment, and service ability to transform the industry and increase customer value and spare parts account for around a third each. in the advanced and high-end segments. • Customer begins operation in primary processing and then expands into secondary processing. • After-sales revenue from spare parts and service starts around year three. MAREL IN BRIEF 16 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Balanced revenue stream across business Our main revenue stream drivers are turnkey projects, mix and geographies encompassing brownfields, greenfields, modernization Marel’s presence across geographies and multiple protein and maintenance as well as the production of modular, segments serves as a countercyclical buffer. It gives us flexibility standardized equipment and processing lines. The standand the opportunity to transfer technical know-how, solutions alone, modular portfolio is the building block for larger and expertise across borders, both industrial and geographical. projects and the entry point for new customers. Our installed We strive to capitalize on the technological advances made in base is also large and growing, effectively driving our resilient one sector by implementing them in another. service and parts revenues. MAREL IN BRIEF 17 Marel – Annual Report 2018 STRATEGY For the period 2017-2026 Marel has set a target of 12% average annual increase in revenue, through both organic growth and acquisitions. Our growth plan involves capitalizing on strong innovation investment to drive expansion and market penetration. We will also focus on strategic partnerships and acquisitions to fill gaps in the value chain, and to augment our full-line product offering. Leading global provider of systems and services Marel’s strategic objective is to be a full-line provider to the This offers our customers process control, real-time traceability poultry, meat and fish industries. Our focus is to put our and monitoring of throughput and yield that is hard to advanced, automated systems and solutions to work at every replicate. Seamless flow and integration between different step of the production process and to cover the relevant applications result in higher overall efficiency and improved geographical areas in our industries. Strong organic growth yield. Marel has thus become a one-stop shop for customers’ and strategic acquisitions have helped make Marel a leader in needs for equipment, software and service. its field. In line with our strategy, we have actively reinforced our value Our product line includes standalone equipment, individual chain in recent years. Strong cash flow has made it possible systems and full production lines, all controlled and integrated to support organic growth actively through innovation, with Innova, our overarching software solution. advancing our manufacturing facilities and updating our IT platform across geographies. It has also allowed Marel to MAREL IN BRIEF 18 Marel – Annual Report 2018 undertake strategic acquisitions, such as Sulmaq in 2017 and outperforming that of the market. Ongoing and continued MAJA in 2018, without issuing new shares or taking out new investment in the future scalability of our platform, IT loans for that purpose. We will continue to fill the remaining infrastructure and global reach supports organic growth application gaps in our value chain through innovation, going forward. organic growth, strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Acquired growth Investing in growth We will also supplement our full-line offering and accelerate Marel aims to achieve on average 12% annual revenue growth market penetration through acquisitions. We believe our in the period 2017-2026. The growth is expected to be a solid operational performance and strong cash flow can balanced mix of organic and acquired growth. support 5-7% revenue growth on average annually through acquisitions. This growth is not expected to be linear but Organic growth reflect opportunities which become available and economic The market for food processing equipment is expected to fluctuations. To capture the full value of acquired companies, grow 4-6% annually on average in the long term. Driven by we are further professionalizing our integration capabilities our significant innovation investment, market penetration and expertise to become a solid integration partner. and extensive product portfolio, we aim at organic growth MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS Acquisition of German food processing equipment manufacturer MAJA Marel was pleased to welcome MAJA, a German food processing equipment manufacturer, and its team of 200 employees to the group in 2018. Since its founding in 1955, MAJA has been a highly innovative manufacturer of food processing machinery, specializing in skinning and portioning with its main focus on the meat market. It also produces ice machines for the preservation of fresh food. MAJA has an excellent manufacturing site in Kehl-Goldscheuer and had annual revenues of roughly EUR 30 million in 2017. The MAJA acquisition strengthens Marel’s global market presence and is in line with the company’s strategic objective to be a full-line supplier of advanced processing equipment and solutions to the food processing industry. MAREL IN BRIEF 19 Marel – Annual Report 2018 A prime example: how Marel fills value gaps Acquisition of MPS paved the way for entry into primary meat processing • Marel became a full-line provider to the meat industry • Complementary geographical presence and product portfolio • Integration is proceeding well with all meat solutions united under the Marel Meat brand Another prime example: how Marel • Improved foothold in the rapidly growing meat market expands its geographical presence in South and Central America • Strong customer relationships enable further sales of The acquisition of Sulmaq strengthens Marel’s market complementary equipment presence in Latin America. • Solid workforce with strong engineering know-how • Future manufacturing hub that can be scaled to support the region MAREL IN BRIEF 20 Marel – Annual Report 2018 DELIVERING GROWTH Celebrate less waste Yield from poultry production increased from 60% to 75% in recent decades. Our use of real-time data to monitor yield has been key in improving the production process. That’s the power in numbers. DELIVERING GROWTH 21 Marel – Annual Report 2018 POULTRY Poultry is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. With the most complete product range in the industry and the largest installed base worldwide, Marel Poultry is a leading global provider of advanced food processing systems and services for broilers, turkeys and ducks. Marel Poultry contributed EUR 638 million in revenue in 2018, or 53% of total revenues, translating to an EBIT of 18.4%. The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish of food processing equipment for poultry, meat and fish market is currently estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion, is estimated to be around EUR 10 billion. Of this, poultry with the poultry market accounting for EUR 400 billion. More processing equipment sales are estimated at around EUR 3 specifically for Marel, the market for sale and maintenance billion, a figure which is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. DELIVERING GROWTH 22 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Overview Poultry processors embrace Innova Marel Poultry continued to increase its strong world-wide In 2018, Innova Food Processing Software became more presence in 2018. Despite challenging market conditions in integrated with Marel Poultry’s products. In today’s processing various parts of the world, we completed a large number of plants, sophisticated software is indispensable. Intelligent significant projects around the globe during the year. software is not only helpful in high-tech plants that process 15,000 birds per hour (bph), it can benefit any processing Our high-tech systems and services time and time again facility. Data-driven processors are able to reach higher proved to be the preferred choice for customers dealing with performance levels and add value, resulting in less production local market requirements. For example, our ATLAS live-bird loss and lower cost per product. Accurate data also facilitates handling system has been a great success, with the solution quicker and more accurate decision-making. currently operating in countries including Germany, the UK, France, Portugal, Spain, Australia, Canada and the USA. By gathering data, Innova plays a major role in automation across all stages of the process. It enables processors to use this Scarcity of human labor was a prominent trend across many data to find the most efficient functioning of their machinery, markets in 2018. Poultry processors across nearly all regions, allowing them to adapt to changing circumstances remotely from China to South America, Europe to the US, are struggling and maintain a consistent product quality. With Innova, Marel to find skilled workers, particularly in countries where workers is helping poultry processors around the globe to maintain a have access to multiple job opportunities in a variety of competitive edge in a challenging industry. industries. Further processing solutions for a wide variety of This limited access to skilled employees has been a key convenience foods reason why poultry processors are investing in greater levels In 2018, Marel Poultry successfully added several further of automation. Marel Poultry offers innovative solutions that processing solutions to its range of primary and secondary can automate and streamline processes throughout the poultry processing systems. We can now enable our customers plant, reducing reliance on human labor, while increasing to produce a wide variety of convenience foods rapidly and throughput and yield. with high precision. Products The highly automated further processing systems and In 2018, we worked in partnership with our customers to solutions that we offer for poultry processors can be used design fit-for-purpose solutions, ranging from modest plants for preparation, portioning and forming, coating, frying and to complete greenfield facilities. In response to processors’ cooking, but also for linking and peeling sausages and codemands, we optimized both efficiency and product quality extrusion. Marel Poultry understands how processors think in by bringing automation to higher levels. this important part of the industry. DELIVERING GROWTH 23 Marel – Annual Report 2018 The 700mm wide Convenience Line for further processed In 2018, Marel Poultry invested in the Dutch FlexCRAFT products underwent a transformation in 2018. research program, co-operating with Wageningen University & Research (WUR), Technical University Eindhoven, Technical The new, patented Helix Drum for the RevoPortioner was one University Delft, University of Twente, and University of important innovation in that line. In the Helix Drum, products Amsterdam. are positioned along a helix shaped line, leading to continuous filling. The low-pressure method replaces the previous startThe objective of the FlexCRAFT research program is to develop stop method and ensures an optimal and more consistent end robots that can deal with a large variety of agri-food products. product. The parties involved are aware that intelligent robots will play a significant role in the food industry in the near future, The combination of Helix Drum Technology with the new making it essential that we devise ways to utilize such robots Active Batter Applicator, as well as the new RevoCrumb, for optimal efficacy. unlocks opportunities for poultry processors. The crumb management of RevoCrumb guarantees perfect coverage of Marel’s RoboBatcher marks a milestone in food processing the product, keeping even the most vulnerable crumbs such automation. Similar robotic technology could be used to as coarse panko and cornflakes, intact during processing. improve other processes in the poultry value chain, particularly for tasks such as planning, control, gripping, and manipulation. Innovation In 2018, we introduced several new, innovative solutions We are committed to making our contribution to developing that have helped advance the poultry production process. In this technology. Through our participation in FlexCRAFT, partnership with our customers, our innovative developments we can support this development, particularly as one of the resulted in numerous successful implementations of new program’s three cognitive robot projects focused primarily on concepts for the industry. poultry processing. 15,000 BPH processing Tray styling with 3D-printed components In 2018, Marel Poultry rolled out 15,000 birds per hour (bph) As part of the continuous development of the RoboBatcher, processing, an increase from the previous maximum speed this year we launched an improved version featuring refined of 13,500 bph. Given that the global population is growing and specialized grippers for fillets, drumsticks, and whole legs. steadily, and each year more people move from rural to urban areas, the demand for poultry is expected to increase The new gripper design can place products into trays according considerably. To keep up with consumer demand, processing to patterns chosen by the user and with minimal giveaway. plants need to intensify their operations and improve both With supermarkets insisting on attractive presentations, tray efficiency and speed. styling is a hot topic among our customers. Improvements in styling performance minimize the need for restyling after the At the same time, strong market pressure to lower production product has been placed in the tray, which helps processors costs per bird without compromising quality requires increased save on labor. levels of effectiveness, which is a significant challenge. Another important achievement in our tray styling innovation Marel Poultry is the world’s first supplier of integrated 15,000 is the ability to print lightweight 3D plastic components for bph lines. Reliability is paramount when dealing with such our equipment. As the design of the jaws in the RoboBatcher high speeds. The first plants to operate at 15,000 bph are required advanced engineering, we utilized 3D printing, giving located in Germany, with plants in the UK and elsewhere our engineers design flexibility and allowing them to keep the around the world soon to install the solution. weight of the equipment as low as possible. Robotic research with leading universities As the RoboBatcher needs to move quickly with powerful Marel invests around 6% of its revenues annually in research acceleration forces, a heavy gripper could potentially slow and development. As a leading innovator in the industry, we down performance and risk damage. Our new grippers feature are committed to collaborating with companies and other many 3D-printed, lightweight plastic parts with fewer bolted stakeholders, which includes working closely with leading joints needed, making them also easier to clean. universities. DELIVERING GROWTH 24 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 Projects Mergers and acquisitions are frequent in the food processing For its Milford, Delaware, facility US poultry processor Perdue industry, and something we follow closely. Farms invested in a higher-wellbeing CAS system, as well as a live bird handling process that will be the first of its kind in The takeover of Crown Chicken by Cranswick in the UK, the US. formerly a pork-only processor and a long-term customer of Marel Meat, resulted in an expanded and closer partnership Perdue has officially committed itself to converting all its plants between Cranswick and Marel. Now that the firm has entered to CAS instead of electrical stunning. While both electric and the poultry business, it has chosen Marel Poultry as the primary CAS stunning systems are approved, proven, and accepted supplier for its new facility. for bringing the highest levels of animal wellbeing to poultry processing in the US, a growing number of customers show A trend in the US interest in integrating CAS systems at poultry facilities. The year 2018 saw the breakthrough of modern live-bird supply and anesthetization in North America, with several We expect orders from poultry processors, including large conglomerates switching to the ATLAS system and CAS conglomerates, for CAS stunning systems to grow following SmoothFlow for stunning. positive results from pilot projects. CUSTOMER STORY Cranswick aims to be best-in-class In 2018, Cranswick PLC planned to build a £54 million chicken processing facility in Eye, Suffolk. Cranswick and Marel Poultry joined forces to realize this hypermodern greenfield project, by implementing Marel’s latest innovations and state-of-theart solutions, including our 15,000 bph integrated line system. “We want to have the best chicken factory with the highest processing speed, to become the premium poultry processor in Britain,” says Adam Couch, Chief Executive. Throughout the plant, Marel Poultry’s innovative solutions will support Cranswick’s high-tech, high-value processing. As part of the project, we will install our ATLAS technology and CAS SmoothFlow stunning application, the AeroScalder, a complete evisceration department, a shock/maturation air-chilling tunnel, LineLink transfer units, two distribution lines with SmartWeigher and IRIS, breast deboning with AMF-i, thigh deboning with two Thigh Fillet Systems, and SensorX inspection technology. The integrated Innova software solution allows plant management to control, monitor and report on the real-time status of production and yield. DELIVERING GROWTH 25 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Less waste with optimal carcass balancing Sustainability concerns, such as limiting the carbon footprint Maximum carcass balancing was an important trend in 2018. and reducing food waste, as well as animal wellbeing and food Perfect carcass balancing means being able to sell all parts of safety, are driving demands for new automated technologies in a chicken at the best possible price. Marel Poultry introduced the poultry industry. With this in mind, Marel Poultry continues two new products to optimize carcass balancing: total leg to focus on developing sustainable processing solutions. deboning and Q-Wing. Food safety Total leg deboning Any degree of bacterial contamination in the food chain can Deboning both thighs and drumsticks with the Thigh Fillet have significant consequences, making hygiene of paramount System and the Drumstick Deboning System adds value for importance in the food processing industry. Marel Poultry processors by harvesting more boneless leg meat at a higher offers solutions that help processors produce safe, high-quality quality. Total leg deboning allows processors to upgrade food, with automation playing a key role by reducing the lower value products to high-quality products in demand by number of steps at which workers manually handle products. consumers. Our maturation chilling system is an excellent example of such The fully inline, high capacity, total leg deboning solution from a solution, as it virtually eliminates the risk of product crossMarel Poultry helps poultry processors achieve optimal carcass contamination. The result is higher quality products with a balance. In adding more value to chicken legs, they are making longer shelf life. optimal use of every part of the broiler. These solution show how sustainability and profitability can go hand-in-hand. Carbon footprint Reducing the company’s carbon footprint has become one of Higher quality and yield with Q-Wing the key goals of Marel Poultry’s innovation team. This objective With previous methods, only a very labor-intensive process is in line with Marel’s commitment to the UN Sustainable could detect a broken whole wing. As a result, processors Development Goals, including the goal of ensuring sustainable would downgrade both broken and unbroken whole wings, consumption and production patterns. To reduce our carbon even if some were high-grade pieces of meat. Wing products footprint, we take water and energy use into account when are becoming more popular and consumers demand designing all of our new technologies. consistent high quality wings. This provides incentive for poultry processors to invest in automated, accurate wing One example of carbon footprint reduction is ATLAS’ processing. SmartStack transport module. Its construction features a bottom tray, which doubles as a pallet. The dual function To address this challenge, Marel Poultry introduced Q-Wing, design enables transportation of more birds per module, and an automated quality assessment and distribution solution gives them the most headroom in the industry. The design for wing parts. The system helps secure consistent quality and also reduces truck movements from farm to processing plant, increase wing yields. Q-Wing makes it possible to harvest the thereby lowering the carbon footprint in transportation of the highest value and yield from each part of the wing, thereby birds. contributing to a better carcass balance. DELIVERING GROWTH 26 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Growth drivers Animal wellbeing Automation and smarter processing are important growth Increased attention to animal wellbeing is both a challenge drivers in the poultry industry, but there are various other and an opportunity for growth in the poultry industry. secular trends that come to play. Animal wellbeing in poultry processing is particularly From manual labor to automation important during live-bird handling and anesthetization, two As the industry’s focus on automation increases, poultry steps which are currently under close scrutiny. To address processors are assessing, and subsequently investing in, more this, we developed the ATLAS and CAS SmoothFlow systems, advanced systems. Marel Poultry works in partnership with both of which have set new standards as the industry’s most processors to help them introduce automated and robotized humane systems. systems into their facilities without requiring a complete plant redesign. Global production and trade trends In 2019, global production of chicken meat is forecast to rise Our solutions are designed to meet and exceed the yield and by 2.3% and reach 97.8 million tons. Global trade in chicken effectiveness of manual work, with a high return on investment, meat is expected to grow by 4.2% to 11.6 million tons. and the lowest possible impact on daily operation. We ensure processors can continue to deliver end products of consistent The US is expected to continue to be the leading producer quality as they modernize their plants. in 2019, accounting for 20% of total production, followed by Brazil with 14%. Traceability In the poultry market, traceability is not just a buzzword. In 2017, the European Union overtook China to become Food companies around the world are trying to minimize the third-largest producer of chicken meat in the world. It is any loss of business and damage to their brand due to costly expected to hold that position in 2019. product recalls. Without an effective traceability system, food processors can be shut out of lucrative new markets, or Brazil continues to be the world’s leading exporter of chicken could end up losing business to companies that demonstrate meat, although the figures are lower than forecasts. reliable traceability to ensure food safety. Marel Poultry offers processors solutions that allow them to gather data and achieve end-to-end traceability. Sensors at crucial positions throughout the plant can deliver information to the control room, where Innova software can then identify and trace backwards every product in the plant. Source: USDA Foreign Agricultural Service (2018, October 11). Chicken Meat Production and Trade. Retrieved from: https://apps.fas.usda.gov/ DELIVERING GROWTH 27 Marel – Annual Report 2018 MEAT Meat industry is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. Marel Meat is a leading global supplier of integrated systems and advanced stand-alone processing equipment to the red meat industry. Our equipment handles all stages – from live animal receipt, to finished consumer packs – fresh, chilled, cooked or frozen. Marel Meat contributed EUR 387 million in revenues in 2018, or 33% of the total, translating to an EBIT of 11.3% (operating income adjusted for PPA related costs, including depreciation and amortization). The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish of food processing equipment for poultry, meat and fish is market is estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion. Meat is estimated to be around EUR 10 billion. Of this, meat processing the largest market segment, with an estimated value of EUR equipment is estimated to be around EUR 5.5 billion, a figure 600 billion, followed by poultry and fish respectively. More which is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. specifically for Marel, the market for sale and maintenance This steak has a story and we want to tell it With data collection, we provide full traceability throughout the production process. That’s the power in numbers. DELIVERING GROWTH 28 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Overview Products Integration continued to be the key theme for Marel Meat Our red meat product offerings link up to cover the entire value in 2018. Over the course of the year, we worked diligently chain. Our position as a full-line supplier was reinforced in 2018, on the integration of new team members into the front-line with both the launch of new products and improvements to sales team, following the MPS (Meat Processing Systems) existing solutions. acquisition that made us a full-line supplier to the meat processing industry. During 2018, Marel Meat added the Robot Bung Remover (MBR) to the M-Line robot series, which is already well established in We unified our product offering and the team providing it, pig slaughter plants. We also continued the development of following an approach as simple as it was effective. Our whole the DeboFlex leg system and the trim handling systems, while team is trained to be able to represent the full product line, at the same time introducing the portion cutters V-Cut 160 and from farm gate to final pack. Intralogistics and wastewater V-Cut 200, which set new standards in volumetric portioning. treatment were also areas of focus, with successful projects undertaken in both fields. Intelligent processing Our highly effective Innova software is a key element of our Market penetration through acquisitions full-line processing equipment. This software is at the heart of In 2016, we became a full-line supplier of primary, secondary many of our cutting and deboning solutions where product and further processing solutions for meat with the acquisition traceability is essential. It enables customers to mitigate of MPS (Meat Processing Systems). Another major milestone operational risk, providing full traceability from farm to fork. towards closing the remaining gaps in our product offering and geographical reach was the acquisition of Brazilian meat Food logistics processing equipment manufacturer Sulmaq in 2017. In 2018, Sales of food logistics systems were particularly good in we further reinforced our full-line approach by acquiring the 2018. We offer intralogistics solutions that range from small German firm MAJA. MAJA’s product line and complementary conveying systems to large integrated turnkey projects. All geographical reach have strengthened our position in the our systems are modular, making them easy to fit into existing meat industry globally and expanded market penetration. plants. Another key feature is seamless integration between the intralogistics systems and our Innova Food Processing Collaboration for improved customer experience Software. Coupled together, they can ensure full control of the We continued our efforts on unifying our teams throughout products through processing, storage, and distribution. 2018. A new structure for Marel Meat was introduced, with new management leading sales, service, innovation and Automation in hog slaughtering engineering functions. Through training and leadership, our Our automatic, robotic slaughter solutions (M-Lines) were management is ensuring effective collaboration between installed at many customers across the globe in 2018. The sales and service to serve our customers better and deliver M-line generation of hog floor slaughtering uses articulating solutions that help them improve their processing operations arm robots and the latest techniques in 3D scanning to from post-farm gate to consumer-ready packs. ensure high cutting accuracy. Automation reduces the need for manual labor in the slaughtering process and, with less manual handling needed, the risk of contamination is lower and hygiene is improved. This can extend the shelf-life of fresh pork products, adding value for both food processors as well as end consumers. DELIVERING GROWTH 29 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Innovation Deboning made easier with Deboflex In 2018, Marel Meat continued to work on innovative We continued improving and adding to our groundbreaking equipment and software solutions for the industry. As a solution for pork deboning, DeboFlex, in 2018. Three new company thriving on innovation and the development of modules: shoulder blade pulling, shank pre-cutting and high-tech applications, Marel sees opportunities where others shank-sawing, make deboning and cutting easier and more see challenges. Our teams at Marel Meat are adept at turning efficient. The shackle-based logistical solution takes care of ideas into reality, and challenges into solutions. Intelligent transporting fore-ends and legs through overhead conveyers software applications have become a key facet of the meat and in a controlled flow past work stations. The solution production solutions we offer our clients. creates a safer and more ergonomical working environment for operators who can focus fully on the task at hand. Improving margins and safety with SensorX Electus The SensorX Electus is a part of our trim handling system and is Projects based on X-ray technology. It measures the precise lean-to-fat Thanks to strategic acquisitions and organic growth, Marel ratio (CL ratio) as well as detecting bones and contaminants. Meat now covers the entire value chain from live animal intake Since it became available as a standard solution in 2018, the to finished consumer product. Our projects in 2018 reflect this system has been installed at many customer sites. SensorX scope, as larger installations and greenfield projects became Electus provides accurate information for informed decision more prominent. Some of our largest greenfield projects took making that can help further processors and grinding facilities us to China, Japan, South Korea, Russia, Spain, and North processing meat trim produce products that meet their America. specifications. They improve their margins while increasing the safety of their products. In China, we completed a greenfield project for the beef processor Zhejiang Aozhou Cattle Industry. The new plant is Precise thickness or weight every time with I-Saw equipped with a slaughtering system, a StreamLine system Since the I-Saw was released for sale in 2018, several processors for deboning and trimming, logistics and water treatment, have added this portioning solution to their operations. Using all connected with overarching Innova Food Processing camera-vision scanning technology, the I-Saw cuts boneless Software. Another customer, Pronaca upgraded their existing as well as bone-in frozen meat products into portions of pork processing plant in Ecuador with a new slaughtering, consistent thickness or weight. This portion cutter is designed cutting, deboning and logistics solutions from Marel Meat. with ultra-high-speed bandsaw blades that produce a cleanIn Vietnam, Masan Group Corporation inaugurated its new cut product with minimal smear or bone chips. greenfield pork processing complex, fully supplied with Marel equipment and software for slaughtering, cutting, deboning and logistics. We also developed a complete greenfield plant for pig slaughtering for Litera Meat in Spain. DELIVERING GROWTH 30 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CUSTOMER STORY Making the most of Argentinian beef La Anónima is the fourth largest supermarket chain in Argentina, and operates 161 stores throughout the country. Each store has its own dedicated butcher, and the company is renowned for its quality beef cuts. La Anónima is working toward a more centralized meat production and cutting operation to optimize their processing. “Our two meat processing plants supply various cuts of beef and primals to the supermarkets, where they are further cut and processed. We want to make that process more efficient, which is why we also bought the StreamLine deboning and trimming system,” says Nicolas Braun, CEO of La Anónima and the great-grandson of the company’s founder. With the StreamLine solution, La Anónima also added a system for traceability using barcodes that allow the firm to trace cuts and primals back to the carcasses. Higher throughput and yield, in addition to better insights on traceability and food safety, are vital for La Anónima’s objective of expanding into foreign markets once Argentina opens fully for beef exports. “Implementing new technology demands a lot of commitment, but we felt that with Marel we had found a good long-term partner who would help us move forward. In fact, the co-operation with Marel – both here and in Iceland – is excellent,” said Nicolas Braun, CEO of La Anónima. DELIVERING GROWTH 31 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Growth drivers Animal wellbeing is, and will always be, an issue of utmost Given the various trends governing our sector, Marel Meat importance in the protein sector. Increasingly conscious sees opportunities for expansion in both traditional growth consumers want products that are produced sustainably and markets, as well as what some would call saturated markets. As ethically. Marel Meat worked closely with customers in 2018 on a well-established provider with a full-line offering for primary, these issues, delivering systems and equipment that improve secondary and further processing, we see our basic growth production sustainability, both in terms of raw material being driven by traditional demands such as improvements in utilization, as well as energy and water consumption. We yield, quality and throughput. emphasize helping processors to be flexible in their product offerings, while simultaneously adhering to animal wellbeing In the more advanced sectors of the market, where automation standards in the primary part of their processing and ensuring and production optimization have already occurred, sustainability throughout the value chain. This applies to their customers will need to continue their investments in order processing facilities and their equipment set-up. to sustain their margins. Our approach is to introduce new technologies to increase automation still further and boost Marel Water Treatment yield. We have witnessed a clear trend in recent years towards Wastewater treatment is an area where Marel Meat directly greater requirements for automated systems and processing contributes to clients’ sustainability efforts. The Marel water procedures. As processors face tougher competition, they treatment division is part of Marel Meat. The systems are realize that they need to implement new technologies to stay designed to ensure the most efficient use of water and include at the forefront and meet fluctuations in consumer demand. units that treat wastewater so that it can be re-used in food processing operations. This long-standing, internationally recognized division was integrated in 2017 and offers primary, secondary, and tertiary treatments for all types of food processing wastewater. Marel water treatment systems are efficient, easy to use, and characterized by low maintenance. DELIVERING GROWTH 32 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Global production and trade trends The US is expected to continue as the leading producer in Beef and veal 2019, accounting for 20% of total production, followed by In 2019, the global production of beef and veal is forecast to Brazil with 16%. reach 63.6 million tons, an increase of 1.2% from previous year. Global trade in beef and veal is expected to grow by 0.2% and On the import side, China (including Hong Kong) has been the reach 10.6 million tons. world’s largest importer since 2017 and is expected to remain the leader in 2019. Brazil has replaced India as the world’s largest exporter of beef and veal and is expected to remain the top exporter in 2019. Brazil’s exports are expected to rise by 4.8% to reach 2.2 million tons in 2019. Pork In 2019, global production of pork is forecast to rise by 1.4% to The EU is the world’s largest exporter of pork. Its exports are 114.6 million tons. Global trade in pork is expected to grow by expected to grow by 3.3% and reach 3.2 million tons in 2019. 3.0% and reach 8.8 million tons. China continues to be the largest importer followed by Japan, China continues to dominate the pork market, accounting for which it overtook in 2016. an estimated 48% of world production in 2019, followed by the EU with 21%. DELIVERING GROWTH 33 Marel – Annual Report 2018 FISH Fish is one of Marel’s three key protein industries. Marel is a leading global supplier in the sector, providing both advanced standalone equipment and integrated systems for all stages of the fish processing value chain. Our systems range from single scales to integrated production lines and turnkey systems, both onboard and ashore. Marel Fish contributed EUR 159 million in revenues in 2018, or 13% of total revenues, translating to an EBIT of 7.9%. The business has been transformed in recent years, as investments in innovation and enhanced levels of standardization have increased orders and improved margins. The consumer value of the global poultry, meat and fish of food processing equipment for poultry, meat and fish is market is estimated to be around EUR 1,200 billion, with the estimated to be around EUR 10 billion. Of this, fish processing fish market accounting for an estimated 200 billion. More equipment sales are estimated at around EUR 1.5 billion, a specifically for Marel, the market for sale and maintenance figure which is expected to grow annually by 4-6%. With precision comes perfection A cut that’s 0.5% more accurate saves hundreds of tons of salmon, bringing us one slice closer to a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. That’s the power in numbers. DELIVERING GROWTH 34 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Overview Products In 2018, Marel Fish continued to enable fish processors to At Marel, we recognize the potential for significant generate higher value through better utilization of raw improvement in yield, quality and safety by improving material, maximization of throughput, and better quality and processing at every step in the plant. In 2018, we introduced process control. a range of new solutions for fish processing, beginning the moment catch is hauled onboard and continuing to the In the past year, we have focused on helping processors finished consumer packs. achieve gains by making the most of digital technology. With the latest technological advances increasingly influencing the High-precision cutting with the new salmon deheader way Marel serves and supports the fish processing industry, Marel’s new automatic MS2720 Deheading Machine for salmon digital is only going to become more vital in the future. was released for sale in January 2018. The new machine offers some of the highest levels of throughput, yield and quality The wild whitefish segment continues to occupy an important ever achieved for this process. It allows salmon processors to place in the Marel Fish portfolio due to its long-standing achieve optimum yield from every fish, as well as enabling use of technology, as well as modern fishing and processing a better flow by performing high-precision cutting and methods. Wild fish is a relatively fixed resource with limited allowing for the automatic transfer of deheaded fish into our potential for growth in terms of volume, largely due to the MS2730 Filleting Machine. Besides boosting productivity, the state of fish stocks and quota limitations. However, thanks to deheader is easy to operate, with all settings and operations their investment in high-tech onboard solutions, whitefish made on a touchscreen panel next to the operator platform at processors can now meet the rising demand for wild fish the machine’s infeed. products by improving the utilization and value of their catch. Automated whitefish processing, both onboard and ashore Growth opportunities in the farmed fish sector Marel has sold more than 35 FleXicut machines since the Aquaculture has been the fastest growing food production revolutionary pinboner and portioner was introduced in segment in the last decade, and Marel Fish has a strong 2014, including several FleXicut Marine machines for onboard foothold in the sector, especially in the salmon industry. We processing of boneless fillets. The automation of bone removal have also worked for many of the world’s largest processors and portioning with FleXicut enables processors to raise of tilapia, sea bream, and sea bass. Our efforts to extend productivity while greatly improving product handling and our market penetration in this sector has strengthened our yield. position as a leading provider of processing solutions for the farmed fish sector. As the second generation of FleXicut emerges, greater levels of interconnectivity and new features are improving processing Leadership expertise results further, while the reliability of existing systems is Marel was an active participant at global seafood conferences fueling the growing interest in FleXicut across the industry. throughout 2018 in order to share its expertise in processing advances, as well as to nurture its close partnership with The pinboning and portioning system now also offers companies throughout the seafood industry. an integrated pre-trim solution and advanced product distribution system that automate this process even further. Marel participated in the North Atlantic Seafood Forum in Norway, the Global Fishery Forum and Seafood Expo in Russia, and the China Salmon Summit, to name just a few. Gatherings such as these offer the chance to share processing knowledge and expertise with researchers, academics, investors, and influential organizations, both national and international. DELIVERING GROWTH 35 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Innovation The global seafood value chain is facing unprecedented Better food safety with automated data collection consumer demand, creating a fundamental need for The fish industry as a whole is increasingly recognizing that processors to scale up their productivity. At the same time traceability is essential to ensuring food safety. The ability to as fish processors face challenges to increase throughput demonstrate reliable data collection and a valid traceability and obtain better yields, they also need to respond to tighter system from source to shelf is essential to gaining and quality and safety requirements. maintaining a competitive edge, as well as accessing new markets. Through continuous innovation and the incorporation of robotics, analytics software, and other Industry 4.0 As the leading provider of automated data collection solutions technologies, we provide the fish processing sector with a to the food processing industry, Marel continues to take a very viable means of raising its game and meeting current and active role in realizing the vision of data-driven food safety future requirements. in the fish industry. Our Innova Food Processing Software can provide relevant data to both sides of the supply chain, Transferring technology between industries and guarantee that products meet the highest food safety The FleXicut pinboning and portioning system is a perfect standards. example of how Marel transfers technology between processes and industries. Its technology is the result of innovation New automated quality control and development of X-ray technology that started with the In 2018, we demonstrated the QC scanner (not yet released SensorX in 2004 – a machine that is now the quality assurance for sale) for the first time, a solution to automate the quality standard in the poultry industry – and image processing and control process. The scanner color grades fillets, and computer applications that Marel started using in its intelligent automatically detects surface defects such as pearl stripes and portioning machines in the 1990s. melanin or blood spots after filleting and skinning. With this information, the scanner can determine if fillets need further This technological transfer continued with FleXicut in 2017. manual trimming or can skip that step. With automated quality Initially developed for whitefish, the equipment underwent control, processors can both speed up production and raise extensive testing in 2017 for salmon applications, and the value and quality. successful results were demonstrated at the 2018 Salmon ShowHow in February. DELIVERING GROWTH 36 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Projects For Marel Fish, 2018 was a productive year with both The plant produces up to 30 metric tons of salmon products greenfield projects as well as standard equipment and every day, and the Marel installation is vital to ensuring system installations. The whitefish segment had steady sales filleting, trimming, pinbone removal, skinning, portioning and of standard systems to current and new customers in all slicing is carried out effectively and in a timely manner. our regions and the farmed fish team participated in large greenfield projects in Scandinavia. The following examples Leroy greenfield plant illustrate the variety of those projects we undertook in 2018. Leroy Seafood Group’s new plant in Norway became one of the most advanced salmon processing plants in the world when it Primex greenfield plant began operating in 2018. The facility is equipped with highPrimex’s ultramodern whitefish plant at Myre, in northern tech salmon processing systems from Marel that are setting Norway, became operational in 2018. The latest technology new industry benchmarks. from Marel helps the company ensure high volume and economical processing with the best possible yield, quality, Marel supplied solutions for pre-rigor filleting lines, including and productivity. new deheading machines that transfer fish to five parallel filleting lines, as well as whole fresh salmon packing and The new factory produces vacuum-packed cod loins and logistics solution for the plant. portions, as well as a variety of other products. The Marel equipment extends along the processing chain to include The salmon is brought directly into the factory early each raw material grading, pre-trimming, automatic pinboning morning, and leaves the factory packed as fillets or whole fish and portioning, all of which is followed by quality control and later the same day. By filleting so close to source, Leroy saves packing. FleXicut is a vital part of the Primex factory concept, on freight costs, raises the quality of the end product, and and new robot technology from Marel is helping to increase reduces the carbon footprint of the salmon that ends up on the efficiency of product distribution and handling at the our plates. facility. FleXicut systems at G.Run As well as achieving a very high level of automation, Primex In 2018, Icelandic fish processor G.Run installed two FleXicut also uses Innova Food Processing Software to manage pinboning and portioning machines, a FleXitrim flowline and optimize the whole production process, controlling and two packing lines. The installation was part of a major the distribution of raw material coming in and controlling expansion of the company’s facilities in Grundarfjordur, production based on product orders. Iceland, which includes a new 2000m2 building. Hi-Chain automation, China’s first fully-automatic salmon The FleXicut systems enable G.Run to increase the primary processing line product ration, which is extremely valuable to them. The Shanghai Hi-Chain Foods’ salmon processing facility upgrade also helps the processor meet its goals of significantly completed its first full year of operation in 2018, utilizing a new raising throughput without adding more staff. The project Marel processing line that was installed in 2017 China’s first marks the first time the FleXicut has been used for processing automatic processing line for salmon. redfish. With two FleXicut lines running, one can be used for redfish and the other for cod and similar species. In recent years, Chinese salmon processors have increasingly looked to technologically advanced processing equipment to Marel’s Innova Food Processing Software is a vital element improve performance and food safety, raise yields, and reduce of the installation. The software supports the complete costs. The installation marked a shift in the nature of many of integrated system and compliance with quality standards and the jobs at the factory, and Marel’s service engineer were in food safety regulations, as well as improving utilization of the close contact with Hi-Chain from the start to ensure successful raw material. installation of the plant. DELIVERING GROWTH 37 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CUSTOMER STORY Filleting solutions for the future Salmones Camanchaca is a salmon producer based in the Bío Bío region of Los Lagos Aysén, Chile. In 2018, the company installed a second Marel filleting line, two years after it installed its first Marel salmon filleting machine (MS2730), which achieved excellent results. As Jorge Fernández, CEO at Camanchaca, explains: “We invested in a Marel filleting line to improve our processing results. We have experienced an improvement of around 30% in productivity since the installation, with at least a 1% gain in yield.” Fernández says that the company recognizes the value of investing in a complete filleting line, rather than buying individual standalone units. “In this way, we keep waste to a minimum and we gain the most in yield. We like it so much that our idea now is to equip two more of our plants with Marel equipment.” Camanchaca now uses Marel equipment for all its processes, from deheading to fillet distribution, and enjoys greater efficiency and easy cleaning in addition to better performance control. Sustainability Marel Fish contributes both directly and indirectly to increased Reduction of manpower is also a key emphasis, with compasustainability in the world of food processing. Improved raw nies increasingly prepared to invest in technology to reduce material utilization preserves resources, both natural and ecocosts and/or compensate for a diminishing supply of labor. nomic. Our equipment is designed for optimal energy and water usage, as well as to facilitate cleaning, all of which is geared Changes in dietary habits have brought a continuous rise towards using resources more efficiently. in the demand not only for seafood in general, but also for differentiated and value-added seafood products. This will Growth drivers continue to be a major growth driver for the industry. InnovaFor Marel, the key factors for future market growth include the tive solutions in both salmon and whitefish will set new indusexpansion of the farmed whitefish segment, and the overall try standards in the coming years, with major Norwegian and rise in automation in fish processing around the world. AutoIcelandic processors leading the way. Watershed installations mated factories are expected to aim at increasing their level are already underway, and will likely set the tone for others to of automation, while highly automated players will be eyeing follow. robotics and hands-free processing. An increase in entry-level automation is also anticipated. DELIVERING GROWTH 38 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Global production and trade trends Salmon In 2019, global salmon production is forecast to rise by 3.6% to 2.7 million tons. Atlantic salmon will account for an estimated 93% of the production. Norway continues to dominate production with around 49% of the forecast production in 2019, followed by Chile with 31%. After an impressive 18% increase in 2018, salmon production in Chile is forecast to increase further by 2% in 2019, compared to an expected 4% increase in Norway. The two countries continue to dominate the market. Tilapia and catfish The global production of tilapia is now shown alongside pangasius, instead of catfish as last year. In 2019, global production of tilapia and pangasius is expected to rise by 3.2% to surpass 7.0 million tons, of which pangasius accounts for 1.3 million tons. China continues to lead the tilapia market with a 32% share, followed by Egypt with 17%. DELIVERING GROWTH 39 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Cod According to forecasts, global production of cod will continue to shrink, and amount to 1.5 million tons in 2019, a decrease of 5.6%. Atlantic cod is expected to account for 76% of production. Russia continues to lead with a 28% share of the market, followed by Norway with 22%. In 2019, the cod catch is expected to decrease in all leading countries except Iceland. Icelandic production has increased gradually from 2014. Iceland overtook the US and Canada in 2018 as the third-largest supplier of cod and is expected to remain in this position in 2019. DELIVERING GROWTH 40 Marel – Annual Report 2018 INNOVA FOOD PROCESSING SOFTWARE Innova is our revolutionary food processing software that provides full production control and traceability, giving a complete overview of a product’s journey through processing, from reception to dispatch. To date, we have more than 2,000 Innova installations worldwide, meaning that many of the largest food processing companies in the world already use this cutting-edge software. Innova can be implemented as an all-inclusive production system, adapted for specific production units, and can even be connected to third party equipment. Processing with an eye for detail Our goal is to make the most of the valuable resources that run through our systems. Using real-time data, our Innova Food Processing Software helps our clients get the job done. That’s the power in numbers. DELIVERING GROWTH 41 Marel – Annual Report 2018 gather huge amounts of data on these key performance The future of intelligent production indicators, but the challenge lies in understanding what control particular data can help optimize performance and putting Utilizing the latest technology and cloud analytics, Innova this to use. has established itself as the future of intelligent production control. It enables plants to control, monitor and improve their entire production process, allowing producers to spot THERE ARE MANY WAYS TO COLLECT DATA, BUT IF inefficiencies on the factory floor by highlighting the specific YOU DON’T PRESENT IT TO THE END USER IN THE data needed to maximize throughput, quality and yield. RIGHT WAY, THEN IT’S NOT GOING TO HELP IMFood producers need to be able to keep pace with everPROVE YOUR BUSINESS. increasing industry and regulatory demands for animal wellbeing, traceability and quality. Innova provides efficient, Jarred brand, director of manufacturing, engineering and technology, trident seafoods high-performing software solutions that enable them to do just that. Innova’s comprehensive, real-time reporting presents data Meaningful insights through data by using dashboards, giving clear visual interpretation of the visualization relevant information. Smarter decisions can be made in real Innova provides processors with user-friendly tools to turn time to optimize production results, tailor processes to achieve data into meaningful insights through visualization. In the dayspecific goals, and respond immediately to any deviations. to-day operations of a plant, key performance indicators such as yield, throughput, quality, capacity and labor efficiency are Such insights enable processors to identify opportunities for vital to processors. Most organizations across the food industry improvement, while ensuring that production conforms to DELIVERING GROWTH 42 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Marel hf. – Annual Report 2017 quality and food safety standards. Direct traceability Innova connects to third-party equipment Innova controls and monitors animal reception and The software is set up to work with the third-party equipment, registration, the production flow, as well as the deboning, systems and solutions that are independent of Marel packing and dispatching processes. Having Innova manage equipment. This means our customers can install a single the entire operation creates a direct traceability line between software system to oversee production and integrate with the slaughtered animal and the end customer. their existing equipment. The highest quality using the highest tech Innova Food Processing Software has helped US-based Kuna FoodService achieve full traceability in its production, from INNOVA ALLOWS US TO KEEP RECORDS start to finish. The ease of use, real-time data and reporting THROUGHOUT EACH DAY AND TRACEABILITY functionalities with built-in traceability allow the company to FOR USDA REQUIREMENTS, NOT ONLY FROM monitor individual suppliers and ensure high-quality products. THE START, BUT ALSO NOW RIGHT THROUGH By paying attention to the details at every stage of production, TO THE FINISH. overall performance is optimized. Dan Fernandez Streamlined order management and inventory control Meat Unit Production Manager, Kuna FoodService Innova not only provides full production control and traceability, but also helps improve how the company fills its orders, making this more streamlined, and easier to manage. It’s all in the label Innova can optimize workflows, enable cost-effective inventory The Innova label designer is a very powerful tool, as it ensures control, and ensure efficient order management. The system all traceability information on the product is collected includes purchase orders, production orders, inventory orders accurately and incorporated in the final product label. The and sales orders. flexible labeling design system means processors can easily create their own designs and edit the content on the label to contain all relevant and necessary information for the final product package. DELIVERING GROWTH 43 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CUSTOMER STORY Full production control at trident seafoods Marel and Trident Seafoods have been working together to develop a software solution for the fish industry that solves key challenges concerning traceability, packaging, order control and inventory management. Trident Seafoods currently operates close to 30 processing facilities around the world, 20 of which run Innova Food Processing Software. By implementing Innova across several of its plants, Trident Seafoods has been able to standardize its operations and scale its primary processing operations. A key benefit of Innova for Trident has been the increased food safety resulting from standardized product labelling and palletizing. “From a food safety standpoint, being able to do individual box identifiers – which are linked to a pallet, which is linked to a shipment – and being able to trace the raw material to the finished product and then to the container and the customer, is extremely important,” says Jarred Brand, Director of Manufacturing, Engineering and Technology at Trident Seafoods. DELIVERING GROWTH 44 Marel – Annual Report 2018 INNOVATION Innovation is, and has always been, at the very heart of Marel. We invest around 6% of our revenues in research and development annually, which translated into EUR 74 million in 2018. With over 15 new solutions brought to market in 2018, it is safe to say that innovation is in the DNA of our people. Our experts are relentless in their efforts to meet the next farm to fork, Marel is in a unique position to gather informachallenge with an effective solution. We have over 850 dedition in the global food processing industry, one of the most cated technology professionals located in nine countries, all of important value chains in the world. Our approach to innovawhom work in partnership with our key customers to improve tion is not limited to mechanical engineering, but also encomthe way food is processed. Our people, who are creative, paspasses integrated technologies and connectivity. sionate and brave, are our greatest asset in driving innovation. Quite simply, we are focused on continually delivering soluWith each passing year, data analytics and software control tions that add value for our customers, and also for our combecome increasingly important. With its full-line offering from munity, our environment and not least our shareholders. Seeing the future is our business We envision a world where quality food is produced sustainably and affordably. By using virtual reality to simulate food production, we speed up development and minimize waste. That’s the power in numbers. DELIVERING GROWTH 45 Marel – Annual Report 2018 GIVEN MAREL’S HISTORY OF COMBINING SOFTWARE AND MECHANICS TO TACKLE FOOD PROCESSING CHALLENGES, WE ARE READY TO EMBRACE DIGITAL-AGE TECHNOLOGIES. Global trends demand innovation in food Product launches 2018 processing In 2018, we introduced over 15 new, innovative products to At Marel, we conceive and deliver solutions that cater to a the market. Our significant investment in innovation of EUR 74 growing world population demanding high-quality food, million, more than any of our competitors, demonstrates our produced sustainably and at affordable prices. On the commitment to transforming the way meat, poultry and fish market side, we see mega trends calling for industry-wide is processed. transformation in food processing. With automation as the driving force, we see changing dynamics emerging in the • Animal wellbeing, traceability, sustainability, efficiency, and value chain, together with the need for increased flexibility product quality all came together following the launch of and diversity in terms of end products. our innovative and highly integrated solutions enabling the processing of 15,000 birds per hour. Innova software runs in There are number of enablers contributing to the the background to monitor all processes plant-wide and transformation in food processing, including new scalable nsures full traceability. technologies and production channels, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud services, advanced robotics and 3D • Salmon processors are constantly looking for ways to printing, for example. improve yield and attain a better flow. The new Salmon Deheader helps achieve this by performing high-precision We work each day on new solutions by applying and cutting for optimum yield on every fish, and automatically expanding our broad-based industry know-how. We are transferring deheaded fish into our Filleting Machine. In dedicated to delivering unique products and services that addition, the QC Scanner enables better sorting of fillets will shape our customers’ future business landscape. At the downstream based on the quality of the raw material. same time we help them create scaleable infrastructure that supports their growth and Marel’s simultaneously. To that end, • In the meat industry, secondary processing was boosted by we are committed to collaborative innovation with customers a number of innovations that increased automation and and partners that both speeds up the innovation process improved food safety and traceability. One of the break while ensuring our products add value in a way that suits their through 2017 innovations, the DeboFlex automatic specific needs. deboning system, has been an incredible success, and new modules were added to the system in 2018. • Twenty years ago, the Marel RevoPortioner which reduced raw material waste to almost 0% was revolutionary. Now, the Helix Drum Technology transforms rotational forming into continuous filling, further enhancing the RevoPortioner’s capabilities and reputation. DELIVERING GROWTH 46 Marel – Annual Report 2018 DELIVERING GROWTH 47 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Smarter processing to make quality food equipment, process knowledge, service and data analytics will available to everyone result in smarter processing and proactive service, meaning The growing world population, fast-changing consumer fewer disturbances in the customer’s production process, and behaviour, and a rising focus on sustainability and legislative better support for the technicians on the factory floor. compliance, means demands on our industry are constantly evolving. Our challenge is to make even better use of the raw Speeding up innovation with virtual material coming into the plant and ensure that the entire reality Marel team is focused on creating cutting-edge solutions that At Marel, innovation teams now use virtual reality to design allow processors to deliver high-quality food at affordable and test new solutions, which increases the speed of prices. Insights from the digital revolution are opening up innovation considerably. Rapid prototyping can be achieved great opportunities for progress in this direction which Marel by running a new idea in a simulated and virtual world to get is ready to make the most of. immediate feedback. Given Marel’s long history of combining software and Virtual reality makes simulations more valuable, giving mechanics to create innovative solutions to tackle food product developers life-like input and enabling realistic processing challenges, we are well equipped to fully embrace interaction without having to wait weeks or months to try a digital-age technologies. We want to ensure customers new concept. Saving on time and materials by using virtual understand how to use data to support their processes and reality in innovation allows our teams to make greater strides keep production at optimal levels for improved profitability. towards novel solutions to food processing challenges. In 2018, we worked on enablers for a successful, connected From one industry to another business. Central to this is our established standardized Marel is known for applying its technology across industries. control platform, Marel Core. Once implemented, Marel Core In 2018, we continued to leverage our strong innovation offers simple solutions and improved service. It facilitates investments across numerous product groups, processes quick fault-finding and less need for spare parts, a higher and geographies. A recent example of this is the DeboFlex level of flexibility for extensions and upgrades, and seamless solution, where technology for overhead transportation and integration of equipment and software. In this way, Marel Core positioning of raw materials originally developed for poultry enables us to implement leading industry 4.0 standards across processing is now applied in meat processing. the company. In addition, our Innova division has been scaled up to fully capitalize on the benefits of digital technology for We will continue to exploit the synergies available to a smarter processing. company of our scale, scope and ambition, delivering innovative products for our customers, and creating additional In the coming years, in collaboration with our customers, we growth opportunities. In particular, major opportunities lie in will follow the course laid out in our digitalization roadmap, the secondary and further processing parts of the value chain, moving from pilot schemes to proven solutions. Combining e.g. portioning, batching, weighing and marinating, where the processing steps are becoming more similar across industries. DELIVERING GROWTH 48 Marel – Annual Report 2018 GLOBAL MARKETS AND SERVICE Marel is constantly looking for ways to strengthen its partnerships with customers around the world. Our vision of a world where food is produced sustainably and affordably can only be realized through close collaboration with customers. Through our extensive global network, which stretches over 30 countries and all continents, our sales and service specialists are in close contact with our customers every single day. To further strengthen its local reach and come closer to new Ulrika Lindberg has over 20 years of experience in global serand existing customers Marel has embarked on a journey vices, having held senior positions at large international orgaaimed at reinforcing its local sales teams and strengthening its nizations such as Alfa Laval and Tetra Pak. links as a service and maintenance partner to customers. Einar Einarsson has over 15 years of experience in managing The first steps were taken in 2018. In June, Marel announced Marel’s sales and service operations in North America. Einar an organizational change, splitting the former Commercial became President of Marel US in 2003 and prior to that held function into two sections: Global Markets and Service. The several positions within Marel as a Sales Engineer, Area Sales move added two new Vice-Presidents to Marel’s Executive Manager and Product Manager. Team. Ulrika Lindberg joined Marel and became Executive Vice-President of Service, while Einar Einarsson moved to the position of Executive Vice-President of Global Markets. THINK GLOBAL, ACT LOCAL. DELIVERING GROWTH 49 Marel – Annual Report 2018 GLOBAL MARKETS Marel’s global network of dedicated sales representatives is In addition, Marel also hosts its own trade shows in Progress one of the company’s strongest and most visible assets. Our Point in Copenhagen, holding ShowHows annually for the sales operation consists of local representatives in over 30 meat and fish industries and biannually for the poultry countries, plus a global network of more than 100 agents and industry. distributors. With such a large global presence, Marel can serve large and small food processors and food retailers on location, wherever 42 EXHIBITIONS they are. Each of our industry-specific segments – fish, meat HELD IN 30 COUNTRIES and poultry – has specialized sales people, working in partnership with customers around the world. We are dedicated to bringing top-of-the-line services, consistency and excellence In addition to Progress Point, Marel operates three to each project we undertake and to providing our customers demonstration facilities: one in Boxmeer, the Netherlands, and around the world with local proximity and intimacy, yet with two in the USA, in Lenexa, Kansas, and Des Moines, Iowa. The the support and knowledge of a global leader. Our committed facilities offer a hands-on environment where customers can sales force has been and will always be the cornerstone of our see how Marel innovations can improve their food production, operations around the globe. develop employee expertise and bring positive operational outcomes. Exhibitions around the world Each year Marel participates in some 45 trade exhibitions Enhanced online support around the globe where the latest innovative systems and All of Marel’s equipment is on display at Marel.com. Customers technologies for the fish, meat, poultry and further processing can browse through online product catalogues, watch videos industries are presented. Trade exhibitions are an excellent and read customer testimonies. Our dedicated staff is available venue for customers to get to know at first hand Marel’s for live chat on request to answer questions and enquiries. state-of-the-art food processing systems and solutions. Marel Marel is constantly improving the online customer experience exploits these opportunities to premier its latest technology, and in January 2019 a new website was launched with many strengthen relationships with existing customers, and create new features to better serve our customers online. The new new ventures with new customers. Marel.com improves the online user experience, benefits existing and potential customers, as well as future employees and other stakeholders. GLOBAL MARKETS AND SERVICE Marel opens in Namibia In July 2018 Marel opened a new office in Namibia as part of our long-term strategy to step closer to our customers and to further strengthen customer support in southern Africa. There are multiple benefits to having a local office in the region, including more direct contact with customers, better customer service and an improved position to respond quickly to local market needs and changes. The new office in Walvis Bay, Namibia, is part of the journey that includes the reorganization of Marel’s sales and service structure. It is driven by our aim to continue growing and further enhance our customers’ experience with strategic services and maintenance near at hand. Namibia is the largest hake producer in the world. Having a local office deepens our relationship with the Namibian fish processing industry and opens the door to meat and poultry processors in the region. DELIVERING GROWTH 50 Marel – Annual Report 2018 GLOBAL SERVICES As a service-oriented operation, we emphasize assisting our Our focus is on proactive service that includes preventative customers in maintaining optimal production flow, uptime maintenance, spare parts packages and long-term service and output. We run a global, well-organized service and maincontracts. Our experience shows that an increasing number tenance operation that is and will continue to be one of the of customers prefer this model, working in close partnership main sources of our revenue and growth. Delivering around with Marel. Taking a proactive approach with our customers 35% of the company’s revenues, the service and spare parts prevents downtime in their production facilities and ensures business is a clear growth opportunity, creating value for both consistent peak productivity. customers and shareholders. We want to offer our customers the best possible experience Our ambition is to serve our customers locally, backed up by through the entire customer journey: from the receipt of a the global wealth of competence we possess in both process service request until the service job has been performed. technology and products. We continuously strive to introduce Every touchpoint is important – In Service, we will work hard new technology for the benefit of both our customers as well to make sure that it is easy for our customers to work with us. as our staff, and with the ultimate objective of increasing uptime and utilization. DELIVERING GROWTH 51 Marel – Annual Report 2018 NPS rolled out globally to measure and world. Because they are in constant contact with customers, improve service delivery our service personnel are crucial to customer satisfaction. A vital factor in maintaining outstanding service is acquiring Providing them with the best tools available bolsters our feedback on how Marel is performing. Net Promoter Score position as a preferred employer and means we can continue (NPS) is a simple survey method of obtaining data on to deliver superior customer service. customers’ experience and loyalty that has gained popularity with companies in major global industries. Marel launched Implementing ServiceMax has increased efficiency, as field NPS in April 2018 as a tool to measure recent transactions or data is shared with the office more quickly. The positive effects services rendered and take active steps to improve service are evident in improved service delivery and sustained growth. delivery based on customer feedback. Response times have shortened, on-time performance has improved, and productivity in the field has shown steady The survey is now a standard part of Marel’s after-service improvement. processes. Customer complete the simple survey after a service job has been performed. Our initial score revealed a positive view of the service organization, above the industry average. Marel will continue to use the findings of the survey to continue to improve all aspects of service provision, including on-site service, remote service, preventative service, and spare parts delivery. Improved efficiency following implementation of ServiceMax To improve its service even further, Marel has since 2016 been A key source of recurring revenues using ServiceMax, a global field service management platform, Service will continue to be a key source of revenue and on a company-wide basis. Equipping all our field service growth for Marel in the coming years. Major investments have engineers with iPads and dedicated software enables them to been made in business improvements in the last few years, co-ordinate schedules and projects and deliver regular service including IT and employee development. This has created a reports. We plan on expanding the ServiceMax platform by solid foundation for future growth and profitability from the introducing new features for our service engineers around the company’s service operations. DELIVERING GROWTH 52 Marel – Annual Report 2018 GLOBAL MARKETS AND SERVICE Marel in Oceania In the Oceania region, Marel has been strengthening and expanding its service team to deliver top quality installations and service to customers in the poultry, meat and fish industries across Australia and New Zealand. In 2018, the team completed a number of projects, ranging from complete greenfield installations to regular repair and maintenance jobs. A major installation for a poultry processing customer located in New South Wales in Australia started in September and is expected to conclude in mid-2019. SensorX Accuro has been gaining popularity amongst meat processors in the region with multiple systems installed during the year for large and smaller processors and more to come in 2019. The Oceania team also includes several Innova service specialists who support customers on the data-driven software side of their operations. April Warman takes the lead In February 2018, April Warman was appointed Territory General Manager for Oceania and took over the leadership in the region. April started her career as a field service engineer and brings valuable experience in business leadership including project management and customer service. “At Marel, we are listening to our customers and responding to their feedback. To improve our service even further and ensure our customers can operate smoothly at all times, we are working on implementing a new customer contact system,” says April. “The system will cover New Zealand and Australia and improve our readiness in responding to our customers 24/7, taking into account the various time zones our customers operate in. The system is part of our drive to increase our service capability and deliver dedicated local support.” Training for service personnel in Oceania Marel is also strengthening its service team in the region with training and development to further enhance the customer experience for food processors in Oceania. In 2018, service technicians and engineers attended local and international training seminars, with a focus on specialization and on the quality of customer service. The team is made up of 28 service engineers who work across Australia and New Zealand in partnership with our customers to optimize their production. DELIVERING GROWTH 53 Marel – Annual Report 2018 GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN The global supply chain at Marel is responsible for procurement and manufacturing within the company and operates worldwide. We deliver standalone equipment, full-line solutions and service parts for the company’s fish, meat, and poultry food production industries. A team of over 2,300 people in Marel’s global supply chain Streamlined manufacturing, coupled with our co-location supports innovation and manufacturing with equipment and strategy introduced in 2017, allows us to share the production spare parts. Our experts make sure that all our production, load across locations. This allows for greater flexibility to whether for modernization and large greenfield projects, manage costs, mitigate global trade risks and ensure optimal of stand-alone equipment, or spare parts, runs on schedule lead-times. and that orders are delivered and serviced according to our customer’s requirements. To achieve this, we work closely with Quality, responsiveness and efficiency are the cornerstones of our distribution network and key suppliers of raw material and this activity. Our approach is based on the simple objective of spare parts from around the world. ensuring that all our solutions and spare parts are produced at the right cost and quality and delivered to the right place We now run 13 manufacturing sites for equipment and spare at the right time. parts, together with four main distribution centers to support our extensive service platform. Working at the speed of the future Real-time data and equipment monitoring allow for preventive maintenance that reduces downtime and saves precious resources. That’s the power in numbers. DELIVERING GROWTH 54 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Enablers for growth Marel’s unique scalability and skills matrix across its global By improving the manufacturing process and strengthening supply chain is a major competitive advantage. the local organization by focusing on key positions, we boosted the output of our plant in Nitra, Slovakia, by 40% in 2018. In Today, our 13 manufacturing sites are strategically positioned addition, we expanded our US co-location activities and are around the world. We continue to benefit from our scalability now able to manufacture key solutions for the US market worldwide and anticipate that future growth will occur close to our customers. In Brazil, we initiated co-location primarily in our key manufacturing hubs in Brazil, Slovakia and programs with two products. These co-location activities China. have contributed to higher volumes without expanding our manufacturing footprint. Optimizing the manufacturing footprint is always on our agenda. This year has been the first full year of running our Deeper partnerships with our suppliers Slovakia operation in a single facility. The integration of the Marel’s suppliers and their sub-suppliers are critical links in our two previous locations has been very successful. We already supply chain. Without them, we would not be able to deliver note a rise in output and expect production volume in Nitra to high quality products reliably to our customers. Working rise even further. effectively with our suppliers is no less essential than internal efficiency. Standardization was also key theme in 2018. We aligned processes and capabilities across manufacturing, innovation In 2018, we further strengthened our relations with key and procurement. By the same token, we worked in partners, which will support our US and European operations. partnership with key stakeholders to standardize components This is part of our strategy of outsourcing non-core activities and the format of our supplier relationships. to optimize our internal resources. Leaner manufacturing operations allow for agility and better flexibility to meet Scalable manufacturing to support growth changes in orders from customers. To give better focus to At Marel, we operate a mother-site plus co-location strategy this part of our operation we adjusted our key performance in manufacturing. The mother site is responsible for product indicators’ reporting accordingly. We also took steps to reduce life cycle management and how the product is manufactured. the number of suppliers and shift our emphasis to partnerships The co-location sites are focused on scale manufacturing, with key suppliers of parts, assemblies and equipment. producing large volumes with the two-fold advantage of cost effectiveness and close proximity to the customer. This results We continued to strengthen our internal operations, improving in improved lead-time and lower costs. processes and working procedures to optimize the way the supply chain is structured. Streamlined internal operations In 2018, we continued implementing our co-location strategy, enable us to keep up with increasing demands from our which enabled us to achieve close to 20% year-on-year growth customers and for new product development. in manufacturing output. DELIVERING GROWTH 55 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Co-location enables higher volumes of The smart factory new products automation and industry 4.0 As investments in IT systems progress, products can more Our own factories are getting smarter as we contribute to the easily be manufactured at co-location sites. In coming years, development and implementation of automation in the food we will increase the effectiveness of our global supply chain processing industry. network by leveraging acquisitions as either mother or colocation sites. We strengthened our global industrial engineering approach with greater standardization in processes and investments at With successful co-operation and a flexible production all sites. platform, the supply chain was able to contribute significantly to the success of new product launches. We have always been a high-tech company, leading the automation of our industry as we continue exploring the SensorX has been in high demand from customers around the potential of Industry 4.0. Automation drove supply chain globe. As a result of the recently launched co-location strategy, performance to high levels that were sustained throughout the SensorX is now manufactured in two locations and is manufacturing and set a new benchmark for future projects. a prime illustration of how Marel has been able to deliver on orders received for this popular product. Co-location Most of our sites benefit from 3D printing of plastic parts in the manufacturing of SensorX allows us to continuously optimize development process. Additive manufacturing has improved and innovate the product at the mother site in Iceland while product design and reduced the lead-time for bringing new having the volume flexibility at our Nitra location. products to the market. We have started exploring the impact of additive manufacturing of steel parts and expect this In addition to enabling growth, our co-locating of technology to give us even greater freedom in the design and manufacturing towards best-cost countries has reduced not development process. only the direct manufacturing cost, and the cost of material and components, but also the indirect management cost. Modernization of our manufacturing sites continues. In the past few years, we have improved our manufacturing output and The manufacturing focus in Nitra will remain on standard product quality by increasingly using robotics. Going forward, equipment and the more mature product lines. we will focus on digitalization of our assembly environment to take advantage of its potential to support growth and improve our productivity, for example by introducing digital assembly instructions. We are committed to investing in our global supply chain to enable sustainable growth in the future. GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN Steel cutters automate first steps in manufacturing One of the key initial steps in manufacturing of Marel solutions is cutting sheet metal. Maintaining uptime during the first steps in manufacturing is important for a smooth flow through the production process further downstream. In 2018, Marel established a partnership with Trumpf GmbH, one of the world’s leading providers of manufacturing solutions, to supply our facilities with four laser steel cutters. The steel cutters are a big advance towards increased automation in our manufacturing process and have been installed at major sites in Gainesville, Gardabaer, Lichtenvoorde and Boxmeer. The automated solution has changed how raw material and cut parts are handled and has freed the hands of operators who are able to focus on activities that add more value in manufacturing, such as managing the overall flow of materials through production. The speed at which the steel cutters operate, combined with the resulting extra manpower available for value-adding tasks, reduces the lead-time in manufacturing, with positive effects further downstream in production. Our investments in automation in manufacturing will prepare our supply chain for future growth, and allow us to operate flexibly to deliver the right quality on the right DELIVERING GROWTH time to our customers. 56 Marel – Annual Report 2018 INVESTORS Last year’s numbers are this year’s discoveries By analyzing vast amounts of data gathered by our Innova Food Processing Software, we discover opportunities for improvement. Every year our systems run, we learn more about the possibilities for growth. That’s the power in numbers. INVESTORS 57 Marel – Annual Report 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The largest company on Nasdaq Iceland, Marel had a market capitalization of ISK 252.6 billion (EUR 1.9 billion) at year-end 2018. Its share price rose by 15% and Marel shares were the most actively traded on Nasdaq Iceland in 2018 with a turnover rate of 36%. Since its original listing in 1992, Marel has created excellent value for its almost 2,500 shareholders. As the only large cap listed company in Iceland, Marel’s investor base consists predominately of Icelandic investors. Market capitalization Marel is the largest company listed on Nasdaq Iceland by to ISK 237.6 billion (EUR 1.9 billion) at year-end 2017, an market capitalization. The market value of the company at increase of ISK 15.0 billion (decrease in EUR of 4.3 million due year-end 2018 was ISK 252.6 billion (EUR 1.9 billion) compared to exchange rate movements). INVESTORS 58 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Share performance and liquidity equities. Shares in Marel were traded 3,680 times in 2018 (2017: Marel’s share price rose 14.6% over the year, in striking 3,197 times) for a total market value of ISK 96.8 billion (2017: comparison to the modest 1.3% drop in the OMXI8 index for ISK 114.5 billion), which corresponds to a turnover rate of 36%. the top-listed companies in Iceland. At year-end 2018 Marel’s However, it should be borne in mind that the daily turnover of share price was ISK 370.00, compared to ISK 323.00 at the end the Icelandic exchange (all-share index) is limited compared to of 2017 (equivalent to EUR 2.78 per share at year-end 2018, turnover on leading European indices. compared to EUR 2.58 at the end of 2017). Marel’s average end-of-day spread was 0.88%. Since the company’s shares are Market making traded in ISK, fluctuations of the Icelandic krona during 2018 Marel has agreements with Landsbankinn hf., Kvika banki affect its market value expressed in euros. hf. and Íslandsbanki hf. for market making in its shares. The purpose of these agreements is to improve liquidity and to Most actively traded enhance transparent price formation in the company’s shares Indeed, Marel’s shares were the most actively traded on on Nasdaq Iceland. The agreements have an unspecified Nasdaq Iceland in 2018, comprising 19% of all trading in listed duration but can be terminated with one month’s notice. INVESTORS 59 Marel – Annual Report 2018 SHARES Share buyback Program initiated The EGM held on 22 November 2018 approved an authorization for the company to initiate a formal share buyback program. The main purpose of the program is to reduce the company‘s share capital and meet its obligations under share incentive programs with employees. Up to 34.1 million shares, equivalent to 5% of the issued share capital of the company, may be acquired under the buyback program. The purchase price for shares may not exceed the price of the last independent trade or the last independent bid in Nasdaq Iceland, whichever is higher. Purchases under the program shall be divided into numerous transactions. However, the total transactions on a single day may not exceed 25% of the average daily volume of the shares traded in the previous month. Buybacks will be made in two periods. During the first period, from 4 December 2018 up until and including 5 March 2019, total buybacks will amount to a maximum of 17,305,940 shares, or the equivalent of 2.5% of issued shares. Shareholder structure According to its shareholders’ register, Marel had 2,491 shareholders at year-end 2018, compared to 2,206 at year-end 2017. As of 31 December 2018, Marel held 10,762,406 (1.6%) treasury shares. Eyrir Invest hf. is Marel’s largest shareholder, with 27.9% of issued shares, followed by the Pension Fund of Commerce (LIVE) (10.0%) and the pension fund Gildi (6.8%). The ten largest shareholders held 67.2% of Marel’s issued shares, with Icelandic pension funds holding a total of 41.4%. International shareholders owned 6.7% at year-end 2018. The free float of Marel shares was 72% and free-float adjusted market value of the company was EUR 1.4 billion. INVESTORS 60 Marel – Annual Report 2018 INVESTORS 61 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Share capital 0.6% of issued shares in the company, for a total purchase At year-end 2018, there were 682.6 million Marel shares issued, price of EUR 11.3 million. all in one class. Of the total share capital base, Marel holds 1.6% or 10.8 million shares (2017: 41.7 million treasury shares). During the year, Marel purchased 24.1 million shares for a total amount of EUR 71.7 million, thereof 4.1 million shares for EUR Marel‘s Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM), held on 22 11.3 million according to the buyback program. Marel sold 2.1 November 2018, approved the two proposals that were on the million treasury shares for EUR 2.2 million to fulfill employees’ agenda. Firstly, to reduce the company‘s share capital by ISK stock option schedules and subsequently cancelled 53.0 53.0 million nominal value, by cancelling 53.0 million of the million own shares. company‘s own shares. The company‘s share capital was thus reduced from ISK 735.6 million to ISK 682.6 million nominal Stock options are granted to management and selected key value. employees. Granted and unexercised stock options totaled 11.9 million shares, of which 1.7 million were exercisable at the Secondly, to initiate a formal share buyback program, under end of 2018. The remainder will become vested in the years which the company may purchase up to 34,129,296 shares in 2019 to 2021. total, corresponding to 5% of share capital. The main purpose of the program is to reduce the company‘s share capital and At the company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM), to meet its obligations under share incentive programs with shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to increase employees. the company’s share capital by 35 million shares to fulfill stock option agreements. This authorization is valid for five years At year-end 2018, Marel hf. had purchased a total of 4.1 million following its adoption. No new shares were issued in 2018 shares under the buyback program, which corresponds to under this resolution. INVESTORS 62 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Earnings per share Earnings per share (EPS), measuring the amount of net income earned per share of stock outstanding, was 17.95 euro cents in 2018, increasing by 31% over the previous year. Earnings per share are expected to grow faster than revenues. Dividends The Board of Directors has proposed that a dividend of 5.57 euro cents per share be paid for the operational year 2018, corresponding to approximately 30% of profits for the year. The proposed dividend is in line with Marel’s targeted capital allocation and dividend policy, i.e. a dividend policy of 20-40% of net earnings and a targeted leverage ratio of 2-3x net debt/EBITDA. INVESTORS 63 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Perfect slices of data Innovation requires accuracy. Using decades of precise data, we’ve tirelessly developed products that ensure quality food at the lowest cost—to businesses and to the environment. That’s the power in numbers. FINANCIAL RESULTS For the full year, revenues were EUR 1.2 billion with 14.6% adjusted EBIT margin. • Revenues reached an all-time high • Strong organic growth • Strong earnings growth and healthy profit margin • Solid cash flow enables substantial investments in innovation and future platform 1,198 Árni Oddur Thórdarson, CEO: “Revenues for the full year 2018 were up 15%, of which 12.5% was organic growth. With one of the largest installed base worldwide and our proactive service mindset, 35% of our total revenues are recurring maintenance revenues. Adjusted EBIT was solid at 14.6% for the full year. The orders received for the full year 2018 were solid at EUR 1,184 million, and rose marginally when compared with the robust growth in 2017. Trade constraints and geopolitical issues make timing of orders harder to predict. In such circumstances however, Marel as a product pioneer with extensive global reach, is well positioned to capitalize on the markets’ requirement to match the supply and demand of food. We still expect the underlying annual growth of the total market to be 4-6% on average and our aim is to continue to grow faster. Our cash flow generation continues to be best in class and we continuously reinvest in innovation, global reach and infrastructure. We also complement our product portfolio and global reach with acquisitions to accelerate our journey to transform the way food is processed. Last year we acquired MAJA for the enterprise value of 35 million, acquired treasury shares and paid out dividends for close to a 100 million. Our strong operational cash flow and improvements in operating performance lead us to a leverage of x2 Net debt/EBITDA, which is at a similar level to last year despite these high investments. The dual listing of Marel shares on an international stock exchange in addition to its listing in Iceland is proceeding well and the primary focus is now on Nasdaq Copenhagen and Euronext Amsterdam. It is important for a global leader to have a global stage to support its ambitious growth plan, and drive fair day-to-day trading and continued shareholder returns.” INVESTORS 64 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Good quality of earnings Eventful year The review of alternative listing options for Marel remains The acquisition of MAJA, the German food processing firmly on track. Marel believes that a dual listing of shares equipment manufacturer, was announced on 25 July 2018. on an international stock exchange, in addition to its current The MAJA transaction was closed on 14 August 2018 and listing in Nasdaq Iceland, is the optimal way to align the the results of MAJA have been included in the Consolidated interests of current and future shareholders. Initially, three Financial Statements from that date. In accordance with IFRS locations were considered as listing locations. The selection requirements, Marel performs a Purchase Price Allocation has now been narrowed to two; Euronext Amsterdam and (PPA). Based on information currently available, a provisional Nasdaq Copenhagen. Next step in the process is to finalize the goodwill amount of EUR 0.7m is reported in the 2018 financial listing location by the 2019 AGM. statements. This amount will be adjusted based on the final outcome of the PPA-process. In June 2018, Marel announced an organizational change where the Commercial function was split into two new In October, Marel announced the completion of its first issue functions, Service and Global Markets and new appointments in the Schuldschein market. This new financing adds further were made to Marel’s Executive Team. This new structure will diversification to our long term funding structure, providing allow for closer proximity to customers and better scalability additional operational flexibility to support our growth strategy to support Marel’s ambitious growth strategy going forward. and continued value creation. The issue was oversubscribed and was subsequently raised to EUR 140 million. The vast majority was placed in the 5-year tranche priced at 110 basis points over EURIBOR, and the 7-year tranche was priced at 130 basis points over EURIBOR. INVESTORS 65 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Robust earnings and profitability INVESTORS 66 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Order book at good level Balanced exposure to global economies and local The order book was EUR 476 million at year-end, compared to markets 472 million at year-end 2017. The book-to-bill ratio was 0.99 Orders received were EUR 1,184 million in 2018, up 3.5% from in 2018 compared to 1.10 in 2017, reflecting strong demand EUR 1,144 million in 2017. Orders received from newly acquired and underpins Marel’s ability to deliver the right quality at the MAJA was EUR 10 million since the acquisition date. The order right time. The strong order book continues to provide a good book stood at EUR 476 million at year-end, or close to 40% of foundation for the full operational year 2019. trailing twelve month revenues. Greenfields and projects with long lead times constitute the vast majority of these orders. High quality earnings Marel continues to deliver double digit revenue growth yearOverall, Marel’s commercial position continues to benefit from on-year. Revenues for the full year were EUR 1,198 million, up its full-line offering and steady launch of innovative high-tech 15.4% compared to 2017. EBIT was EUR 175 million, up 11.3% products for smarter processing. Global reach and focus on YoY from EUR 157 million. Adjusted EBIT margin in 2018 was full-line offering across the poultry, meat and fish industries 14.6%, compared to 15.2% in 2017. counterbalances fluctuations in operations. Market conditions have been exceptionally favorable in recent quarters and are Gross profit margin continues to be stable at around 39% now adjusting towards more normalized levels. With one of and gross profit increased 14.9% in 2018 to EUR 468 million the largest installed base worldwide, a significant proportion compared to EUR 407 million in 2017. Basic earnings per share of Marel’s revenues derive from recurring maintenance (EPS) were EUR 17.95 cents in 2018, compared to 13.70 cents revenues or around 35% for the full year of 2018. in 2017. INVESTORS 67 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Marel Poultry Marel Meat Marel Fish Marel Poultry’s competitive position Orders received for Marel Meat have risThe order book for Marel Fish has slowed remains strong on the back of its estaben throughout the year and 2019 will down after a good first half of the year in lished full-line product range. Marel Poulstart with a record high order book. Large 2018. There was good geographical and try continued to deliver solid operational projects include slaughter and logistics product diversity in orders received in performance in 2018, with good orders greenfield projects in Russia, Spain and 2018, including greenfield projects and received. Projects were well distributed Vietnam. The upselling of secondary and salmon sector orders in Chile, France and geographically, Europe and Poland in further processing equipment is also Norway. particular as well as smaller orders comfirming up, which is a key focus area in ing in from the US. order to reach long-term targets. The full year of 2018 delivered strong revenues for Marel Fish. EBIT for the full In 2018, revenues for Marel Poultry were In 2018, revenues for Marel Meat were year was EUR 12.6 million, compared to EUR 638 million, up 13.9% from 2017, EUR 387 million, up 15.7% over the year. 5.6 million in 2017 and the EBIT margin EBIT was up 7.0% to EUR 117 million and Adjusted EBIT margin for the same pewas 7.9%. Marel has shown operational the EBIT margin was 18.4%. Primary proriod was 11.3%. Management is targetimprovements in the past few quarters cessing in the US is experiencing a teming medium and long-term adjusted but as previously stated, the short-term porary slowdown but there are opportuEBIT margin expansion for Marel Meat, operational margin for Marel Fish was nities to move US customers up the value through increased efficiency with further likely to adjust downwards, however chain. standardization and improved upselling. management is targeting medium and long-term EBIT margin expansion for the industry segment. Free cash flow generation and superior working capital cycle Free cash flow was EUR 121 million in 2018, compared to 153 Net debt/EBITDA including lease liabilities was x2.0 at year-end million in 2017. The difference year-on-year is due to fluctua2018, compared to x1.9 at the end of 2017. Currently leverage tions and timing of orders received and down payments for is at the lower end of the targeted capital structure of x2-3 net large projects. Marel continues to invest in the business to predebt/EBITDA, which underpins the financial capacity to support pare for future growth and its full potential. Investment activifurther growth and value creation. ties are expected to be above normalized levels for the coming quarters. INVESTORS 68 Marel – Annual Report 2018 INVESTORS 69 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Glossary of terms Book-to-bill ratio EPS Orders received The ratio of orders received to revenues Earnings per share When full responsibility to maintain an order booked off, an indication of how quickly a is assumed, the order is formally registered in business fulfills the demand for its product Equity ratio the system Total equity/[Total equity + Total Liabilities] CAPEX PPA Capital expenditure; money spent to buy, Leverage Purchase price allocation maintain, or improve fixed assets Net interest bearing debt/ Last twelve months EBITDA Quick ratio Current ratio [Current assets Inventories]/Current liabilities Current assets/Current liabilities Net debt Interest bearing borrowings (current & Return on total equity EBIT non-current) Cash & cash equivalents Result for the period/Average of total equity Earnings before interest and tax ([beginning balance + ending balance for the Net cash period]/2) EBITDA Cash and cash equivalents Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Return on total assets amortization Order book Result for the period/Average of total assets Accumulated net order intake, where revenue ([beginning balance + ending balance for the is booked off orders period]/2) Marel – Annual Report 2018 INVESTOR RELATIONS Marel is committed to providing stakeholders with comprehensive information on the company and its operations. Equal access to timely and accurate information, within the limits set by commercial sensitivity, is key to building a relationship of mutual trust with current shareholders and potential investors. Sources of investor information Annual report Marel aims to meet the highest standards in its investor The annual report gives a comprehensive overview of Marel’s relations by continuously improving the quality, transparency operations, plus a detailed description of the company’s and consistency of its information disclosure. Investors can performance each year. The report is available in English and follow annual and quarterly results presentations broadcast easily accessible online on a computer, tablet or mobile phone live over the Internet and have access to archived financial at marel.com/annualreport. reporting, webcasts and other relevant investor material at marel.com/investors. IR website The investor relations site at www.marel.com/investors provides Financial reports extensive news and background information on Marel for both Detailed quarterly and annual financial reporting and analysis, analysts and investors. including comments on the progress of Marel’s operations, are available on the IR website. Upon the close of each financial Archived financial information available in Icelandic and quarter, senior management presents Marel’s results in English English includes regulatory announcements, analyst coverage, for analysts and investors. Following the live Internet webcast share price data, major shareholders, dividend policy and the a recording is archived and available online in accordance with financial calendar and corporate events. the requirements of Nasdaq Iceland. Analyst coverage Marel is covered by five analysts in total, four Icelandic and one international, who actively track and publish opinions on Marel and its stock. INVESTORS 71 Marel – Annual Report 2018 INVESTOR RELATIONS International listing of shares In line with the company’s intention to pursue a dual listing of its shares, at its 2019 AGM shareholders will be asked to authorize the issuance of new share capital of up to 15% to support a successful international listing, fair valuation and liquidity. In order to align the interests of current and future shareholders regarding the anticipated share capital increase the Board of Directors decided to call an Extraordinary General Meeting on 22 November 2018. The two proposals on the agenda were both approved by the meeting. Firstly, to reduce the company’s share capital in connection with preparations for possible dual listing of the company, for the benefit of shareholders. Article 2.1 of the Articles of Association for Marel hf. was amended accordingly and now states as follows: “The share capital of the company amounts to ISK 682,585,921.” This amounted to EUR 6.2 million at year-end 2018. Secondly, authorization was granted to the Board of Directors to initiate a formal share buyback program, under which the company may purchase up to 34,129,296 shares in total, corresponding to 5% of share capital. All relevant information and documents in relation to the Extraordinary General Meeting are available and archived on marel.com/egm. Nasdaq Iceland Marel has been listed on the Icelandic stock exchange Nasdaq Iceland since 1992 and all of its regulatory announcements can be found at www.Nasdaqomxnordic.com. Tickers MARL1:PZ Information on Marel is available on Bloomberg and Reuters under the tickers MARL1:PZ and MARL.IC respectively. MARL.IC Contact us Tinna Molphy, Investor Relations Manager | Marinó Thór Jakobsson, Investor Relations Analyst t +354 563 8001 | IR@marel.com INVESTORS 72 Marel – Annual Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH More data means less waste Feeding a growing world population means minimizing waste at every stage of the production chain. With vast caches of data at our disposal, we’ve made it our mission to transform the way food is processed. That’s the power in numbers. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 73 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY February 12, 2019 Marel’s Board of Directors and Executive Team I am pleased to confirm that Marel reaffirms approved a corporate social responsibility guidance its support of the Ten Principles of the United policy for the company in 2016. We are reporting Nations Global Compact and Sustainable on the company’s activities as measured against its Development Goals. corporate social responsibility guidelines for the third time. In this annual communication on progress, we describe the continuous actions taken to improve Marel does not operate as a business in isolation but is part of the integration of the principles of the Global the larger society in which we have responsibilities, duties, Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals and rights. Our approach is to go beyond merely complying into our business strategy, culture and daily with laws and regulations. We look at our contribution operations. We commit to sharing this information to society as a whole and how we can add value where with our stakeholders using our primary channels we operate. To turning these words into action, we are a of communication. signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. In 2018, we were also part of the Nasdaq Sustainable Markets Initiative for the second time and complied with the Nasdaq ESG reporting guidelines. Sincerely yours, Árni Oddur Þórðarsson In line with our corporate social responsibility guidelines, we CEO continuously monitor how our operations and the systems and solutions we provide affect society, economies, and the environment. Our relationship with the communities where we operate is symbiotic: their benefit is our benefit. We take responsibility for our actions and encourage our suppliers, agents, employees, and customers to do the same. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 74 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Our contribution to the un sustainable development goals Marel focuses its efforts to benefit people, the planet and its operations on three of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: Goal 2: End hunger, achieve Goal 9: Build resilient Goal 12: Ensure sustainable food security, improve infrastructure, promote inclusive consumption and production nutrition, and promote and sustainable industrialization, patterns sustainable agriculture and foster innovation We view innovation to boost productivity as the way to make Traceability and food safety is a key element to how Marel meaningful contributions towards these goals. Innovation develops and produces solutions and software for food has always been a core driver of Marel’s endeavors. Annually processing. Our Innova Food processing Software provides we invest approximately 6% of our revenues into research processors with full traceability of raw ingredients as they flow and development. We also foster innovation by working through production. Such solutions contribute directly to food in partnership with our customers, universities, and other security and improved nutrition for consumers around the partners to develop breakthrough solutions for sustainable globe (Goal 2). food production (Goal 9). Partnerships for a sustainable world To ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns In 2018, Marel’s CEO Árni Oddur Thórdarson joined Nordic (Goal 12), we work hard to create solutions that reduce food CEOs, an initiative formed by the CEOs of some of the waste, increase efficiency in resource use, boost yields, add Nordic region’s largest companies who share a commitment recycling options, and optimize portion sizes. Marel takes to integrate the UN Sustainable Development Goals in part in building and supporting infrastructure that promotes their respective business strategies. Through this forum, sustainable industrialization and fosters innovation through CEOs exchange experiences and explore initiatives that modern technology. can accelerate the collective efforts of achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. Marel CSR guidance policy Social responsibility Social responsibility is a priority in our corporate culture. our innovation process. We focus on creating new methods We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working and finding approaches that minimize environmental impacts, environment with equal opportunities for all of our employees. such as CO2 emissions, and maximize the efficient use of When we engage with local communities, the focus is on resources including raw materials, water, and energy. innovation and education. Our employees have the right to freedom of association and we maintain a zero-tolerance policy Economic responsibility towards human rights violations and illegal labor conditions. Our purpose is to generate value for our partners and shareholders through fair trade practices. We seek to promote Environmental responsibility long-term profitability and good business practices along our Through an ongoing dialogue with our customers and entire value chain. Continuous improvements are made to suppliers, we strive to increase yields and minimize waste in make sure we comply with international laws, anti-corruption food production while promoting food safety, traceability, rules, and local regulations. We believe that all parties must quality, and animal welfare. Sustainability is the central goal in contribute fairly towards the societies in which they operate. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 75 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Nasdaq ESG reporting guidelines In 2017, Marel participated in the Nasdaq Sustainable Markets Initiative for the first time and follows the Nasdaq ESG reporting guidelines. Marel is now part of the initiative for the second time. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 76 Marel – Annual Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 77 Marel – Annual Report 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Marel, our objective is to develop food processing solutions that help feed the needs of a growing world more safely and efficiently, while minimizing any adverse environmental and social impacts. To meet these objectives, we need to act responsibly towards society, including our employees, our customers, and other stakeholders. Making social responsibility a priority of our corporate culture means we are dedicated to providing a safe and healthy working environment with equal opportunities for all of our employees. We feel it is imperative to foster individual and team development and to ensure the right of freedom of association for all of our employees. One aspect of our social responsibility is to engage with local our business; it helps spur innovation and education among communities and stakeholders where we operate to seek local our local labor force. Naturally, human rights violations, participation and insights. We are investing in these locations including any forced labor, underage labor or illegal labor for the long term. Engagement at this level is not only good for conditions, are not tolerated under any circumstances. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 78 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Human resources as well as promoting a culture that seeks a healthy balance Our human resources mission is to engage competent between work and personal life, is essential, and our employees employees and to provide them with a supportive and value this, too. ambitious work environment that motivates and encourages them to make Marel’s vision their own. To do this, we offer We are convinced that this will not only help our employees excellent work training with opportunities for further maintain a creative and stimulating work environment but education and job development. We work hard to promote also foster innovation and employee satisfaction that will a spirit of teamwork and co-operation throughout the whole benefit our company in the long run. organization. To deal with seasonal fluctuations in order processing and We recognize the value of cultural diversity, while at the same other variations in project loads, Marel employs a number of time encouraging and strengthening our values of unity, temporary workers. In 2018, the ratio for full-time temporary innovation, and excellence. A policy of open communication, workers was 16.2% of the total workforce. Corporate responsibility Fostering unity through the 7 habits leadership philosophy At Marel, unity is one of our core values. In 2018, we initiated our global career development program, a shared framework to foster unity and enhance professional and personal development. “The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People” was chosen as Marel’s leadership training program. This well-known leadership framework highlights important principles to become more effective through proactive behavior, prioritization, time management, empathic listening, and synergistic thinking. “The 7 Habits leadership philosophy is our shared language that unites us and enables us to synergize to achieve outcomes that exceed the sum of the contribution of each team member,” says Elín María Björnsdóttir, Marel’s Global Learning and Development Manager who has been leading the initiative. Since mid-2017, we have trained more than 500 employees to apply what they learned in “The 7 Habits” to become more effective in their professional and personal lives. Seven of our managers have been trained as 7 Habits facilitators to expand the program’s reach, with another 15 expected to graduate as certified trainers in January 2019. “The 7 Habits training demonstrates Marel’s commitment to help each of us be our best in all areas of our lives.” Maria Bozaan, Human Resource Director for Global Markets and Global Service RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 79 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Health, safety and environment Marel employees are accountable for their own safety. Local Providing a healthy and safe working environment for all of management of all Marel entities is responsible for ensuring our employees, contractors, and visitors working in Marel that processes and procedures are established within their facilities is the right thing to do and we take pride in doing entity that comply with Marel’s Health, Safety and Environit well. Health, safety, and the environment concern all of us ment Policy and all applicable local laws. and we do our utmost to make sure our employees have the necessary competence, tools, and instructions to perform A global Marel Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) team their work professionally and safely. monitors compliance with the Marel HSE Policy and facilitates the process for improvement. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 80 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Diversity A global diversity and inclusion policy was adopted by the The diversity policy rests on the four following pillars, each Board of Directors in 2017 and has been in force since 2018. equally important: Its objective is to ensure diversity and inclusion within Marel as well as increasing job satisfaction and general wellbeing in 1. Ensuring equal opportunity the workplace. We aim to make sure that employees are not 2. Promoting a company culture of tolerance, diversity and discriminated against on the grounds of their gender, beliefs, inclusion nationality, race, sexual orientation, religion, color, personal fi3. Acting strong and decisively against any bullying, violence nances, family, age or on any other grounds. or harassment 4 Increasing the visibility of Marel as an employer of choice We believe this policy helps make Marel a more desirable and responsible workplace that will, in turn, attract and keep the The data and statistics on diversity that we collect are systemmost qualified employees. Our global diversity and inclusion atically evaluated to ensure successful implementation of the policy applies to all Marel employees and governance bodies, policy. The results will be presented in a clear and organized including the Board of Directors, its sub-committees and the method and used to help management understand where we Executive Team. need to improve, and where we are performing well regarding diversity. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 81 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Forced labor and under-age workers internships and trainee programs to assist talented young We have a zero-tolerance policy at Marel where human rights individuals to enter the workforce and to develop their skills in violations are concerned, including child labor, or any illegal a professional and safe working environment. labor conditions. All of our employees must have reached the legal working age in the country where they work. None of our Another aspect of engaging with local communities is facilities allow illegal labor practices or forced labor conditions. our commitment to fast-track economic development in In 2018, we required all new suppliers to comply with the same developing countries. By introducing new food processing standards as Marel does on issues related to human rights and technologies to these locales, we have immediate and labor, as described in our Code of Conduct. radical effects on production capabilities, worker safety, and food traceability. One of the main growth sectors for us is There were no reports of human rights violations in 2018. the creation of shared value through partnerships in new and emerging markets. We intend to deliver market-altering Freedom of association solutions that increase both general wellbeing and economic We are committed to respecting the right of all employees progress in all the markets where we operate. to freedom of association and collective bargaining without discrimination, as established in the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention (C. 87), and In 2018 we implemented a global philanthropy and the Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention social participation policy (C.98). We ensure that all of our employees and those of our Well-designed charitable activities and social participation business partners directly associated with Marel’s services, programs can contribute to a better standard of living and products and operations can exercise these rights. increase social stability. Marel’s charitable activities and social participation guidelines align with our pledge of corporate Engagement with local communities social responsibility. Our guidelines are designed to direct the Our primary involvement in local communities occurs through company’s efforts in being the partner, neighbor, employer, our operations in the countries where we work. We focus customer, and primary supplier of choice around the mainly on educational outreach in collaboration with local world. Through partnerships, we aims to empower external educational institutions and through continuing education organizations, customers, and employees to support the of our employees. Many of our production facilities have communities where we operate. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 82 Marel – Annual Report 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Throughout our value chain, we encourage and promote the most efficient use of resources to minimize environmental impact and prioritize environmental protection. Innovation is at the core of this strategy. We continuously strive to create new methods for improving yields and decreasing waste in food production by reducing the use of scarce resources such as energy and water while promoting food safety, traceability, and animal welfare. One of our sustainability goals is to help our customers use In 2017 we added a sustainability scorecard to the product less water and energy while minimizing their CO2 footprint development process, which encourages the inclusion of during production. Many projects have been implemented sustainable features right from the beginning of the product to support precautionary approaches to environmental development process. By the end of 2018, we completed a challenges. We have undertaken initiatives to promote greater full-year evaluation of our new product development projects environmental responsibility along our entire value chain. according to the environmental and social criteria that make up the sustainability scorecard. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 83 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Energy The projects that we have instituted to minimize energy consumption at Marel include installing car-charging points for employees and visitors who own electric vehicles, replacing regular light bulbs with LED lighting where feasible, and undertaking many local projects that prioritize energy efficiency, including the installation of energy management systems in our major manufacturing locations. We are also continually upgrading our manufacturing equipment to increase energy efficiency along with other capabilities. Our primary energy sources are natural gas and renewables with almost 46% of all energy consumed by Marel produced by burning natural gas and 40% obtained from renewable sources. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Understanding the carbon footprint of Marel’s solutions Environmental impact and sustainability have always been a part of our thinking when we design systems and solutions. In 2018, we took our first steps towards understanding the full carbon footprint of our machinery during its lifetime by performing a meticulous study of the carbon footprint on a few of our products. The study was conducted according to an internationally recognized methodology, using acknowledged databases on components and parts. We now have a better understanding of how much greenhouse gases are emitted during the entire lifecycle of some of our key machinery. We took into consideration raw material extraction, manufacturing, transportation, use, maintenance, and end-of-life disposal, accounting for variations such as the country of production, primary type of energy during use, and obsolescence scenarios. The study pointed to three key areas where the carbon footprint of our products could potentially be reduced: to minimize energy consumption during the use-phase, ensure the durability and longevity of our products, and reducing food processing waste. Our early exploration of measuring the carbon footprint of our equipment is a proactive step to stay in the forefront in understanding the environmental impact of the total value chain of food production. Ultimately, our goal is to work in partnership with our customers to design and manufacture solutions that RESPONSIBLE contribute to GROWTH the sustainable production of food for a growing world population. 84 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Waste management Waste management is a factor in our processes that we take • Scope 2 emissions data are solely from the electricity and seriously at Marel. In 2018, a full-scale analysis of all our wasteheating used in our offices and manufacturing facilities. streams was carried out to provide us with a comprehensive • Scope 3 emissions are primarily the result of employee air overview of our waste footprint, how much of our waste ends travel. Logistics are not included. in landfills, and how much is either reused or recycled. Over the year, we recycled or reused 75% of our total waste volume. To understand and minimize our indirect carbon footprint, all of our more extensive facilities are installing energy monitoring Carbon emissions systems from eTactica. Locations undergoing renovation are Despite our efforts to continually minimize our environmental also installing solar cells on their roofs to generate some of the footprint, overall carbon emissions have risen merely because energy consumed on site locally. our company continues to expand. The two largest indirect contributors to our carbon footprint are energy consumption Because Marel’s company network spans the globe, air in Marel facilities and employee air travel. travel by Marel employees has a negative impact on the environment. As carbon emissions from the aviation industry To better understand the indirect carbon footprint of the are considered a leading contributor to global warming, we energy we consume in our facilities, all locations now report feel it is essential to understand our role and what we can to on the generation source(s) of energy used to produce the make improvements. electricity used in our facilities. In 2016, we established a new travel platform to monitor We provide our energy consumption details to our the environmental impact caused by employee travel. By collaborators at Circular Solutions who then process our data collecting and visualizing this data, we have already made and verify our carbon footprint. improvements and identified possibilities for reducing our carbon footprint when it comes to employee travel. • Scope 1 emissions are very limited because no Stationary Combustion occurs in facilities controlled by Marel. Mobile Through our travel policy, we will strive to continuously lower Combustion from the ca. 1,000 vehicles operated by the our carbon footprint by actively encouraging employees to company is included. Scope 1 emissions are calculated for use alternative means of meeting and communicating with the first time in 2018 each other and our customers. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 85 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Total carbon emissions Animal wellbeing We will continue to diligently work on measuring our Our commitment to social responsibility extends beyond environmental footprint and identify areas where we can our employees and customers. Because we are in the food improve, and better understand our company’s impacts and processing business, animal wellbeing is high on our agenda efforts to respond appropriately. particularly in the area of research and development. In 2017, the introduction of a sustainability scorecard became a part Marel is currently not participating in carbon-offsetting of Marel’s innovation process, where many sustainability programs or green energy certification. We will continue to indicators play a role in deciding the feasibility of proceeding increase the share of renewable energy used by procuring with projects into further development. By highlighting animal cleaner energy whenever and wherever possible and continue wellbeing in the sustainability scorecard, we are ensuring to improve efficiency in our production processes, employee environmental and economic responsibility in the most crucial travel, and other operations. stages of the lifecycle of the product. By instituting appropriate animal wellbeing practices in general, we can increase the quality of products and production. Over the years, we have introduced a number of innovative solutions that take animal wellbeing into more significant consideration. These include: • CAS SmoothFlow stunner • ATLAS system • CO2 Stunning • Live Pig Handling Throughout the food processing industry, it has become mandatory for companies to follow guidelines of social responsibility and sustainability in their operations and to consider the effects their operations have on people, the planet and profits. We are determined to lead the way and continue to focus on developing solutions that promote the highest standards of animal wellbeing. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 86 Marel – Annual Report 2018 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Throughout our company, we promote ethical business practices along our value chain through transparency, innovation, and collaboration with all our partners. We strive to conduct our business to ensure long-term profitability and fair trade. Continuous improvements make sure that our partners, our customers, our suppliers and we ourselves are compliant with international laws, anti-corruption rules, and local regulations. We believe that all parties must have a positive economic impact in the societies in which they operate. Economic value generated We operate a global network of sales and service units and Our contribution to the societies in which we operate consist produce a range of products with manufacturing facilities in of many different elements, including salaries paid to employthe Netherlands, the United States of America, Iceland, Denees and goods and services purchased from local suppliers. mark, England, Brazil, Germany, and Slovakia. Salaries paid during the year, excluding related expenses, The economic value generated by our operations in 2018 amounted to EUR 343.6 million, or 28.7% of the economic valamounted to EUR 1,197.9 million, including sales and gains on ue generated. sales of assets. Furthermore, we directly employed 5,794 fulltime employees on average in 2018. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 87 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability becomes the benchmark for innovation Through continuous innovation, implemented in close co-operation with its customers, Marel enables food processors to make the most of their raw materials. We visit plants and talk to the people working there to create technology that increases yield, reduces waste, and creates valuable by-products, while at the same time using less water, energy, and other resources. Stricter regulations and consumer demand for sustainability constantly challenge processors to produce more with less. Marel has taken steps to ensure that its solutions meet these challenges by making sustainability a permanent criterion for evaluating all of our new product developments. The sustainability scorecard raises awareness and stimulates discussion amongst our innovation experts during the product development process, as they develop new solutions for food processors. Since we implemented the scorecard in January 2018, we have systematically considered a range of social and environmental factors during the innovation process. By taking these steps today, we are ensuring our customers keep ahead of consumers’ growing demand for sustainably produced food. Tax footprint Taxes paid by Marel in 2018 amounted to EUR 72.9 million (2017: 63.2 million) or 6.1% of the economic value generated. Employment taxes represented 43.5% of the levies during the period, while 42.8% are corporate income taxes. In addition to the direct taxes, Marel collects and pays various state and local taxes and duties on behalf of the governments in which we operate. Total taxes and duties collected in 2018 amounted to EUR 91.7 million (2017: 77.2 million). In 2018, the total tax footprint amounted to EUR 164.6 million (2017: 140.4 million). RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 88 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Innovation Innovation is the creation and delivery of new customer value in the marketplace. In our experience, innovation most often originates from partnerships between customers and our employees with the common aim of solving problems and improving processing in a new way. We invested around EUR 74 million, or 6.2% of revenues, in creating and delivering new value for our customers through innovation in 2018. These innovative efforts represent a full range of endeavors: from breakthrough improvements in our products, to design upgrades and incremental additions to existing machines and systems. By working closely with our customers and employees, we are building durable equipment that remains competitive and meets the diverse needs of our customers. Anti-bribery Anti-corruption We know that our company’s reputation is crucial to our success. Therefore, we take compliance with global antibribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations very seriously. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy adopted by Marel in January 2017 reinforces our commitment. The policy applies to all employees, officers, and directors as well as any contractors, consultants, agents, and other business partners engaged in business on behalf of Marel. As an international company, we adhere to the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of all the countries in which we operate. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 89 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Icelandic law and the company’s corporate governance The CEO is responsible for ensuring adequate internal controls framework determine the duties of the various bodies and risk management in connection with financial reporting. within the company. They define and dictate how The Board of Directors maintains an ongoing dialogue with the company is directed and controlled – including the CEO to identify, describe and manage the business risks the interaction between the CEO, who is responsible to which the company may be exposed. Material risks are for day-to-day management, the Board of Directors, discussed in the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. shareholders, regulators and other stakeholders. Internal audit and control Marel hf. is committed to recognized general principles The company’s risk management and internal controls for aimed at ensuring good corporate governance. In 2015, financial processes are designed to minimize effectively the Marel launched an external audit of its corporate governance risk of material misstatements in financial reporting. The structure and procedures, followed by a certification of the internal auditor reports to the Board’s Audit Committee and same. In January 2016, the company received recognition plays a key role in internal control. as “Exemplary in Corporate Governance” from the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Iceland. External audit An independent auditing firm is elected at the Annual General 1. Corporate governance framework and Meeting (AGM) for a term of one year. The external auditors compliance examine the company’s annual accounts in accordance with Marel’s corporate governance consists of a framework of generally recognized auditing standards and for this purpose principles and rules, including its Articles of Association and inspect its accounting records and other material relating the Guidelines on Corporate Governance issued in June 2015 to the operation and financial position of the company. The by the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, Nasdaq Iceland and the external auditors report any significant findings regarding Confederation of Icelandic Employers, which are accessible on accounting matters and internal control deficiencies via the the website of the Iceland Chamber of Commerce. Audit Committee to the Board of Directors. In general, the company fully complies with the Guidelines on KPMG ehf. was elected as the company’s auditor at the Corporate Governance, apart from the following exception: company’s AGM held on 6 March 2018. Auditors on KPMG’s behalf are Saemundur Valdimarsson and Hrafnhildur The company does not have a Nomination Committee. Marel’s Helgadóttir, both Certified Public Accountants (CPAs). They Board of Directors regularly evaluates its work, composition have audited and endorsed without reservation Marel’s and directors’ independence to ensure the members of the consolidated financial statements for the year 2018. Board jointly possess the relevant knowledge, experience and skills to perform the Board’s tasks and responsibilities in the 3. The company’s values, code of conduct company’s best interest. The Board has taken the initiative and social responsibility policy in discussing with the company’s largest shareholders the composition of the Board of Directors and long-term Values succession planning. Marel‘s company values are its shared ideals and standards, providing direction in its everyday operations. The company’s 2. Main aspects of internal controls and employees took part in defining these values, which are the company’s risk management in Unity, Excellence and Innovation. The values are continuously connection with preparation of financial promoted in the company’s daily operations. statements RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 90 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) and diversity Regular board meetings are held with management over the Marel’s CSR guidelines were approved by the Board of Directors course of the year, including quarterly meetings coinciding and Marel’s Executive Team in 2016. with publication of financial results, two off-site strategy sessions and an operational planning meeting for the coming Further information on CSR and diversity policies are provided year. A number of on-site visits to company locations as well as in the section on CSR in Marel’s Annual Report. to customers are conducted each year. In addition, the Board of Directors meets at least once a year without management Code of conduct to structure its own agenda and conduct a self-assessment. Marel’s Board of Directors approved a Code of Conduct with Additional meetings are convened as needed. All matters dealt global application in October 2012, which was revised in July with at Board meetings are decided by majority vote, provided 2016. It is closely linked to Marel’s company values and rests that the meeting has been lawfully convened. In the event on four pillars, i.e. the commitment of employees (including of a tie vote, the Chairman casts the deciding vote. However, officers’ and directors’) to: (i) each other; (ii) customers and the important decisions are not taken unless all directors have marketplace; (iii) shareholders; and (iv) partners, communities been given an opportunity to discuss the matter. and the environment. The Board of Directors convened 14 times in 2018, with an Marel’s Code of Conduct can be found on the company’s average attendance of 95.9%. website: The Board of Directors has assessed which directors are 4. Composition and activities of the board independent according to the Guidelines on Corporate of directors, its sub-committees, the CEO Governance. All seven directors, Ann Elizabeth Savage, and Executive Team Arnar Thór Másson, Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir, Helgi The company has a two-tier management structure consisting Magnússon, Margret Jonsdottir, Ástvaldur Jóhannsson and of the Board of Directors and Executive Team, led by the Chief Ólafur S. Gudmundsson, are considered independent of Executive Officer. The two bodies are separate and no person the company. Furthermore, five of the Board members, Ann serves as a member of both. Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thór Másson, Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir, Helgi Magnússon and Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, are Board of directors considered independent of the company’s major shareholders. The Board of Directors has supreme authority in company affairs between shareholders’ meetings. It is elected by Once a year, the Board of Directors evaluates the work, results, shareholders at the AGM for a one-year term and operates in size and composition of the Board and the Board’s subaccordance with applicable Icelandic laws and regulations, committees. Furthermore, the Board evaluates the work and the company’s Articles of Association and the Board‘s Rules of results of the CEO according to previously established criteria, Procedure. The Board currently comprises seven directors who including whether the CEO has prepared and carried out a were elected at the company’s AGM on 6 March 2018. business strategy consistent with the company’s established goals. The Board discusses the results of the evaluation and The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s decides on any actions to be taken. organization, for setting the objectives for long-term performance and business development and ensuring proper Sub-committees conduct of its operations at all times. The Board decides all A major share of the Board’s work is carried out in its submatters regarded as extraordinary or of major consequence committees, the Remuneration Committee and Audit in accordance with the statutory division of responsibilities Committee. Sub-committee members are appointed by the between the Board, CEO and Executive Team. The Board Board of Directors for a term of one year, in accordance with defines strategic objectives for the company and sets targets the rules set for each sub-committee by the Board. aimed at achieving these goals. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 91 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee is composed of three Board 1 members unless the Board decides otherwise. The majority of the Remuneration Committee shall be independent of the company and possess the knowledge and expertise needed to perform the Committee’s tasks. The Remuneration Committee 1 is intended to assist the Board in ensuring that compensation arrangements support the strategic aims of the company and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior executives while also complying with legal and regulatory requirements. The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the performance of the Board and CEO is evaluated annually and that succession planning is conducted. The current Board decided to appoint four members to the Remuneration Committee as of March 2018: Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir (Chair), Ann Elizabeth Savage, Arnar Thór Másson and Ólafur S. Gudmundsson. The Remuneration Committee met 3 times in 2018. All meetings were fully attended. Audit committee The Audit Committee is composed of three or four Board 1 directors unless the Board decides otherwise. The majority of the Audit Committee shall be independent of the company and its external auditors and at least one member shall be independent of shareholders holding 10% or more of the 1 company’s total share capital. Members of the Audit Committee must possess the knowledge and expertise needed to perform its tasks. At least one member needs to have solid knowledge and experience of financial statements or auditing. Its work includes monitoring Marel’s financial status and evaluating the company’s internal monitoring and risk management systems, management reporting on finances, whether laws and regulations are followed and the work of the company’s internal and statutory auditors. Members of the Audit Committee since March 2018 are Arnar Thór Másson (Chairman), Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, Margrét Jónsdóttir and Helgi Magnússon. All members are independent of the company and its auditors, while Arnar, Ástvaldur and Helgi are independent of large shareholders. The Audit Committee convened 7 times in 2018. All meetings were fully attended. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 92 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Chief Executive Officer III. The CEO shall act as Chairman of the Board in the Arni Oddur Thórdarson assumed the position of CEO of Marel company’s significant subsidiaries connected with its sales in November 2013. An Icelandic citizen, born in 1969, Thórdarand manufacturing activities or other core activities of the son has extensive international business experience within company, unless the Board decides otherwise. the industrial sector. He has an MBA degree from IMD Business School in Switzerland and a Cand. oecon. degree in Business IV. The CEO shall ensure that the accounts of the company Administration from the University of Iceland. Thórdarson comply with law and accepted financial reporting practice served on the Board of Directors of Marel from 2005-2013, for and that the treatment of company assets is secure. The most of that time as Chairman. CEO shall provide any information requested by the company’s auditors. Together with related parties his direct holding is 131,869 shares in Marel. He is a major shareholder of Eyrir Invest, At least once a year the CEO shall evaluate the work and results which on 6 February 2019 held 190,366,838 shares in Marel hf. of the Executive Team which he heads according to previously (27.89% of total issued shares). established criteria. The CEO shall discuss the results of his evaluation with each member of the Executive Team and I. The CEO is responsible for daily operations and is obliged decide on any actions to be taken. to follow the Board’s policy and instructions in that regard. Daily operations do not include measures which are At least once a year, the Chairman and the CEO meet to discuss unusual or extraordinary. The CEO may only take such the results of the Board’s evaluation of the CEO’s work and measures if specifically authorized by the Board or unless it performance and any proposed actions in response. The CEO impossible to wait for the Board’s decision without reviews with the Chairman the results of his/her evaluation of substantial disadvantage to the company’s operations. the Executive Team and what actions may be needed, if any. In such an event, the CEO must inform the Board of his/her The Chairman reports to the Board of Directors on discussions actions without delay. with the CEO as he/she deems necessary and appropriate. II. The CEO is responsible for the work and results of the Executive Team. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 93 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Upper left: Davíd Freyr Oddson, Einar Einarsson, Vidar Erlingsson, Árni Oddur Thórdarson, Jesper Hjortshøj, David Wilson. Lower left: Sigurdur Ólason, Folkert Bölger, Ulrika Lindberg, Árni Sigurdsson, Linda Jónsdóttir, Anton de Weerd. Executive Team 5. Communication between The company’s Executive Team is composed of eleven members: shareholders and the Board of Directors Shareholders’ meetings, within the limits established by the Executive company’s Articles of Association and statutory law, are the Árni Oddur Thórdarson, Chief Executive Officer supreme authority in Marel’s affairs as well as the primary Linda Jónsdóttir, Chief Financial Officer means of communication between shareholders and the Árni Sigurdsson, EVP Strategy and Corporate Development Board of Directors. The AGM is held each year before the end of August and other shareholders’ meetings are convened Business units when necessary. The AGM is advertised publicly with at Anton de Weerd, Managing Director (EVP) of Poultry least three weeks’ notice in accordance with Icelandic law. David Wilson, Managing Director (EVP) of Meat Sigurdur Ólason, Managing Director (EVP) of Fish The Chairman is the Board’s authorized spokesperson. The Jesper Hjortshøj, Managing Director (EVP) of Further Processing Board of Directors does not engage in communication regarding details of the company’s operational matters and Operations financial results, which is the responsibility of authorized Einar Einarsson, EVP Global Markets members of management. Ulrika Lindberg, EVP Service Folkert Bölger, EVP Supply Chain The Chairman communicates with the company’s largest Vidar Erlingsson, EVP Innovation shareholders on an annual basis to exchange views on Davíd Freyr Oddsson, EVP Human Resources matters related to corporate governance, and to maintain trust and understanding. All communication with shareholders is governed by rules and regulations on pricesensitive and non-public information (insider information) and on other sensitive business information which could compromise the company’s competitive position. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 94 Marel – Annual Report 2018 From left: Ásthildur Otharsdóttir, Ástvaldur Jóhannsson, Ann Savage, Arnar Másson, Ólafur S. Gudmundsson, Margrét Jónsdottir and Helgi Magnússon. Chairman of the Board Ásthildur Margreét Otharsdóttir Ásthildur Margrét Otharsdóttir is an independent consultant and a director of several companies with extensive experience of business management. Otharsdóttir served as the Director of Treasury and Corporate Development at Össur hf. and as a Senior Account Manager at Kaupthing Bank (now Arion Bank), as well as a consultant at Accenture in Copenhagen. She is the Chairman of the Board of the investment fund Frumtak Ventures and a director of Icelandair Group and Promote Iceland. Otharsdóttir is on the Board of Governors of the University of Iceland and Board of the Nordic Arbitration Centre at the Icelandic Chamber of Commerce. Education MBA, Rotterdam School of Management, the Netherlands Cand. Oecon., University of Iceland Elected 2013 Chairman of the Board 2010 Director Sub-Committees Remunaeration committee (chair) Holdings in Marel 32,000 shares RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 95 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Vice-chairman of the Board Arnar Thór Másson Arnar Thór Másson is currently the Alternate Director at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London and serves as Chairman of Marel’s Audit Committee. He has extensive experience in re-organization, strategy and project management. Másson served as Director General of the Department of Administrative Development in the Prime Minister’s Office in Iceland and Deputy Director General of the Financial Management Department at the Ministry of Finance. From 2000-2008 Másson held an adjunct lecturer position at the Department of Political Science of the University of Iceland. Education MSc, Comparative Politics, London School of Economics and Political Science BA, Political Science, University of Iceland Elected 2013 Vice-chairman 2001 Board Director Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee Audit Committee (chair) Holdings in Marel 0 Board director Dr Ólafur S. Gudmundsson Dr Ólafur S. Gudmundsson is the Head of Discovery Pharmaceutics and Analytical Science at Bristol-Myers Squibb, a global biopharma company. He has previously held various senior-level management positions within R&D in the pharmaceutical industry, both for Bristol-Myers Squibb and Genentech Inc. Gudmundsson is also associated with the Pharmaceutical Chemistry department at Purdue University. Education PhD, Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of Kansas Cand. pharm., Pharmacy, University of Iceland Elected 2014 Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee Holdings in Marel 1,705,427 shares Board director Ástvaldur Jóhannsson Ástvaldur Jóhannsson is Business Development Director at Controlant. His previous international business experience includes senior management positions at Össur hf. and that of Executive Director leading the International Division of Valitor hf. Jóhannsson served as a member of the Executive Team of the IT company Nyherji hf., as Sales and Marketing Director at Penninn, and as a System Analyst Expert in the IT sector focusing on process design and development. Education MBA, University of Iceland BS, Management Information Systems, Heriot-Watt University Elected 2014 Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee Holdings in Marel 0 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 96 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Board director Margrét Jónsdóttir Margrét Jónsdóttir is Managing Director of Operations for Eyrir Invest hf. Previously, she was Director of Finance at Edda Publishing, Director of Finance at Kreditkort/ MasterCard and Manager of Accounts at FBA Investment Bank. Prior to that, Jónsdóttir spent a decade as the Director of Finance at the Industrial Loan Fund (the FBA Investment Bank’s predecessor). Education MS, Accounting and Auditing, University of Iceland Cand. Oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Elected 2006 Sub-Committees Audit Committee Holdings in Marel 195,113 Board director Helgi Magnússon Helgi Magnússon is Chairman of the Board of the Blue Lagoon, Harpa Holding and Husasmidjan. He also serves as a director of several Icelandic companies. Magnússon was Chairman of the Federation of Icelandic Industries from 2006 to 2012 and a director and member of the Executive Board of the Confederation of Icelandic Employers from 2006 to 2013. Magnússon has also been a director of Islandsbanki hf., the Framsyn Pension Fund, the Pension Fund of Commerce, Siminn and the Iceland Chamber of Commerce. He was Managing Director of Harpa and HarpaSjöfn paint manufacturers for several years and Chairman of the Board of Harpa, HarpaSjöfn and Flügger Iceland. Education Certified Public Accountant (CPA), University of Iceland Cand. Oceon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Elected 2005 Sub-Committees Audit Committee Holdings in Marel 3,039,044 shares Board director Ann Elizabeth Savage Ann Savage previously served as Technical Director of Bakkavor Group. Her main responsibilities included food safety, health and safety management, manufacturing excellence and environmental management. She was also a member of the management board. Savage has held a variety of roles in technical and R&D departments within the retail and food industry over her 35-year career. She worked for the Cooperative Wholesale Society (CWS), Northern Foods from 1990 till 1999 and at Geest/Bakkavor for over 16 years. Savage is also a member of the Board of Governors for Boston College and a food safety consultant. Education Studied at the Open University. Post Graduate Diploma in Management Studies, Nottingham University. Elected 2013 Holdings in Marel 0 ALL HOLDINGS AT DECEMBER 31, 2018 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 97 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Chief Executive Officer Árni Oddur Thórdarson Árni Oddur Thórdarson took up his current position as Marel’s CEO in November 2013 after having been serving as Chairman of Marel’s Board of Directors from 2005. He co-founded Eyrir Invest in the year of 2000 and was the company’s CEO until 2013. Thórdarson has extensive international global business experience and has served as non-executive director of various companies, including Fokker Technologies and Stork Technical Services. Education MBA, IMD, Switzerland Cand. Ooecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 131,869 shares Other holdings: 17.9% of total outstanding shares in Eyrir Invest, Marel’s largest shareholder (Eyrir Invest holds 27.9% of total shares in Marel) Chief Financial Officer Linda Jónsdóttir Linda Jónsdóttir has been Marel’s CFO since 2014 and before that was Marel’s Corporate Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Prior to joining Marel, Jónsdóttir worked in Treasury and financing for Eimskip, Burdaras and Straumur Investment Bank. She was a director of the Icelandic Enterprise Investment Fund from 2010 to 2015. Education MS, Finance, Reykjavik University Cand. Oecon., Business Administration, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 182,500 shares Executive Vice President of Strategy and Development Árni Sigurdsson Sigurdsson has extensive experience in the finance and investment management industry. Before joining Marel in 2014, he was an associate at AGC Partners investment bank. Prior to that, he worked at the commercial bank Landsbanki Íslands, where he was instrumental in advising Marel on the acquisition of Stork Food Systems. Education MBA, Harvard Business School BS, Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 100,000 shares Managing director (EVP) of Marel Further Processing Jesper Hjortshøj Jesper Hjortshøj joined the Executive Team in February 2017, but has been with Marel since 2006, serving in a number of different positions within the company. His broad experience in the food industry prior to that include that of manager of Marketing, Product Center and Strategy and Portfolio for Global Innovation. Education MBA, Aarhus University MA, Communication and Media Studies, Aarhus University Holdings in Marel 0 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 98 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Managing director (EVP) of Marel Fish Sigurdur Ólason Sigurdur Ólason took up his current position in 2014. Ólason has extensive international experience in the seafood industry and worked in product development at Marel from 2001 to 2006. Before rejoining Marel in 2014, Ólason was Director of Business Development at Samherji, one of Iceland’s leading seafood companies. Education MBA, Brisbane Graduate School of Business BS, Computer Science, University of Iceland BS, Mechanical Industrial Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 0 Managing director (EVP) of Marel Poultry Anton De Weerd Anton De Weerd began in his current position in 2007. He has decades of experience in the poultry industry, having been with Marel and its predecessors since 1982. During his time at Marel, De Weerd has served in various sales and marketing positions, including as Commercial Director, Managing Director and as President. Education BS, Mechanical Engineering, Avans University Holdings in Marel 120,000 shares Managing director (EVP) of Marel Meat David Wilson Following decades of experience in the food industry, David Wilson began in his current position in 2012. He has been with Marel and its predecessors since 1998. Wilson was Senior Vice-President for the Marel Poultry Industry Center in Gainesville until 2012. Prior to that he served as Vice-President of Sales and Marketing and as a Regional Sales Manager. Education MS, Animal Science, Aberdeen University BS (Hons), Agricultural and Business Management, Aberdeen University Holdings in Marel 87,367 shares Executive Vice President Global Supply Chain Folkert Bölger Folkert Bölger has extensive global managerial experience in supply, procurement and operational positions. Before joining Marel, he was Vice-President of Operations and Procurement at Bang & Olufsen in Denmark. Bölger held various management positions at Philips and Siemens-VDO in Asia, Central Europe and Western Europe. Education MSc, Mechanical Engineering, Delft University of Technology CPIM, American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) Holdings in Marel 17,862 shares RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 99 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Executive Vice-President of Global Markets Einar Einarsson Einar Einarsson has over 15 years of experience in managing Marel’s sales and service operations in North America. Prior to his appointment as President of Marel Inc. in the US in 2003, he held several positions in Marel as a Sales Engineer, Area Sales Manager, and Product Manager. Einarsson was Managing Director of Alpan Ltd., Iceland, a manufacturer of high quality cast aluminum cookware, from 1998-2002. Education BSc, Mechanical Engineering, University of Iceland Diplom-Ingenieur, Mechanical Engineering, University of Karlsruhe Holdings in Marel 524,272 shares Executive Vice President of Innovation Vidar Erlingsson Vidar Erlingsson took up his current post in 2014. He has been with the Marel innovation team since 2000 and has held various positions within the company. In 2010, he became leader of Product Center Inspection. Erlingsson has been instrumental in developing new technologies within Marel and transforming them into commercial successes. Education MSc, Engineering, DTU in Denmark BSc, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 89,000 shares Executive Vice-President of Service Ulrika Lindberg Ulrika Lindberg joined Marel in 2018. She has extensive managerial experience in senior sales and service positions at large international organizations. Before joining Marel she was Vice President of Global Service at Alfa Laval and has held various management positions worldwide for Alfa Laval and Tetra Pak. Education BSc, Business and Administration, University of Lund Holdings in Marel 0 Executive vice president of human resources Davíd Freyr Oddsson Davíd Freyr Oddsson began in his current role in 2013. He joined Marel in 2011 as HR Director of the company’s International Sales and Service Network. Before joining Marel, Oddsson was Global Head of Human Resources and Corporate Services at Straumur Investment Bank from 2006 till 2011. Prior to that, he spent seven years as an HR consultant at Capacent. Education MBA, Reykjavik University Cand. Theologius, University of Iceland Holdings in Marel 135,000 shares ALL HOLDINGS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 100 Marel – Annual Report 2018 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART To further align execution with strategy, Marel’s organizational structure was simplified in 2014. The new organizational structure supports our goal of becoming a simpler, smarter and faster company. In the new structure, the poultry, fish, and meat industries will Innovation, Commercial and Supply Chain. The aim is to serve remain the three pillars of the company. These three industries the customer better, reduce time to market and penetrate are then supported by the company’s global divisions: markets faster and more efficiently. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 101 Marel – Annual Report 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT Effective risk management is the key to Marel’s sustainability and underpins the company’s long-term relationship with its customers and other stakeholders. The risk management process is supported and monitored by the Board of Directors. As part of the steady expansion of its enterprise risk regard to efficacy and efficiency of operations, reliability of management process, Marel has launched a number of financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and initiatives throughout the company. Each initiative will regulations. contribute to achieving the company’s objectives with RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 102 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Risk appetite All business operations involve some form of risk. Marel has identified ten Risk Appetite Categories and defined how they relate to its strategic operations. The Board of Directors reviews and approves the company’s Taking risks is an integral part of daily business activities. By risk appetite on an annual basis, or more frequently in the carefully balancing our objectives against the risks we are event of unexpected changes to the risk environment, to prepared to take, we strive to conduct business operations in ensure it remains consistent with Marel’s strategy, business a socially responsible and sustainable manner. This approach and regulatory environment and stakeholder requirements. helps Marel attain its strategic objectives. Reports on the company’s risk profile and risk appetite are presented regularly to the Board of Directors. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 103 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Risk management process Marel has a vigorous risk management process which consists of 5 steps: Risk appetite sets out the amount of risk the company is willing to accept in pursuit of value. Risk assessment involves mechanisms for identification of risks, e.g. a brainstorming session to assess risk and controls. Risks are ranked by the likelihood of their occurrence and magnitude of their impact in a risk register. Risk treatment is the process of selecting and implementing measures to minimize the probability of identified risks materializing and alleviate their potential effects. Monitoring is done through dashboard reporting and updating of the self-assessment document. Communication of priority risks to the Board is made via a designated dashboard. Predetermined parameters are measured against the risk appetite to give a clear visual overview. Risk categories Marel’s activities expose the company to a variety of risks, which are categorized in four categories: Strategic, Operational, Financial Reporting and Compliance. Each category has sub-categories that can be defined broadly as follows: Marel’s risk management has focused especially on financial risks (including market and credit risk), which are managed by the Treasury department. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 104 Marel – Annual Report 2018 Market risk Credit risk Foreign exchange risk Marel minimizes credit risk by closely monitoring credit grantAs an international company, Marel is exposed to foreign ed to customers and by obtaining security to cover potential exchange risk arising from various currency movements, losses. The company has policies in place to ensure that sales primarily with respect to the EUR/USD exchange rate for revof products and services are made to customers with an enues and EUR/ISK rate on the cost side. The general policy acceptable credit history and that products are not delivered is to take advantage of natural currency hedges by matching until payments are secured. revenues and operational costs as economically as possible. Marel does its banking with a diversified set of financial The company’s funding is denominated in its main operationinstitutions around the world. Policies are in place to limit the al currencies to create natural hedging in the balance sheet. amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution. Where necessary, financial exposure is hedged in accordance with Marel’s general policy on permitted instruments and Liquidity risk exposure limits. Due to the dynamic nature of its underlying businesses, the company has prudent liquidity risk management to ensure Cash flow and fair-value sufficient flexibility of funding under the revolving part of Interest rate risk facilities agreements and by maintaining sufficient current The company’s income and operating cash flows are substanfinancial assets. tially independent of changes in market interest rates. The interest rates of financial leases, where the company is lessor Insurance policies or lessee, are fixed at their inception. These leases expose the The company maintains both global and local insurance polcompany to fair-value interest rate risk. The company reports icies. Coverage includes property damage, business interrupseparately an embedded 0% floor in its long-term EUR borrowtion, general and product liability, marine cargo/mounting, ing. The valuation of this embedded derivative depends on directors’ and officers’ liability, employers’ practice liability, market interest rates and is reported in the income statement. business travel, and accidents. The company believes its curThe company’s cash-flow interest rate risk arises from longrent insurance coverage to be adequate. term borrowings. Borrowings at variable rates expose the company to cashflow interest rate risk, while borrowings at fixed rates expose it to fair-value interest rate risk. Marel manages its cash-flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting floating-rate financing to fixed rates. The company obtains long-term financing at floating rates and swaps a portion of this to fixed rates. The risk involved, measured as the potential increase in interest paid during the coming year based on a defined movement in interest rates, is monitored and evaluated regularly. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 105 Marel – Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS 106
