HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update April 2019 Connecting customers with opportunities HSBC aims to be where the growth is, enabling businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions. The information set out in this document, taken together with the information relating to environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) issues in our HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018, aims to provide key ESG information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended 31 December 2018. In this context, we have also considered our obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (‘ESG Guide’). To the extent that we have not complied with the relevant ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide, it is because we have chosen to focus on issues that we consider are material to our stakeholders, taking into account the nature of our business. This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in the ESG Guide. Please see ‘Assessing materiality’ on page 5 for further information on how we determine what issues are material to our stakeholders. We will continue to develop and refine our reporting and disclosures on ESG issues in line with feedback received from our investors and other stakeholders, and in view of our obligations under the ESG Guide. Hong Kong Stock Code: 5 Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with limited liability under the UK Companies Act Registered in England: number 617987 Contents Overview 2 Group Chief Executive’s review 3 HSBC at a glance An overview of what we do and where, our 4 Our strategy global reach, our strategy and our stakeholders. 5 Our stakeholders It is introduced by the Group Chief Executive, Overview 6 Our approach and also sets out our ESG approach. Our values Customers 7 At a glance 8 Our Retail Banking and Wealth Our values define who Details of how we listen to our customers, act on feedback Management customers we are as an organisation and respond when things go wrong. The section reports 12 Our Commercial Banking across our four distinct customer groups: our retail customers and make us distinctive. Customers customers; medium and large-sized corporate customers; 14 Our Global Banking and global and institutional customers; and high net worth Markets customers Dependable customers. It also puts a spotlight on conduct and our 16 Our Global Private Banking customers approach to technology, cybersecurity and data privacy. We are dependable, 18 Customer developments across all global businesses standing firm for what is right and delivering on commitments. Open Employees 20 At a glance 22 Listening to our people Details of how we listen to our people, recognise We are open to different good conduct and set out our whistleblowing policies. 24 A healthy and diverse workforce ideas and cultures, and It also includes our approach to diversity and inclusion, 25 Well-being and developing Employees value diverse perspectives. and our ambition to create the healthiest human system our people in our industry. Connected We are connected to our customers, communities, regulators and each other, caring about individuals and their progress. Supporting sustainable growth 26 At a glance 27 Sustainable finance ESG As a reminder Details of our approach to sustainable finance, the 29 Our approach to climate Supporting transition to a low-carbon economy, suppliers and risk management As a reminder our own operations. It also sets out our second TCFD disclosure and our partnerships in the communities 30 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 31 Suppliers Reporting currency in which we operate. sustainable growth 32 Sustainable operations We use US dollars. 34 Committed to communities All figures are accurate as at 31 December 2018, unless otherwise stated. A responsible business culture 36 At a glance Adjusted measures Details of our corporate governance as well as our 37 Restoring trust 40 Ensuring strong We supplement our IFRS approach to tax and human rights. It also provides an A responsible corporate governance figures with alternative update on actions taken in light of past conduct events 41 Safeguarding the and reports on how we are tackling financial crime. financial system performance measures 42 Keeping a responsible business culture used by management approach to tax internally. These measures 43 Respecting human rights are highlighted with the 44 Supporting financial inclusion following symbol: Additional information 46 Forward-looking statements/ Non-GAAP financial information Additional information Further information on our approach to ESG issues. 47 Abbreviations/ It contains links to further content, policies and Certain defined terms topics discussed in this document. Like any industry 48 Useful links/Photography credits and company, we have our set of abbreviations and terminology. Accordingly, we provide an explanation of the abbreviations used. A glossary of key terms is available online at www.hsbc.com/investors. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 1 Overview Group Chief Executive’s review If we can live up to our wider societal obligations, then we believe we will materially improve all aspects of HSBC’s performance and safeguard the future of the organisation for generations to come. There is much in here that we can be proud of. Employee satisfaction is up, reflecting an improvement in the way we engage with and support our people. We have improved the way we listen to customers and acted on that feedback, and we have simplified our governance structures to create clearer and stronger lines of authority. We have also accelerated our support for the low-carbon transition. Yet for all our strides, there are areas where we can and must do better. Our senior leadership teams are still not diverse enough. Many of our customers still find it too difficult to bank with us. On conduct, John Flint Group Chief Executive we have more to do in adapting to changing societal expectations. Addressing these aspects of our performance Living up to our wider societal obligations will take time. There are no quick or easy fixes. has always been part of HSBC’s culture and But where there is work to be done, we will do identity. Our success over 154 years has been so with urgency, conviction and clear purpose. founded on our ability to build strong and trusted As Group Chief Executive, my overriding priority relationships not just with our customers, but is to create stronger relationships with all our with the communities and other stakeholders stakeholders – and it is part of our ambition to we serve all over the world. create what we call the healthiest human system We recognise that there have been times, in our industry. If we can do that, and live up to particularly in the recent past, where we have our wider societal obligations, then we believe failed to meet the standards expected of us. we will materially improve all aspects of HSBC’s performance and safeguard the future of the organisation for generations to come. “Our success over 154 years has been All of you reading this are part of that ambition. Your feedback and your views are important to founded on our ability to build strong us. We will continue to take them into account, and to listen, learn and act. and trusted relationships.” I hope you find the report useful. Societal expectations are changing, and investors are placing increasing importance on the wider impact businesses have on people and the planet. So over the past few years we have taken steps to improve all aspects of our non-financial performance, and to live up to the duty of care we have to all our stakeholders today. John Flint Group Chief Executive This ESG Update – the fourth we have produced – shines a light on our progress. It covers all the usual areas, from corporate governance and our environmental impact, to customer satisfaction and our approach to conduct. We are continuing to meet our reporting obligations under the terms of the UN Global Compact and renewing our commitment to the Compact’s principles. 2 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 HSBC at a glance Overview About HSBC We hold More than We employ around We have around $2.6tn of assets 39 million customers bank with us 235,000 people around the world (full-time 200,000 shareholders in 130 Customers equivalent staff) countries and territories Our global reach HSBC is one of the world’s largest banking and financial services organisations. The long-term trends outlined on page 10 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2018 reinforce our strategic advantages as a leading international banking and financial Employees services organisation, with access to the fastest growing markets and robust balance sheet strength. The map below represents customer accounts by country/territory at 31 December 2018. Mainland China 3% Rest of Europe 8% Supporting sustainable growth North America 10% UK 29% Hong Kong 35% Latin America 2% A responsible Rest of Asia 10% business culture Middle East Percentage of customer accounts and North Africa by value by country/territory. (excl. Saudi Arabia) 3% Additional information See page 46 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2018 for further information on our customers and approach to geographical information. Our global businesses Our operating model consists of four global businesses and a Corporate Centre, supported by HSBC Operations Services and Technology, and 11 global functions, including: risk, finance, compliance, legal, marketing and human resources. An overview of our global businesses is available on page 7. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 3 Overview Our strategy Our international network, access to high growth markets and balance sheet strength help us to deliver long-term value for our stakeholders. This strong combination of strategic advantages supports our strategy, enabling us to connect customers to opportunities. Return to growth and value creation We entered the next phase of our strategy in 2018, focused on growth and creating value for our stakeholders. In our June 2018 Strategy Update we outlined eight strategic priorities to deliver growth, improve returns, empower our people, and enhance our customer experience. Each priority has a target or set of targeted outcomes by 2020. Strategic priorities1 Targets by end of 2020 Deliver 1 Accelerate growth from our Asia High single-digit revenue growth per annum from growth franchise; be the leading bank to Asia franchise from support drivers of global investment: Market share gains in eight scale markets10 strength China-led Belt and Road Initiative and the transition to a low-carbon economy No.1 international bank for Belt and Road Initiative $100bn in sustainable financing and investment11 2 Complete the establishment of the UK Market share gains ring-fenced bank and grow market share 3 Gain market share and deliver growth Mid to high single-digit revenue growth per from our international network annum from international network14 Market share gains in transaction banking Turnaround 4 Turn around our US business US return on tangible equity >6% of low-return business 5 Improve capital efficiency Increase in asset productivity Build a 6 Create capacity for increasing Positive adjusted jaws, on an annual basis, bank for the investments in growth and each financial year future that technology through efficiency gains puts the customer at 7 Enhance customer centricity Improve customer satisfaction17 in eight the centre and customer service scale markets10 8 Simplify the organisation Improved employee engagement and invest in future skills Empower ESG rating: ‘Outperformer’21 our people Delivery against Return on tangible equity2 Adjusted jaws Dividends per ordinary Group financial share in respect of 2018 targets  or further details, see F page 17 of the Annual 8.6% Target: >11% by 2020 (2017: 6.8%) (1.2)% Target: positive $0.51 Target: sustain Report and Accounts 2018. 1. A full progress update on our strategic priorities is available on pages 12 and 13 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2018. 2. R  eturn on tangible equity (‘RoTE’) is calculated as reported profit attributable to ordinary shareholders less changes in goodwill and present value of in-force long-term insurance business divided by average tangible equity. A targeted reported RoTE of greater than 11% in 2020 is broadly equivalent to a reported return on equity (‘RoE’) of 10%, and assumes a Group CET1 ratio greater than 14%. * For footnotes 10, 11, 14, 17 and 21, see page 67 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. 4 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Our stakeholders Building strong relationships with our stakeholders will help enable us to deliver our strategy in line with long-term values, and operate the business in a sustainable way. Overview Engaging with our stakeholders Our stakeholders are the Customers people who work for us, bank Customers with us, own us, regulate us, and live in the societies we serve and the planet we all inhabit. These human connections are complex and overlap. Many of our Communities Suppliers employees are customers and shareholders, while our business customers are often suppliers. We exist to serve, creating value for our Employees customers and shareholders. Our size and global reach mean our actions can have Planet Society a significant impact, which is why we want to create the healthiest human system in financial services to help enable our business strategy. Regulators Supporting and governments Employees sustainable growth Investors A responsible Assessing materiality We listen to our stakeholders in a number of different ways, Management tables material issues for discussion at the business culture from employee and customer surveys to client meetings. ESG Steering Committee and other relevant governance Investors tell us what matters to them in the annual ESG forums. We use these themes and concerns as a guide investor survey and in qualitative assessments during investor for our ESG Update. Further information about the ESG meetings. We are also informed by stock exchange listing Steering Committee is included in the ‘Ensuring strong and disclosure rules in Hong Kong, the UK and the US. corporate governance’ section of the report on page 40. Additional information We use this information to identify what issues are material We acknowledge that material issues evolve over time, to our stakeholders, taking into account the nature of our and we will continue to assess them to ensure we remain business. In line with the provisions of the ESG Guide, current in our approach and communications. an issue is considered to be material when management determines that it has become sufficiently important to our stakeholders that it should be publicly reported. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 5 Overview Our approach Reporting on material issues in an open and transparent way is key to meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. Our ESG approach Environmental Examples: ––We support the global transition to the ––In our ambition to provide $100bn of sustainable financing, low-carbon economy through our own facilitation and investment by 2025, we have delivered sustainable operations and by supporting a cumulative total of $28.5bn since 2017, with external our customers with their transition. assurance of this number provided by PwC using ISAE ––We maintain robust climate-related risk 3000. The full assurance statement is included on page 28. management, covering sensitive sectors, ––We are a signatory to the Financial Stability Board such as energy, palm oil and forestry. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. The second year disclosure is available on page 30. Social Examples: ––We aim to grow in a way that puts the ––In this report, we publish customer information for each of customer at the centre. our global businesses, including spotlights on conduct. This ––We want to create the healthiest human includes information on the strengthening of our controls, system in our industry. We are working to and achieving fair outcomes for customers and culture. create the right environment so everyone ––Our employee surveys give us invaluable insight into our can fulfil their potential. people. Results in 2018 show that 74% feel able to speak ––We are focusing on diversity and inclusion up when they see behaviour that they consider to be wrong. in our workforce, and we are striving to ––We are building a diverse workforce and have set a target put the customer at the heart of everything of 30% women holding senior leadership roles by 2020. we do. Currently 28% of our senior leaders are women, so while we are making progress we recognise there is still room for improvement. Governance Examples: ––We aim to maintain high standards ––During 2018, we concentrated on the completion of the of governance across all geographies. final elements of our Global Standards programme, which ––We are committed to protecting our is designed to ensure the management of financial crime customers and communities through compliance is embedded in our day-to-day management financial crime risk management and and governance. cybersecurity due diligence. ––We are committed to applying both the letter and spirit of the law in all the territories in which we operate. Our conduct approach We recognise that we have a responsibility for good conduct delivery of the required Group values and conduct behaviours through the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and continues to be considered in performance management behaving in a way that protects financial markets integrity. for our people across the Group. Our conduct is overseen We have therefore implemented a conduct framework by senior risk and executive committees within each of our describing the outcomes that must be delivered across the businesses, functions and HSBC Operations Services and Group and which in turn form a key component of our risk Technology. The Board maintains oversight of conduct management framework. This means that our decisions should matters through the Group Risk Committee. consider the impact on customers and markets. In addition, 6 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Customers We aim to grow in a way that puts the customer at the centre by improving performance with digital enhancements Overview while maintaining financial crime standards. Customers Employees At a glance Our relationship and delivering fair outcomes for them – and if things go wrong, we need to address complaints in a timely Our purpose is to be where the growth is, connecting manner. Operating with high standards of conduct is Supporting customers to opportunities. We help enable businesses central to our long-term success and underpins our to thrive and economies to prosper, helping people fulfil ability to serve our customers. their hopes and dreams and realise their ambitions. sustainable growth In this section we report on our customers as four We create value by providing the products and services distinct groups: our retail customers; medium and largeour customers need, and aim to do so in a way that fits sized corporate customers; global and institutional seamlessly into their lives. This helps us to build long-lasting customers; and high net worth customers. These groups relationships with our customers. We maintain trust by are serviced by our four global businesses respectively: striving to protect our customers’ data and information, Retail Banking and Commercial Banking Global Banking and Global Private A responsible Wealth Management (‘CMB’) Markets (‘GB&M’) Banking (‘GPB’) (‘RBWM’) business culture We help 38 million customers We support approximately We serve approximately We serve high net worth across the world to manage 1.5 million business customers 4,100 clients in more than 50 and ultra high net worth their finances, buy their in 53 countries and territories, countries and territories. We individuals and families, homes, and save and invest ranging from small enterprises support major government, including those with for the future. focused primarily on their corporate and institutional international banking needs. domestic markets, through clients worldwide. Our HSBC Premier and to large companies Services provided include Advance propositions are operating globally. Our product specialists Investment Management, aimed at mass affluent and continue to deliver a which includes advisory Additional information emerging affluent customers Our services include working comprehensive range of and brokerage services, who value international capital, term loans, payment transaction banking, financing, and Private Wealth Solutions, connectivity. For customers services and international advisory, capital markets and which comprises trusts and with simpler banking needs, trade facilitation, as well as risk management services. estate planning, to protect we offer a full range of expertise in mergers and and preserve wealth for products and services acquisitions, and access future generations. reflecting local requirements. to financial markets. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 7 Customers Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers How we listen to our customers We listen to our customers in a number Customer satisfaction and customer recommendation survey results of different ways, including through our Customer satisfaction1 Customer interactions with them, surveys, social recommendation media and from their complaints. We use Contact Relationship Online scores2 Branch centre1 manager banking these insights to improve our services. 88% 76% 80% 80% 75% Customer recommendation UK (2017: 86%) (2017: 70%) (2017: 79%) (2017: 71%) (2017: 72%) In 2018, we surveyed more than two million 93% 74% 47% 71% Hong Kong 87% customers on their likelihood to recommend (2017: 87%) (2017: 90%) (2017: 71%) (2017: 49%) (2017: 72%) HSBC to others and their satisfaction with our services. We have made some 78% 69% 76% 70% 73% France progress, with recommendation scores (2017: 74%) (2017: 68%) (2017: 70%) (2017: 72%) (2017: 74%) improving in the majority of markets. More 88% 54% 80% 64% 67% US customers recommended us for being (2017: 87%) (2017: 72%) (2017: 80%) (2017: 57%) (2017: 65%) easily accessible, offering good digital 84% 76% 85% 68% 68% services, and our overall customer service. Canada (2017: 82%) (2017: 66%) (2017: 85%) (2017: 34%) (2017: 66%) However, our savings accounts remain an area of dissatisfaction, with more customers Mexico 89% 80% 78% 78% 91% telling us they are seeking competitive rates (2017: 90%) (2017: 82%) (2017: 91%) (2017: 81%) (2017: 90%) and charges. In the UK, the First Direct 74% 87% 71% 47% 75% brand ranked first for mobile banking Singapore (2017: 73%) (2017: 88%) (2017: 62%) (2017: 46%) (2017: 69%) services and second overall in the 76% 65% 72% 61% 78% Competition and Markets Authority Malaysia (2017: 71%) (2017: 64%) (2017: 73%) (2017: 61%) (2017: 83%) rankings in 2018, where banks were scored by customers on the quality of service. Mainland 94% 92% 74% 54% 84% China (2017: 93%) (2017: 94%) (2017: 73%) (2017: 46%) (2017: 82%) In 2018, we changed the way we report customer recommendation by 74% 68% 67% 69% 87% UAE broadening the range of customers we (2017: 70%) (2017: 66%) (2017: 66%) (2017: 69%) (2017: 84%) survey, and by looking at the full range of 1. Customer satisfaction is calculated by percentage of customers providing an 8 or above on a scale scores provided. We believe this provides from 0 to 10. For contact centre scores, the exceptions are the US, Canada and Singapore in 2017, and a more representative and complete Singapore in 2018, where the score shows the percentage of customers rating 4 or above out of 5. perspective on the customer service 2. T  he index uses the 0–10 rating scale for the customer recommendation question to create a 100 point index. we offer relative to the market. This survey is run by an independent and global market research agency. Following the reporting change, 2018 and 2017 figures have been restated to focus on the full range of scores provided by customers. Customer satisfaction affected markets in 2018, the UK, Canada, the same levels or improved compared Customer satisfaction in our online banking US and China, experienced recoveries with last year. We have focused on services rose in some of our key markets in in customer satisfaction. However, in improving our customer service training and 2018, following significant declines in the Hong Kong, our customers were more providing simpler processes with enhanced previous year. The decline in satisfaction in dissatisfied by our browser-based banking technology. We also launched our Universal 2017 came after the launch of a new online experience. We have responded with new Banker programme in five markets, banking system and enhanced security initiatives to improve the experience such which helps train our people to be digitally features. The new platform should help as adding real-time customer assistance equipped, and empowers them to resolve enable us to roll out new digital services at capabilities, and plan to continue more queries themselves. Over 4,000 a faster pace while keeping our customers enhancements to our capabilities. In 2018, employees are now Universal Bankers. safe. However, we saw a drop in customer we focused our efforts on upgrading our Less positively, the satisfaction score of satisfaction as customers learned how to mobile banking experience where we have our US contact centres fell and overall use the new service. By listening to our seen the highest growth in customer complaints rose, driven by a significant customers, we improved the way we usage. See page 18 for more details. overhaul of the banking platform, which communicated changes and fixed a led to increased call volumes and customer number of the issues that were causing In most markets, customer satisfaction wait times. We addressed this through the most frustration, such as login and with our branches, contact centres and increasing headcount and expanding our payments. Four out of the five most relationship managers has either maintained chatbot capabilities. 8 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers Overview Acting on feedback Area of focus Action Making banking We have expanded rolling out our simplified login process. Apple’s Touch ID is now live in 18 markets and HSBC Voice ID Customers accessible is in five markets. Last year, 80% of customer transactions were conducted via mobile or online channels. More than 30% of loans, cards and deposits sales were through digital channels. In the UK, we trained our front-line people to become more digitally proficient. In branch or on the phone, they can show customers how to complete tasks digitally. Last year, 85% of new customers opened accounts through a supported digital experience. Making our In the UK, we are simplifying our mortgage process. Applications can be approved within 10 days with the help of processes easier automatic valuations, improved credit policies and increased underwriter availability. To make investing more accessible, we equipped our branch employees in Hong Kong, mainland China and Singapore with mobile tablets, and launched an online financial health check. Customers can now understand their investment options in their own time, without a specialist appointment. For more information on our digital enhancements, please see ‘Our investment in technology’ on page 18. Employees Making it easy to In Singapore, we simplified our mortgage application forms and offer letters, so customers can be clear about their understand us and repayment schedule, terms and conditions, and fees and charges. our fees and charges Through digital messaging we are raising customer awareness around overdrafts in the UK, Hong Kong, France and the US. In the UK, we expanded the volume of overdraft alerts, which we first introduced in 2017, sending more than 26 million alerts in 2018 to help customers save money. Over half (56%) of customers who receive an alert pay in funds to avoid charges. To help even more customers avoid fees, we are introducing services like our Connected Money app, which helps people keep track of their spending (see page 11). Supporting When things go wrong We aim to ensure customers’ complaints introduced in 2018, resulting in complaint RBWM complaint volumes sustainable growth are recorded so we can understand what volumes declining in the fourth quarter. Our went wrong and why, and then act upon business in Mexico experienced an increase Complaints per 1,000 customers per month1 the feedback. Complaints are monitored in complaints due to the prevalence of and reported to governance forums. online fraud transactions leading to service 2018 2017 Senior executives are measured against interruption. We provided refunds to the complaint-handling performance. customers and strengthened our fraud UK 4.0 3.3 control measures, as well as launching a The way we handle complaints and how card control app that allows customers to fast we respond is important to us and our Hong Kong 0.5 0.7 A responsible manage deactivating controls on online customers. In 2018, we resolved 77% of card usage. As of September 2018, the complaints on the same or next working France 4.7 6.0 Financial Services Consumers Protection business culture day, and 86% within five working days, Bureau in Mexico ranked HSBC as the best excluding UK complaints related to US 3.9 3.4 bank among the seven largest banks for payment protection insurance (‘PPI’). complaint resolution and quality of service The most common complaints related to Canada 3.1 2.7 on their Customer Care Performance Index. process and procedures (39%), service Complaints at our UAE business fell 18%, (25%), and fees and charges (9%). but remained relatively high. Complaints Mexico 5.3 4.5 In 2018, we received approximately 1.2 were primarily due to manual processes, Additional information million complaints from retail customers service delays, staff knowledge and clarity Singapore 1.4 1.6 in our large markets referenced in the of our communication to customers. These adjacent table, a 16% increase compared continue to be addressed through a Malaysia 0.4 0.5 with 2017, primarily driven by the UK and customer experience programme. Mexico. The increase in UK complaints 1. A complaint is defined as ‘any expression Mainland China 0.7 0.7 mainly related to PPI, which is consistent of dissatisfaction, whether upheld or not, from across the UK industry, and to digital (or on behalf of) a former, existing or prospective registration issues. An improvement customer relating to the provision of, or failure to UAE 5.6 6.8 provide, a specific product or service activity’. programme for non-PPI complaints was HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 9 Customers | Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers Spotlight: Conduct We recognise we have a responsibility The range of products offered in our Oversight and governance of our to deliver fair outcomes for our retail markets is managed globally. Any newly fair value assessments and product customers and behave in a way that developed product goes through a safety is provided by the Global Wealth protects financial market integrity. We review process with global oversight for Management Oversight Committee, manage this through a range of activities, different or complex products. During chaired by the Global Head of Wealth from working to ensure products are this process, products are tested to help Products, and the Retail Banking designed fairly to endeavouring to ensure they are suitable and offer fair Management Committee, chaired meet customers’ financial needs. value to customers. by the Global Head of Retail Products. The RBWM Global Incentive Committee, We have put in place clear policies, Ongoing monitoring is also a critical which reports to the Chief Executive frameworks and governance to protect component of our product governance Officer of RBWM, oversees front-line our customers. Our conduct and risk programme. Regular in-depth reviews employee incentives. frameworks describe the outcomes that recognise a product or service may must be delivered across the Group. In become unsuitable over a period of time, Meeting our customers’ needs performance management, we consider whether it is after a significant event In order to meet customers’ needs whether behaviour is in line with our or following an accumulation of effectively, we have robust oversight of values. Conduct is overseen by senior risk multiple changes. the sales process, including reviewing and executive committees, while the Board Product design key principles: the suitability of the products we offer, maintains oversight of conduct matters sales quality monitoring, and how we through the Group Risk Committee. Our products should remain relevant incentivise our staff. in each country they are offered. Product design and fair value We consider our customers’ financial Good product design helps provide the We offer a consistent, simple and needs and personal circumstances to right outcomes for our customers. We carefully selected range of products. assist us in offering suitable product provide training through the Product We act on feedback from customers recommendations. This is achieved Management Academy. To date, more to provide better and more accessible through: than 1,000 of our people have completed products/services. ––a globally consistent methodology training on topics including customer Products that no longer meet our to rate the riskiness of investment insight, customer-focused design, high standards or customer needs products, which is customised for making communications simple, product are withdrawn from sale. local regulatory requirements; development, management oversight and governance. ––a robust customer risk profiling We also conduct regular product reviews methodology to help assess Customer insight is the foundation of and fair value assessments in each of the customers’ financial objectives, the design process, so we work with markets we operate in, to help ensure we attitude towards risk, financial ability customer research groups to co-create deliver fair value. to bear investment risk and their solutions. This involves checking in knowledge and experience; with customer panels and user labs Pricing key principles: ––goal projection tools and calculators throughout the process to understand All products and services must meet to help customers plan for their future customer reaction, so we can dynamically a minimum set of design standards. in line with their overall investment adapt designs to meet changing needs. objectives; and We carry out regular comparisons In Mexico, we launched our Stilo ––consistent global advisory standards to of HSBC pricing with those of local banking service, which includes a money follow when we make recommendations competitors and with our own fair management tips app, filling a gap in to our customers, while taking into value standards, considering the total service that our customers had told us account local regulations. charges and features of a product. about. In Hong Kong, we worked with more than 3,000 customers to design We review the usage levels of product From a service perspective, our goal and test our PayMe services and features features to assess if customers’ is to empower our people to resolve before launching them, including peer-tobehaviours and responses demonstrate issues. In the UK, we embedded a peer payments for customers and they are receiving value. programme to give front-line employees non-customers. PayMe reached a a means to raise and contribute towards milestone of approximately 1.5 million solving customer issues and to escalate users in 2018. 10 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers Overview Spotlight: Conduct continued larger issues to executive management. Aligned to our customer experience Managing fraud Since introducing the programme in standards, the incentive framework Fraudulent activities are a risk and Customers late 2017, over 8,000 issues have been assesses how our people listen to our a concern for our customers. We raised, and in 2018 more than 6,500 customers to understand their needs are committed to mitigating and were resolved. so that they can provide appropriate reducing their impact through a solutions. Should an individual Sales quality range of actions, including new fraud demonstrate behaviours that do not prevention systems, improvements to To assure the quality of our sales process align with our core values, there is a our internal processes and procedures, and employees’ behaviour in each of our disciplinary process that again can as well as communications to raise markets, we either conduct a mystery affect reward payments. awareness. We introduced an automated shopping programme or a sales quality Building financial capability customer contact solution, which uses programme, or both. Issues identified are two-way SMS messaging, in the second treated seriously. Action is taken to help Delivering fair outcomes for customers half of 2018. Since its introduction, Employees achieve a fair outcome for customers. also involves providing tools and content around 4,000 customers per day are that help customers have the confidence Where concerns are found, we will able to respond instantly to our fraud and competence to make the most of contact the customer to explain and enquiries to either unblock their card their money. In 2018, we made public remediate. Depending on the severity or report fraud. Approximately half of commitments around building financial of the issue, the relevant employee will all card fraud-related queries are now capability, and we took a number of be given enhanced training to improve resolved without the need of a phone actions to deliver on these commitments: their behaviour and they may become conversation, which has saved ineligible for an incentive reward ––In the UK, we launched the HSBC customers approximately 87,000 calls payment. Where a case of misconduct Connected Money app, which helps every month. We plan to introduce this Supporting occurs, disciplinary action may be users see all their banking relationships service to more of our customers taken, which can lead to dismissal. in one place and keep track of how throughout 2019. they spend their money. It has been Front-line employee incentives Operational resilience sustainable growth downloaded 240,000 times. One In 2013, we changed our front-line recent new feature allows users to HSBC invests in the reliability and incentives to create a discretionary keep track of savings goals using resilience of our systems to help prevent framework rather than a straight formula virtual savings pots. disruption to customers. During 2018, between sales and reward. Our people ––We introduced card control features we continued to upgrade our IT systems, are now recognised for demonstrating in the UK, Hong Kong and Mexico, simplifying our service provision and our values and behaviours as well as so customers can control their replacing older IT infrastructure and meeting customers’ needs through card spending and receive real-time applications. These enhancements led products and services. The framework alerts on their activity. In Mexico, to continued global improvements in A responsible exists to recognise our front-line customers can set spending limits service availability during the year for employees who go above and beyond and block spending categories, both our customers and employees. business culture for the customer, to deliver fair outcomes such as online shopping and F  or further details on how we aim to maintain and support the sustainable growth of entertainment, including gambling. and continually improve our operational our business. resilience capability, see page 19. F  or further details on how we support building financial capability and inclusion, see pages 34 and 44. Additional information HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 11 Customers Our Commercial Banking customers How we listen to our customers We are committed to improving customer Areas of focus include the ease and satisfaction for all our business customers, speed of the account opening process, Case study: Customer-centric from start-ups to large corporates. our efficiency in dealing with queries payments review and our range of products. We have introduced additional governance A customer-centric review was to embed a customer-led approach into We still have some way to go to achieve launched to improve the efficiency our decision making. In 2018, we created our ambitions, but our rank position against of our payment processing across the new role of Global Head of Customer competitors for customer satisfaction either Asia-Pacific. We created a smoother Experience, and appointed customer remained flat or improved compared with authentication process through champions in key business areas. last year in seven of our eight key markets.1 a one-time password issued to customers by text message. New tools have been introduced to help Moments of Truth This avoided three authentication us understand our customers. These In 2018, we fully embedded our Moments questions, which customers told include customer journey mapping, which of Truth programme, surveys which allow us were difficult to use. Customer aims to take a holistic approach to assess us to continually capture feedback from queries are now handled faster by customers’ current experiences and customers about interactions we know are giving wider access to the payment design ideal ones. More than 350 of our important to them. We have surveyed over systems to our employees. These people globally have been trained in its 18,000 customers across 40 markets and changes contributed towards a use. New artificial intelligence (‘AI’) tools have driven improvements through more 70% reduction of payments-related used by our insight and analytics teams than 100 actions taken to address the complaints, from their highest point also allow us to scrutinise more openfeedback. Key performance metrics across in 2017, and a fall in average call ended feedback from customers quickly all these key events, such as opening handling time from 11 to seven minutes. and accurately. an account, calling our contact centres, Customer satisfaction setting up internet banking, applying for credit or changing relationship manager, We use syndicated research, feedback have improved in 2018. We actively from social media, and operational data review the interactions we measure to to help us identify what areas are most make sure we continue to focus on the important to our customers, and where issues that matter most to our customers. our performance could be improved. 1. Eight key markets: Hong Kong, UK, Pearl River Delta, Singapore, Malaysia, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and UAE. Customer satisfaction metrics for Pearl River Delta will be available from 2019. In Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Mexico and UAE, CMB performance in 2017 is based on the bank that the customer defines as their main bank, while CMB performance for these markets in 2018 is based on the bank that the customer defines as the most important. Surveys are based on a relevant and representative subset of the market. Data provided by RFi Group, Kantar and another third-party provider. Acting on feedback Listening to customers and acting on their feedback has helped us to drive improvements to the customer experience. Here are some of the main issues raised and how we responded. Area of focus Action Improving the In the UK, we created a new welcome journey for small businesses. This resulted in improved customer satisfaction ease and speed of and increased use of self-service digital tools. In France, we sped up the opening of accounts by simplifying the account opening process. In Singapore, new customers are now assigned a single point of contact to help them. A customised video also introduces customers to their service team and helps them to get started with online banking. Customer query We want to make sure our people are fully equipped to answer customer enquiries efficiently and effectively. We handling provided additional training for customer service managers in our Global Trade and Receivables Finance business in Singapore and Hong Kong, as well as for our HSBCnet telephone teams to improve their technical and soft skills. In the UK, a query escalation process was introduced to improve our ability to resolve queries quickly and accurately. Easy channels In order to help make sure our products and services meet customers’ needs, we have more than 200 customers to communicate as active members of online panels in the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, Australia, UAE, Mexico and the US. These feedback provide fast feedback, allowing us to test changes directly with customers. In 2018, they helped us redesign our online banking platform and provided input into developments around integration of third-party accounting software. 12 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Our Commercial Banking customers When things go wrong We support our people to help make the payment processes and the way an increase in complaints. In France, Overview sure they handle customer complaints we handle queries reduced complaints rapid business growth during early 2018 effectively, with a training module significantly in Asia-Pacific. We are keen resulted in higher than expected account available to all relevant employees. to learn from these events to improve opening requests, increasing the time A new global complaints management customer experience in other markets. taken to open accounts. Additional procedure was delivered in the first resources were employed and changes Account opening complaints reflected quarter of 2019 to help make sure we implemented to streamline the process, the third largest in volume (7% of total continue to manage complaints in an resulting in a reduction in complaints later complaints). In the UK, challenges with equitable and timely way, in an effort in the year. the introduction of a new system led to to provide effective and fair outcomes for our customers. CMB annual complaint volumes Top complaint categories In 2018, we resolved a total of 77,892 Customers corporate customer complaints, which Complaint categories Complaints (000s)1 was a 35% year-on-year increase, with 81% coming from customers in the UK, 2018 2017 2018 2017 3% in France and 2% in the US. We have stepped up our financial crime UK 62.8 43.1 Processes and 27% 12% prevention procedures due to increased procedures scrutiny in this area, but as a result this Hong Kong 4.9 4.1 has led to increased complaints from Operations 25% 26% our customers, representing more than Asia-Pacific 0.9 1.1 a quarter (27%) of total complaints. Account opening 7% 5% Employees Dissatisfaction was often due to requests Europe 3.0 4.8 for additional personal and business Contact centre 6% 12% information to help us guard against Middle East and fraud and money laundering. Without 1.5 1.8 Fees, rates and North Africa 6% 7% those details, services were sometimes charges restricted and, in certain circumstances, Latin America 2.3 1.2 accounts were closed. After reviewing Internet banking 4% 6% customer communications, we have US 1.8 1.2 improved the content and layout of letters, Branch 4% 8% making the process clearer and simpler. Supporting Canada 0.7 0.4 Others 21% 24% Operational complaints were the second highest in volume (25% of total 1. Volumes for the UK are received complaints from eligible complainants to align with the current FCA sustainable growth complaints), reflecting the most frequent reporting. Volumes of complaints for the rest of the markets are based on resolved complaints. customer transactions. Improvements in Spotlight: Conduct We regularly review a list of all products executive pricing steering committee This has resulted in a significant input sold to our corporate customers so they has been improving our existing pricing of ideas and concerns that have allowed remain appropriate and relevant to framework to help make sure we our leaders to shape their own conduct A responsible our customers. To help make sure all price products and services fairly, agendas and communications. For our products meet customer needs, communicate transparently, and have further details of our Exchange forums, we have a rigorous governance and robust controls in place. Following our see the Employees section on page 22. business culture approval process for any new product focused efforts, complaints around fees The scorecards for front-line employees or significant changes to existing ones. and charges have fallen by 20% over are now balanced with a maximum We operate sales outcome testing the last two years. of 50% being related to performance. in 12 key markets designed to ensure We are increasingly seeing instances of We have put a strong emphasis on customers have understood the features role model behaviours driving upward communicating to our people on how of their chosen products, such as pricing, adjustments in variable pay from 1% we should behave. We broadcast videos mechanics, risk and benefits. In 2018, in 2015 to 8% in 2017. of senior leaders speaking about what Additional information we identified 132 issues through the conduct means to them and why it is Fraud is a growing problem and we strive CMB outcome testing programme, such important. We feature examples of to protect our customers from financial as documentation, sales process, and employees making the right decisions crime. In Mexico, we introduced training pricing issues. Actions are underway to in the interests of customers in global for our relationship managers focused address these issues. employee communications. Countries, on business email compromise and We recognise it is important to provide regions and global operations all held malware fraud so they can pass on this our products at a fair price and in a conduct-themed workshops, informal knowledge to customers and take the transparent way. Since late 2017, an Exchange sessions and town halls. right action if a customer is affected. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 13 Customers Our Global Banking and Markets customers How we listen to our customers We provide financial services and standardised, automatically populated we collect and store KYC information, products to governments, companies credit documentation that can be signed technology solutions and data access. and institutional clients around the world. digitally. This service, now available in the We reduced onboarding times for our Listening and reacting to customers UK, has reduced the time it takes for our corporate customer base by 8% by the is one of the most important ways of customers to receive financing. end of 2018. There is still a lot to do and improving our business. One of the our target is to reduce this by a further We are simplifying our know your primary ways we do this is through our 20% by 2020. customer (‘KYC’) questionnaire and annual customer engagement survey. worked with compliance to streamline For more information on some of the Customer satisfaction the KYC aspect of customer onboarding. ways we have made it easier and safer This improved our risk management for customers to access our services In this survey, 94% of our customers felt process and reduced verification times digitally, see page 18. our overall service and our commitment by 25%. We are also streamlining how to their business either improved or stayed the same in 2018. Each aspect of the survey is carefully reviewed to Customer survey results 63% 46% consider which actions can be taken to improve customer perceptions of us and the service we offer. of customers considered of customers felt our people are HSBC as one of their more likely to initiate a strategic One area where customers were top three banks in 2018 conversation than 12 months ago dissatisfied was our account opening (2017: 64%) requirements and how we update customer information. Some customers felt that these were too cumbersome and time-consuming. 94% of customers felt our service 95% of customers felt they had As a first step, our credit and lending had either stayed the same a good or very good rapport or improved in 2018 with GB&M team is rolling out a digital credit platform, (2017: 96%) a service that provides customers with Acting on feedback Responding quickly and efficiently to customers’ feedback and complaints helps to build trust. We are placing a strong Case study: Improving payments processing emphasis on this, and reviewing the formal complaints In 2018, we were approached by a potential customer process in place for customers across all of the GB&M who was looking for a new banking provider to resolve business lines to improve its effectiveness. problems they had faced regarding delayed payments. New tools have been adopted to better record complaints and Staff salary payments had been repeatedly delayed, due track their resolution. In November 2018, we created a new to a screening process that banks are required to carry global team to look specifically at customer experience. With out to comply with regulations. This was an increasing a broad mandate, it focuses on careful analysis of feedback reputational risk for the firm. When we looked into the and rapid resolution of complaints. problem for them, it focused our attention on similar issues faced by our existing customers. Not only did One of its immediate tasks is to consolidate customer we win this firm as a new customer, we also proposed feedback and complaints across multiple business lines, to take a proactive approach to screening payments geographies and products. This should help us improve the for existing clients, which notifies customers of any customer experience, and identify any areas for collaboration delays and obtains additional information needed to or early detection of potential issues. identify and release blocked payments within a target Customer experience meetings are now scheduled regularly of 48 hours. By making sure we collect information on with our top management. These bring together senior people regular beneficiaries upfront and use it effectively, we have to look closely at customer concerns and produce consistent, significantly reduced payment delays for our customers. business-wide solutions. 14 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Our Global Banking and Markets customers When things go wrong Overall, the number of complaints in part due to improvements to how GB&M annual complaint volumes1 Overview increased in 2018, mainly in Global we record feedback. Previously, many Liquidity and Cash Management complaints that were related to the range 2018 2017 (‘GLCM’) due to a number of significant of products and services offered by systems upgrades and issues throughout HSBC were recorded by Global Banking, the year. In most other GB&M where the overall customer relationship Global Markets2 201 273 businesses, the number of complaints is managed. In 2018, we have aimed, either reduced or remained stable from where possible, to record specific Global Banking 330 417 2017. In Global Markets, we had a complaints in relation to products and reduction in complaints resulting from services against their specific product Securities Services 360 349 human error and processing issues in line such as GLCM and Global Trade our operations team. In Global Banking, and Receivables Finance products. Global Liquidity and 1,251 474 Customers the number of recorded complaints fell, Cash Management3 1. A ‘complaint’ is defined as any expression of dissatisfaction, whether upheld/justified or not, from Total 2,142 1,513 (or on behalf of) a former, existing or prospective customer relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service activity. 2. Global Markets also includes research. 3. G LCM excludes complaints relating to payment operations. Spotlight: Conduct Improving employee conduct remains one change. We have led region-specific Group, and training has commenced Employees of GB&M’s core priorities as we continue to conduct weeks, where we highlighted for Global Markets sales employees. pursue the highest standards across every examples of conduct in action across the ––In our Exchange meetings on conduct aspect of our business. The way in which business, and produced and updated and culture in 2018, our people provided we conduct business helps us fulfil country-specific conduct handbooks. feedback that they wanted more support our purpose of connecting clients to ––We have a complex footprint across understanding how pricing is determined opportunities and helping economies to different businesses, countries and desks. to support conversations with customers grow, while staying true to our values. This can lead to a number of different and ensure consistency. New guidelines Customers rely on us for our financing, cultures – some of which will have issues on pricing and transparency have advisory and research expertise. They know that need to be addressed. In 2018, since been agreed and published. we can access global debt, equity, currency we began a series of pilot exercises to Supporting and commodity markets. It is vital that they examine the root causes of employee Reinforcing our controls trust us to manage their liquidity, keep their and team behaviour, and to help design framework assets safe, and finance their trade. interventions. This will continue in 2019. sustainable growth ––During 2018, our businesses ran In 2018, we took a fresh look at how ––We introduced a new hiring guide exercises to encourage a deeper to help deliver fair outcomes for our for managers to support the assessment understanding of the conflicts of interest customers, and help ensure we do and selection of candidates, and that can occur in investment banking. not cause disruption to the orderly and strengthen our interview process These captured a more granular view of transparent operation of financial markets. with a broader inclusion of values the potential situations that our people We worked with third-party experts to and behavioural measures. need to be aware of and actively manage. highlight areas that needed improvement, ––Our management and staff wanted more Over 100 workshops have been held to which led to a comprehensive new training on conduct and how it applies create an inventory of conflicts of interest A responsible programme to improve our conduct. The to them and their roles. We continue that could arise within GB&M, bringing key areas of focus are highlighted below: to improve our conduct curriculum to business lines and regions together. business culture Culture and environment meet this demand, including coverage ––We reviewed all our Global Banking of behavioural drivers, conflicts, grey locations to assess whether they are ––We are expanding the dialogue areas and specific technical training. segregated from other business lines on conduct to help ensure we are from the perspective of information supporting our people to make valuesEmbedding conduct in core control and managing conflicts of interest. based judgements in situations they business processes ––We work in an environment where we are face every day, and feel safe raising ––We have created a Global Markets entrusted with privileged information that concerns. In the first half of 2018, 5,200 product risk function and appointed we have a critical responsibility to protect. Additional information of our people attended 650 Exchange co-Heads of Product Governance in It is vital that high levels of information meetings to discuss our conduct and Global Markets to improve product controls are in place. Improvements in culture, with further Exchange meetings governance. Product due diligence controls and procedures have been held through the rest of 2018. templates used across GB&M have been introduced during 2018. Over 31,000 ––We have developed a network of conduct enhanced in an effort to ensure conduct HSBC employees across all GB&M offices champions across the business to help is more carefully considered. Sales completed a bespoke training module on drive conduct awareness and provide a suitability procedures have been information control procedures. group of enthusiastic, committed people developed for people working in Global F  or further information on our approach to conduct to act as local sponsors for behavioural Banking and the Institutional Client and the steps we have taken, see pages 37 to 39. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 15 Customers Our Global Private Banking customers How we listen to our customers We serve the needs of high net worth The three themes that have emerged and ultra high net worth individuals and families, helping them to grow, manage and preserve their personal wealth from 7.6 Overall satisfaction, adversely impacted by from this survey, which we need to address are: ––We need to improve perceptions of generation to generation. the perception of value for money (2017: 8.4) the quality of investment advice and Building strong personal relationships products, which is falling short of with customers is critical in private expectations. banking. Our customer service teams, (based on a scale of 1 to 10), falling ––We need to keep pace with increasing comprising relationship managers, short of our threshold target of 8.0. This customer expectations. We have been investment counsellors, product and decline corresponded with a decline in slow to implement a global digital credit specialists, and wealth planners our customers’ perception of whether proposition and our customers have interact with customers on a daily basis, we offer value for money, falling from experienced a higher number of listening to and acting on feedback. 91% to 76%. instances than is acceptable where Customer satisfaction However, our customers continue the service they have received from to be satisfied with our relationship us left them feeling annoyed or In addition to this feedback, we conduct management teams, scoring them let down. an annual customer engagement survey. 8.4 out of 10, while 86% strongly agree ––We need to change outdated In 2018, more than 800 customers that our portfolio reviews meet their processes. Some of our customers shared their views on our people, financial needs, by providing a score feel our processes and procedures are products and services. Our overall of either 4 or 5 (on a scale of -5 to 5). cumbersome, and as a consequence satisfaction score fell from 8.4 to 7.6 we may not be easy to deal with. Acting on feedback Given the direct access our customers have to their relationship managers, issues are usually resolved quickly. However, the customer engagement survey highlighted how some customers do not feel their feedback is addressed properly. In response, we are improving how we record feedback to ensure this is addressed in a more systematic way. We have three global strategic investment programmes underway focused on improving customer engagement and supporting sustainable business growth. These programmes, overseen by the GPB executive committee, are in the following table: Area of focus Action Advisory services We are enhancing our advisory proposition through investment in technology that provides more sophisticated portfolio construction and risk analytics capabilities. This should help us to improve our investment processes and provide more proactive, well-informed advice. To support this, we increased the number of customerfacing investment professionals and product specialists by 17% in 2018, and plan to make further investments in 2019, including a comprehensive training programme. Digital We are aware that our investment in digital wealth management capabilities has lagged behind those of our competitors. This has had an adverse impact on customer satisfaction. In 2018, we developed online and app-based capabilities that went live initially in the UK in February 2019 and which will be introduced to all our key markets during the year. A programme of continual enhancement will help ensure that these services remain competitive in the marketplace. Global platform We are rationalising the number of IT platforms, replacing legacy systems with a core platform that houses replacement a set of strategic solutions. This will facilitate global access to our flagship products and propositions, bringing a consistent customer experience across our main booking centres. The core platform is live in four locations, including Switzerland and the UK, and is scheduled to go live in Asia towards the end of 2019. 16 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Our Global Private Banking customers Overview When things go wrong GPB annual complaint volumes1 Encouraging our people to record potential for human error and frustration all instances of complaints or negative that can result from additional requests Customers 2018 2017 feedback is essential to ensure we identify for updated personal and business and take action on customer concerns information. and improve the services we provide. UK 46 70 Product and performance issues were To support this, we are refreshing responsible for 9% of complaints. These Hong Kong 22 8 training modules to emphasise the doubled compared with 2017 and can be positive benefits of effective complaint sensitive to the performance of individual Rest of EMEA 276 294 handling and including a requirement funds and investments compared with to accurately record complaints in market benchmarks. The third most individuals’ objectives. Rest of Asia 13 10 common complaint related to pricing In 2018, we received 550 complaints, (8%). A common root cause was the US 193 196 a decrease of 5% on 2017. The significant challenge of applying certain customers’ Employees majority (77%) related to service and special pricing terms consistently, and administration issues, which include steps are being taken to reduce the 1. A complaint is defined as any oral or written investment reporting, delay or failure scope for human error where possible. expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or to process customer instructions, not, from, or on behalf of, a person about the In 2018, we resolved 504 complaints of provision of, or failure to provide, a financial dissatisfaction with postal or online which 219 were upheld. service or a complaint determination. services, and record updating. We recognise our investment reporting capabilities require improvement and we plan to make a number of changes Supporting in 2019. We are striving to reduce the Spotlight: Conduct sustainable growth One of our primary goals is to achieve ––Sales suitability: We established sales in 2018 with increased global oversight. fair conduct outcomes. Senior leaders quality assurance (‘SQA’) teams in Our product pricing principles, set by a set the tone and recently supported a 2017, enabling us to focus on improving global pricing policy and fair value series of workshops for colleagues in the quality and consistency of our exchange criteria for specific asset our European booking centres. These investment advice. In 2018, more than classes, are being embedded in all A responsible included real conduct case studies for 3,200 trades were sample tested, 93% booking centres. senior management and supervisors of which provided advice in line with to discuss with their teams, and will our standards, with identified issues Training our people business culture continue in 2019 to maintain the resulting in appropriate remedial action for fair outcomes current level of focus. including customer contact where Through the ongoing deployment of necessary. The SQA teams also perform role-based learning, all customer-facing Strengthening our controls thematic reviews, focusing on high risk teams completed conduct training as Since 2015, we have published scenarios. Where deviations from the required by their role in 2018. Building a number of conduct-related policies, standards or issues are identified, they on this, we developed specific learning including those addressing conflicts of are escalated and corrective action is programmes for people managers Additional information interest, best execution, sales suitability, taken, where required. and supervisors. This training develops pricing, product governance, the ––Supervisory framework: We defined a capabilities to supervise, coach and supervisory framework and potentially new framework in 2018, establishing develop relationship managers, vulnerable customers. clear standards and guidelines for investment counsellors and customer We continue to focus on ensuring these individuals with responsibility for service executives within GPB. are embedded and applied consistently supervising customer-facing employees.  or further information on our approach to conduct F across the business. Ongoing work to ––Product governance and pricing: We and the steps we have taken, see pages 37 to 39. strengthen controls includes: strengthened our product governance HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 17 Customers Customer developments across all global businesses Our investment in technology We are committed to improving customer such as biometric login and the ability Investing in digital experience through investments in to put temporary blocks on cards. As technology. Here we highlight some we continue our roll-out of new apps, of our areas of focus during 2018. approximately 20% of active mobile users still use the legacy app, which lacks some Improving customer experience features users expect. This can be seen 45% We are investing in technology to get through low Apple App store ratings, to know our customers better and make where our legacy mobile app scores an 1 use of these insights to provide them average 1.9 out of 5 compared with the with clarity about their finances. Digital new app scoring 4.8 in the UK and of our retail messaging is used to help our UK 4.7 in Hong Kong. customers are customers with financial difficulties digitally active Our new Business Express mobile app manage their debt, including accessing (2017: 41%) helps enable our commercial customers debt consolidation services and charities to stay on top of their business finances online. Since launching this new service any time, anywhere. Key features include in November 2018, we have received biometric access through fingerprint more than 17,000 visits. or facial recognition, fast and accurate 60% For our global and institutional customers, tracking of recent incoming funds, we became one of the first banks in 2018 outgoing payments as well as all trade to roll out Face ID login globally. The Live transactions, plus instant help from the of our commercial Chat service on HSBCnet is now available chatbot Ask Amy 24/7. New features will banking customers use to more than 56,000 customers in six be added, including notifications and our internet banking countries. It has consistently high customer faster payment journeys. satisfaction ratings, reaching 89% in July Machine learning/AI 2018. We were also the first foreign bank 1. Digital metrics include the following markets: the in mainland China to allow customers to Artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and machine UK (excluding M&S Bank and John Lewis Finance access services through WeChat. learning are becoming easier to use customers), Hong Kong (excluding Hang Seng through our adoption of cloud computing, customers), Mexico, Malaysia, Singapore, UAE, Mobile banking experience mainland China, Canada, Australia, the US, open source frameworks and commercial France, India, Indonesia, Turkey, Egypt, Argentina We have seen significant growth in solutions. AI is being used to better and Taiwan. Digitally active customers are defined mobile adoption rates for our retail segment customers for financial crime as the percentage of customers who have logged customers, with the proportion of mobile detection and to investigate potential on to HSBC digital channels at least once in the active customers increasing by almost crime faster and to a higher quality. last 90 days. 50% in 2018. We have introduced new Machine learning is at the heart of our mobile app features, such as remote intelligence-led financial crime models, cheque deposit in the UK and Canada, where it is being trialled to improve mobile chat in the UK, and International real-time detection rates and reduce Education Payment Solution (‘IEPS’) in false positives. AI is also being used China, which allows customers to pay for increasingly within our RBWM business their children’s international education to determine customer needs, and to fees from their mobile phones. enable us to make relevant offers to our Our PayMe mobile app allows HSBC customers at the right time for them. customers and non-customers to send For our retail customers, we introduced and receive money instantly and for free. machine learning-enabled chatbots in PayMe has approximately 1.5 million mainland China, Hong Kong and the users with over two million payments US to handle basic questions so that made each month, making it the number customers would not need to wait for one peer-to-peer payments app in Hong a live agent to be available. Kong, according to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. For our global and institutional clients, our virtual assistant uses machine learning In 2018, we launched new mobile apps in to answer customers’ questions. It is five markets, with improved functionality available in five languages. 18 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Customer developments across all global businesses Overview Protecting our customers’ data Cybersecurity ––attendee of key banking association In 2018, there were significant changes cyber working groups in all regions, to EU data privacy laws, with the General We operate in an increasingly sophisticated Customers including groups run by the Association Data Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’) and hostile cyber threat environment. In for Financial Markets in Europe and the coming into effect across the EU, while response, we are investing in business Hong Kong Association of Banks; new data privacy legislation came into and technical controls to help prevent, ––contributor to the UK’s National Cyber force in some non-EU jurisdictions. The detect and react to these cyber threats. Security Centre, specifically through introduction of the GDPR provided us with We are strengthening our controls to the Cyber Security Information Sharing an opportunity to review and reinforce our help protect against advanced malware, Partnership initiative; data privacy policies and controls across data leakage, infiltration of payment ––member of the following three chapters the Group, giving customers, employees systems and denial of service attacks of the Financial Services Information and stakeholders more transparency and as well as enhancing our ability to Sharing and Analysis Center: the control over how we use and manage detect and respond to cyber-attacks. US, UK and Europe, and Asia-Pacific their information. A dedicated programme Employees An important part of our defence chapters; of work was mobilised to execute and strategy is ensuring our employees embed GDPR requirements within HSBC remain cyber-aware and know how to ––member of the Institute of International ahead of its coming into force. We report incidents. We continually evaluate Finance cyber working group; continue to develop and focus our privacy the threat environment for the most ––contributor to the Cyber Security capabilities in areas such as safeguards, prevalent attack types and their potential Industry Group, a financial services privacy impact and risk assessments, staff outcomes in order to determine the most industry-led information exchange training, education and raising awareness. effective controls. forum in the UK; and Data privacy is regularly reported at ––member of government-led computer We operate a three lines of defence multiple Group-level governance forums, emergency response teams in major Supporting model, aligned to the operational risk which include Board level representation markets, including the UK, US and management framework, to identify, to help ensure appropriate challenge Hong Kong. report and manage cyber risks within and visibility among senior stakeholders. sustainable growth the organisation. Global business and Operational resilience In addition, data privacy governance function risk owners in the first line are structures have been established within accountable for identifying, owning and Operational resilience is the ability the Group. We continue to work towards managing the cyber risk. They work with to adapt operations to continue embedding ownership and accountability control owners to help ensure controls functioning when – not if – circumstances of data governance across all businesses are in place to mitigate issues, prevent change. We have a clear strategic and functions in an effort to ensure risk events occurring and resolve risk approach to operational resilience effective management of risks. events if they do occur. These controls considered from three perspectives, while putting the impact on our Increasing complexity in the matrix are executed in line with policies A responsible customers and colleagues at the centre of global data privacy laws, recent produced by the second line information of our thinking: how we architect, design developments in data localisation security risk teams and are overseen by and build systems and services; how requirements and the emergence of business culture the third line – the independent Internal we operate, run and monitor our control new data-driven technologies continue Audit function. environment; and how we respond and to challenge the banking industry. They Cyber risk and control effectiveness recover in the event of disruption. also bring opportunities to serve our was reviewed 11 times at non-executive customers better, and we recognise that Director level, including by the Board, Data privacy data privacy and concepts such as privacy Group Risk Committee and Group Audit We are committed to protecting the by design are fundamental to achieving Committee. It is also reported across the privacy of data we hold and process, this. We continue to work closely with Additional information global businesses, functions and regions in accordance with the laws and data privacy regulators, industry bodies to help ensure appropriate visibility regulations of the geographies we operate and external stakeholders around the and governance of the risk and its in. We are focused on embedding a world to stay abreast of regulatory mitigating controls. culture designed to ensure data privacy developments in this area. We participate in several industry bodies is at the heart of our organisation. and working groups to discuss cyber risks, including the following: HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 19 Employees We have a total workforce of 235,000 fulland part-time employees, working across 66 countries and territories. We are working to create the right environment to help enable everyone to fulfil their potential. At a glance Our relationship Employee profile Our people at HSBC span many Top five nationalities1 cultures, communities and continents. We want to build trusted relationships, All employees Senior leaders (GCB 0–3) where our people feel empowered (%) (%) in their roles and inspired to grow. We help our leaders set the tone Chinese 22 British 35 by listening and valuing the behaviours that get a job done Indian 17 Chinese 9 as much as the outcome. British 16 Indian 6 We understand the importance of building a diverse and inclusive Mexican 7 French 3 workforce, valuing individuals and their contribution. This allows us to Malaysian 3 Australian 3 better represent our customers and the communities we serve. The path 1. Data excludes unspecified nationalities. to achieving the healthiest human system is being defined by our people in conversations around the world. Age diversity Employee tenure By region All employees Senior leaders (%) (GCB 0–3) Asia 34 42 17 6 1 Europe 17 32 25 18 81 Latin 27 44 21 7 1 America Middle 23 49 24 4 East 55% 51% North 0–5 years 0–5 years 12 30 28 23 7 America 17% 17% 6–10 years 6–10 years Key ≤29 50–59 19% 21% 11–20 years 11–20 years 30–39 ≥60 40–49 6% 8% 21–30 years 21–30 years 3% 3% ≥31 years ≥31 years 20 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Report, April 2019 At a glance Overview Snapshot survey results Exchange results Customers 66% would recommend 2,000 HSBC as a great Exchange meetings took place to work place to discuss the healthiest (2017: 64%) human system 74% 30,000 Employees feel able to speak up when they see behaviour they employees have taken part consider to be wrong in these sessions (2017: 74%) Supporting Diversity and inclusion Developing our people Gender balance – all employees Awards Training statistics at HSBC sustainable growth 48% 6.2 million Male (115,391) HSBC employees were named on the (2017: 48%) following: 52% Female (125,276) Training hours Financial Times’ (2017: 7.2 million) (2017: 52%) OUTstanding list A responsible Gender balance – senior leaders Financial Times’ EMpower list 72% 2.8 days business culture Male (6,887) Financial Times’ (2017: 73%) HERoes list 28% Training days per FTE Female (2,701) (2017: 3 days) (2017: 27%) Additional information HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 21 Employees Listening to our people How we listen to our people Understanding how our people feel to speak up, have more trust in leadership about HSBC is vital. It helps us ensure More than and report higher levels of well-being. 50% we are giving them the right support to More than half of our people took part achieve their potential and to serve our in an Exchange meeting during 2018. customers well. of our people took part in an Exchange Over 2,000 Exchange meetings were We capture the views of our people on meeting during 2018 arranged to discuss our ambition to a range of topics, such as our strategy, create the healthiest human system in our culture and working environment, through industry. These involved 30,000 employees our employee survey, Snapshot. Results Exchange taking part and sharing what it means for are presented to the Group Management Our Exchange forums provide a place for them. It is clear from the feedback that we Board and relevant executive committees. our people to share their open and honest need to begin with frank, open and honest This allows us to take action based on views. Typically, these are meetings held conversations about what it feels like to the feedback. The adjacent table shows without an agenda, meaning people can work at HSBC. We will use this feedback selected results from our 2018 survey. discuss what matters most to them. We to build out action plans in 2019 and ensure know that when people participate in that the necessary steps are taken to Snapshot survey Exchange meetings, they feel more able make a positive change. We track employee advocacy by asking whether our people would recommend Selected results from Snapshot survey HSBC as a great place to work. Currently, 66% of our people would recommend 2018 2017 HSBC, an increase from 64% in 2017. We recognise there is more to do and I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy 67% 65% we are aiming to improve this measure by three points each year through to I feel confident about HSBC’s future 75% 72% 2020. Analysis in 2018 showed us that trust in leadership, career development I trust the senior leadership in my area 64% 66% and recognising our people for their behaviour and performance drive a positive response to this question. I believe that the senior leadership in my area makes decisions that 53% 53% take people like me into consideration In late 2018, we expanded our Snapshot survey to look at behaviours by asking I feel proud to work for HSBC 76% 76% if people see others demonstrating our values. The feedback allows us to I would recommend this company as a great place to work 66% 64% identify areas for improvement and take meaningful action in 2019. Conditions in my job allow me to be as productive as I can be 65% 58% We see that 74% of our people feel able to speak up when they see behaviour that I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong 74% 74% they consider to be wrong. It tells us that our speak-up channels are working, but I believe HSBC is genuine in its commitment to encourage 74% 70% we know there is further work to be done. colleagues to speak up Spotlight: Employee recognition Embedding a culture that recognises great behaviour is important to us. Our global recognition programme At Our Best allows people to recognise colleagues who live up to our values. Employees receive recognition points from their colleagues, which can be redeemed against a wide range of goods. In 2018, more than 720,000 recognitions were made to a total value of $8.4 million. In 2018, we focused on HSBC sustainability, resulting in over 65,000 employee recognitions. Stories were shared as inspirational case studies on our intranet, HSBC NOW. These included how our people were championing greener business, supporting a greener environment and volunteering in the local community. 22 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Listening to our people Overview When things go wrong 2,068 Having a culture where our people All whistleblowing concerns are subject feel able to speak up is important. to an independent investigation, which Customers Our people are encouraged to raise is carried out by teams trained to handle concerns about wrongdoing or unethical sensitive cases. These include human Number of cases raised (2017: 1,585) conduct through their normal reporting resources, compliance, legal, information and escalation channels. However, we understand that in some circumstances people prefer a more discreet way to security and internal audit. Cases are allocated depending on the concerns raised. In 2018, 74% related to people, 34% Substantiated cases closed (2017: 30%) raise their concerns. 12% to security and fraud, 11% to compliance, and the remaining 3% to Whistleblowing other categories. Following investigation, HSBC Confidential is a global platform we take appropriate action if necessary, that allows people to raise concerns including disciplinary action or Employees outside of our normal reporting and adjustments to variable pay and/or escalation channels in confidence performance and behaviour ratings. and without fear of retaliation. This We learn lessons and change our is available to all of our people, past processes where needed. and present, in all global businesses, HSBC does not condone or tolerate functions and entities. retaliation against people who raise Within this platform, we have concerns and we strictly enforce multiple channels to raise issues, our policy relating to this. Senior including telephone hotlines, online management are made aware of cases Supporting portals and email. A broad range of alleging retaliation and the outcome or cases, covering a range of severity action taken. Making malicious or false levels, are dealt with each year. We also claims is incompatible with our values sustainable growth monitor an external email address for and such instances are taken seriously. concerns about accounting, internal Our Group Audit Committee financial controls or auditing matters has responsibility for oversight of (accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). whistleblowing arrangements and In 2019, we plan to expand our use of receives regular updates on the status an independent third-party supplier to of whistleblowing case volumes, manage our 24/7 reporting hotline and themes and outcomes. ensure the service is available in the Group’s key local languages. A responsible Spotlight: Conduct business culture We rely on our people to deliver fair committees. In 2019, we aim to develop outcomes for our customers and make our reporting and analysis of themes and sure we act with integrity in the financial action taken. markets. A high standard of personal Bullying and harassment are not Additional information conduct is critical for our ability to live tolerated at HSBC and we have strict up to this commitment and ensure processes to manage these types of a healthy working environment for behaviour. At the end of 2018, our Group our people. We actively manage Chief Executive addressed the topic misconduct by taking any necessary directly with senior leaders. In 2019, action, up to and including dismissal. we aim to centralise the monitoring of We monitor and report cases on any bullying and harassment cases. a regular basis to management HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 23 Employees A healthy and diverse workforce At HSBC, diversity is not just about a particular demographic group. It is about Spotlight: Gender pay gap who we are, what we have learned and the experience we have gained. We seek Gender pay is an area of particular focus in the UK with the introduction of to reflect the diversity of the markets we the Gender Pay Gap (‘GPG’) Reporting regulations. We have complied with serve, not only in our people but also the regulations and reported our 2017/2018 GPG. Our UK gender pay gap is by encouraging diversity across our driven by the gender imbalance within our businesses and functions. There customers, communities and suppliers. are fewer women in senior leadership roles, meaning that we have more men earning higher salaries. A higher proportion of women work in more junior We believe in an enterprise-wide roles or work part-time hours. approach to diversity and inclusion. In 2018, we made good progress in We are committed to improving gender balance and are taking a number updating our global procurement of specific steps that we expect to have a positive impact in the UK over processes to improve supplier diversity time, including: and will continue this in 2019. We ––driving better gender balance at all levels in the organisation; conducted a refresh of our brand to ––developing female talent to strengthen the leadership pipeline; include inclusive imagery and principles ––supporting families and flexibility; and so our customers and people can see themselves in HSBC. We have introduced ––retaining female talent. talking cash machines and sign language We are confident in our approach to pay and where we have identified pay services on smartphones to provide differences that cannot be explained, we have made appropriate adjustments. ‘barrier-free banking’ and insurance products for same sex couples in Hong Kong. We know there is still more to do. Gender diversity statistics Holdings Board 9 64% 5 36% In 2018, 28.2% of our senior leadership Group Management 17 89% Board 2 11% were women, above our goal of 27.6%. Combined executive 148 74% committee and 51 26% direct reports1 Gender balance Our employee networks Senior 6,887 72% leadership2 2,701 28% Gender balance in leadership is an area Our seven global employee networks and where we are making progress but our HSBC Communities discuss issues our Senior leadership 752 69% RBWM 331 31% recognise the need to improve. We have people care about and challenge us on signed up to the 30% Club campaign where we could be doing better. We have Senior leadership 652 74% commitment to reach 30% women in more than 140 groups with over 80,000 CMB 226 26% senior leadership roles by the end of 2020. participants. The networks focus on Senior leadership 2,398 80% 608 20% In 2018, 28.2% of our senior leadership gender, age, ethnicity, LGBT+, faith, GB&M were women, above our goal of 27.6%. working parents and carers, and ability Senior leadership 387 69% In 2019, we are aiming for 29%. (including mental health). Our HSBC GPB 174 31% Communities focus on a variety of Senior leadership 645 72% To help improve gender balance in common interest topics including flexible HOST 245 28% senior roles we provide mentoring and working, military and veterans, and 115,391 48% sponsorship opportunities for talented All employees Chinese culture. These groups play an 125,276 52% women. We extended our Accelerating important role in helping us make progress. Key Female Leaders programme in our Male GB&M business to include our CMB and Our largest global network, with over Female GPB businesses. Through sponsorship, 48,000 participants, is Balance, which the programme builds visibility and works to improve gender balance. 1. Combined executive committee and direct reports connectivity for Director-level female includes HSBC executive directors, Group Managing In 2018, we introduced a global Directors, and their direct reports (excluding talent with leaders from across the Group. management structure for our LGBT+ administrative staff) plus Company Secretary. network, Pride, to help network growth 2. S enior leadership refers to employees performing and share best practice. roles classified as 0, 1, 2 or 3 in our global career band structure. 24 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Well-being and developing our people Overview Employee well-being flexibly, and those who do are more attract, develop and motivate our people positive about their general well-being. who demonstrate high potential. A healthy and happy workforce We know this is an area where people is essential for a positive working Expanding HSBC University want more support, so during 2018 we environment. Our priorities for our Customers invested in technology and infrastructure. The opportunity to develop is one of people are mental health, flexible We expanded an OpenWork concept, the most important factors affecting working and financial well-being. which makes it easier for our people to how people feel about HSBC. We Mental health work flexibly across 27 cities covering celebrated the first anniversary of our approximately 75,000 staff. This helped home of learning, HSBC University, We want HSBC to be an environment more of our people make positive choices in November 2018. Thousands of where people feel they can be open about that meet their needs both inside and resources are available through this their mental health and concerns. While outside of work. platform, which receives more than we have taken action, we know there is 52,000 visits per month. more to do. One of our HSBC Communities, Flex, which supports flexible working, has HSBC University strengthens how In October 2018, we held over 75 events run global events on topics such as job we learn and lead through new Employees to support World Mental Health Day. sharing. These included an event on programmes, resources and premises. This included a video interview between International Men’s Day, which focused We have launched HSBC University John Flint, our Group Chief Executive, on male employees and the mental health regional hubs at our offices in Dubai and Brian Heyworth, our Global Head of benefits of flexible working. Our priority and the HSBC UK headquarters in Client Strategy, sharing their perspectives for 2019 is to implement consistent Birmingham, providing opportunities on mental health at HSBC. This has flexible working principles across HSBC. for our colleagues, customers and become one of the most viewed internal community groups to come together videos and helped open the conversation Financial well-being to learn, develop and connect. within HSBC. In 2018, we re-launched our employee We have expanded our management Supporting We offer an employee assistance assistance programmes, to include and leadership development with new programme so our people have free financial support. In addition, multiple programmes, including Leading with access to external expert assistance and countries have run financial capability Impact for senior leaders, and Leading sustainable growth confidential advice when they require it, events, including Mexico, UAE and the UK. Myself for those without a team. We have such as after suffering a bereavement or In 2019, we are enhancing the content and developed our Essentials programme to personal difficulty. We advertise these roll-out of our events and education as we support people managers and strengthen third-party programmes locally so our recognise there is further action needed. their coaching and hiring skills. In 2018, people have the available information 600 leaders completed the Leaders as to get the best support.  or more information on how we are working to F increase financial capability, see pages 11 and 34. Teachers programme and put their skills We use our learning platform, HSBC into practice by supporting colleagues’ University, to publish articles and training through business programmes, Learning and development A responsible resources relating to mental health Leadership Essentials and the Accelerated from industry-leading bodies. Talent development Development Programme. business culture In 2019, we will start to provide We recognise we must invest in our We are committed to helping our widespread mental health education people to continue to thrive. people prepare for the future of work. and support to our people, starting with We launched digital skills training, and The International Manager Programme is a programme of mental health education our Leading Myself programme explored one of our flagship talent programmes. for all managers. Our focus will be on areas including personal resilience, With approximately 300 international spotting the signs of mental ill-health, collaboration and communicating with managers currently deployed across having open conversations and impact. This is a continued area of focus 46 countries, the programme provides signposting the right support. This will as there is more to do. Additional information resourcing flexibility and helps us develop be supported by local and Group-wide a strong pipeline of home-grown future During 2018, we formed partnerships with awareness campaigns, recognising that leaders for our most critical positions. external providers, including LinkedIn we all have a part to play to create a Learning and Coursera, and introduced more open environment. International mobility is key to future learning modules to raise awareness of success. We offer international Flexible working secondments and transfers to our wider our sustainability challenges. Our 2017 global well-being survey employee base, which enhances career F  or further details on how we are building development opportunities, and helps to future skills, see page 34. confirmed that 49% of our people work HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 25 Supporting sustainable growth We aim to grow our business in a sustainable way with a focus on moving to a low-carbon economy to protect our planet, recognising our duty to support the communities in which we operate. At a glance Our relationship Sustainable finance Our actions have an impact on the Progress against our targets communities where we do business and the wider environment. We want to ensure we are helping economies grow Target Progress $100bn $28.5bn 56% sustainably, and we choose to direct Europe our resources, including time, people 28% and capital, to helping the global Asia transition to a low-carbon economy. of sustainable financing cumulative progress 13% and investment to be since 2017 Americas We have shown progress against our provided and facilitated by 2025 3% Middle East, North targets in sustainable finance, and Africa and Turkey have set out how we are partnering with our customers to assist with the transition to a low-carbon economy. We are also engaging with our Target Progress customers on transition risk, and embedding climate risk within our own risk management practices. 100% of our electricity will be 29% signed renewable We understand that it is important from renewable sources electricity from power to report disclosure on both climateby 2030 purchase agreements (2017: 27%) related opportunities and risks to our stakeholders, and include our second disclosure under the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Our engagement in 2018 (‘TCFD’) in this section. >2,300 We recognise that technology is developing at a rapid pace in the communities where we operate, employees given and that a range of new and different sustainability training skills are now needed to succeed in (2017: 1,300) the workplace. We continue to focus around employability and financial capability resulting in global programmes and activities that address Awards this in our diverse global communities. We continue to prioritise providing a rich variety of volunteering opportunities for our employees globally and continue to invest in GlobalCapital Sustainable Euromoney Awards Extel the communities we operate in. and Responsible Capital for Excellence 2018 Survey 2018 Market Awards 2018 –– Asia’s Best Bank for –– No.1 Integrated Provider –– Most Impressive Financial Sustainable Finance of Climate Change Institution Green/ SRI Bond Issuer –– Most Impressive Investment Bank for Asia Pacific Green/ SRI Capital Markets 26 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Report, April 2019 Sustainable finance Overview Sustainable business We aspire to be a global partner for Driving market innovation the public and private sector by helping We look for opportunities to develop #2 Customers governments and companies achieve and expand the market for sustainable their sustainability goals, and enable a Dealogic ranking for green, social and finance, and contributed to a number of transition to a low-carbon economy. sustainability bond issuer, both globally market precedents in 2018. HSBC acted and in Asia in 2018 Supporting our customers as sole green structuring adviser for the Republic of Indonesia’s green Islamic We are embedding sustainability into bond, known as a sukuk, which marked the products and services we offer to the first sovereign green sukuk (see the Further opportunities customers, including access to capital case study on the following page). We recognise the potential we have as a markets, lending, transaction banking, global universal bank to help facilitate the advisory services, and investments. We We played an active role in the transition to a low-carbon economy and are one of the biggest issuers for green, development of the Green Loan support other sustainability goals. As Employees social and sustainable (‘GSS’) bonds. In Principles introduced in 2018 and we continue to develop our programme 2018, we were the number one issuer of engaged with customers to provide of initiatives, we see particular sustainable bonds globally and number lending that conforms to these industryopportunities to help our customers two for GSS bonds overall, according recognised guidelines. We acted as embed sustainability throughout their to data provider Dealogic. In 2018, we the sole green finance adviser and joint supply chains and to work with more were recognised by Euromoney as the mandated lead arranger and bookrunner carbon-intensive industries to respond Best Bank for Sustainable Finance in for the first green loan in Hong Kong. We to climate change challenges. Asia for our efforts to innovate products also launched a lending scheme in Hong to address customers’ evolving needs. Kong that allows customers to earn cash Our HSBC Navigator survey, which rewards for making carbon savings. polls over 8,500 businesses in 34 Supporting Extel ranked us top for climate change markets on the global business research for a fifth consecutive year Demonstrating leadership environment, included a focus in 2018 on in 2018. In addition, our businesses We are helping lead the development of trade and sustainability. Nearly one-third sustainable growth provided a number of reports to help the sustainable finance market through of businesses surveyed plan to make inform customers on sustainability our own actions. In 2018, we issued the sustainability-related changes to their considerations, including Low-carbon world’s first sukuk linked to the United supply chains within the next three years. transition scenarios: Exploring scenario Nation’s Sustainable Development The survey identified financial gain, cost analysis for equity valuations by HSBC Goals (‘SDGs’) with the help of our efficiency and sustainability goals as Asset Management, and Sustainability Islamic banking arm in Malaysia. See primary drivers for these changes. We guidebook for treasurers by Global www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-incomeaim to expand our efforts to provide Liquidity and Cash Management. investors/green-and-sustainability-bonds working capital and term lending A responsible We held over 2,500 customer meetings for the impact reports related to our solutions that facilitate sustainability in 2018 for our largest clients in GB&M green and sustainability bonds. We practices along supply chains. and CMB to discuss sustainable finance published 25 reports in the inaugural business culture options and opportunities. We are year of HSBC’s Centre of Sustainable building the knowledge and capabilities Finance, which was launched in 2018 of our people through continued training to provide sustainability-related thought and engagement. We introduced a leadership and innovation. These efforts new series of learning modules on aim to strengthen understanding and sustainability through our online HSBC debate across the financial industry University for all employees, as well as and among other stakeholders. Additional information tailored sustainability training sessions for key customer-facing employees and people in risk management roles. More than 2,300 employees participated in targeted sustainable finance training. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 27 Supporting sustainable growth | Sustainable finance Sustainable business continued As part of our drive to deliver growth from areas of strength, we are committed to helping our clients transition to a low-carbon economy, supporting the achievement of the SDGs, and supporting positive societal impacts. Cumulative progress through 2018 Since the start of 2017, we have achieved $28.5bn of our commitment to provide and facilitate $100bn of sustainable financing and investment by 2025. A data dictionary, including detailed definitions of contributing activities, may be found on our website www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact. Facilitation Financing Investments We provide advisory services We provide lending for specific We provide investments into to facilitate the flow of capital finance activities. Products include defined socially responsible and to provide access to capital project finance (e.g. financing of renewable investment (‘SRI’) and markets. Products include: green, infrastructure projects), low-carbon funds. social and sustainable bonds; and green loans (e.g. financing of debt capital markets; and equity eligible green products). capital markets. Cumulative progress* Cumulative progress* Cumulative progress* ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) 21.4 5.8 1.3 2018 11.1 2018 5.3 2018 1.1 2017 10.3 2017 0.5 2017 0.2 * P wC provided limited assurance over progress towards the $100bn sustainable finance commitment as at 31 December 2018 in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. This can be found on our website www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact. Case study: The first green sovereign sukuk Case study: The first green loan for UK commercial buildings In 2009, the Republic of Indonesia was among the first countries to voluntarily set carbon emission targets Direct greenhouse gas emissions from buildings in the UK during international negotiations in Copenhagen. Under account for 19% of the country’s total, and improving the the Paris Agreement, the country pledged to reduce energy efficiency within this sector will be key to the UK emissions by up to 41% by 2030 and recently adopted meeting its obligations under the Paris Agreement. That the green sukuk framework to support its commitment. is why green and retrofit buildings are critical to cutting To fund climate mitigation and adaption projects in a greenhouse gases. We have been working with Argent, broad range of sectors, as well as to demonstrate its a UK property developer, on this issue. In 2018, HSBC UK commitment to the Paris Agreement, Indonesia issued acted as the green coordinator, mandated lead arranger the world’s first green Islamic bond, known as a sukuk, and hedging counterparty for the first green loan for UK for $1.25 billion in February 2018. HSBC acted as joint commercial buildings. The £400 million green loan facility, lead manager, joint bookrunner and sole green which is helping Argent fund the development of two office structuring adviser. This transaction represented the buildings, is compliant with the Loan Market Association’s first sovereign green sukuk, the first international green and Asia Pacific Loan Market Association’s Green Loan offering by an Asian sovereign and the first Asian Principles. The offices have been designed with sovereign green bond focused on Paris Agreement sustainability features that will bring the carbon footprint ambitions. down to approximately 50% of similar offices in the country and are both targeting BREEAM Outstanding – one of the highest levels of green building certification globally. 28 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Sustainable finance Our approach to climate risk management The transition to a low-carbon economy more widely in 2019. We have also greenfield projects in the oil sands, Overview will occur over a multi-year horizon and embedded climate risk more broadly offshore Arctic drilling and due diligence it will take time for sectors currently in our risk management processes. requirements. dependent on fossil fuels to adapt. While More information can be found in Our energy policy is available online at it is acknowledged there should be a the risk management section of www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andsignificant and immediate reduction in our TCFD disclosure on page 30. responsibility/sustainability-risk. the use of coal to generate power, other Another important element of our climate traditional sources of energy, such as oil HSBC’s exposure to coal mining risk management is covered via our and gas, have a longer term role during sustainability risk management strategy. In 2016, we updated our mining and the transition. Developing countries may Sustainability risk is broader than climate metals policy, so that we no longer also need more time to adjust as they risk. We define it as the risk that financial finance new thermal coal mines or new balance sometimes competing services provided to customers by the customers dependent on thermal coal Customers sustainable development goals. Group indirectly result in unacceptable mining. We also committed to publicly In this context, we are working to impacts on people or the environment. report on our exposure to the coal mining further understand the specific risks Group Sustainability Risk, which is part of sector. At 31 December 2018, our and opportunities climate change the Global Risk function, is responsible for exposure to coal mining was $0.8bn, presents to our customers, and we are managing our sustainability risk policies unchanged from a year earlier. This developing our knowledge and capacity (covering agricultural commodities, represents 4% of our total exposure to to support their transition towards a chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, the mining and metals sector in 2018. more sustainable future. We are doing mining and metals, UNESCO World We have adopted a new methodology this through our engagement in the Heritage sites, and Ramsar-designated for the identification of exposures to Energy Transitions Commission, wetlands) and our application of the the metals and mining sector in order thought leadership articles published Equator Principles. As with climate risk Employees to align with our TCFD disclosure. The on the Centre of Sustainable Finance management, we seek to partner with methodology is explained in footnote 37 (www.sustainablefinance.hsbc.com), our customers to improve their operating on page 67 of the Annual Report and and other industry engagement. standards. For more information on Accounts 2018. how we manage sustainability risk, see In 2018, we developed a transition www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andEquator Principles in 2018 risk questionnaire with some of our responsibility/sustainability-risk. customers to improve our understanding Under the terms of the Equator Principles, of their climate transition strategies. Our energy policy we report annually on the transactions This is helping us to identify which completed under the Principles. In 2018, Our approach is to support our customers need to adapt rapidly to we undertook 18 transactions under Supporting customers to transition to a low-carbon climate-related risks, and spot potential the Principles, compared with 20 in 2017. economy while limiting the financing of business opportunities. In time, this A detailed summary of our transactions high-carbon intensity energy projects. In information can be incorporated into an and implementation can be found at sustainable growth 2018, we updated our energy policy and initial assessment of transition risk within www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andset out our position with respect to new our credit risk management processes. responsibility/sustainability-risk/equatorproject financing of coal-fired power, We plan to roll the questionnaire out principles. Engaging with our customers on palm oil A number of our customers have chosen to operate sustainably as a result of our engagement, including Palm oil is the world’s main vegetable oil. It requires less 11 customers that have introduced NDPE policies land per output than other vegetable oils, and its production A responsible following discussions with HSBC. At the end of 2018: can bring wide economic benefits. However, when produced unsustainably, palm oil can lead to deforestation, resulting ––We financed 22 customers engaged in palm oil business culture in threats to endangered species, social conflict and production that have either met our policy or will do so climate change. shortly. Several customers are in the final stages of full certification, managing external delays and resource We have worked closely with our customers to support constraints to meet our specific requirements. certification through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (‘RSPO’), an independent organisation that sets standards ––We have 31 customers who have operations in the palm of good practice against which companies are independently oil sector, but where we do not finance this part of their certified. Internally, we have progressively raised our own business. We have engaged with those customers and many operate to or are working towards good practice. Additional information policy standards. In 2014, we decided we would only finance customers that were already partly certified under RSPO and ––We have 19 customers that do not meet our policy, aimed to complete certification by the end of 2018. Customers and we intend to discontinue the relationship when also need to provide evidence of independent verification existing loans have been repaid. under their commitments to ‘No Deforestation, No Peat, and No Exploitation’ (‘NDPE’). Our agricultural commodities policy is available online at www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andresponsibility/sustainability-risk. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 29 Supporting sustainable growth | Sustainable finance Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) We all have a role to play in limiting We report on the emissions of our own transition risk into its day-to-day credit risk climate change and supporting the operations via CDP (formerly the Carbon management. The aim is that over time, transition to a low-carbon economy, Disclosure Project). This is available, as each wholesale counterparty will receive and we are a signatory to the disclosure well as other information related to the a client transition risk rating based on their recommendations by the Financial sustainability of our own operations, susceptibility to, and ability to manage, Stability Board’s task force. This at: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/ transition risk. represents our second disclosure measuring-our-impact. We have identified six higher transition under the framework. Risk management risk sectors based on their contribution to Governance global carbon dioxide emissions. These We are increasingly incorporating sectors are: oil and gas; building and Mitigating climate change is a key climate-related risk, both physical and construction; chemicals; automotive; priority for our senior leadership, with transition, into how we manage and power and utilities; and metals and sustainable finance metrics included in oversee risks internally and with our mining. Over time we may identify the Group’s strategic priorities. In 2018, customers. Climate risk is now included additional sectors as having higher there were two presentations on as a theme in our ‘Top and emerging transition risk depending on a variety sustainability to the HSBC Holdings risks report’ to ensure that it receives of factors, including country-level Board, two to the Group Audit monthly management oversight via the carbon dioxide reduction plans per Committee, four to the Group Risk Risk Management Meeting of the Group the Paris Agreement. Committee, and two to the HSBC Group Management Board (‘RMM’) (see page Management Board. Senior leadership 30 of our Annual Report and Accounts The table below presents our exposure have engaged with regulators, industry 2018 ). In addition, our Board-approved to the six higher transition risk sectors. associations and non-governmental risk appetite statement contains a These figures capture all lending activity, organisations on this topic, such qualitative statement on our approach including environmentally responsible as through the Bank of England to sustainability, which will be further customers and sustainable financing. consultation on climate change, the expanded in 2019 to include climate Further details on our approach to the Group Chairman’s participation in the risk explicitly. quantification of exposures can be found One Planet Summit and the Group in footnote 37 on page 67 of the Annual We have a number of sustainability risk Chief Executive’s designation as a Report and Accounts 2018. This is policies covering specific sectors. In 2018, World Economic Forum climate expected to evolve over time as we we updated our energy policy to limit the leader. A summarised list of HSBC’s develop new climate-related metrics. financing of high-carbon-intensity energy sustainability-related memberships is projects, while still supporting energy Next steps available at: www.hsbc.com/ourcustomers on their transition to a lowapproach/measuring-our-impact/ HSBC’s TCFD disclosures will continue carbon economy. From the release of the sustainability-memberships. to evolve and expand over time. In line new energy policy in April 2018 until the with TCFD recommendations, our Strategy end of 2018, HSBC financed no new Annual Report and Accounts will start coal-fired power plants. Supporting the transition to a low-carbon to disclose the additional climate economy is a key part of HSBC’s Transition risk, in the context of climate risk-related metrics relating to our strategy, and new products have been change, is the possibility that a customer’s portfolio for specific sectors, as the offered to facilitate this, along with a ability to meet its financial obligations will availability of sufficient, reliable and pledge to provide $100bn of sustainable deteriorate due to the global movement relevant customer data permits. finance by 2025. To date, we have from a high-carbon to a low-carbon reached $28.5bn of that goal. For further economy. HSBC is working to embed information, see pages 26 and 28. We recognise many clients across sectors are making significant shifts towards the % of total wholesale loans and advances to low-carbon economy. During 2019, we Sector customers and banks in 201837 intend to develop new metrics to help measure these activities, with an aim to Oil and gas ≤ 3.9% publish in next year’s disclosure. Building and construction ≤ 3.8% We believe education of our people Chemicals ≤ 3.9% is crucial on this topic. We gave Automotive ≤ 3.4% sustainability training to more than 2,300 Power and utilities ≤ 3.0% employees during 2018 and launched a Metals and mining ≤ 2.8% sustainability online learning programme Total ≤ 20.8% for all employees globally, with content developed in collaboration with the Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $668bn. University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership. For footnote 37, see page 67 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. 30 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Suppliers Overview Our approach with our suppliers We have globally consistent standards Our goal is to work collaboratively Our supplier management conduct and procedures for the onboarding and with our supply chain partners on principles also set out how we conduct Customers use of external suppliers. We require sustainability at all times. When a business with our third-party suppliers suppliers to meet our compliance and supplier or one of its sub-contractors both in our legal and commercial financial stability requirements, as well is found to no longer be in compliance obligations. They also explain how as to keep to our sustainability code with this code, we will work with them we treat suppliers fairly through our of conduct. Payment on time is of on an improvement plan or, if deemed behaviour and actions, in line with paramount importance, and as such our necessary, terminate the relationship. the HSBC Values. commitment to paying our suppliers is in The ethical code of conduct, which we Supplier diversity initiative line with the UK Prompt Payment Code. require suppliers to adopt, sets out the standards for economic, environmental We have a connected global supply Supplier ethical code and social impacts and outlines the base and inclusive sourcing strategies of conduct requirements of having a governance that reflect the communities where we Employees We have an ethical and environmental and management structure to ensure operate, and help ensure we meet the code of conduct for suppliers of goods compliance with this code. needs of our diverse customer base. In and services, which must be complied June 2018, we also developed a supplier with by all suppliers. While our businesses diversity and inclusion action plan, and functions are accountable for which encourages the use of minoritythe suppliers they use, our global owned and SME businesses. procurement function owns the code of conduct review process for them. Supporting sustainable growth A responsible business culture Additional information HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 31 Supporting sustainable growth Sustainable operations Achieving our operational goals In 2012, we set ourselves 10 strategic We reached three of our targets ahead Our people want to make a difference in targets to reduce the environmental of schedule, and in 2017 made our their communities and at work, and we and ethical impacts of our operations by waste and paper reduction targets more will continue to partner with them to 2020. Most of these are either completed, ambitious, and committed to procuring focus on our waste and recycling goals. resulting in us having stretched some of electricity from 100% renewable sources We are proud to have surpassed our these targets, or are on track to complete. by 2030. green buildings goal of constructing We are experiencing challenges on our To see progress against all our goals, visit 50 buildings to the highest sustainability recycling goal and some of our stretched www.hsbc.com/our-approach/building-astandards. In 2018, we opened our targets, as detailed below. sustainable-future/sustainable-operations. new HSBC UK headquarters, which The targets include strategic goals to was built to a Leadership in Energy The strategic goals are governed by reduce our carbon emissions, energy, and Environmental Design (‘LEED’) the Group Chief Operating Officer waste, water and paper. We also set Gold standard, making it the first Sustainability Committee, which meets targets to increase recycling, procure building in Birmingham to be constructed quarterly. Each of the goals is ‘owned’ by electricity from renewable sources and to this standard. The LEED certification an executive sponsor who is responsible commission buildings to the highest is a globally recognised symbol of for the target being achieved. In seeking sustainability standards. In addition, sustainability achievement. In 2019, we to reach our goals, we collaborate closely we are working to enable sustainability are opening our new UAE headquarters with our strategic suppliers and our education for our people, engage with with a LEED Gold standard and will intend employees to encourage positive actions. our supply chains and fund pilot projects. to continue to incorporate sustainability standards in new buildings. Reducing carbon emissions Carbon emissions (total and by FTE) Waste red We continue to reduce our carbon emissions by cutting our 1,000,000 4.0 70,000 energy consumption, being more efficient in our buildings, working with our strategic partners and focusing on our 60,000 Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) renewable procurement strategy. Since 2011, our carbon 3.5 900,000 emissions have fallen by 30% per FTE. In 2018, our total CO2 CO2 per FTE (tonnes) emissions were 559,000 tonnes.1 50,000 Office waste (tonne) 3.0 1. PwC performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with 800,000 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance 40,000 engagements on greenhouse gas statements’, issued by the International 2.5 Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This can be found on our website 30,000 www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact. 700,000 2.0 20,000 600,000 1.5 10,000 500,000 1.0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20 Key: Key: Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) Office w CO2 per FTE Office w 2020 target was set at 2.5 CO2 tonnes/FTE until 2017, % reduct when the target was stretched to 2.0 CO2 tonnes/FTE % of offi 2020 tar when th 32 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Sustainable operations Overview Achieving our operational goals continued Our renewable electricity challenge Breakdown of electricity consumption by region 2018 (%) Since 2012, our renewable electricity strategy has evolved Customers 50 from purchasing renewable energy credits to influencing the markets in which we operate by sourcing electricity through power purchase agreements (‘PPAs’) that provide additional 40 renewable energy to a country’s energy mix. In 2017, we committed to ensuring that 100% of our electricity was sourced from renewable sources by 2030, with an interim commitment 30 of 90% by 2025. Between 2012 and the end of 2018, we contracted up to 29% of our electricity consumption through % PPAs in various countries. As we strive to achieve our goal, 20 we are conscious of the challenges this will present, such as in some markets in Asia where PPAs are currently unavailable. Employees We are members of global initiatives, such as RE100, a 10 global initiative uniting more than 100 influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, that aim to create 0 a united corporate voice to influence countries’ policy to open Asia Europe North Latin Middle East1 markets. However, in some smaller Asian markets, our electricity America America consumption is too small for projects to be economically viable, Key: and therefore we will look to partner with other companies for Renewable electricity sourced through PPA a collaborative solution. By finding solutions to problems our Other electricity customers and other companies face, we are in turn solving Supporting 1. Middle East includes Turkey. our own similar challenges, and vice versa. 29% sustainable growth Carbon emissions (total and by FTE) Waste reduction and recycling (tonnes and percentage) signed renewable electricity from power purchase 1,000,000 4.0 70,000 100 agreements (2017: 27%) 90 60,000 Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 3.5 900,000 80 CO2 per FTE (tonnes) Our waste challenge 50,000 70 Office waste (tonne) 3.0 Our800,000 2020 target was to reduce our total waste by 50% from our A responsible 60 2011 baseline. This was achieved in 2015, and then stretched 40,000 to reduce by 75% from this 2011 baseline. At 2018, we had2.5 50 % business culture reduced 700,000 total waste by 63%. 30,000 40 Our recycling target is for 100% of our office and electronic 2.0 30 20,000 waste to be recycled by 2020. Since 2011, we have recycled 61% of our office waste. 600,000 1.5 20 10,000 We are progressing well on our waste reduction target, however 10 our500,000 recycling goal will be a challenge to achieve. As we continue 1.0 0 0 to reduce2011 our total waste, it becomes increasingly challenging to Additional information 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 increase or maintain recycling levels. Key: Key: With differences within cities and buildings, we continue to Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) Office waste recycled address the waste challenge by finding ways to reduce waste, CO2 per FTE Office waste not recycled segregate and recycle. Most importantly, we continue to 2020 target was set at 2.5 CO2 tonnes/FTE until 2017, % reduction of office waste from 2011 baseline engage with our employees to better explain and further when the target was stretched to 2.0 CO2 tonnes/FTE % of office waste recycled educate on local waste and recycling challenges. 2020 target was set at 50% until 2017, when the target was stretched to 75% HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 33 Supporting sustainable growth Committed to communities Our approach to partnerships We have a responsibility to invest in Champion award from the Investor the long-term prosperity of our global communities. In 2018, we contributed $105 million to charities and non-profit Education Centre. We donated more than $27 million to charities and non-profit organisations to support >1.2 million people projected to benefit from financial organisations running community partnerships focused on increasing capability and employability programmes projects around the world. These employability, which are projected to funded in 2018 initiatives are run through partnerships benefit more than 400,000 people. that support responsible business, and To support the important conversation factory improvements in China, India, help develop employability and financial on the future of work in a more Bangladesh and Vietnam. With our capability skills. We also help our leaders automated society, three of our senior support, we expect to help 850 facilities across our network support important leaders joined steering committees for to improve their environmental and local causes. the World Economic Forum’s System social impact by the end of 2020. In Helping to build future skills Initiative on Shaping the Future of 2018, through our support for WWF Education, Gender and Work. in China, 113 supplier companies In a world of rapidly changing technology and wealth inequality, new skills are  or more information on our how we support our F were engaged directly to improve employees to develop their skills, see page 25. sustainability standards. needed to succeed. That is why we are  or more information on how we are increasing F focusing on increasing employability and Palm oil customer financial capability, see pages 11 and 44. financial capability for our customers, To help address the sustainability employees and communities. impacts of palm oil production, we Supporting supply chain In 2018, we delivered more than sustainability launched a new programme with 1,000 Your Financierge financial wellWWF in 2018 to deal with the challenges being seminars in the US, UK, Mexico, We provide support for sustainable supply related to the supply and demand for Singapore and Australia, reaching chains through charitable programmes in certified sustainable palm oil in Asia. This over 26,000 people including over 2,100 certain sectors. Here we report on our programme will support research and HSBC employees. We also ran three progress against these initiatives. collaboration to remove barriers to flows international campaigns, sharing money Textiles and apparel of certified sustainable palm oil. It will management challenges and tips. In 2015, greenhouse gas emissions aim to demonstrate what is possible in from textiles production totalled 1.2 the shift to sustainability in the sector, As part of our contribution to charities in line with our no deforestation, peat and non-profit organisations, we billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which was more than those of all international or exploitation commitment. For more donated more than $8.9 million to information on our engagement on partnerships focused on increasing flights and maritime shipping combined.1 We have established partnerships palm oil, see page 29. financial capability, which are projected to benefit more than 850,000 people. Our with the Apparel Impact Institute, 1. Ellen MacArthur Foundation, A new textiles people volunteered with many of these WWF and WaterAid to improve the economy: Redesigning fashion’s future. (2017, www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/ initiatives. In recognition of our work environmental and social sustainability publications). improving financial literacy, our Hong of the apparel supply chain. These are Kong business won a Financial Education focusing on mill, leather tannery and Case study: Building financial capability with We have been working with the Mann Deshi Foundation the Mann Deshi Foundation since 2006, supporting it to deliver training to rural women on making and managing money. The focus has been on Mann Deshi was set up by Chetna Gala Sinha as the first delivering meaningful outcomes. Through HSBC-supported rural bank in India to provide a space for women to save, and programmes, more than 40% of participants had improved get affordable and easy access to credit. Since 1996, more levels of financial capability, over 20% of participants had than 90,000 women have set up accounts with over $13 set up their own new businesses, and over 60% million in deposits. The Mann Deshi Foundation was also set experienced an improved standard of living. up to supplement the bank by providing access to financial education, skills and a support network for rural women. 34 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Committed to communities Overview Our approach to partnerships continued Our corporate volunteering We operate across 66 countries so 264,000 hours Case study: HSBC Living Customers Business programme when our employees volunteer their time our employees volunteered to community and expertise, we can have a truly global The HSBC Living Business programme activities during working hours in 2018 impact. We are committed to helping our supports the development of people contribute to their communities, sustainable supply chains. It provides and we encourage volunteering through We organise volunteer opportunities a learning platform for small and paid volunteering days. In 2018, our that help enable our people to address medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’) employees gave 264,000 hours to challenges within the community, to understand industry best practice, community activities during work time. including developing employability and it recognises organisations This represented a decrease from 2017 and financial capability skills needed to adopting new approaches. Through (272,000 hours), although the average succeed in the future. We also support our partnerships with customers, NGOs amount of time contributed per FTE people organising their own volunteering and other stakeholders, we are Employees remained broadly consistent. initiatives and involving colleagues. helping businesses to transition Personal employee-led volunteering to more sustainable supply chain is actively encouraged and currently models. Since 2018, ESG and UN We expect to help accounts for a third of the volunteering Sustainable Development Goals have 850 in which our people participate. been introduced to the programme for enhancing the international Supporting disaster relief efforts growth and connectivity of SMEs. facilities to improve their environmental As part of our community programme, and social impact by the end of 2020 we provide money to support disaster Supporting relief based on need. We ensure we As well as benefiting the communities listen to our local colleagues and we serve, volunteering can bring great support the best-placed charities on a sustainable growth personal rewards, enabling people to case-by-case basis. We provide support build connections, develop new skills, and disaster relief to many areas during and gain a fresh perspective. catastrophic events such as fires, floods, tsunamis and hurricanes. Our approach to the UN Sustainable Development Goals A responsible The United Nations (‘UN’) Sustainable alignment to our strategy. We will contribute Development Goals (‘SDGs’) are 17 goals to these through our financing and investments, and 169 targets to be achieved by 2030. as well as how we conduct business and operate. business culture These SDGs are a call to action to protect Demonstrating our support of the goals we the planet, end poverty, and ensure peace have issued two SDG bonds, with the proceeds and prosperity. Achieving the goals requires being used to support projects that offer broad partnerships between governments, the social, economic and environmental benefits as private sector and civil society. aligned to seven selected SDG goals. Further We have a responsibility to contribute to this details, including the framework and the globally agreed framework for action. By aligning bonds’ first impact reports may be found Additional information our values, conduct and business activity, the on www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-incomeSDGs set the context for our long-term ambition. investors/green-and-sustainability-bonds. Material areas are disclosed as part of this ESG 1. We are a corporate member of a UN Global Compact Update in line with the reporting guidance in and Global Reporting Initiative-led corporate Action the practical guide published by UN Global Platform Reporting on the SDGs. The guide is available Compact and Global Reporting Initiative1. at www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/GRI_UNGC_ Reporting-on-SDGs_Practical_Guide.pdf. In the adjacent graphic, we have highlighted the six SDG targets we prioritise for their close HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 35 A responsible business culture We remain committed to high standards of governance. We work alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies. At a glance Our relationship Corporate governance Safeguarding the financial system We act on our responsibility to run our 10 >658 business in a way that upholds high standards of corporate governance. We are committed to working with our regulators to manage the safety executive and nonexecutive committee million transactions across 207 meetings where of the financial system, adhering to sustainability was million accounts that we the spirit and the letter of the rules screen each month for discussed signs of money laundering and regulations governing our (2017: 5) and financial crimes industry. In our endeavour to restore trust in our industry, we aim to act with courageous integrity and learn from past events to prevent their recurrences. 35% women on the Board We meet our responsibility to society through paying taxes and being (2017: 29%) transparent in our approach to this. We also seek to ensure we respect global standards on human rights in our workplace and our supply chains, and continually work to improve our Protecting human rights A responsible approach to tax compliance management capabilities. We acknowledge that increasing financial inclusion is a continuing effort, and we are carrying out a $7.0bn number of initiatives to increase access to financial services. taxes paid in 2018 (2017: $6.8bn) At HSBC we recognise the duty of states to protect human rights and the role played by business in respecting them, in line with the $7.6bn taxes collected on UN Guiding Principles’ Protect, behalf of governments Respect and Remedy framework (2017: $8.1bn) 36 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Report, April 2019 Restoring trust Overview Restoration of trust in our industry remains Over the past several years, we Beyond these improvements, as part of a significant challenge as past misdeeds have radically restructured our global our commitment to protect the integrity continue to remain in the spotlight. But it operations and significantly strengthened of the financial system, and to do our part is a challenge we must meet successfully. our ability to combat financial crime. to fight financial crime, we continue to Customers We owe this not just to our customers and enhance our systems and are working to We recognise that we have a responsibility to society at large, but to our employees to integrate our reforms into our day-to-day to help protect the integrity of the global ensure they can be rightly proud of the risk management practices so that our financial system. In order to fulfil that organisation where they work. We aim to programme is effective and sustainable responsibility, we have made, and continue act with courageous integrity in all we do. over the long term. We are also renewing to make, significant investments in our This guiding principle means having the our focus on anti-bribery and corruption ability to detect, deter and prevent financial courage to make decisions based on doing as part of a dedicated three-year crime. We have exited customers, the right thing for customers and never programme to advance the Group’s products and countries where we deemed compromising our ethical standards anti-bribery and corruption risk the financial crime risk too high to manage. or integrity. management capability. As part of our We are also working with governments commitment to the UN Global Compact, We have also sought to learn from past and other banks to advance our mutual Employees we have pledged to work against mistakes, such as the following three interests in this area. These steps are corruption in all its forms, including examples, and we are seeking to develop enabling us to much more effectively extortion and bribery. and implement specific measures reduce the risk of financial crime. designed to prevent recurrence of similar The AML DPA expired in December 2017, In 2012, we launched our Global events in the future. and we are pleased that our progress in Standards initiative, focused on putting strengthening our AML and sanctions Anti-money laundering in place the most effective standards to compliance capabilities has been and sanctions combat financial crime across our recognised. Our work in this area will operations globally. As part of this Between the 1990s and 2010, as continue to be consistent with our effort, we designed and implemented Supporting acknowledged by HSBC in various strategic priority of safeguarding our new, globally consistent policies on agreements with US and UK authorities customers and delivering industry-leading AML and sanctions that often extend in 2012, HSBC failed to implement financial crime standards. beyond the requirements of local laws sustainable growth appropriate anti-money laundering (‘AML’) and regulations. Since 2013, we also Over the coming years, we aim to evolve and sanctions controls. These oversight established a Financial System significantly our approach to financial and control failures resulted in HSBC Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’) crime risk management by building allowing at least $881 million in drug to oversee our financial crime risk advanced analytical capabilities, proceeds to be laundered through management reforms. The FSVC reports including artificial intelligence, designed HSBC into the US financial system and to the Board on matters relating to to help us target illicit conduct with approximately $660 million in transactions financial crime and financial system greater sophistication and precision. involving sanctioned countries, such abuse, and provides a forward-looking This will help us make a step change as Iran, Cuba, Sudan, Libya and Burma, A responsible perspective on financial crime risk, in our effectiveness at fighting financial to be processed, in violation of applicable anti-bribery and corruption. crime and set a new standard that aims US laws. to lead the industry. We expect to be business culture Among other steps, we hired experienced In December 2012, HSBC entered into faster and more accurate at detecting senior personnel to lead the effort and resolutions with, among others, the US potential financial crime and ever more significantly increased our financial crime Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) and the UK targeted in our risk assessments. We compliance capabilities; we put in place Financial Services Authority (now the expect to generate actionable insight that a robust investigations capability; we Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA), we can use ourselves and provide to law improved and expanded our financial regarding these past AML and sanctionsenforcement to help keep criminals out crime compliance training initiatives; related failings. Under these agreements, of the financial system. This will benefit and we upgraded or replaced key Additional information which included a five-year deferred the Group, our customers and society compliance IT systems, with over prosecution agreement with the DoJ at large. $1bn spent since 2015. (‘the AML DPA’), HSBC made payments F  or further information about our compliance totalling $1.9bn to US authorities and initiatives, see page 41. undertook various further obligations, including the retention of an independent compliance monitor. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 37 A responsible business culture | Restoring trust Customer tax evasion to suspect, that certain customers would they are today. With hindsight, it is clear use those services in order to conceal that we maintained too many small and Prior to 2011, our Swiss private bank their assets from tax authorities. high-risk customer accounts and our provided its customers with standard private banking business was stretched services, common in the Swiss banking While HSBC has reached agreements over too many geographical markets, industry at the time, which enabled with certain law enforcement authorities all of which contributed to failings in customers to conceal their assets from to resolve investigations relating to standards, culture and controls. tax authorities and avoid paying their allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, taxes. These services included, among money laundering and unlawful crossIn recent years, our Global Private other things, the opening of encoded border banking solicitation arising Banking (‘GPB’) business has taken numbered accounts that kept the out of these past practices, the Group significant steps to address these account holder’s name confidential continues to cooperate in ongoing historical control weaknesses, most and the provision of ‘hold mail’ services investigations by other tax notably in Switzerland. Beginning in whereby all mail was kept at the bank administration, regulatory and law 2012, GPB developed a tax transparency for customers to avoid receiving letters enforcement authorities around the policy that included enhanced know your at their domestic addresses. Our Swiss world in connection with similar customer (‘KYC’) and AML procedures private bank, through certain of its allegations. We acknowledge that the and a review of existing accounts against relationship managers, offered these compliance culture and standards of due potential indicators of non-compliance services while it had access to diligence in our Swiss private bank were with tax obligations. Accounts were information enabling it to know, or significantly lower in 2006 and 2007 than closed where issues were identified Major criminal and regulatory fines and penalties and PPI remediation1 Pre2005 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 AML-related 1,921 investigations GPB tax-related 13 43 13 360 investigations RMBS-related 765 investigations Libor/Euribor 36 FX-related 618 6 175 102 investigations PPI 333 870 1,138 700 553 448 502 741 Key Duration of conduct period $m Fines/penalties/other costs 1. This chart only includes fines and penalties arising out of major investigations involving criminal, regulatory, competition or other law enforcement authorities, and costs relating to PPI remediation. The chart reflects the year in which a fine or penalty was imposed or when the remediation cost was paid, which may be different from when a loss or provision was recognised under IFRSs. Settlements or other costs arising out of private litigation or arbitration proceedings are not included. 38 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Restoring trust Overview and could not be resolved. GPB has Foreign exchange conduct continue to this day. We are enhancing also amended its standard terms and and accelerating progress made in Prior to 2013, our foreign exchange (‘FX’) conditions, which now require customers strengthening and remediating our business lacked adequate governance, to affirm that they are in compliance with systems and controls and broader oversight and risk management in order Customers their tax obligations, allow the bank to compliance culture through a newly to ensure compliance with safe and refuse requests for cash withdrawals and established GB&M Conduct Committee, sound banking practices and applicable place strict controls on withdrawals over led by our GB&M Chief Executive Officer. internal policies. As a result, we failed to $10,000. Furthermore, GPB discontinued Market experts are providing input. detect and address unsafe and unsound its ‘hold mail’ service and has withdrawn The agenda focuses on culture and conduct by certain of our FX traders, from markets where it has been unable behaviours; customers, including which included the misuse of confidential to conduct due diligence to a satisfactory suitability, conflicts of interest, pricing inside information to conduct FX trades, standard on its customers. and transparency; markets, covering possible agreements with traders of market conduct, trade execution and other institutions to coordinate FX trading competition; governance and controls; 34 and disclosure of confidential information and strategy and business planning. to traders of other institutions. Employees Progress is being tracked and reported strategic markets that our GPB business In November 2014, HSBC agreed to through our own governance channels, focuses on, down from more than 140 as regulatory settlements with the FCA as well as being reported to the FRB, a result of de-risking and the US Commodity Futures Trading DoJ and our regulators in line with our Commission in connection with their agreements with them all. respective investigations of HSBC’s As a result of these reforms, the number Conduct is core to how we operate trading and other conduct involving FX of accounts and total customer assets and manage our business. We have benchmark rates. In September 2017, of GPB have been significantly reduced already implemented improvements HSBC entered into a consent order with by this intensive de-risking exercise, to algorithmic trading to manage risk the US Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) Supporting where we have put compliance and around benchmark orders, and updated in connection with its investigation into tax transparency ahead of profitability. our policies for sales, order handling, HSBC’s FX activities. Under the terms Where we used to offer banking services managing confidential customer of that order, HSBC agreed to undertake sustainable growth to customers in more than 140 countries, information and conflicts of interest, certain remedial steps and to pay a civil GPB now focuses on 34 strategic pre-hedging and market abuse. In 2018, money penalty to the FRB. In January markets, with customer assets actively we introduced further improvements to 2018, HSBC Holdings plc entered into managed down by $140bn between the management of sensitive information a three-year deferred prosecution 2013 and 2018. through physical barriers, technology agreement with the DoJ (‘FX DPA’), controls and procedures. We have also While GPB has resolved a number regarding fraudulent conduct in continued to invest in enhancing our of legacy issues relating to the connection with two particular voice, trade and electronic surveillance past, investigations into former transactions in 2010 and 2011. capabilities across the globe to improve A responsible practices are ongoing in a number Since the historical conduct described the monitoring of telephone calls, instant of countries at the time of publication. in these agreements, we have introduced messages and trades to spot potentially In addition, we acknowledge that business culture a number of measures designed to make improper activity. Global and regional GPB’s role in providing financial the control environment more robust conduct governance forums have been services to high-profile individuals may and prevent these failings from recurring created to provide supervision and sometimes result in GPB receiving in the future. We have dedicated, oversight over the implementation and undue media attention. and continue to dedicate, significant effectiveness of our conduct agenda. An F  or further information about our Global Private resources to strengthen our systems extensive plan is in place, and we aim to Banking customers, see pages 16 and 17. and controls. While the investigations deliver this as fast and efficiently as we focused specifically on our FX activity, can. Our success will determine how well Additional information they have also given us good reason we deliver the right outcomes for our to look again at other aspects of our customers and stakeholders, consistently conduct more broadly within the Global and reliably, for many years to come. Banking and Markets (‘GB&M’) business. F  or further information about our Global Banking and Markets customers, Improvements to our conduct agenda see pages 14 and 15. started more than four years ago and HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 39 A responsible business culture Ensuring strong corporate governance We are committed to high standards of Shareholder engagement Sustainability governance corporate governance across the Group. We welcome enquiries from individuals While the Board has oversight of the A comprehensive statement on our on matters relating to their shareholdings Group’s sustainability and ESG initiatives, corporate governance practices is set and HSBC’s business. Communication the Group Management Board is out on pages 152 to 213 of our Annual with shareholders is given a high priority accountable for their delivery, reflected in Report and Accounts 2018. by the Board, and there is regular sustainability targets within the long-term The role of the Board dialogue with institutional investors. incentive scorecards for executive Directors are also encouraged to develop Directors, and selected scorecards of The Board of HSBC Holdings plc aims to an understanding of the views of major Group Managing Directors. The 2017 promote the Group’s long-term success, shareholders. As Senior Independent long-term incentive scorecards of deliver sustainable value to shareholders Director, Jonathan Symonds is available executive Directors incentivise achieving and promote a culture of openness and to shareholders if they have concerns a cumulative financing and investment debate. Led by the Group Chairman, the that cannot be resolved or for which target of $30bn to $34bn for developing Board sets the Group’s strategy and risk normal channels would be inappropriate. clean energy and lower-carbon appetite. It also approves capital and He may be contacted via the Group technologies and projects that contribute operating plans for achieving strategic Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, to the delivery of the Paris Agreement and objectives on the recommendation London E14 5HQ. the UN Sustainable Development Goals of management. over the three-year period to 31 December Extensive information about HSBC and The majority of the Board comprises 2020. The 2018 long-term incentive its activities is provided to shareholders independent non-executive Directors. scorecards of executive Directors include in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, Their role is to challenge and scrutinise an ESG rank measure incentivising the Strategic Report and the Interim the performance of management and achievement of ‘Outperformer’ Report as well as at www.hsbc.com. to help develop proposals on strategy. Sustainalytics rating. They also review the performance of Corporate governance regulatory As discussed in our TCFD disclosure on management in meeting agreed goals changes page 30, the Board receives a half-yearly and objectives and monitor the Group’s In July 2018, the Financial Reporting sustainability update, covering topics such risk profile. During 2018, the Board Council published the new UK Corporate as progress against the three sustainability reduced the number of Board committees Governance Code (‘Code’) together pillars and non-governmental organisation from seven to five. These changes created with the revised Guidance on Board (‘NGO’) engagement. This helps ensure clearer and stronger lines of authority and Effectiveness. The new Code places our sustainability agenda remains accountability, which enable the Board to greater emphasis on how the Board prominent at the most senior levels. devote more time to priority areas. considers the interests of all stakeholders Our Climate Business Council coordinates Board diversity in its discussions and decision making, sustainable finance activities across the and promotes a strong internal culture. In 2018, the Board’s diversity and inclusion Group, supported by various working We see the new Code as an opportunity policy was updated to help ensure HSBC groups within global businesses, to further enhance our existing and its various stakeholders continue functions and regions. An ESG Steering stakeholder engagement, ensuring that to benefit from a Board that includes Committee, chaired by the Group Chief of the business as a whole can continue Directors from a range of different Staff, leads our approach on ESG topics, to develop constructive and considerate backgrounds and whose ethnicity, including considerations related to relationships. We aim to include details experience, age, geographical provenance external disclosure and materiality. of this in the Annual Report and and gender more closely reflect the Accounts 2019. A climate risk working group was diversity of our customers and the established in 2018, which seeks to communities that we serve. The Board implement the objectives of the Climate diversity and inclusion policy is available at Business Council through the development www.hsbc.com/our-approach/corporateof policy and limit frameworks designed to governance/board-responsibilities. protect the Group from climate-related  or further details on our diversity and F risks (including transition risk and physical inclusion efforts, see page 24. risks) that are outside risk appetite. The Group Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing enterprise risks that have an impact on the Group, including climate risk. See page 30 for our TCFD disclosure. 40 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Safeguarding the financial system Overview We continued to consolidate our progress in tackling financial crime Technology while launching initiatives in a number Technologies such as artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and advanced analytics will of new areas. enable us to tackle financial crime more effectively. Our approach combines Customers Our Global Standards programme, developing our own technology solutions with bringing in the best external launched in 2013 to upgrade our financial technology. crime controls, is now approaching its Our investment in a start-up company called Quantexa enabled our investigators conclusion. During 2018, we concentrated in 2018 to deploy a new software system to spot financial crime networks in near on completing some of the final elements real time by looking at internal and external data to find possible links between of the programme designed to ensure individuals or companies. Working with another fintech company, Caspian, management of financial crime risk is well we have developed a system that assembles all the relevant information on a embedded in our day-to-day activities, particular suspicious transaction. It then uses AI to recommend whether it should with robust governance and reporting to be investigated further, enabling our people to focus on the highest priority cases. enable performance to be assessed. Our flagship intelligence-led initiative is a new approach that combines a Employees In June, we set out new strategic priorities range of data sources to dynamically assess the potential financial crime risk including the aim of delivering industrythat an individual customer presents. We believe it will enable us to be faster leading financial crime standards. and more accurate at detecting suspicious activity and more granular in our Developing an intelligence-led approach risk assessments. During 2018, we developed a prototype that, while at an to financial crime risk management using early stage, has proved to be markedly better at finding potential financial new technologies and advanced analytical crime than existing industry-standard methods. We will begin to implement techniques is key to achieving this it in 2019, alongside existing systems. We continue to engage with regulators ambitious target. We made good progress on our approach. on this agenda and will continue to develop our approach in 2019 and beyond. Supporting Partnerships We launched an anti-bribery and corruption transformation programme, to The insights delivered by new technology will have the greatest impact when we work with partners. Public-private partnerships enable banks to share sustainable growth enhance the policies and controls around identifying and managing these risks information with each other, regulators and law enforcement. We are a across the Group. We also launched a member of all six public-private financial crime partnerships that have been transformation programme to strengthen established around the world. Through our membership we can provide our ability to fight fraud and protect better insight about suspicious transactions to law enforcement and receive our customers. intelligence that helps us to better target our work in detecting financial crime.  or more information on our Global Standards F We continue to advocate for partnerships in other jurisdictions and for and anti-bribery and corruption programmes, the effective operation of existing partnerships, including sponsoring public see pages 37 to 39. research into the future of financial intelligence sharing due to be released A responsible in 2019. business culture Society The scale of our work During 2018, we successfully trialled an approach to providing victims of human trafficking in the UK with monitored retail banking facilities, working Each month, we screen over 658 closely with charities that provide support to victims. The aim is to help the million transactions across 207 victims reintegrate with society and break the cycle of abuse. The accounts million accounts for signs of money were trialled through a small number of branches and we will now make them laundering and financial crime. In available in other areas of the UK. Additional information addition, we screen approximately 130 million customers and 37.3 Financial crime can have a devastating impact on the societies that we serve, million transactions monthly for and we have taken active steps to reduce that impact. In October, we joined sanctions exposures. During 2018, the task force established by United for Wildlife to coordinate financial firms we filed over 85,000 suspicious tackling the illegal wildlife trade by helping prevent the flow of illicit profits. activity reports to law enforcement Members of the task force signed up to a declaration that commits them to and regulatory authorities where we steps such as providing intelligence about the trade to regulatory bodies and identified potential financial crime. law enforcement agencies. HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 41 A responsible business culture Keeping a responsible approach to tax We seek to pay our fair share of tax in the ––We seek to have open and transparent financial crime. These processes jurisdictions in which we operate and to relationships with all tax authorities. incorporate requirements arising from minimise the likelihood of customers using As with any group of our size and external tax transparency initiatives our products to avoid or evade tax. Our complexity, a number of areas of including the US Foreign Account Tax approach to tax and governance processes differing interpretation or disputes with Compliance Act, the OECD Standard is designed to achieve these goals. tax authorities exist at any point in time. for Automatic Exchange of Financial We work with the local tax authorities Account Information (the ‘Common We have established a formal tax risk to try to agree and resolve these in a Reporting Standard’), and the UK management framework, which is timely manner. legislation on the corporate criminal designed to ensure that tax-motivated ––We have reduced the number of legal offence of failing to prevent the transactions or products are not adopted by entities located in very low or nil tax facilitation of tax evasion. the Group. Significant investment has been made to strengthen our tax risk processes jurisdictions from 121 at the beginning ––We have processes in place to help and train staff to identify instances of of 2015 to 46 by the end of 2018. This ensure that tax-motivated products are potential tax evasion. There remain areas process will continue throughout 2019 not provided to our customers. where further improvements are required and 2020, with the aim of ensuring that F  or further details on our approach to and we are working to address these. the HSBC entities remaining in such financial crime and what steps we have jurisdictions are regulated entities taken, see pages 37 to 39. With respect to our own taxes, we essential for conducting business. are guided by the following principles: Our tax contributions With respect to our customers’ taxes, we ––We are committed to applying both As highlighted below, in addition to paying are guided by the following principles: the letter and spirit of the law in all $7.0bn of our own tax liabilities during jurisdictions in which we operate. ––We have made considerable investment 2018, we collected taxes of $7.6bn on This includes adherence to a variety implementing processes designed to behalf of governments around the world. of measures arising from the OECD increase transparency and reduce the A more detailed geographical breakdown Base Erosion and Profit Shifting risk of banking services being used to of the taxes paid in 2018 is provided on (‘BEPS’) initiative. facilitate customer tax evasion and page 65 of the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018. Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region $3,141m $276m $1,398m $384m $162m $122m Tax on profits Withholding taxes Hong Kong India Hong Kong India (2017: $2,896m) (2017: $236m) (2017: $1,043m) (2017: $297m) (2017: $297m) (2017: $126m) $1,068m $1,135m $960m $2,693m $2,741m $1,398m Employer taxes Bank levy Rest of Asia-Pacific UK Rest of Asia-Pacific UK (2017: $1,178m) (2017: $1,021m) (2017: $938m) (2017: $2,654m) (2017: $2,415m) (2017: $1,394m) $1,074m $360m $13m $693m $41m $820m Irrecoverable VAT Other duties and levies Switzerland Rest of Europe Switzerland Rest of Europe (2017: $1,102m) (2017: $364m) (2017: $(67)m) (2017: $753m) (2017: $47m) (2017: $752m) $162m $237m $835m $261m US Rest of North America US Rest of North America (2017: $134m) (2017: $182m) (2017: $823m) (2017: $263m) $233m $281m $118m $1,148m Middle East and North Africa Latin America Middle East and North Africa Latin America (2017: $419m) (2017: $443m) (2017: $219m) (2017: $1,768m) 42 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Respecting human rights Overview Business does not exist in isolation: it Suppliers Modern Slavery Act is part of communities and serves the We expect our suppliers to uphold Our statement under the UK’s people. We recognise the duty of states human rights in carrying out their 2015 Modern Slavery and Human to protect human rights and the role business, reflecting the UDHR and ILO Trafficking Act gives details of our Customers played by business in respecting them, Declaration principles. Our ethical and work in combating these particularly in line with the UN Guiding Principles’ environmental code of conduct for egregious human rights abuses. We are (‘UNGPs’) Protect, Respect and Remedy suppliers requires them to respect the raising awareness with our customers framework. We have signed, or human rights of their employees and the in selected sectors and regions as part expressed support for, a number of communities in which they operate, and of our annual credit review processes. international codes, as set out in our comply with all relevant legislation, We are educating our own colleagues 2015 Statement on Human Rights. regulations and directives. During 2018, directly through training and indirectly In 2018, we set up a Human Rights we undertook a risk-mapping exercise through communications. Steering Committee, which is overseeing to identify the most salient human rights Stakeholder engagement the development of our approach to risks in our supply chain, particularly human rights. This approach will those relating to modern slavery and We remain committed to developing our Employees incorporate new recommendations from human trafficking. approach to managing human rights risks initiatives such as the OECD’s general as they affect rights holders. We attended Customers Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible the UN Business and Human Rights Business Conduct, published in May 2018. The principal aim of the UNGPs is to Forum in November 2018 and continued prevent human rights abuses. We seek our involvement with the Thun Group, an We primarily reflect human rights to ensure that the financial services we informal group of bank representatives considerations as they apply to our provide to our customers do not result that provides guidance on how the people, our suppliers and our customers. in an unacceptable impact on people UNGPs should be applied across banking Some examples are provided below. or the environment. We are a signatory activities. We support the UN Global Supporting Employees to the Equator Principles, which are Compact’s promotion of sustainable underpinned by the International Finance and socially responsible policies, and We are committed to an inclusive Corporation’s Performance Standards, participate in the UK Chapter’s Modern culture where our people can be sustainable growth and which focus on issues including land Slavery Act working group. confident that their views matter, their rights, child labour, forced labour, and workplace is an environment free from In 2018, we had contact with five civil the rights of indigenous and local bias, discrimination and harassment, society groups where human rights communities. We work with our and where they can see that abuses were raised. These abuses were customers to help them improve their advancement is based on merit. This alleged to have been committed by sustainability practices. Additionally, our commitment reflects the provisions of HSBC customers. We investigate financial crime teams actively seek to both the Universal Declaration of Human credible allegations of human rights identify the proceeds of potential human Rights (‘the UDHR’) and the International violations as they are reported to us rights abuses to inform law enforcement A responsible Labour Organization Declaration on via engagement with stakeholders. If and take ‘bad actors’ out of the financial Fundamental Principles and Rights at required, particularly serious issues system. A case study on this is contained Work (‘the ILO Declaration’), including ultimately pass to the Group business culture in our Modern Slavery Act statement. freedom of association. For further Management Board. details on the diversity of our workforce, see page 24. Additional information HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 43 A responsible business culture Supporting financial inclusion We believe that the global economy Engagement with partners is better served by customers being part of the regulated financial system. We work with trade associations, funds to high risk and sanctioned In support of this, we carried out governments and regulators to identify jurisdictions; and we provided a number of initiatives in 2018 to barriers to financial inclusion and find organisational and staffing support, increase access to financial services. ways to improve standards and share including the chairmanship, to the Our approach to financial inclusion best practice. For example, in 2018: UK Financial Inclusion Commission. is focused on engaging with partners ––In Asia-Pacific we hosted an insurance ––We chaired trade body UK Finance’s to raise industry standards; improving industry event as part of the annual Out Financial Inclusion and Capability accessibility of products and services; Leadership summit, where we shared working group and were involved with its and investing in educational content. changes made in our business to Vulnerability sub-group; we were part of We acknowledge that increasing a cross-Whitehall working group, which recognise modern family relationships, financial inclusion is a continuing brings together the government, banks and encouraged the industry to effort, and there are a number of and policymakers to develop strategies become more inclusive in their initiatives we will be focusing on on how UK banks can safely transfer products and services. in 2019. These include: ––implementing the UK Finance Financial Access to products and services Abuse Code of Practice, which aims to increase awareness for victims, potential We believe that diversity helps us to fulfil family relationships such as stepchildren victims, families and colleagues to our potential. We apply this philosophy to and same-sex couples. recognise the signs of financial abuse our products and channels to help ensure ––We helped people experiencing cognitive and to offer support where needed; and they are inclusive and accessible for decline access and maintain banking individuals and SMEs. To deliver this in 2018: services through our Independence ––launching our Age Friendly Banking initiative in Hong Kong to assist seniors ––We improved our digital accessibility in Service initiative in the UK, and through to better understand key concepts 10 of our retail banking markets, so that our new Living with Dementia and services such as third-party carer more customers can access online programme in Hong Kong. banking, digital banking and scam banking. We also made physical services ––We expanded the use of third-party prevention. more accessible by starting a ‘barrier-free alliances in Mexico so our customers banking’ programme in Hong Kong to now have 10% more locations where upgrade our branch and ATM networks. they can deposit cash and pay bills. ––We offered lowor no-fee banking ––We announced a £12bn fund to lend to services in selected markets for SMEs in the UK, and continued to be a individuals who may not qualify for our shareholder in BGF Group plc (‘BGF’), products. These services are provided formerly the Business Growth Fund. through basic accounts or waivers of BGF provides patient equity capital to minimum balance requirements. support SMEs across the UK and ––We expanded the beneficiary definitions Ireland. In 2018, the Canadian Business of our life insurance policies in Hong Growth Fund, which we helped to Kong to recognise a broader range of promote and in which we are an investor, made its first investments. Access to financial education content We believe that in order for people to employees, as part our RBWM’s access and make the most of financial Your Financierge service. services they need to understand how ––We began refreshing the content we to use them effectively to establish and share on our public websites, including grow their wealth. To deliver this in 2018: introducing guides to modern money ––We delivered more than 1,000 financial on our UK site. well-being seminars in the US, UK, ––We launched an online platform in the Mexico, Singapore and Australia, US with EVERFI to help our customers reaching more than 26,000 people and communities better understand including more than 2,100 HSBC day-to-day money management and preparing for the future. 44 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Additional information HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 45 A responsible Supporting Additional information business culture sustainable growth Employees Customers Overview Additional information Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements This ESG Update may contain projections, actually occur or will be realised or at the date the statements are made, and estimates, forecasts, targets, opinions, are complete or accurate. Certain of the the Group does not assume, and hereby prospects, results, returns and forwardassumptions and judgements upon which disclaims, any obligation or duty to looking statements with respect to the forward-looking statements regarding update, revise or supplement them if financial condition, results of operations, strategic priorities and targets are based circumstances or management’s beliefs, capital position, strategy and business of are discussed under ‘Targeted Outcomes: expectations or opinions should change. the Group, which can be identified by the Basis of Preparation’, available separately For these reasons, recipients should not use of forward-looking terminology such from this ESG Update at www.hsbc.com. place reliance on, and are cautioned as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expect’, The assumptions and judgements may about relying on, any forward-looking ‘anticipate’, ‘project’, ‘estimate’, ‘seek’, prove to be incorrect and involve known statements. No representations or ‘intend’, ‘target’ or ‘believe’ or the and unknown risks, uncertainties, warranties, expressed or implied, are negatives thereof or other variations contingencies and other important given by or on behalf of the Group as to thereon or comparable terminology factors, many of which are outside the achievement or reasonableness of any (together, ‘forward-looking statements’), the control of the Group. Actual projections, estimates, forecasts, targets, including the strategic priorities and any achievements, results, performance or prospects or returns contained herein. financial, investment and capital targets other future events or conditions may Additional detailed information described herein. Any such forwarddiffer materially from those stated, implied concerning important factors that could looking statements are not a reliable and/or reflected in any forward-looking cause actual results to differ materially indicator of future performance, as they statements due to a variety of risks, from this ESG Update is available in our may involve significant stated or implied uncertainties and other factors (including Annual Report and Accounts 2018 for assumptions and subjective judgements, without limitation those that are referable the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018 which may or may not prove to be to general market conditions or regulatory filed with the Securities and Exchange correct. There can be no assurance that changes). Any such forward-looking Commission (‘SEC’) on Form 20-F on any of the matters set out in forwardstatements are based on the beliefs, 20 February 2019. looking statements are attainable, will expectations and opinions of the Group Non-GAAP financial information This ESG Update contains non-GAAP significant items, which distort Reconciliations between non-GAAP financial information. The primary period-on-period comparisons. financial measurements and the non-GAAP financial measures we Significant items are those items most directly comparable measures use are presented on an ‘adjusted that management and investors under GAAP are provided in our 2018 performance’ basis, which is computed would ordinarily identify and consider Form 20-F and the corresponding by adjusting reported results for the separately when assessing performance Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial period-on-period effects of foreign in order to better understand the Measures document, each of which currency translation differences and underlying trends in the business. are available at www.hsbc.com. 46 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Additional information Abbreviations Currencies I Overview £ British pound sterling IEPS International Education Payment Solution $ United States dollar IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards A The ILO International Labour Organization Declaration on AI Artificial intelligence Declaration Fundamental Principles and Rights on Work AML Anti-money laundering J AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US Jaws Adjusted jaws measures the difference between the rates of Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 change in adjusted revenue and adjusted operating expenses. C K CET1¹ Common equity tier 1 KYC Know your customer CMB Commercial Banking, a global business L D LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Customers DoJ US Department of Justice LGBT+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender. The plus sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the spectrums of DPA Deferred prosecution agreement sexual orientation and gender identity E Libor London interbank offered rate ESG Environmental, social and governance M ESG Guide Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide Mainland People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the Listing China of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited N EU European Union NDPE No deforestation, no peat, and no exploitation Euribor Euro interbank offered rate NGO Non-governmental organisation F P FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK) Employees PPA Power purchase agreement FRB Federal Reserve Board (US) PPI Payment protection insurance FSVC Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK) FTE Full-time equivalent staff R FX Foreign exchange RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management, a global business FX DPA Three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice, entered into in January 2018 RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities G RMM Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles RoE Return on equity GB&M Global Banking and Markets, a global business RoTE Return on tangible equity RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Supporting GCB HSBC’s global career band structure GDPR General Data Protection Regulation S GLCM Global Liquidity and Cash Management SDGs United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals sustainable growth Global HSBC’s capital markets services in Global Banking and SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Markets Markets SMEs Small and medium-sized enterprises GMB Group Management Board SQA Sales quality assurance GPB Global Private Banking, a global business SRI Socially responsible investment Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings T GSS Green, social and sustainable TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures H U HMRC HM Revenue and Customs UAE United Arab Emirates Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s UDHR Universal Declaration of Human Rights A responsible Republic of China UK United Kingdom HOST HSBC Operations Services and Technology UN United Nations business culture HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings UNGPs UN Guiding Principles HSBC HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC UN PRI United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment Holdings US United States of America HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc 1. A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors. Certain defined terms Additional information Unless the context requires otherwise, Republic of China is referred to as HSBC Holdings classified as equity. ‘HSBC Holdings’ means HSBC Holdings ‘Hong Kong’. When used in the terms The abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total represent millions, billions (thousands and ‘our’ refer to HSBC Holdings shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ of millions) and trillions of US dollars, together with its subsidiaries. Within means holders of HSBC Holdings respectively. this document the Hong Kong Special ordinary shares and those preference Administrative Region of the People’s shares and capital securities issued by HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 47 Additional information Useful links In this section, we have provided further ––HSBC’s $100bn sustainable financing and ––Corporate governance (including our information on HSBC’s approach to ESG investment commitment – data dictionary governance framework and board issues. It contains links to further content, ––PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP – Assurance responsibilities): www.hsbc.com/ourpolicies and topics discussed in this report for 2018 – sustainable finance approach/corporate-governance document. Please visit the links to obtain ––Remuneration practices and governance ––Modern Slavery Act statement: a more in-depth understanding of our www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and––Reporting guidelines – carbon emissions initiatives covering the ESG issues that responsibility/modern-slavery-act may be of interest to you. ––Statement on human rights ––Sustainability Risk policies (including ––Statement on climate change For further information on our approach and Equator Principles): measuring our impact, see www.hsbc.com/ ––Statement on conduct www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andour-approach/measuring-our-impact. On ––Statement on public policy engagement responsibility/sustainability-risk this area of our website you will find latest ––Strategic Report 2018 ––Green and sustainability bond frameworks reports, statements and policies, including: ––Sustainability memberships and impact reports: ––UK Gender Pay Gap 2017/2018 www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income––Communication on progress to UN investors/green-and-sustainability-bonds Principles for Responsible Investment ––Whistleblowing statement ––Working with suppliers: ––Communication on progress to UN Other relevant website links include: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andPrinciples for Sustainable Insurance responsibility/working-with-suppliers ––Environmental, Social and Governance ––Financial Crime Risk policies (including Update, April 2017 ––Building a sustainable future (including anti-money laundering, sanctions, and sustainable finance and sustainable ––Environmental, Social and Governance anti-bribery and corruption): operations): www.hsbc.com/ourSupplement, November 2017 www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-andapproach/building-a-sustainable-future ––Environmental policy responsibility/financial-crime-risk/financialcrime-risk-policies ––Our approach to risk and responsibility ––Health and safety policy (including health and safety and tax ––HSBC Centre of Sustainable Finance: ––HSBC Holdings plc Board diversity transparency): www.hsbc.com/ourwww.sustainablefinance.hsbc.com and inclusion policy approach/risk-and-responsibility Photography © Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2018 All rights reserved Employee photos: All the photos on the inside pages of this report, with the exception of the Group Chief Executive profile picture on page 2, were taken by people working No part of this publication may for HSBC in locations including the UK, Hong Kong, Bangladesh and India. Many more be reproduced, stored in a retrieval employees across the Group’s international network have contributed to HSBC Now system, or transmitted, in any form or Photo, an ongoing project that allows them to demonstrate their talent as photographers by any means, electronic, mechanical, and show the diversity of the world around them. photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Cover: Our global marketing campaign explores how HSBC helps people prosper. HSBC Holdings plc. The Group’s iconic hexagon becomes a lens through which to look at the world, showing how we help individuals, businesses and communities to grow and flourish. Published by Global Finance, This includes our commitment to the development of renewable energy sources that HSBC Holdings plc, London can support the global transition to a low-carbon economy. We have pledged to Designed and produced provide $100 billion in sustainable financing and investments by 2025. by Superunion, London Inside front cover: Moraine Lake, near Banff National Park, Canada. This picture www.superunion.com was taken by Harsha Aruru, who works for HSBC in New York as an IT developer. Page 7: Popinjays restaurant, Hong Kong. This picture was taken by Terry Tam, who works for HSBC in Hong Kong as an IT developer. Pages 20/21: Pottery, district of Sylhet in Bangladesh. This picture was taken by Talukdar Noman Anwar, who works for HSBC as Head of Communications in Bangladesh. Page 26: Thrunton Woods, Northumberland UK. This picture was taken by Ciara Jennings, who works for HSBC in the UK’s digital technology team. Page 36: Mont Blanc range in France. This picture was taken by Jo Eaton, who works for the HSBC UK Insurance department. Page 45: The Corridor of Life, the Chowmohalla Palace in Hyderabad in India. This picture was taken by Alok Kumar Tripathy, who works for HSBC’s HR Operations team in India. Inside back cover: Cherry blossoms, South Korea, Gangwon province, Hwacheon Aquatic Resort. This picture was taken by Nicole Yau Suk Yin, who works for the department of Underwriting and Claims for HSBC Hong Kong. 48 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019 Printed by Park Communications on FSC® Oxygen Offset, a paper containing 100% certified paper. de-inked pulp recycled fibre approved by the Forest Stewardship Council®. Park is EMAS certified company and its Environment Management System is certified to ISO14001. This document is printed on HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 www.hsbc.com
