Sustainability Report 2018 M AÎTRE CHOCOL ATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 18 45 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Lindt & Sprüngli portrait As a global leader in the premium chocolate segment, Lindt & Sprüngli can look back on a rich tradition spanning almost 175 years and originating in Zurich. 8 Production, Marketing, and Sales 1 Kilchberg, CH 2 Aachen, DE 27 13 3 Paris, FR 6 9 2 4 Induna Olona, IT 10 5 Vienna, AT 5 3 28 6 London, GB 1 7 Barcelona, ES 4 8 Stockholm, SE 12 9 Warsaw, PL 7 10 Prague, CZ 11 11 Moscow, RU 12 Luserna S. Giovanni, IT 18 13 Rotterdam, NL 16 14 15 14 Kansas City, USA 17 24 15 Stratham, USA 16 Toronto, CA 23 26 17 Kansas City, USA 22 18 San Leandro, USA 19 19 Mexico City, MX 20 São Paulo, BR 21 Cape Town, ZA 22 Hong Kong, CN 23 Shanghai, CN 24 Tokyo, JP 25 Sydney, AU 20 Regional offices 21 25 26 Dubai, UAE 27 Dublin, IRL 28 Budapest, HU Lindt & Sprüngli produces quality chocolates at its 12 factories in Europe and the USA. Its products are sold by 28 subsidiaries and branch offices in more than 460 of its own stores as well as via a network of more than 100 independent distributors around the globe. With more than 14,500 employees, the Lindt & Sprüngli Group reported sales worth CHF 4.313 billion in 2018. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Content Foreword by ou r CEO a nd CFO 4 Susta i nably produced 27 Susta i nably consu med 36 2 018 M i lestones 5 Employees 28 P ro duc t qu a l it y a nd s a fe t y 38 Work c u lt u re 29 C onsu mer i n for mat ion 39 Susta i nabi l it y approach 6 E mploye e s at i sfac t ion a nd re tent ion 29 Cu stomer a nd c onsu mer s at i sfac t ion 40 St a keholders 7 Su st a i nabi l it y st r ateg y 8 Work-l i fe ba la nc e 30 Out look 41 E mploye e de velopment a nd t r a i n i ng 30 L i ndt & Spr ü ng l i Su st a i nabi l it y Pla n 41 Susta i nably sou rced 10 Diversit y a nd e qu a l opp or t u n it y 31 Susta i nabi l it y gover na nce 43 C o c oa b e a ns 12 Oc c upat iona l he a lt h a nd s a fe t y 32 C o c oa but ter a nd ot her c o c oa pro duc t s 24 About t his repor t 44 Ha z el nut s 24 Env i ronment 33 Pa l m oi l 25 E nerg y c onsu mpt ion a nd g re en hou s e ga s em i s sions 3 4 Add it iona l r aw mater ia l s 25 Water a nd w a ste w ater 35 Pac k a g i ng mater ia l 26 Wa ste a nd re c yc l i ng 35 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Foreword by our CEO and CFO Dear readers, Sustainability is a top priority for Lindt & Sprüngli, and we work We are also aware that despite these successes we still have a long actively to foster sustainable development. Our long-term success way to go, and we cannot afford to rest on our laurels. We have been depends on an intact and well-functioning environment. With alworking intensively on the further development of our sustainability most 175 years of history behind us, we know what it means to think strategy to set our sights on the next goals. We are very pleased that in terms of generations. we can already give you a preview of it at the end of this report. This is why we devote ourselves continuously to sustainable The successes we have achieved so far have only been possible development and always keep the entire value chain in mind during together, so we would like to thank all of our employees and partners all of our activities – from sourcing high-quality raw materials and for their daily contributions and the continuous progress we are our cutting-edge production lines to delivering premium chocolate making. We will continue to build on this successful collaboration Dr Dieter Weisskopf, CEO Lindt & Sprüngli Group products for our consumers to enjoy. Our sustainability activities as we implement our new sustainability strategy. reflect the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We have been committed to this initiative since 2009 and provide an update on the progress we have made thus far in our annual Sustainability Report. This year, we would like to draw special attention to our flagship project, the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. Another milestone has been reached with the launch of the Program in the Dominican Republic and Papua New Guinea: we have now established the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in all countries of origin from which we source our cocoa beans. We are very confident that our next major goal – making our cocoa bean supply chain fully traceable and verifiable – will be met as planned by 2020. The following Sustainability Report will provide you with further details about our SustainDr Dieter Weisskopf Martin Hug Martin Hug, CFO Lindt & Sprüngli Group ability Management and describe everything that we implemented and CEO Lindt & Sprüngli Group CFO Lindt & Sprüngli Group and Head of the Sustainability Executive Team achieved in 2018. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 2018 Milestones 92% of our whole unprocessed hazelnuts were –36% CO2 emissions per metric ton CO2 sourced from Italy, Oregon (US), produced since 2008 or a program for sustainable hazelnuts in Turkey. (excluding Russell Stover). 72,528 cocoa farmers from all the countries where we source cocoa beans are participating in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. 112,300 –19% energy consumption per metric ton contacts with consumers were recorded and analyzed. produced since 2008 (excluding Russell Stover). –90.6% 86% of the cocoa beans we source come from 442 local field staff financed by the Lindt & Sprüngli work-related accidents with time off the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Farming Program are involved in ensuring a traceable per 100,000 working hours since 2008. and are traceable and externally verified. and verified cocoa bean supply chain. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Sustainability approach All products leaving our factories will ultimately live up to our commitment to sustainability along the entire value chain. With the Lindt & Sprüngli Promise, we ensure that all prodSourced The pillars of our business model ucts leaving our factories will ultimately live up to our comLindt & Sprüngli is committed to long-term partnerships mitment to sustainability along the entire value chain. with the most important material and service suppliers. We Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to managing the impact are convinced that this is the only way to guarantee a susof its operations on sustainability throughout the entire tainable supply. Global presence value chain. We aspire to achieve steady progress by working The traceability of the raw materials we use along the Marketing excellence to gradually improve our performance. With this in mind, value chain is of particular importance. It's the key to sustainTrade relationships we are constantly striving to improve our contribution to a able purchasing and an important step towards improving Technology sustainable future, and we concentrate on the most signifiworking and environmental conditions at suppliers. cant aspects along our value chain. We monitor our progress Quality Innovation Sustainability on an ongoing basis using a series of key performance indiProduced cators. A total of 28 particularly relevant issues within the Lindt & Sprüngli premium products require high-quality Lindt & Sprüngli value chain in the areas of sourcing, proraw materials and packaging material, dedicated employees, Sustainability is one of the main pillars of our business model. duction and consumption have been identified by means of and respect for the environment. Therefore, we strive, not Our vision goes beyond making the finest premium choca materiality analysis. These key issues are a priority for only as an employer but also as a member of society, to olate, because our high production standards deserve to be Lindt & Sprüngli in its day-to-day efforts and activities. ensure that our business operations are environmentally matched by equally high standards of ethics and sustainsustainable and both ethically and socially responsible. ability. This is why we promise that all products leaving our factories will live up to our commitment to sustainability Consumed along the entire value chain. Lindt & Sprüngli has a responsibility toward its customers and The significance that Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to responconsumers. Strict quality controls ensure that our products sible behavior is reflected in various policies and in our meet our high standards – from the raw materials right sustainability strategy, which defines the way Lindt & Sprüngli through to customers and consumers. manages its entire business. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Taking into account our stakeholders’ concerns and interests We want our sustainability approach to be relevant and credible. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to providing its various stakeholders with a transparent and detailed overview of the company. Our stakeholders should be confident that due account is being taken of their interests. Stakeholder Lindt & Sprüngli commitment Stakeholder Lindt & Sprüngli commitment Consumers Consumer satisfaction is given top priority at Lindt & Sprüngli. Consumer service specialists Universities/Research Lindt & Sprüngli works with various universities and research institutions along the entire at the Lindt & Sprüngli Group handle each inquiry, compliment, and complaint that is institutions value chain. We support existing research facilities and projects, help develop new applied received with the necessary care. Consumers also have the opportunity to get in touch with science projects, and support students with academic assignments involving research our employees directly at the growing number of Lindt and Ghirardelli retail shops. They can topics of relevance to us. also meet Lindt Master Chocolatiers at numerous marketing and sponsorship events. Retail/Distributors/ Buyers of semi-finished Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate products, as well as retailers, distributors, Lindt & Sprüngli has a presence on various social media platforms such as Facebook and Customers and other corporate customers for finished products ensure our products are available to Twitter, too. These new communication platforms allow direct interaction and give us a consumers all year round. They have their channel-specific customer service representatives chance to respond to our consumers’ needs, questions, and comments in real time. at their respective subsidiaries to handle inquiries and concerns in a professional manner. Employees Employees are our biggest asset. We promote a feedback culture where open and honest Lindt & Sprüngli brands are also represented at trade fairs and other events so that partners dialogue is welcome and all employees are made aware of the career opportunities can discover our latest creations for themselves. available to them. Our annual Talent Management dialogue helps to identify, assess, and Governments Lindt & Sprüngli does not conduct active lobbying at government level. However, develop the professional skills and performance of our employees. We conduct an employee Group companies are members of several local industry associations. Government survey every three years across the Group. institutions are becoming increasingly important in terms of providing advice Investors We inform investors, analysts, and proxy advisors about our half-year and annual results and support for sustain­ability projects. and other relevant company news. The annual general meeting provides a forum to Media We proactively inform the media about relevant issues to ensure the public image of exchange information and opinions, as do smaller conferences and telephone conversations Lindt & Sprüngli is both exemplary and accurate. Our communication with the media is with financial analysts, roadshows, and individual meetings. honest, fact-based, and transparent – while respecting any business secrets. We publish Civil society The Sustainability Manager is the main contact point for civil society organizations and reports and press releases regarding the half-year and annual results, as well as press organizations and NGOs. This person maintains ongoing one-to-one dialogue with a view to showcasing the releases on any other business-related matters such as media events, annual general NGOs sustainability work done by Lindt & Sprüngli, asking for feedback, taking on board meetings, and on-site visits, and answer questions from the media. suggestions and reservations, and assessing the potential for partnerships. Farmers and suppliers Constant high quality in terms of raw materials and packaging, reliable partners for transport, logistics and the development, supply, and maintenance of machinery, not to mention providers of a whole host of support services – these are all crucial for our business. Lindt & Sprüngli procurement staff in particular, as well as other employees, are in regular touch with our supply chain partners so that both parties can optimize further improvements. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy is based on material issues and includes commitments and strategic goals, main activities, indicators for measuring progress, and clear responsibilities for each focus area. This Sustainability Report provides an overview of our measures and achievements in 2018 with regard to our goals and commitments. Sustainably sourced Sustainably produced Key issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Key issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Secured supply of raw We develop and maintain long-term contractual relationships pp. 11–26 Climate change and We reduce our CO2 emissions by lowering our energy use, pp. 34–35 materials with suppliers for all critical raw materials in order to secure the greenhouse gas emissions increasing our share of renewable energies, and optimizing long-term supply of high-quality products. transport and logistics. Farmer education and Farmers who supply us are capable of applying good agricultural, pp. 12–25 Water and waste water We reduce fresh-water use and the amount of waste water p. 35 capacity training social, environmental, and business practices in the management generated within our operations. of their farms. Environmental impact of We reduce packaging sizes and use recyclable materials where p. 40 Agricultural development Our supply of raw materials promotes agricultural development pp. 11–26 packaging material possible. At the same time, we try to strike a balance between in the respective countries of origin. visually appealing packaging and quality aspects associated with product protection. Biodiversity and soil The cultivation of the raw materials we source does not pp. 11–26 fertility jeopardize the long-term suitability of land for agricultural use. Waste and recycling We reduce waste and increase the recycling rates within our p. 35 operations. Investments in rural We are aware of the specific infrastructure needs in the countries pp. 11–26 infrastructure of origin of our raw materials and create networks of target Work culture We maintain an open work culture characterized by respect, p. 29 groups so they can receive or build access to rural infrastructure. trust, and fairness. Diversity of cocoa varieties We contribute to the diversity of cocoa varieties. p. 22 We promote teamwork and facilitate communication and p. 29 understanding across all areas, business segments, and regions to Core labor standards Core labor standards are respected along our entire supply chain. pp. 11–26 create a company of people who support each other for mutual Climate change and We reduce CO2 emissions along our supply chain. pp. 11–26 success. greenhouse gas emissions We encourage, recognize, and reward individual innovation, p. 29 personal initiative, and people’s leadership skills throughout the organization. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H Sustainably produced Sustainably consumed Key issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Key issues Our commitments and strategic goals Read more Employee satisfaction and We offer an attractive working environment while maintaining and pp. 29–30 Product quality We abide by high standards to ensure product quality. p. 38 retention increasing employee engagement, satisfaction, and retention. Product safety We abide by the highest standards to ensure product safety. p. 38 Employee development and We ensure that all key positions are staffed with qualified and pp. 30–31 Consumer and customer Consumer and customer satisfaction is the main goal of everything p. 40 training motivated employees and that talented candidates are developed satisfaction we do. internally to fill these positions. We respond to consumer complaints, inquiries, and compliments p. 40 Work-life balance We support our employees in finding and maintaining a healthy p. 30 promptly and individually. work-life balance. We therefore strive to find the right balance Genetically modified Lindt, Caffarel, Küfferle, and Hofbauer branded products source p. 39 between efficiency and productivity while offering employees organisms (GMO) non-GMO ingredients. support to cope with increasing workloads. At the same time, we help employees whenever possible to find the right work-life Product information and Consumers can rely on us to provide information of a high p. 39 balance for them. labeling standard. Occupational health and We offer a healthy and safe workplace. Our vision is to eliminate p. 32 We apply correct labeling to all our products. p. 39 safety all accidents resulting in time off work. Marketing and advertising Children are not the main target group for our marketing and p. 39 Social security and compenOur compensation plans, social security benefits, and other plans p. 32 practices advertising campaigns. sation meet or exceed statutory requirements. Diversity and equal We offer equal opportunities and promote diversity in employment, p. 31 opportunity development, and promotion for all who bring the relevant skills. When hiring, we do not discriminate against anyone on the grounds of gender, age, religion, political opinion, union affiliation, disability, national or social origin, sexual orientation, ethnicity, or color, nor any other relevant characteristic protected under the law. Local development We promote local development in the areas where our production, marketing, and distribution sites are based. Corruption and anti-comWe do not engage in any corrupt or anti-competitive behavior. p. 43 petitive behavior Philanthropy We want others to benefit from our successful business, and we p. 30 contribute to charitable causes with goods, time, and money. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Sustainably sourced Sustainability starts for Lindt & Sprüngli with the responsible sourcing of high-quality raw and packaging materials. 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Raw and packaging materials Significant social and environmental impacts tions to our suppliers with regard to environrelating to the production of chocolate affect mental and social standards and demanding the supply chain and thereby the cultivation, adherence to them. processing, and transport of raw and packagWhen working with our suppliers, susing materials. The global challenges include tainability is a selection criterion that is evalsuch things as adherence to international labor uated and has an influence on our business standards and human rights, living wages, and decisions. When it comes to key raw materials the responsible use of natural resources. With such as cocoa and hazelnuts, we build our our engagement for sustainable supply chains, own programs or collaborate with partners. we not only improve living conditions on the Where appropriate, we work with internaground and conserve natural resources, we tional standards, such as those regarding also fulfill our customers’ and consumers’ expalm oil and soy lecithin. pectations and build trust in our brands. On the following pages we show our activOur Supplier Code of Conduct is our main ities for the different raw and packaging mainstrument to communicating our expectaterials. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Cocoa beans The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Our goal is to ensure that our sourced cocoa we know where our beans come from and under what conWith the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, we strive to beans are fully traceable and verified by 2020. ditions they are grown and harvested. Our primary advantage ensure decent and resilient livelihoods for the cocoa farmers Our commitment to sustainability begins with a bean, a tree, is that we are one of the few large chocolate makers that purand their families, and a sustainable intensification of agriand a farmer – because high-quality cocoa beans are the chase high-quality cocoa beans and turn them into cocoa cultural practices. In this context, we address the locally heart and soul of our chocolate. Many farmers are faced with mass and fine chocolate in our own production facilities – relevant challenges such as poverty, child labor, and deforlow yields due to small farm lands, weak agricultural pracexcept for our Russell Stover brand, which purchases chocestation and at the same time secure the supply of high-­ tices, overaged farms, and depleted soils. This consequently olate and chocolate products. quality cocoa beans. We achieve this through higher producleads to low incomes for farmers and the resulting social We put this advantage to work in achieving our sustaintivity on the farms, diversified incomes, preservation of problems such as child labor. Further, there are ecological ability goals. With the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, biodiversity and natural ecosystems, reduced risk of child challenges in cocoa production like climate change and dewe can have a positive effect on the farmers who cultivate labor, and improved infrastructure in communities. forestation. To overcome these challenges, it is essential that and harvest the cocoa beans that we use in our production. 2008 2013 2015 2017 2020 Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Our goal: 100% of our cocoa beans come Program in Ghana with a focus on Establishment of the Lindt Cocoa Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming from the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program traceability and community development Foundation Program in Madagascar Program in Papua New Guinea (traceable and externally verified) 2012 2014 2016 2018 Expansion of the Program to include four Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Cocoa bean supply chain in Ghana Launch of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program elements, including external Program in Ecuador becomes fully traceable and verified Program in the Dominican Republic verification L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Dominican Republic Ghana Papua New Guinea Ecuador Madagascar Lindt & Sprüngli sources high-quality cocoa beans from the most renowned cocoa-producing regions in the world such as Ghana, Ecuador, Madagascar, the Dominican Republic, and Papua New Guinea. The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program is now established in all our countries of origin. The 442 field staff in the countries of origin, all fi ­ nanced by Additionally, the ▶Lindt Cocoa Foundation has contributed Traceability and verification the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, are involved on a around USD 2 million yearly in investments for farmers of all cocoa beans daily basis with the 72,528 farmers, working with great and communities since 2013. % of the sourced cocoa beans that % of the sourced cocoa beans passion to fulfill this vision. Since the beginning of the 2016/2017 cocoa season, all were traceable* that were traceable and verified The farmers, their families, employees, and the correof our cocoa beans from Ghana come from the Lindt (from the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming sponding communities are given top priority in our activ& Sprüngli Farming Program, which means that our entire 91 97 92 97 Program) 89 ities. With our own sustainability program for cocoa beans, cocoa bean supply chain in Ghana is traceable and exter82 86 the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, we ensure that nally verified. In combination with the scaling up of the 79 these stakeholders are also the actual beneficiaries of our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Madagascar and 57 investments. Long-term and stable partnerships with our Ecuador, along with the expansion of the Program to Papua 32 suppliers are a key factor for success in this area. We finance New Guinea and the Dominican Republic, we have succeeded 13 the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program and its four elements in increasing the amount of traceable and externally verified 0 (> see page 14) with a price premium per metric ton of cocoa beans by seven percentage points, resulting in a total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 cocoa beans produced by the Program and co-funding from of 86% of all sourced cocoa beans. We have now imple* The Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system was employed for 86% of the cocoa beans. The remaining 11% had certificates of origin to confirm other organizations. Since 2008, we have invested USD mented the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in all the the origin of the cocoa beans. All of the cocoa beans come from Ghana, 33 million, with USD 11 million of that invested in 2018 alone. countries of origin from where we source our cocoa beans. Ecuador, Madagascar, the Dominican Republic, and Papua New Guinea. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D The four elements of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Initiative against deforestation The growing global population and the related increasing need for food as well as dietary changes such as higher meat Traceability and farmer organization Training and knowledge transfer consumption and a growing demand for biofuels require the Traceability of the cocoa beans is the key for ensuring susAdapted to the local circumstances and needs, the 442 local use of ever larger areas of land. This can in many cases lead tainable cocoa sourcing. This transparency enables us to field staff support the farmers to professionalize in the to the transformation of forests into other forms of land use. guarantee the quality of the cocoa while at the same time following areas: Cocoa is also usually cultivated on land that once used to knowing the social and ecological farming conditions on Farming practices: they learn everything about be tropical rainforest. the ground. This in turn allows us to provide targeted support planting, cultivating, harvesting, fermenting, and In cooperation with the cocoa and chocolate industry for the farmers (> see elements 2 and 3). At the end of the drying the cocoa beans. The 52 model farms also and the governments of Ghana and the Ivory Coast, we have form an important component of the training, 2017/2018 cocoa season, 72,528 farmers were participating enabling the farmers to observe firsthand the effects signed the ▶Cocoa & Forests Initiative, which was initiated in the Program, of whom 28% were women. of the professional practices being taught. by the World Cocoa Foundation, IDH Sustainable Trade Initiative and the Prince of Wales Sustainability Unit. We have thus committed ourselves to contributing our part to Environmental measures: they are educated about Thanks to our traceability system, we know which biodiversity and environmental protection and learn, ensure that the initiative’s goals are achieved. The goals consist farmers’ groups the cocoa beans are from, and which for example, how organic fertilizers are produced of stopping the transformation of forests into farmland for amount each farmer contributed to the deliveries. and applied or why the preservation and restoration of forests is important. cocoa production, eliminating illegal cocoa production in protected forests, protecting and reestablishing forests, and ensuring that cocoa production and farmers’ lives are sustainable. In addition, we will pursue these goals in all of the As a basis for our engagement, we gather baseline data about farms (including GPS coordinates), farmers, and Social practices: they are sensitized in health, other cocoa origins. labor safety, and labor standards (e.g. child labor). communities to assess their specific needs. Within the context of our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program and in cooperation with our partners, we have now created and published a ▶No-Deforestation & Agroforestry Business practices: they learn how to run their Action Plan for all of our countries of origin, adapting it For the implementation of the Program, the farmers are farms as professional businesses, with a focus on to meet local conditions and focused on the following priorganized in structures that are adjusted to match the increasing yields and reducing costs to raise net local context. profits. They also receive advice on how to diversify mary goals: their income (> see Income diversification p. 15). 1) No cocoa bean sourcing from protected areas 2) No expansion of land for cocoa cultivation into areas defined by the High Carbon Stock Approach or equivalent 3) Agroforestry systems for cocoa production 4) Supporting (community) forest protection and restoration With this, we want to source all of our cocoa from areas free from deforestation by 2025. (> see Outlook pp. 41–42). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Farmer investments and community development Verification and continuous progress Income diversification increases farmers’ resilience The Program helps farmers to professionalize their farms In order to ensure the Program’s effectiveness, a structured Cocoa cultivation is a seasonal business, resulting in irregular and supports community development by means of the internal and external program evaluation is carried out income flows throughout the year. Another factor to confollowing services: annually in accordance with our Lindt & Sprüngli sider is that harvest volumes are dependent on the weather, Farming Program ▶Verification Guidance Document. the age and health of the trees, and fluctuating cocoa prices. For this reason, income diversification – in addition to other Distribution of higher-yielding and disease-resistant As part of the internal monitoring, the project partners cocoa seedlings and shade trees to rejuvenate older and examine the continuous progress of the farmers’ social, measures such as savings – is very important for farmers’ unproductive cocoa trees or entire plantations. During ecological, agricultural, and economic practices. The resilience and leads to more balanced revenues over the the 2017/2018 cocoa season alone, farmers received internal monitoring visits are conducted by the 442 entire year. In Ecuador, for example, farmers were trained around 2.3 million cocoa seedlings. Since the Program local field staff, who personally visit each of the farmers was launched, a total of 3.4 million cocoa seedlings and on their farms every year. to make their own organic liquid fertilizer. They now use it 900,000 shade tree seedlings have been distributed. on their own farms to reduce costs and also sell it on the local market. In addition to this, farmers were lent the starting Provision of farming supplies (e.g. rubber boots, pruning The external review by the non-profit organisation capital for beekeeping projects and can now earn extra income tools, fertilizer) that allow the farmers to work more ▶Earthworm Foundation (formerly The Forest Trust) efficiently and apply the professional practices acquired evaluates the entire Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, by selling honey. The Program in Ghana is also focusing during the training courses in order to increase their including its internal monitoring system. Earthworm more on the concept of income diversification. In the Farmer harvests. then draws up recommendations for improvement and Business School, farmers are shown how to generate addifurther development measures for the Program to combat the underlying reasons behind non-compliance tional income and are assisted with starting capital when with sustainable farming methods. necessary. The side businesses in Ghana include snail and Construction of water systems and boreholes for clean drinking water and distribution of gray-water filter fish farming, raising pigs, and diversifying the crops raised systems. The internal monitoring of the farmers’ practices comon their farms with corn, cassava, cocoyam, chili, carrots, bined with the external review of the Program result in the verification. It allows us to evaluate to what degree or cabbage. The farmers often start with small amounts and the farmers’ improved agricultural, social, ecological invest the initial profits in expanding their side businesses, Renovation of primary schools to combat the risk of and economic practices are influencing sustainable for example by purchasing material for a larger pond for fish child labor as well as supporting awareness-raising and agricultural development – and in particular the livelimonitoring measures in at-risk countries (> see Action hoods of the farmers and their families. farming. They are already reporting their first successes and plan against child labor in Ghana p. 20). have both diversified and increased their incomes. The Program also provides investments in fermentation and drying installations to improve the cocoa’s quality, increase efficiency and reduce environmental impacts. Furthermore, it supports the establishment of savings groups to strengthen the farmers’ economic resilience. Starting capital, credit and advice are also made available to encourage additional income sources such as snail and fish farming, beekeeping, and the production of organic fertilizers. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Theory of Change The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program aims to create a ­decent tion that the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program wants to and resilient livelihood for today's and future cocoaachieve. It demonstrates which direct results as well as which growing families and a sustainable intensification of agrioutcomes and longer-term effects the Program should obtain culture. At the same time, it should secure the supply of with its inputs and activities (the four Program elements). high-quality cocoa beans from a stable base of farmers for Parallel to this, we list the most important contributions to the Lindt & Sprüngli. Our Theory of Change provides a simple Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The SDGs are 17 goals description of the relationships that make up the transformaof the United Nations (UN) for a sustainable development. Theory of Change framework Input and activities Output Outcome Impact The four Program elements Direct results Benefits thanks to the Program The long-term benefits of the Program 1. Traceability and farmer organization — The farmers are registered and — Higher productivity of farms Decent and resilient livelihoods of today’s 2. Training and knowledge transfer organized in groups — Diversified long-term incomes and future cocoa farmers and their families, 3. Farmer investments and community — The farmers are trained in good and increased resilience of farming and a sustainable intensification of agriculture development agricultural, environmental, social, households while securing the supply of high-quality 4. Verification and continuous progress and business practices — Conservation of biodiversity and cocoa beans from a stable base of farmers. — The Farmers have access to agricultural natural ecosystems services, inputs, and equipment — Reduction of the risk of child labor — Rejuvenated and diversified cocoa — Improved community infrastructure farms and additional income sources (e.g. clean drinking water) — The farmers have access to financial products — Child labor monitoring and remediation systems (CLMRS) are in place — Investments in community infrastructure (based on needs assessment) — Farmers are monitored L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Alignment of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) SDG 1 No poverty: end poverty in all its forms SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation: ensure availability SDG 15 Life on the land: protect, restore and promote everywhere and the sustainable management of water and sanitation sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably By promoting sustainable economic growth, the Program for all manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and will be able to address some of the root causes of poverty in Building water supply systems, distributing drinking water reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss the long term. The goal is to achieve higher net incomes, filters and promoting agroforestry cultivation systems and With training and coaching sessions for farmers on profesmore employment opportunities, and higher profitability the management of water catchment areas will improve sional environmental and agricultural practices and climatefor cocoa cultivation among targeted small-scale farmers. access to drinking water and promote sustainable water smart cultivation methods, by promoting agroforestry and (> Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 14–15; Income diversification management. piloting satellite monitoring for forests at risk and forest p. 15) (> Element 3 on p. 15; Ghana p. 19; Madagascar p. 23) rehabilitation, the Program supports the efficient use of agricultural land while at the same time preserving the natural ecosystems and preventing further clearing of high conservation value forest areas for cocoa cultivation. (> Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 14–15; Initiative against deforestation p. 14) SDG 2 No hunger: end hunger, achieve food security SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth: promote and improved nutrition and promote sustainable stable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, agriculture productive full employment and decent work for all During specific nutrition training sessions in Ghana, farming With training sessions in labor standards, regular inspections households learn how they can enrich their diet with foods on the ground, and specific measures to prevent, monitor that they can plant and raise themselves to ensure a more and abolish child labor in at-risk countries, the Program balanced and healthy diet for their families. During agriculsupports decent work for all. Thanks to its wide-reaching tural training and coaching sessions, the farmers learn how support measures, the Program also promotes sustainable to make more optimal use of their own farmland to achieve economic growth and a secure livelihood for farmers’ families. greater self-sufficiency and income diversification, and are (> Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 14–15; Against child labor in provided with starting capital when necessary. Ghana p. 20) (> Elements 2 and 3 on pp. 14–15; Income diversification p. 15; Ghana p. 18) L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Ghana In the country of origin Ghana, where the Program has been smaller growing areas. In the future, support services from present for the longest time and covers Lindt & Sprüngli's the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program (> see elements 2 entire purchase of cocoa beans from West Africa, it counted and 3 on pp. 14–15) will no longer be offered following a the largest number of participants with 63,036 farmers organ­ one-size-fits-all approach, but rather be tailored to the inized in groups at the end of the cocoa season 2017/2018. The dividual needs of the farmers. main challenges in Ghana are first and foremost the farmers’ Even with higher net incomes from cocoa, the farmers income insecurity, food self-sufficiency for a more balanced are often still reliant on additional sources of income. Since diet, the environmental impacts of cocoa cultivation and many farmers in our Program cultivate cocoa on less than child labor risks. For this reason, we again expanded and two hectares, which takes up only a fraction of their available improved the Program during the reporting year in co­ working hours, we will further intensify efforts to foster operation with our local implementation partner, Ecom. additional sources of income in the future (> see Income We would like to highlight our new partnership with the diversification, p. 15). Among other new initiatives, a revolving Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), which fund will be created to offer financial support in the form of will provide financial support for the Program for four years loans to help with new projects and training to individual beginning with the 2018/2019 cocoa season within the farmers or groups. framework of the private sector co-financing ­facility on To ensure long-term income security throughout the the Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa. This support alentire year, we will focus more on creating Village Savings & lows us to continue developing innovative elements of the Loan Groups in the future. The farmers will also be supported Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program. A holistic approach in receiving their rights to their land and trees. Last but not focused on raising the net income of cocoa farmers forms least, climate-smart farming practices, agroforestry, and the cornerstone of the partnership and will be achieved on reforestation are also essential for long-term stabilization three distinct levels: (> see Initiative against deforestation, p. 14). 1) Sustainable intensification of cocoa cultivation Our participation in the ▶Cocoa Nutrition Initiative, co-­ 2) Creation of additional income sources financed by the ▶IDH Sustainable Trade Initiative and 3) Long-term income security launched in cooperation with the ▶Global Alliance for ImIncome diversification – A major challenge in Ghana is the income insecurity of farmers. The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program therefore fosters opportuniA sustainable intensification of cocoa cultivation will result proved Nutrition GAIN, is also bearing its first fruit – or should ties for additional sources of income. For example, the cultivation of vegetain larger cocoa harvests in the long term using the same or we say vegetables? The initiative is aimed at improving bles such as cassava is intended to stabilize farmers’ income over the year. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D nutrition amongst households in cocoa-growing commuOur Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation System nities. This is being achieved by promoting the consumption (CLMRS), which covers the entire Program, was also refined of key food groups rich in micronutrients. These behavior (> see Action plan against child labor in Ghana, p. 20). As change trainings are also linked with production activities at part of the required remediation work, we expanded the the community level and participants will soon be planting community development activities, which focused on access and harvesting foods that have previously been consumed in to clean drinking water, to include the renovation of primainsufficient quantities. A total of 307 predominantly female ry schools. Despite a delayed start, the renovation of the 29 farmers organized into groups are taking part in training selected schools in cooperation with the School Management courses and activities related to this initiative. Since around Committees and District Assemblies should be completed a third of the produce is sold, the farmers also benefit from during the first half of 2019. Local ownership was also imthe additional income. portant to us in this initiative. We further expanded our Naturally, the activities with a focus on sustainable cocoa existing clean drinking water activities in the reporting year cultivation were also further improved. Thanks to the imwith the construction of 60 new boreholes, bringing the proved seeds provided by the state authorities, a record total number of new water access points to 211 since the number of over two million cocoa seedlings from 157 nursProgram began. eries were distributed to revitalize the farms. Plantain cultivation was also promoted further. These plants provide temporary shade for young cocoa seedlings and an additional source of food and income. In the future, more emphasis will be placed on planting permanent shade trees for agroforestry systems (> see Initiative against deforestation, p. 14). In addition, the materials for the farmer trainings were adapted according to climate impact zones, based on our participation in the World Cocoa Foundation’s ▶Climate Smart Cocoa Project. This enables the specific challenges of a particular region to be addressed in terms of climatic changes like drought or severe weather. Another new element is the professional pruning service, which 7,619 farmers in the Program benefited from on parts of their farms during the reporting year. The positive effect in the form of larger harvests was clearly visible not only during our annual Program visit on the ground. Despite initial skepticism, the farmers also welcomed the increased harvests, and many Infrastructure improvement – As part of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, 60 new wells were built in the year under review had the rest of their cocoa trees pruned at their own expense. to provide communities access to clean drinking water. Since the start of the project, 211 water wells have been constructed. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Action plan against child labor in Ghana 2) Identifying prohibited child labor: first raise the issue with the parents then pass the case on to In addition to our numerous measures against root causes CLMRS Committees are formed for each Program district, the responsible public authorities, such as child protection of child labor in the context of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming consisting of an average of eight field staff with varying levels committees. Program, our Child Labor Monitoring & Remediation System of authority. The committees conduct announced and unanThe results so far demonstrate that the system is starting (CLMRS) also reaches all the farmers in Ghana with the nounced visits to farms on at least two days per month. The to have an effect. Between January and December 2018 we following Program consisting of three elements: goal is to identify prohibited child labor. As a guidance, the identified 59 cases of child labor (2017: 42). Out of these 59 committees use risk factors for child labor taken from GPS cases, eight (2017: 24) were found among Program farmers 1) Training and awareness raising: and community mapping activities, and internal monitoring and the rest were connected to other families. Out of the Experts train the field staff involved in the Program (numsystems. The committees document both the cases discovered eight cases among the Program farmers, three (2017: 21) bering almost 400) using the ▶Ghana Hazardous Child Laat the visited cocoa farms as well as those identified beyond were related to labor for cocoa planting and harvesting. bor Activity Framework as a basis. This staff then passes on the farms. Although these identified cases were mostly related to their knowledge to the farmers using various methods, non-hazardous activities, the work was being carried out either embedded in other training courses or in the form 3) Elimination of child labor: during school hours. However, there were also cases that of role-playing. Awareness-raising activities are intensified When cases of prohibited child labor are discovered, it is were classified as hazardous, like opening cocoa pods with during high-risk periods, such as harvesting time. The priessential to find local solutions that are agreed with the sharp machetes and carrying heavy loads of cocoa pods or mary aim is that all farmers know what is permitted and parents. The first step is a visit to the child’s parents by the beans after the harvest. The non-cocoa-related cases involved what is not and understand the reasons why. CLMRS committee. During the meeting, the root causes of such things as carrying heavy loads of firewood and water child labor are discussed and attempts to find a solution are or working on farms with other crops, e.g. corn, rice, or made. Often, increasing the parents’ awareness of the issue cassava, during school hours. is all that is required, but we have also set up a fund to reOf the cases identified among the Program farmers on mediate more complex cases of child labor. For example, the the cocoa farms, all three (2017: 18 of 21) have been comfund can be used to pay school fees or renovate a school. pletely resolved. Of the cases identified among the Program Further visits are conducted in order to ensure that a case farmers outside of the cocoa farms, four out of five (2017: 2 has been remediated and can be designated as “completely out of 3) have been completely resolved. The one case still resolved.” If the farmers do not adhere to the agreed-upon unresolved is being monitored consistently, and if no solusolutions even after several follow-up visits, they are removed tion can be reached, the farmer will be removed from the from the Program. Where cases are identified among farmers Program in accordance with our guidelines. not participating in the Program, the CLMR committees L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Harvesting season in Ghana – A sustainable intensification of cocoa cultivation, as fostered in the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, means a long-term, larger cocoa harvest on a constant or smaller area of land. 22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Ecuador In Ecuador, which is our most important country of origin of ten beehives. One beehive produces around 20 liters of Diversity of cocoa varieties for fine-flavor cocoa beans, the 2017/2018 cocoa season honey and generates about USD 400 of additional income A distinction is made between consumer and fine-flavor again saw a great deal of dedication to improvements and every year. Since a supermarket chain has already been cocoa. Consumer cocoa (generally of the Forastero variety) innovation benefitting the 6,614 farmers now participating found to purchase the honey, the project will now be exaccounts for the largest share (90–95%) of total cocoa proin the Program. Smaller cooperatives are now also included tended to include more farmers. A positive side effect is duction and is farmed mainly in West Africa. Around 5–10% and received the necessary resources such as fermentation that the bees help to pollinate the cocoa flowers, resulting of worldwide cocoa harvests are of fine-flavor cocoa (mostly boxes and dryers to improve the quality of the cocoa. in improved production. of the Criollo and Trinitario varieties). Fine-flavor cocoa is Almost 85% of the farmers attended all of the training At the recommendation of the Earthworm Foundation, associated with nuanced, fine flavors. It is mainly farmed in modules offered by the Program, showing us that the trainriverbank sections in the cocoa-growing areas have been Latin America and the Caribbean. Around one-third of all ing is well-adjusted to the farmers’ needs and interests. In reforested with the help of school classes. The newly planted the cocoa beans processed by Lindt & Sprüngli are fine-flavor addition, more focus was placed on individual coaching trees form a natural barrier to protect the ecosystem. Within cocoa beans. It is vital for Lindt & Sprüngli to have a broad sessions to meet specific needs. the framework of our ▶No-Deforestation & Agroforestry diversity of cocoa beans and for the aromatic fine-flavor A total of 230,000 fine-flavor cocoa seedlings were disAction Plan, even more of these types of initiatives will be beans to be readily available. Lindt & Sprüngli therefore tributed to farmers in Ecuador during the 2017/2018 cocoa promoted in the future. supports efforts to preserve the diversity of cocoa varieties, season – the highest volume yet – to aid in revitalizing the for example through partnerships with the ▶Tropical Agricocoa farms. Seedlings to establish permanent shade trees cultural Research and Higher Education Center (CATIE), were also distributed for the first time with the aim of prowhich oversees the ▶Cacao Genetic Improvement Program, moting agroforestry systems (> see Initiative against deforand with the ▶Cacao Research Center of the University of the estation, p. 14). The production and use of organic input West Indies in Trinidad, which possesses the largest cocoa materials (e.g. compost or wood vinegar) continues to be collection in the world. actively supported. This allows growing numbers of farmers to avoid using chemical fertilizer products. Project partners in Ecuador are also focusing more on developing future income sources for farmers (> see Income diversification, p. 15), such as by helping to plant vegetable gardens or disPromotion of agroforestry systems – The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming tributing beehives. Four families participated in the first Program promotes agroforestry systems and distributes seedlings of phase of the “Bee Sustainable” project, looking after a total cocoa trees and shade trees to farmers. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Madagascar Papua New Guinea Dominican Republic The Lindt& Sprüngli Farming Program in Madagascar By the end of the 2017/2018 cocoa season, 1,117 farmers Our latest implementation of the Program for fine-flavor included 1,558 farmers during the 2017/2018 cocoa season, had registered for the Program, and their basic data was recocoa from the Dominican Republic got off to a successful which was 470 more than in the previous year. Due to several corded and analyzed. The 87 farmers’ groups are organized start with 203 participating farmers. We are able to rely on cyclones, which not only destroyed streets, buildings, and around what are known as fermentary owners. These are the long-standing experience of our local project partner in rice harvests in the country but the cocoa flowers as well, it farmers who own fermentation boxes and ferment and dry this venture. The farmers deliver their cocoa beans wet, and was a particularly challenging cocoa season for the farmthe beans for the corresponding farmers’ group. The groups they are then fermented and dried centrally to ensure excelers. We were therefore even more pleased to see that the received one set of farming tools each, which contain prunlent quality. participation in training sessions increased significantly and ing equipment, among other things. With an average age of The focus of the Program activities was on the registration that the farmers want to be better prepared for future chal36, the farmers in Papua New Guinea are comparatively and training of the farmers (> see elements 1 and 2 on p. 14). lenges. Collaboration with the project partners and the 13 young and thus have a longer-term outlook than farmers in In addition to the usual training components of the field staff was also strengthened, giving new impetus to the West Africa. Questions about the type of pests that attack Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, special workshops were project and reinforcing local ownership. the cocoa plants were also asked so that future training also held, such as one specifically for women to encourage We reached another milestone in June 2018. In Maevatacourses can specifically address this issue. additional income generation (> see Income diversification, nana and Anjiabory, in the country’s northwestern region, The training courses are divided into six modules comp. 15) and an entrepreneurship workshop specifically for we were able to inaugurate water systems operated with prising the typical content of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming young people. solar pumps. They were developed by the non-profit Helvetas Program (> see element 2 on p. 14) and topics adapted to Since the tree population in the Dominican Republic is Swiss Intercooperation in cooperation with an experienced the local context such as domestic violence and the role of aging, a rehabilitation process using new seedlings and local company that is also responsible for system maintewomen in society. The first 20,000 cocoa seedlings were grafting techniques was launched immediately in the first nance. The systems, financed by the Lindt Cocoa Foundation, distributed, with action being taken to ensure that they year. Over the next four years, the aim is to provide all the are capable of providing 32,000 residents with clean drinking would not be used for expanding cocoa cultivation in forests. farmers – who are forecast to total over 800 by that time – water. The water system delivers water within close proximity The needs analysis indicates many basic necessities in with the resources to revitalize half a hectare each. Using a to the homes, and the water quality is monitored constantly. Papua New Guinea, and the decision was made to invest savings and loan scheme financed among other things by The system is serviced by an experienced company that in water supplies and healthcare during the next cocoa farmer premiums, the farmers should then be capable of oversees drinking water systems all over Madagascar. season. A target of expanding project activities to include rejuvenating the rest of their farms themselves. The savings 2,500 farmers has also been set for the next cocoa season. and loan schemes may also be used for other activities aimed at generating additional income. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Cocoa butter and other cocoa products convert all or at least part of their factories to process cocoa eastern Turkey and in the Black Sea region, the training for Our goal is that by 2025 all of the cocoa butter beans from sustainability programs, similar to how palm workers focuses on topics such as workers’ rights, occupawe require will come from beans covered with oil suppliers in Europe have implemented this change in tional health and safety, and health protection in general. sustainability programs. the past years. Investments in sanitation systems and the renovation of Comparatively more cocoa butter than sugar is used to proIn addition to this, we are developing strategies for the workers’ accommodation, mobile health check-ups, and duce premium chocolate. In accordance with our commitment remaining cocoa products we source in lower quantities, summer schools for workers’ children also contribute to to traceability for cocoa beans, we have also set a goal to such as cocoa powder and chocolate (for Russell Stover improved living conditions. The internal monitoring of the purchase cocoa butter made from beans from sustainability only), so that by 2025 all of our cocoa products will come farmers and the external evaluation of the projects are deprograms. We rely on a segregation approach, which means from sustainable sources. Taking into account all of the cosigned to help measure progress and in particular serve to that in our projects all of the beans from sustainability procoa products (beans, butter, powder and finished chocolate), identify additional improvement measures. grams are processed separately from conventional beans. 48% of the cocoa we purchased in 2018 was traceable/segThe strict quality demands we place on cocoa butter pre­ regated and verified according to the ICCO conversion rates. sent significant challenges in realizing this goal. Furthermore, a lack of interest in sustainability results in a low degree of Hazelnuts willingness by other market players to purchase the cocoa Our goal is that by 2020, 100% of whole powder, which is a byproduct of the cocoa-butter producunprocessed hazelnuts from Turkey are sourced tion, at a premium from our suppliers. from a sustainability program. Despite these challenges, in 2016 we began to develop Hazelnuts are a key raw material for our chocolate products. dedicated traceable and segregated systems to source cocoa We source them from Italy, the US, and Turkey. Turkey’s butter in cooperation with our cocoa butter suppliers. After Black Sea region produces around 70% of the global hazeltesting different pilot projects, we are now confident that by nut harvest, yet it also presents serious challenges such as 2025 our entire cocoa butter requirements can be fulfilled child labor and poor living and working conditions for miusing such systems. In 2018, the achieved 15% was less than grant workers. planned. Thus, we will again increase the amounts in 2019, Lindt & Sprüngli has been working with its Turkish and keep working on improving the programs. Accordinghazelnut suppliers towards implementation of sustainable ly, the goals laid out in our ▶No Deforestation & Agroforhazelnut programs since 2014. As with the structure of estry Action Plan will also be implemented in the butter the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, our suppliers first programs, (> see Initiative against deforestation, p. 14). work to ensure supply chain traceability. The second step is Furthermore, we are involved as co-leader of the working to support the farmers and workers with training courses. group ▶Traceability of Cocoa Butter from the ▶Swiss Platform The training for farmers includes professional agricultural, for Sustainable Cocoa for Developing an Industry Solution. ecological and social practices, and the farmers’ wives also The longer-term goal is that cocoa butter suppliers will receive training. Held both in their home villages in southL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D A total of 92% of all the unprocessed hazelnuts that we Palm oil Additional raw materials purchased in 2018 came from Italy, the US, or a sustainabiliWe aim to purchase 100% certified sustainable palm oil We regularly observe and review the environmental and ty program in Turkey. We are therefore well on our way to according to the RSPO certification models. social risks associated with our sourced raw materials and achieve our goal of sourcing 100% of whole unprocessed For our chocolate mass, we use only cocoa butter as vegetapackaging material and prioritize the need for action in our Turkish hazelnuts from sustainability programs by 2020, ble fat. Palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their fractions as well exchanges with our stakeholders. In 2018, soy lecithin and thereby achieving a further milestone in the sustainable as other vegetable fats are only used in certain fillings. Palm eggs were the focus of our activities: procurement of raw materials. oil and palm kernel oil have outstanding melting properties, In 2019, we will continue to work closely with our Turkish have a neutral flavor, and remain solid at room temperature. Soy lecithin hazelnut suppliers and support them as they expand and Thanks to these specific qualities, we are able to avoid using We use soy lecithin to create the desired consistency in our improve their sustainability programs. In addition, the sithydrogenated vegetable fats. We only use limited amounts melt-in-the-mouth chocolate. Soy cultivation is associated uation with regard to processed hazelnuts in purchased raw of palm oil and declare it on our product packaging. To with different environmental and social impacts, in particmaterials will also be analyzed in order to introduce improveovercome the challenges associated with palm oil, we have ular soy grown in rainforest regions. We rely on trustworthy ment measures. committed ourselves to purchasing sustainable palm oil external standards to address these impacts. Since 2018, all ­according to the RSPO certification models. of the soy lecithin used in producing our chocolate mass Sustainable hazelnuts As a member of the ▶Roundtable on Sustainable Palm (except for Russell Stover) has been certified with the ▶Pro % of our whole unprocessed hazelnuts % of whole unprocessed are sourced from Italy, Oregon (US), hazelnuts from Turkey that were Oil (RSPO), we have been purchasing only raw palm oil and Terra standard. Pro Terra is a widely supported and recogor a sustainability program in Turkey sourced from a sustainability palm kernel oil according to the RSPO Book and Claim nized standard based on the Basel Criteria for Responsible program Trading System (now called: RSPO PalmTrace) since 2011. Soy Production. 92 86 88 In 2015, all of our production facilities (except for Russell 71 61 60 74 Stover) were certified according to the RSPO segregation Eggs model. For products that contain palm oil, the Lindt, CafWe are aware of the concerns for the well-being of laying 44 farel, Hofbauer, and Küfferle brands all use palm oil accordhens and have undertaken a series of steps to change over 14 13 ing to the RSPO segregation model. Ghirardelli also switched to sourcing cage-free eggs. We have set ourselves the goal of over all of its products in its own factory to the segregation not using any eggs from caged hens as an ingredient in any 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 model in 2018. Russell Stover received the RSPO mass balof the products that leave our factories. We will complete ance certification for its own production factories in 2018. the changeover in Europe by 2020 and are striving to establish Our efforts in this area are paying off: We achieved the deadlines by spring 2020 for the other regions where cagehighest possible score on the ▶Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard free eggs are not as readily available. 2016 from the WWF. Along with our decision to use only palm oil and palm kernel oil that comply with RSPO standards, we also review the use of palm oil in each of our newly developed products and actively search for alternatives. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 26 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Packaging material Four steps of the Lindt & Sprüngli suppliers on an ongoing basis. In some cases, subcontractors We are committed to ensuring compliance with the core Supplier Sustainable Practice Program have also been integrated into the Program and assessed. labor standards in our supply chain. 1 2 3 4 The Program is carried out in close cooperation with the Packaging material plays an extremely important role in the local purchasing organizations of the subsidiaries. These also Sign the Conduct an Develop correcProvide supplier production chain at Lindt & Sprüngli because chocolate is Lindt & Sprüngli external on-site tive action plan support if conduct additional assessments harmonized with the SSP an extremely delicate and fragile product. Although packagSupplier Code of assessment necessary Program and enact support measures. In 2018, we also held Conduct ing should be attractive to the consumer and provide inforthree learning and exchange events, where a total of 23 parmation about the contents, its main task is to protect the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program ticipants from sourcing and quality assurance were trained delicate chocolate inside. 23 24 in the process and could share their own implementation 20 18 17 Lindt & Sprüngli works with leading packaging manuNumber of external on-site experiences. facturers in the corresponding industries that are becoming assessments (initial and follow-up) more focused on increasing sustainability along the entire 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 supply chain. We take into account the sustainability performance of our suppliers when making sourcing decisions. boxes or plush toys. In Asia, we have access to a highly This enables us to integrate our specifications from the specialized market for this type of product. To ensure that Supplier Code of Conduct into our supply chain manageour Asian suppliers adhere to the ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier ment for packaging material and improve the performance Code of Conduct regarding issues such as the prohibition of of our supplier portfolio over time. A key selection criterion, forced labor and child labor and also guarantee freedom of for example, is the condition of the production facilities as association, Lindt & Sprüngli monitors and improves rewell as their ongoing improvement programs. To this aim, sponsible production practices through the Supplier Susmanufacturers are also visited regularly by our own trained tainable Practice Program (SSP). internal auditors. As part of this Program, specialized sustainability experts The majority of our packaging manufacturers rely on make regular visits to our suppliers on the ground, uncover modern production technology, which reduces the use of non-compliances with social and environmental standards, paints in particular and the amount of materials needed. and draft corrective action plans together with the suppliers. The packaging material we buy often comes from suppliers To achieve this, Lindt & Sprüngli applies a progress-oriented located near our factories in Switzerland, the EU, and the US. approach that encourages long-term improvement and This helps to avoid long transportation distances and high offers targeted support services. Committed factories appreemission levels. ciate the Program’s cooperative approach as it offers practical Nevertheless, around 10% of our packaging is sourced assistance and support during implementation. The Program from suppliers in Asia. This is particularly true for many of currently covers more than 90% of our purchasing expenour more decorative items for seasonal products such as tin diture on packaging from Asia and is being rolled out to new L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Sustainably produced Our production line is the key component in manufacturing our premium chocolate products. We rely on dedicated employees and cutting-edge production processes. 28 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Employees Productive, diverse, and passionate employees are a key success factor for Lindt & Sprüngli. We have 14,570 highly motivated employees working continuously around the world to improve our premium chocolate products. As an employer, we are responsible for our employees and can actively shape their working environment. We want to guarantee a safe workplace for our employees and offer an inspiring and innovative working environment. An open work culture, healthy work-life balance, employee development and training, diversity, and equal opportunities as well as health and safety in the workplace are our top priorities when it comes to our employees. Our commitment to providing an attractive working environment applies equally to all employees in all of our subsidiaries. We address the issue of ensuring decent working conditions among our suppliers in the chapter Sustainably sourced (> see pp. 10–26). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Work culture long-term profitability. The principles outlined in our BusiEmployee satisfaction and retention We are committed to maintaining an open work culture ness Code of Conduct provide firm, uncompromising stanWe are committed to offering an attractive working characterized by respect, trust, and fairness. We dards that all employees are expected to implement in their environment and maintaining or increasing our already promote teamwork and facilitate communication and dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers, and the high levels of employee engagement, satisfaction, understanding across all areas, business segments, general public. and retention. and regions to create a company of people who support To ensure coherent application, the Credo and the BusiSatisfied and motivated employees are the key to our success. each other for mutual success. We encourage, ness Code of Conduct are explained to new employees We want to offer an attractive working environment and recognize, and reward individual innovation, personal during their onboarding period. Should they have any quescontinue to strengthen the already high level of employee initiative, and people’s leadership skills throughout tions, all employees are also free to refer to the Credo and commitment, satisfaction, and retention. Our main tool for the entire organization. Code in local employee handbooks or via the intranet. Group measuring satisfaction is our Group-wide employee survey Our ▶Credo and ▶Business Code of Conduct provide the HR emphasizes the relevance of consistently implementing conducted every three years. The next survey is scheduled basis for our work culture of respect, trust and fairness. We our Credo at the annual international HR conference. In the for 2019. want to ensure that all members of the Board of Directors spirit of transparency and to reflect our obligations to the Various countries and subsidiaries (Germany, the US, and Group Management, as well as all line managers and public, the Credo and the Business Code of Conduct are Italy, and Ghirardelli) have already started working on employees, demonstrate an appropriate level of professionavailable on the Lindt & Sprüngli Group website for anyone their employer value proposition to demonstrate to our alism that reflects the company’s commitment to our core who may be interested. employees and potential candidates the advantages of values as set out in the company’s Credo: premium quality, As early as during the recruitment process, the core working at Lindt & Sprüngli. These initiatives are now bean engaged and qualified workforce, a focus on consumers values of the Credo and Business Code of Conduct feed ing strengthened through the “Global Employer Value and customers, environmental and social responsibility, and into candidate assessment. The HR manager uses the Proposition” project. Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model during the process, which is based on the ten criteria presented here. These ten Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model criteria are applied to measure candidates’ skills and abilities based on their professional competencies, relevant experiLeads by ence and qualifications as well as the specific professional Lindt & Sprüngli USA wins the Can excite example Thinks requirements of the job. A standardized questionnaire is “Best of the Seacoast Award” customers and acts strategically used to implement these criteria at all subsidiaries, with HR For the second time in a row, Lindt & Sprüngli USA managers and line managers applying them accordingly won the “Best of the Seacoast Award” for the most Works during interviews. attractive employer. The “Best of the Seacoast Fosters innovation Shares efficiently in In addition to the two Group-wide policies in the form Award” recognizes outstanding companies in the coastal a team passion of the Credo and the Business Code of Conduct, our subregion of New Hampshire based on a two-stage voting process sidiaries have additional local policies promoting things like with ballots cast by the local population. The award underPromotes Open to self-developequal opportunity or measures against sexual harassment. scores Lindt & Sprüngli USA’s position as one of the most change ment & others’ development Moreover, online and in-house training courses are offered attractive employers in the tri-state area that includes Maine, ResultsComon a regular basis. New Hampshire and Massachusetts. oriented municates approach effectively L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D We also encourage active engagement and maintaining Work-life balance Employee development and ­social contacts beyond the workplace. For example, 45 We are committed to ensuring a healthy training Lindt & Sprüngli employees participated in a WWF charity work-life balance and offer employees support We ensure that all key positions are staffed with qualified run to help save African elephants (> see Run to save African to cope with increasing work-related demands. and motivated employees and that talented candidates Elephants, p. 30). We also host Christmas parties and sumThe boundary between work and leisure time is becoming are developed internally to fill these positions. mer events for our employees and their families as a means increasingly blurred, and finding the right work-life balance Productive, diverse and passionate employees are a key success of honoring the work and dedication of our employees. is more and more important. The requirements and legal factor for Lindt & Sprüngli. Our Talent Management Workenvironment differ from country to country, which is why book reemphasizes this and is our central tool for managing actual implementation takes place primarily at the level of employee development. We attach great importance to trainthe individual subsidiaries. Our local subsidiaries orgaing and further development in order to acquire and retain nize various initiatives and activities throughout the year. high-performing employees. Examples include: — Talent Management: We have further expanded our global — Lindt & Sprüngli Australia offers office employees more Talent Management process. We conduct annual Talent flexibility during the usual holiday periods. They are able Management dialogues with performance appraisals and to extend their weekends by working a condensed week have established a structured succession planning process. so they can then leave work on Fridays at noon during This is our way of enabling managers to coordinate a pool the summer months. of talent and build appropriate development plans that — Lindt & Sprüngli USA organizes a “Wellbeing Fair” each match employees’ needs with the demands of our business. year so that all the Lindt Clubs can present their activities. — Employee development: We continue to focus on individual Lindt Clubs are interest-based associations formed by development plans and apply our 70-20-10 model: 70% Lindt & Sprüngli employees which offer everything practical experience, 20% coaching/mentoring and team from meditation and mountain biking to photography. building, 10% formal individualized training programs. Lindt & Sprüngli USA actively supports the clubs, at We have also implemented the following global and local times financially as well. measures: — A balanced lifestyle also includes a healthy diet. To encour— The “Lindt & Sprüngli Senior Leader Program” conage this, Lindt&Sprüngli Germany offered its employees ducted in cooperation with the IMD in Lausanne was Run to save African elephants various courses related to nutrition and provided addiheld for the fourth time in 2018. Our involvement goes beyond our value chain because we tional nutritional information and tips. — The focus of the diverse training program from want others to benefit from our corporate success as well, — Lindt & Sprüngli Australia also organized an “R U OK” Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland lies on the areas of leaderso we donate goods as well as time and money to charitable day with an inspirational speaker to draw attention to ship development, self-competence, methodical expercauses. Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries are strong supporters the topic of offering mutual support during challenging tise, productivity, and health. In 2018, more than 250 of organizations, associations, and social programs. For life situations. managers and employees participated in our in-house example, 49 Lindt & Sprüngli employees participated in a training, which was led by external specialists. WWF charity run to help save African elephants and jointly — In November 2018, Lindt & Sprüngli Australia launched ran 554 kilometers in total. its new “Learning Management System,” which covers L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D all its employees. The curriculum includes courses that Diversity and equal opportunity Lindt & Sprüngli UK published a Gender Pay Gap Report in improve knowledge and skills and support employees in We are committed to offering equal opportunity, 2018 and committed itself to continuing to develop its remudrawing up strong development plans. promoting diversity in terms of employment, neration policy. It created a transparent and simple structure — Since 2017, the Global Retail Team under the umbrella and supporting the development and promotion that rewards performance by evaluating each job and comof the “Lindt Retail Academy” has been developing a of all those who meet the relevant requirements. paring it with an external benchmark. series of training courses for the employees and manageWe do not tolerate any discrimination against employees Lindt & Sprüngli USA organized a five-hour career develment at our retail stores, covering everything from service or candidates on the grounds of gender, age, opment workshop for members of the student organization standards to advanced coaching topics for sales managreligion, political opinion, union affiliation, disability, “Men of Strength: Diversity, Education & Family – MOS:DEF” ers. Worldwide over 2,000 participants have visited the national or social origin, sexual orientation, at the University of New Hampshire. MOS:DEF engages in “Lindt Retail Academy” so far to broaden their skills. ethnicity, or color, or any other relevant characteristic encouraging black students, who as a minority are affected — Lindt & Sprüngli Germany welcomed 70 apprentices protected under the law. by higher than average drop-out rates. in 2018 in various departments in accordance with the We believe that all people should be treated fairly and do country’s dual education system. not tolerate discrimination. It is our policy and practice — Onboarding: The integration of new employees is very therefore to ensure people enjoy equal employment opporimportant to us. A good experience on the first day of tunities (both employees and candidates). We also support work makes all the difference. Our subsidiaries offer and promote gender diversity. Around 60% of our employees progressive onboarding programs, as the following exare women. We also strive for age diversity in which younger amples demonstrate: and older generations actively collaborate. — Thanks to the new e-learning platform in Australia, Fewer accidents with proper lifting techniques new employees have an improved experience when joining Lindt & Sprüngli USA has set the goal of reducing the most the world of Lindt & Sprüngli, with standardized modules frequent type of accidents in the workplace: injuries while for all positions. handling, lifting, or carrying loads. As part of a company-wide — As part of the cultural integration, all new employees Age split training course with external experts, 16 factory employees at Lindt & Sprüngli USA are invited to participate in the in % 2016 2017 2018 were certified as safety trainers for carrying and lifting techfull-day “Life of a Truffle” experience. They view trans<30 29.1 28.7 30.1 niques. These trainers then instructed all the employees from actions with Sales and Marketing, visit the Quality and 30–39 21.6 21.7 21.6 the Production and Retail Sales divisions in the basics of safe R&D departments, and enjoy a full production tour. 40–49 21.5 20.9 20.4 lifting and are now available as in-house advisors. During — Lindt & Sprüngli Germany also offers an exciting wel50–59 21.1 21.7 20.7 2018, this training program contributed to a 20% reduction 60+ 6.7 7.0 7.2 come to all its new employees with a two-day workshop. in major accidents at Lindt & Sprüngli USA. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Occupational health and safety started the second wave of risk assessment as the foundation Freedom of association and collective bargaining at We are committed to offering a healthy and safe to implement measures in 2019. As a result, over the last two Lindt & Sprüngli workplace. Our vision is to eliminate all accidents years the number of lost days per 100,000 working hours was Regular consultation and engagement with our employees resulting in time off work. reduced by 21%, while the number of lost-time accidents and their representatives ensure that due account is taken Lindt & Sprüngli manufactures its products in a responsiper 100,000 working hours dropped by 17%. In the transition of both staff and Group Management expectations. This ble manner and ensures that the working conditions allow year of 2018 we encountered a slight increase of our lost days facilitates negotiations and the implementation of operaits employees to carry out their tasks without endangering and lost-time accident indicators, which we expect to drop tional changes. It goes without saying that Lindt & Sprüngli their health or safety. Our long-term goal is to achieve zero again in 2019 when we implement the new measures. In respects employees’ rights and the freedom to form and join lost-time accidents and zero occupational illnesses at each addition to risk assessment and reduction, our preventrade unions and bargain collectively. Lindt & Sprüngli facility worldwide. tion-based safety model promotes zero tolerance of unsafe organizes an annual two-day meeting – the European Works We are working intensively on the implementation of probehavior and critical risks, open communication, and the Council – where employees’ representatives from all active instruments and systems to achieve the status of zero elimination of unsafe situations and “near accidents.” Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries in the European Union and lost-time accidents and zero occupational illnesses. The Switzerland can exchange opinions with each other and with Lindt & Sprüngli risk assessment protocol has been adopted Group Management. The agenda and the documents for at all production facilities. We have set the quality standards Occupational accidents with lost time consideration are agreed in advance between the Chair of for risk assessment higher than required by local laws and per 100,000 working hours the European Works Council and Group Management. In regulations. After considerable efforts made in assessing safeOur vision: zero lost-time accidents 2018, the main focus for information and consultations was ty risks related to activities in the workplace using our new Number of lost-time accidents / 2008 = 100% on health and safety, training, economic and financial demethodology, we have now significantly reduced the risk by 100,000 working hours velopments, investments, and sustainability. Currently, consistently applying our updated procedures. We have de2.65 100 Lindt & Sprüngli employees are collectively organized in fined clear priorities for action by taking into account the Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and the US severity level (consequences of an accident) and the proba(Ghirardelli), as well as at the Montrose factory of Russell bility (frequency and exposure) of health and safety risks. Stover Chocolates. We began implementing our new methodology two years ago in 2016 and intensified our efforts to reach our long-term 0.30 0.24 0.25 11 9.4 8.7 goal. The risk assessment and reduction is implemented in waves starting with an assessment and followed by the im2008 2016 2017 2018 2008 2016 2017 2018 plementation of countermeasures the year after. In 2018 we Note: figures are for Lindt & Sprüngli production companies only. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Environment Resource scarcity, environmental pollution, and climate change are some of the most pressing challenges of our time. As an international production company, we contribute to these challenges and are also simultaneously affected by them. Therefore, we are constantly focused on protecting the environment and reducing the environmental footprint of our chocolate. We have identified three main areas to address: energy and greenhouse gas emissions, water, and waste and recycling. Among the environmental impacts directly linked to our operations, the ones resulting from our production facilities are the most relevant. They are addressed through various improvement and optimization measures in our processes and systems. Environmental impacts that affect the supply chain are addressed in the chapter Sustainably sourced (> see pp. 10–26). The ▶Lindt & Sprüngli Environmental Policy is our shared basis for all of the activities relating to the environment. With the Lindt Production Way (LPW) we have a Groupwide Operational Excellence Program to drive forward continuous improvements at our production facilities. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 34 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Energy consumption Energy consumption and greenhouse subsidiary, acquired at the end of 2014, is not included in gas emissions this calculation. The acquisition of Russell Stover increased Our goal: average annual reduction of 2% per ton produced We are committed to reducing our CO2 emissions the overall energy consumption and energy intensity of the Absolute energy consumption Energy consumption per metric in 1,000 MWh ton of chocolate produced by reducing our energy consumption, increasing our Group. The entire Group’s energy intensity fell a total of 8% 2008 = 100% share of renewable energies, and optimizing transport from 2015 to 2018. 5072 4942 4862 4942 1001 1002 992 and logistics. Greenhouse gas emissions have sunk 36% since 2008, not 861 942 922 Energy is required for the different production steps for including Russell Stover. The consolidated emissions includ861 841 3291 3791 821 811 making chocolate, such as heating, cooling, and transport. ing Russell Stover are higher in absolute terms, but have also 2721 3441 3441 3601 Greenhouse gas emissions are created during all of these been reduced 9% since 2015. Thus, we have achieved our processes. Our goal is to lower our energy consumption and average energy and emissions reduction goal by an average greenhouse gas emissions per metric ton of chocolate proof 2% per year for Lindt & Sprüngli production. duced by an average of 2% per year. Furthermore, we intend Including Russell Stover, the consolidated percentage of 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to increase the percentage of renewable energy within our renewable electricity was 36% in 2018. Lindt & Sprüngli overall energy consumption. Germany and Caffarel are buying 100% from renewable 1 excluding Russell Stover We regularly undertake a detailed analysis of the existing sources (certified supplier mix). 2 including Russell Stover, index adjusted for 2015 = 100% Note: figures are for Lindt & Sprüngli production companies only. systems and future investments to identify potential energy savings. Some of our companies also use certifications to improve their environmental management and energy effiCO2 emissions ciency. For example, the factories in Italy and France are ISO Our goal: average annual reduction of 2% per ton produced 14001 (environmental management) certified, and Lindt Absolute CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per metric ton of & Sprüngli Germany is ISO 51001 (energy efficiency) certified. in 1,000 metric tons chocolate produced 2008 = 100% All of the factories are pursuing the goal of further decreasing their energy consumption. The findings and results from 1302 1282 1162 1182 1001 1002 992 932 912 local projects are collected and exchanged on a global level Caffarel uses 100% renewable energy 841 to pass on proven concepts and procedures. In 2018, the The “Zero Emissions” project is at the core of Caffarel’s com821 801 711 subsidiaries implemented a variety of energy-saving projects. mitment to meeting all of its energy needs with renewable 61 1 641 641 741 731 66 1 Examples of such projects include the replacement of the sources. Caffarel achieved this ambitious goal in January 641 ventilation system at Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland, the in2018. The energy mix used by Caffarel combines electricity stallation of LED lighting at all four Russell Stover producfrom hydroelectric plants (45%) with district heating fueled tion locations, the modernization of certain chocolate maby biomass (40%). The remaining energy needed for the 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 chinery, such as refineries, and lowering motor output from hazelnut roaster and the steam used in production (15%) is 1 excluding Russell Stover 90 kW to 75 kW with a more efficient cooling system. supplied by biogas. Achieving this ambitious goal was pos2 including Russell Stover, index adjusted for 2015 = 100% The emission factors for Russell Stover are based on estimates from By improving insulation and energy recovery systems, sible thanks to close cooperation between Caffarel and local the US Energy Information Administration. we were able to reduce our energy consumption by 19% per energy suppliers. Caffarel is now saving 3,000 metric tons Note: figures are for Lindt & Sprüngli production companies only. metric ton produced compared to 2008. Our Russell Stover of CO2 per year. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Water and waste water Waste and recycling Ambitious energy-saving plans We are committed to reducing fresh water We are committed to reducing waste and increasing at Lindt & Sprüngli USA consumption and waste water generation resulting the recycling rate within our operations. Lindt & Sprüngli USA managed to lower its kilowatt-hour from our business activities. Material waste is a significant factor in our impact on the consumption by 5% between 2017 and 2018, while at the We mainly use municipal water for cleaning operations (for environment and also an important element in our cost same time producing 17% more chocolate. The reduction example to clean molds, wash hands and sanitary facilities) structure. We are constantly striving to reduce the amount of 2.1 million kWh is equal to the electricity used by 1,720 but also in some water based filling products. Our goal is to of wasted materials and continue optimizing our production households in one month. In addition to this, Lindt reduce municipal water consumption by 2% per year for processes with our Lindt & Sprüngli Production Way (LPW) & Sprüngli USA launched a three-year strategic energy parteach metric ton produced. Program. The LPW follows the principle of analyzing, elimnership with energy supplier Eversource. The partnership In recent years, the Lindt & Sprüngli production compainating and avoiding waste and is implemented in every is aimed at lowering electricity consumption at its location nies have significantly lowered their municipal water confactory. It strengthens our culture of operational excellence in Stratham by almost 3.5 million kWh per year. sumption. Since 2008, municipal water consumption per and at the same time has a positive effect on sustainability metric ton produced has declined by 53% (excluding Russell and corporate results. Stover). We assess our consumption rates twice a year and In 2018, we achieved meaningful progress in reducing continuously optimize our processes and systems. Throughmaterial waste in our operations. In total, chocolate waste out the Group, municipal water consumption per metric ton during production decreased by 358 metric tons. produced has fallen by 13% since 2015, meaning that the set We obtained this result by launching different initiatives, goal was also achieved in this area. such as: — New designs for technology and equipment — Improvement of operations Municipal water consumption — Process standardization Our goal: average annual reduction of 2% per metric ton produced This last point is particularly important to us. As a preAbsolute water consumption Water consumption per metric ton of mium chocolate maker, we have our production processes in 1,000 m3 chocolate produced 2008 = 100% completely under our own control. This means that we can 7912 7862 1001 1002 992 attain first-class production capacity in all our factories. 7502 767 2 902 872 Last year, we carried out an extensive analysis of potential 5061 production optimizations for packaging material. At the 611 4291 same time, we rolled out a uniform monitoring process. This Recycling system for burlap sacks at Ghirardelli 4091 3761 3781 3751 541 501 461 471 will enable us to reduce our material usage even further in Cocoa beans are delivered to Ghirardelli in large burlap the coming years. sacks. Up to 1,000 of them are used every day. Working together with a logistics partner, Ghirardelli developed a 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 recycling system to compress the sacks and send them back for recycling. With the launch of the recycling process in 1 excluding Russell Stover 2 including Russell Stover, index adjusted for 2015 = 100% June 2018, around 13.5 metric tons of material have been Note: figures are for production companies of Lindt & Sprüngli only. recycled monthly. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 Sustainably consumed Strict quality controls ensure that Lindt & Sprüngli products meet our high standards. 37 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D Customers and consumers Maintaining high quality standards for food safety is a basic prerequisite for producing premium chocolate. Today’s consumers have a more conscious relationship with food, resulting in an increased need for information – especially relating to nutritional values and allergens. As a chocolate maker, Lindt & Sprüngli has a great responsibility toward its customers and consumers. We place a central focus on customer and consumer satisfaction as part of sustainable consumption. To achieve this, we set high standards for product quality and safety as well as for consumer information, and we contract external, trusted companies to assess our progress regularly. We apply our quality standards throughout the entire value chain, from raw materials to the finished product. In cooperation with our partners, we work continuously on innovations in the areas of research and development, packaging and logistics. This is how we guarantee that our products still maintain their premium quality by the time they reach the end consumer. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D Product quality and safety are at the heart of our expertise in producing premium-­ Cadmium levels in Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate We are committed to undertaking optimal measures quality chocolate specialties, so that is precisely where we All soil naturally contains cadmium. Cocoa trees – just like to safeguard product quality and safety. enact strict standards and regular test procedures. All of our other plants, such as cereals or vegetables – absorb cadmium At Lindt & Sprüngli, top-level product quality and safety is factories undergo annual unannounced audits by ▶AIB from the soil, which is why our products may contain traces vital to continuity and brand awareness. As a producer of ­International. This independent organization has a long-standof cadmium. However, when consumed in such small quanpremium chocolates, we are uncompromising when it comes ing reputation of improving food safety in the industry thanks tities, it presents no harm at all to health. The threshold to ensuring quality and safety. to its standards and assessments. In addition to AIB audits, values for cadmium content are set out in our product specOur comprehensive quality management comprises exmanagement systems for food safety (ISO-22000 or FSSCifications. Analyzing the cadmium content of cocoa beans tensive internal and external controls, and thus ensures the 22000) and quality assurance are in place at our production forms an integral part of the quality control for our sourcing high quality of our products. The Lindt & Sprüngli Quality facilities. Russell Stover is currently working on the launch of process. In Central and South America, cocoa trees are often Guidelines, developed specifically for this purpose, are binda standardized management system for food safety with the grown in volcanic soil, which is why we conduct particularing for all our subsidiaries and define standards relating to aim of also receiving FSSC-22000 certification. ly exhaustive tests for these regions of origin. Lindt & Sprüngraw materials, processing, storage, and distribution. Key Furthermore, we make sure that our chocolate is not li complies with all applicable regulations and recommen­criteria are systematically tested during each process stage damaged in any way during transport and storage and right dations, such as those in the ▶Codex Alimentarius. before the product is released. Only when all the clearances up to delivery to our customers (representatives and retailers). have been passed can the chocolate product leave our facSpecial attention is paid to controlling the ambient temperatory and enter the distribution channels. This approach ture and humidity levels, during transport and storage. The ensures that our chocolate meets uniformly high quality temperature is controlled from our factories to the final standards all around the world. distribution warehouse within our intercompany logistics The high requirements for the quality of our key raw manetwork by means of a strict monitoring process. Humidity terials and packaging material are set down in writing in our levels are monitored in all warehouses and in selected sea product specifications and are inspected. For the inspection, freight companies that cross the equator. The guidelines we either carry out the auditing ourselves or have external apply to all of our own or rented warehouses for finished partners on the ground to check if our suppliers are adherand semi-finished products. ing to our standards. Using further analyses by internal or In addition to our raw materials, we also set requirements external accredited testing organizations, we ensure the for our packaging material, since its main role is to protect quality of the materials we use before they are utilized. our delicate chocolate. However, whenever possible, we are During processing, we make certain that each production also working on the reduction and recyclability of our packstep is carried out precisely. The Lindt & Sprüngli factories aging to conserve more natural resources (> see Packaging optimization for Easter products, p. 40). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 39 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D Consumer information Lindt & Sprüngli realizes that consumers are paying more Lindt & Sprüngli position on GMO We are committed to upholding high standards for attention to sustainability information when choosing Lindt & Sprüngli is not involved in any research or developconsumer information. products. This was confirmed by our consumer survey on ment associated with genetically modified food. None of the Consumers purchase chocolate according to their individual sustainability information on product packaging conducted LINDT, Caffarel, Küfferle, or Hofbauer brand products desires and needs. Product choice is informed by a number in 2018. In order to inform consumers of our sustainability source genetically modified organisms (GMP) ingredients. of things, including the cocoa percentage or the list of ingreinitiatives, our products display the logo of the ▶Lindt ­ We will continue this practice as long as non-GMO raw dients, which also contains information on allergens. Trans& Sprüngli Farming Program on the back of the packaging. materials are available. Regular tests are performed to monparent communication and product labeling are therefore In 2017, Lindt & Sprüngli expanded its existing sustainabilitor these products and ensure compliance with relevant EU very important to Lindt & Sprüngli and are defined in our ity reporting with the addition of the new microsite about the and Swiss regulations. Ghirardelli has also introduced meaLindt & Sprüngli Quality Guidelines. In several areas, our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program (www.farming-program. sures to guarantee that all its products are free from genetdeclaration guidelines extend beyond what is legally required. com). The website informs in English and German interically modified ingredients in the future. Ghirardelli already We are aware of our responsibility to inform consumers actively and in an easily understandable language about the offers non-GMO products, and it aims to make its entire about even small concentrations of potential allergens such complex issue of sustainable cocoa sourcing and the assoproduct range GMO-free and bring this to market gradualas hazelnuts or almonds via the list of ingredients or the ciated goal to ensure traceability of the cocoa bean supply ly in 2019. Russell Stover is currently not planning to switch allergen details we provide. Lindt & Sprüngli includes a clear chain. We also integrated the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming to non-GMO products. warning on all products to inform its consumers about any Program into our communication about the Lindt Difference traces of specific allergens they may contain. We also follow and the Ghirardelli Difference. The goal of putting the Lindt strict process requirements in order to avoid the inadvertent Difference on our packaging is to explain clearly and concontamination of our products. We even separate entire cisely to our customers what is important to Lindt & Sprüngli manufacturing lines as we undertake all of the technological when making chocolates from the bean to the finished measures possible to prevent cross-contamination. product. We therefore highlight the importance of sustainably A balanced diet is crucial for consumer health. We recsourcing high-quality cocoa beans. In 2017, we introduced ommend eating small, appropriate amounts of chocolate as communication about the Lindt Difference to a number of a treat. Nutritional values are displayed on the packaging of stores and on certain packaging. First started in Canada in all Lindt & Sprüngli products in accordance with national 2018, we now also display consumer-oriented information and international legislation. We promote transparency with about this on the lindt.com website. This will now be exonline information regarding ingredients and nutritional tended internationally over the course of 2019 and 2020. values in our online shops. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D Customer and consumer satisfaction p. 30). Additionally, we have set up an online forum to gather Pesticides Customer and consumer satisfaction is the main feedback from the retail network. We use the collected findLindt & Sprüngli monitors its chocolate constantly to detect goal of everything we do. Consumer complaints, ings from this central source to increase customer satisfaction more than 570 different types of pesticides. Cocoa trees are inquiries, and compliments are answered promptly even further. prone to certain diseases and pests that are combated with and individually. Consumers can also share any concerns they may have pesticides in some areas. With the farmer training carried The key to our success is customer and consumer satisfaction, directly with our consumer service. During 2018, over out by the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, we promote and this will never change. To meet our consumers’ demands 112,300 contacts/concerns were recorded in our system improved agricultural practices that reduce the need for whenever possible, we continuously analyze their needs and across the Group and were processed or answered by our pesticides in cocoa production and fight pests using natural expectations. consumer service specialists. The increase from 2017 methods. The resulting findings feed into our product development (106,800 contacts/concerns) is mainly due to an increase in and help us to regularly launch innovative new products that non-consumer-related inquiries, such as career-oriented adhere to the high Lindt & Sprüngli quality standards. Conquestions. Specific issues relating to sustainability, such as sumer tests in various countries are a useful tool in this farming conditions for cocoa or health-related questions, regard. General satisfaction levels with our brands and prodare recorded separately and discussed internally on a reguucts are measured each year – including 2018 – among over lar basis. The most common questions are answered public18,300 consumers in 18 countries. The results relating to ly on our website in the ▶Ask Lindt & Sprüngli section. In chocolate quality and the taste experience are consistently 2018, around 1,100 critical customer inquiries were about outstanding. sustainability issues, which showed a slight increase in inIn addition to consumer tests, we also continuously observe terest in this area compared to 2017 (940 inquiries). These and track global trends in terms of diet, chocolate consumpinquiries represent approximately 1% of all consumer intion, and sustainability issues with a view to identifying quiries worldwide. All other inquiries concerned general opportunities for our products, as well as possible challenges. topics, specific products, ingredients, or the quality of the We regularly exchange this information with our subsidiaries. raw materials. In addition to these global trends, all Lindt & Sprüngli subConsumers can also get in touch with us via the feedback Packaging optimization for Easter products sidiaries also monitor local developments and needs when form on our packaging. Additionally, we are in direct contact We are making a concerted effort to optimize our packcreating new products. with our consumers on a daily basis via over 100 social meaging to conserve natural resources. Lindt & Sprüngli Another source of valuable information is our own retail dia channels, providing individual answers to the inquiries South Africa & Lindt & Sprüngli UK have undertaken differnetwork, which brings us into daily contact with our customand feedback we receive. In order to ensure a professional ent optimizations for the packaging of the Lindor Easter ers. Our sales people in more than 460 of our own shops are and efficient consumer and customer service, we have inEgg. Thanks to these improvements, 95% of single-use plastic constantly pinpointing customers’ needs and expectations. troduced a management process designed to further opticould be reduced in South Africa, while maintaining the With the Lindt Retail Academy we provide regular training mize average processing and response times. fundamental protective and presentation functions of the for our sales staff (> see Employee development and training, packaging. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 41 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Outlook Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan – Our Commitment for a Better Tomorrow Sustainability plays a key role in ensuring our However, our aspirations have also grown and level, combating deforestation, sustainability business success. With almost 175 years of matured. As a result, over the past 18 months for packaging material and new raw materials. history behind us, we have proven ourselves our Sustainability Executive Team has collabAt the same time, our sustainability commitas a long-term-oriented company that continorated with all of our subsidiaries and local ment remains focused on the entire value chain ues to perfect and deliver the same traditionpartners to transform our existing sustainabil– from the origin of the high-quality raw maal, exquisitely crafted products. However, for ity strategy into the Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainterials to the enjoyment of the finished product. us, preserving our traditions does not mean ability Plan. From a business perspective, this approach stagnation, but rather the continual enhanceWith the Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability will not only reduce operational risks, save on ment of the tried-and-true. Plan, we are intensifying our commitment to costs, and increase employee engagement, but As we do this, we must also consider the a more sustainable future and would like to it will ultimately also guarantee long-term dynamics of sustainable development. Chalgenerate long-term values together with our sources of high-quality key raw materials and lenges, priorities, and stakeholder expectapartners. It’s our purpose to perform together consolidate financial sustainability. tions change constantly due to new findings as a company to improve livelihoods in our With our new sustainability strategy, we are and developments. value chain, to contribute to an intact environsetting a solid course for the coming years. The Our “Lindt & Sprüngli Promise” remains the ment, and delight our consumers. strategy was approved at the end of 2018, and same: All products leaving our factories will We have organized the four purposes into we will be using 2019 to launch its implemenultimately live up to our commitment to suseleven focus areas and defined a clear target tation with the goal that the 2019 Sustainability tainability along the entire value chain. for each. New aspects of our strategy include Report will provide details of our goals, indichocolate waste, diversity at a management cators, and initial successes. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 42 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Overview of our Lindt & Sprüngli Sustainability Plan along the value chain with our purposes, focus areas, and main commitments Value chain rced ly sou b ina usta S Purpose We comply with L & S quality and food By 2025, 100% of cocoa is sourced safety standards on an ongoing basis through sustainability programs g Im in liv pr ht ers Focus area Our products are marketed and el By 2025, above 80% of procurement advertised according to national/ D m ih g expenditure in raw and packaging co elig in s Sustaina international law materials bearing sustainability risks ov od lity/ qua R deve ural ns uct t safety will be covered by a sustainable bly c lop u od Pr oduc Pr me nt o sourcing program ons um Tran ghts and r spare n ri ma e ed e comm spons nt Hu in th ain h uni ibl ly c cat e pp Our entire cocoa supply is free ion su from deforestation by 2025 up B io d i10% reduction of greenhouse gas cc versit O al th and e y he sy ste coemissions in the production process in g ms E n a b l a ti n g by 2020 per ton produced; t iv an d m o ing CO c li 2 a n base year 2015 = 100% 40% women on senior leadership levels wo r k e nt m at e d nm by 2025 e n v ir o a & tio n r tin te ir o g t sa al fe ty Wa 10% reduction of water from municipal ed r fo nm o an Bus in inte e ss Waste supply in the production process by Pe toge g ri t y uc We continuously reduce our safety 2020 per ton produced; rm en od indicators to achieve our long-term th i n g u t base year 2015 = 100% ri b nv pr vision of zero lost-time accidents er n t e ly C o ta ct ab in Halve chocolate waste in the in ta s We are not participating in any Su production process by 2025 per ton corrupt or anti-competitive behavior produced; base year 2015 = 100% L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 43 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 Sustainability governance At Lindt & Sprüngli, all issues relating to sustainability are dealt with by the highest level of management, and a committee appointed by the Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring this area. This shows how seriously we take the importance of acting responsibly. The Sustainability Committee consists of three members of Corruption and anti-competitive behavior set out our core values and expectations for our employees the Board of Directors. It supports the Board of Directors We are committed to the principle of free competition and and suppliers and commits them to compliance. In 2018, in setting the strategic direction for company activities, scrupulously comply with all applicable domestic and interwe also carried out training on competition law for all emwhile promoting comprehensive sustainable management. national antitrust and competition laws. We condemn any ployees of our subsidiaries. In 2018, we carried out training The Committee is responsible for developing and adapting form of bribery and corruption. Our ▶Credo, our ▶Business sessions for the employees of our subsidiaries on the topic all internationally applicable corporate policies in this area Code of Conduct and our ▶Supplier Code of Conduct clearly of competition law. and for monitoring compliance with legal aspects. The Committee meets as often as required, but at least once a year. Lindt & Sprüngli sustainability governance Group Management makes sure the strategic decisions Lindt & Sprüngli Group are implemented. Sustainability Management coordinates all sustainability activities at Lindt & Sprüngli and supports Sustainability Committee of the Board the Sustainability Executive Team (which has representatives from HR, Marketing, Legal, Research & Development/ Quality Assurance, Procurement, and Corporate CommuSustainability Executive Team nications) with implementing sustainability goals. The Sustainability Executive Team meets every two to three months Group Management and is also responsible for Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries. It ensures implementation at a local level based on the policies of Lindt & Sprüngli International. Each Lindt & Sprüngli Group company has one sustainability representative to ensure Sustainability Management end-to-end communication between the Group and the respective subsidiary. In addition, each manufacturing subsidiary appoints a person responsible for health and safety management and for environmental management. Sourcing HR Marketing Legal R&D/QA Operations Group Comm. Subsidiaries L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 44 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 018 About this report This Sustainability Report is Lindt & Sprüngli’s ninth progress report in relation to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the six UN Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (FAB). This Sustainability Report provides the various stakeholders The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Relevant company guidelines Report reference with information about the goals Lindt & Sprüngli has set 1. Companies should support and respect the protection of internationally Credo pp. 6–9, 11–26, 29, 31, 43 itself, any measures introduced, and the progress achieved. proclaimed human rights. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 2. Companies should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Business Code of Conduct It covers the period from January 1, 2018, to December 31, Health & Safety Policy abuses. 2018. Unless otherwise stated, all facts and figures are correct Supplier Code of Conduct as of December 31, 2018, and relate to the Lindt, Ghirardel3. Companies should uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the Credo pp. 6–9, 11–26, 29, 31–32 li, Russell Stover, Whitman’s, Pangburn’s, Caffarel, Hofbauright to collective bargaining. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise er, and Küfferle brands of the Lindt & Sprüngli Group. The 4. Companies should work toward the elimination of all forms of forced and Business Code of Conduct compulsory labor. Health & Safety Policy facts and figures also relate to all production, distribution, and 5. Companies should work toward the effective abolition of child labor. Supplier Code of Conduct marketing sites, as well as regional Lindt & Sprüngli offices. 6. Companies should work toward the elimination of discrimination in respect This Sustainability Report was drafted with due regard to employment and occupation. to the principle of materiality in terms of the issues addressed 7. Companies should support a precautionary approach to environmental Credo pp. 11–26, 33–35, 40 and the expectations of the various stakeholders. challenges. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 8. Companies should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental Policy responsibility. Supplier Code of Conduct Date of publication 9. Companies should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentalGerman and English version: April 2019 ly friendly technologies. 10. C  ompanies should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Business Code of Conduct p. 43 The expectations expressed in this Sustainability Report are and bribery. Supplier Code of Conduct based on assumptions. Actual results may vary from these. The German version of the report is the authoritative version. Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles (FAB) Report reference For reasons of legibility the masculine form was used in the text, but the The company pursues food safety, health, and nutrition. pp. 11–26 information refers nevertheless to members of all genders. The company is environmentally responsible. pp. 11–26 The company ensures economic viability and shares value. pp. 11–26 The company respects human rights, creates decent work, and helps communities to thrive. pp. 11–26 The company encourages good governance and accountability. pp. 6–9, 43 The company promotes access to and the transfer of knowledge, skills, and technologies. pp. 11–26 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 CHOCOLADEFABRIKEN LINDT & SPRÜNGLI AG Seestrasse 204 | CH-8802 Kilchberg Switzerland www.lindt-spruengli.com/sustainability www.farming-program.com L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845
