When trust is shared, it grows Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2018 We are here for you! Alecta has a strong driving force – we have an important mission. We shall maximise the value of the occupational pension for you as our customer. This gives you, and your children and grandchildren, security now and in the future regardless of whether you are 25 or 65 years old, at the same time as it is an efficient solution for those of you who are employers. Accordingly, we also make an important contribution to society – a sustainable pension system. These are some of the factors that make us particularly suitable for living up to our mission and our role in society: •W e are owned by the customers – any surplus is returned to them. •W  e offer a collective insurance solution. All customers jointly share risks and responsibilities. This provides greater security and flexibility. •W  e are procured collectively, which yields savings in the form of lower sales and marketing costs. We know that trust grows when it is shared! To create as much value as possible of the pension capital, we have assigned the highest priority to low costs. We know that low fees are important for creating a good pension and we offer among the lowest fees in the sector. Because our mission is to create security for the future, we have a long-term approach. We want and we need to contribute to the society of the future being a good one to live in and one that creates sustainable growth and new jobs. That is also how we create a healthy return. Our model for managing your pension savings gives us an opportunity to really influence the companies in which we invest. That’s why we can promise that every day we will work for you and your future security regardless of whether you are a private or a corporate customer. Together we are Alecta. Welcome to read more about us and our work in this report! d ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Photographer: Oskar Omne Alecta has taken responsibility for the future since 1917 by managing occupational pensions. Our mission is to maximise the value of collectively agreed occupational pensions for our corporate and private customers. We do this through responsible investments, good returns, good customer service and low costs. We manage SEK 824 billion on behalf of our owners, who are 2,5 million private and 35 000 corporate customers. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 3 Contents We are here for you! 2 A pension system for the future 5 Message from the CEO 6 Highlights of 2018 8 Alecta’s long-term operational goals 9 The occupational pensions market 10 A sustainable pension system 12 A good pension 12 A stable and trusted company 14 Responsible investments 18 An attractive workplace 22 Sustainability supplement 24 GRI table 33 Auditor’s review report on sustainability 35 Corporate Governance Report 36 Corporate governance model 37 Council of Administration and auditors 41 Board of Directors 42 Senior management 44 Administration Report 45 Financial statements 59 The Board of Directors and CEO’s signatures 111 Audit Report 112 Glossary 117 About Alecta’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2018 Alecta’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report are presented by the Board of Directors and are intended to give all stakeholders a good idea of our activities and results in the past year. The Administration Report and the financial statements on pages 45–111 constitute Alecta’s statutory financial information and are subject to external auditing. The Audit Report on the statutory financial information is presented on pages 112–115. Alecta’s statutory sustainability report is presented on pages 5–34 and has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The overall description of the work performed during the year is presented on pages 5–23. Reports on processes, more detailed data and the scope and limits that apply are presented in the supplementary in-depth section about sustainability on pages 24–34. Alecta’s external auditors, Ernst & Young AB, conduct a review of the company’s sustainability reporting, and the review report on the sustainability reporting and the auditors’ opinion on the statutory Sustainability Report are presented on page 35. 4 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A pension system for the future A susta pension siny able stem Alecta’s mission and goals Our mission is to maximise the value of collectively agreed occupational pensions for our corporate Good Stable and private customers. To guide our activities in pensions pension Responcompanie sible that direction, Alecta has defined three general s operational goals: investments • Secure and satisfied customers. • Low costs and high efficiency. Attractiv e workplac • A good return and strong financial position. e Through our mission, and with our objectives as our guiding •  Mutual ownership – which means that we are owned by principle, Alecta contributes to a sustainable pension system. our 2,5 million private and 35 000 corporate customers, That is Alecta’s role in society. A sustainable pension system and that any surplus that is generated is returned to them. means good and secure pensions in both the short and the • A collective insurance solution – a solution in which prilong term. By acting sustainably and responsibly, we create vate and corporate customers share the responsibility and stable conditions for our investments to grow and predictabilthe risks. This creates greater security and flexibility. It ity for both the employer and the beneficiary. makes it possible to offer all customers a lifelong pension, a survivor’s pension and disability insurance without comA sustainable pension system plex exemptions. Age is not something to worry about when we are young. For • Collective procurement – creates economies of scale that this reason, having pensions that can sustain a livelihood is contribute to an already efficient management of pension an important part of the social contract. Alecta’s business assets becoming even more efficient, which ultimately also enables this by helping to build what we call a sustainable leads to low fees. pension system. This is a system that rests on three pillars: pensions that people can live on now and in the future, As an active long-term owner, we need to have a broad perstable pension companies which retain a high level of trust spective of risks and opportunities. We are convinced that and responsible investments which help to contribute to a responsible investments yield good returns that leads to good sustainable society. Together, this results in a focus on good pensions both now and in the future. returns, low fees, high efficiency and well-integrated sustainA stable pension provider is better positioned to take the ability work. long-term decisions that the business needs. In addition, the right competencies are required in order to operate in a When trust is shared it grows changing world and live up to our high goals and ambitions. Trust grows when it is shared – this insight characterises both That is how we can maintain a sustainable pension system. the foundation for our mission, which is to maximise the value of collectively agreed occupational pensions, and our entire business. Alecta’s ability to help build a sustainable pension system is based on a number of fundamental decisions made by our founders and principals: ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 5 Message from the CEO: Moving forward towards 2023 2023 was a key concept for Alecta in 2018. We won the ITP procurement and are the default option for defined contribution ITP schemes for another five years. At the same time, a strategy project was launched to ensure that in a time of rapid changes in the business environment, we will stand even stronger in the competition in the next procurement. We won the ITP procurement thanks to a very good product, cent to 58 per cent. A number of factors contributed. We have Alecta Optimal Pension, for which we reduced the fee to 0,09 worked hard to remind ourselves of the importance of cusper cent and the fee ceiling to SEK 600 per year, while also tomer focus and customer value. We have launched a new verimproving the guarantee. This was possible thanks to a longsion of our public website and the online self-service feature term focus on customer value and efficiency. Being customerfor private customers, My Pages. This generated an immediowned, it is self-evident that everything we do should add ate effect, in the form of 15 per cent fewer e-mails to the cusvalue for our customers. tomer service centre. On this basis, the Board has adopted three overriding During the autumn, we initiated the project of updating objectives: secure and satisfied customers, low costs and high the online office for corporate customers and proxies. It will efficiency, as well as a good return and a strong financial be launched in the first quarter of 2020. position. We have also joined the Fullmaktskollen service, to simplify the handling of powers of attorney for the customers and Return to increase security. We have continued a favourable collaboStock markets were more volatile in 2018. Global stock marration with MinPension because we know that the customers kets plummeted during the last four months of the year. want an overview of their pensions in one place. Moreover, we OMXS30 declined approximately 15 per cent from early Sephave changed how we measure customer satisfaction, to give tember to the end of December. Alecta’s return performance us an even better understanding of what the customers think. was significantly impacted by the sharply negative stock We have also changed how we govern development projmarkets during the latter part of the year. The average annual ects, so that we more clearly base them on an integrated return on the defined benefit portfolio over the past five perspective focusing on the customers’ overall experience. years is 5,6 per cent, which is 0,7 percentage points weaker To enhance customer privacy, we further strengthened our than the sector average for life insurance companies, excludinformation security and implemented the EU’s General Data ing Alecta. The average return on the defined benefit savings Protection Regulation (GDPR). product, Alecta Optimal Pension, over the past five years is We adopted a new funding policy to ensure that we optimal6,7 per cent. ly deliver on our mission; i.e. to maximise the value of occupational pensions for both private and corporate customers. Low costs and satisfied customers Finally, we made preparations during the year for Alecta’s Alecta’s operating expenses were SEK 876 million, SEK 11 milfirst digital employee starting the work at the beginning of lion above the target. This was due to increased fees and cost the new year; a robot that has taken over the remaining manallocations from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authorual work involved in the withdrawal of pensions via My Pages. ity, Insurance Sweden and the selection center. During the year, Alecta continued to have good discipline over the costs Sustainability is a prerequisite that the company directly controls. Our asset management model constitutes a solid base for our Our index score for Secure and satisfied customers was sustainability work. During the year, we worked on setting clear favourable. The aim is that those who visit the website should objectives for sustainability work throughout the company. give it a rating of at least 7,5 out of 10, and we achieved 7,8. We adopted the goal that the equities portfolio should supWe also measure the customers’ opinions of us in other port the fulfilment of the so-called two-degree target from ways. Among those who know that they are customers, the the UN’s Paris summit; i.e. that global warming should be proportion that are positive to Alecta increased from 53 per kept at less than two degrees. It is a sign of strength that we 6 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 can set such a target. By doing so, we will also make clear how ments. This requires that we continuously put ourselves in we contribute. We are also reviewing how we should apply the their place and understand what they consider to be value, target to our other asset classes. During the year, we impleand that we also use the technological opportunities that mented a stress test of our entire portfolio on the basis of cliexist to deliver this. mate scenarios compatible with the Paris Agreement. We also need to have committed and motivated employees We continued to participate in joint initiatives at an interwith the right competencies. We aim to be the most attractive national and national level. Our membership of the Global employer in the industry. As a result of the work we performed Compact entails that we support the initiative’s ten principles, jointly in Alecta during the year, I am convinced that we will which are based on international conventions. succeed. I look forward to the five years ahead and the next It is gratifying that the work of the EU’s High-Level Expert procurement, because I am convinced that Alecta will still be Group on Sustainable Finance – in which we participated as a sector leader when that time comes. the only Swedish company – has resulted in tangible EU bills. During the year, Alecta was appointed to participate in the Magnus Billing stakeholder and reference group on occupational pension CEO regulations that the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Agency (EIOPA) has commissioned. Sustainable pension system But our social sustainability is broader than responsible investments. Alecta is an important part of the Swedish welfare system. Our responsibility is to contribute to a sustainable pension system. This means that we ensure that our customers will receive the best possible pension and security prior to and during their retirement, and that we are a highly trusted and financially stable company. With this in mind, we educate and drive opinion about the pension system and occupational pensions, either directly to customers and parties or via our Pension Economist and various other arrangements. During the year, among other things, we arranged seminars about sustainability and pensions at the Almedalen political week, lunchtime debates about pension issues and a large conference about the future of collective security solutions under the name of Ateljén (The Studio). Alecta 2023 During 2018, we implemented a major strategy activity to ensure that Alecta maintains its leading position and wins the 2023 ITP procurement. We have a strong starting point, but the world around us is changing rapidly in terms of demographics, customer preferences and technological opportunities. The focus of the strategy work is on ensuring that we utilise technology so that we can meet customers wherever they want, in the way they want and when they want, and that our product and the information about it matches their requireALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 7 Highlights of 2018 New ITP period with an improved Implementation of new regulations Occupational pensions in Almedalen product The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation For the past several years, Alecta has been The new five-year period in the ITP scheme (GDPR) became effective in May and the EU’s represented at Almedalen Week on the island started to apply in October. In March 2018, Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) became of Gotland. In 2018, Alecta arranged two activiAlecta was again designated as the default effective in October. Alecta has assigned the ties of its own under the overall theme of “A option for the defined contribution retirement highest priority to good regulatory complisustainable pension system”. In addition to our pension scheme under the ITP supplementary ance and, in addition to the statutory regulaown seminars, Alecta participated in seminars pension scheme, i.e. both ITP 1 and ITPK, for tions, we have also strengthened information arranged by others and exchanged experiences private-sector salaried employees. security efforts. Alecta has also provided a with operators that are important for us and response to the new occupational pension our customers. The Serendipity business chalIn connection with the start of the new conregulations, IORP 2. Other bills of relevance lenge, to which Alecta is one of the sustainabiltractual period, improvements were made to Alecta include the EU’s Sustainable Finance ity partners, was a highly appreciated competito the product, Alecta Optimal Pension. The work, whereby Alecta has provided its opintion for entrepreneurs. already low fee was cut from 0,10 to 0,09 per ions both independently and through industry cent, and the annual cap on fees was lowered organisations. from SEK 900 to SEK 600. In addition, a better rule for minimising the variability of penpage 14 Ateljén (the Studio) sion payments was introduced, as well as a Ateljén – a platform for co-creation, inspiration strengthened guarantee during payment. Climate Action 100+ and discussion – was held for the first time in During the year, Alecta joined the internamid-November. The theme for this year’s event page 51 tional Climate Action 100+ initiative, which was: “Collective security solutions in an indiis designed to enter into a dialogue with the vidualised future – a given or an impossibility?” New My Pages for private customers world’s slightly more than 100 companies that and it addressed the challenges that the In September, we launched a new My Pages emit the most carbon dioxide. The intention Swedish welfare model is facing. version, with a new layout, for private customis to improve the companies’ sustainability ers when they log into alecta.se. Following the reporting, that they will reduce their emissions launch, we have noted a reduction in the numof greenhouse gases and that they will steer ber of e-mails from clients, because they can Additional sustainable investments their operations in the direction of the Paris now more easily find direct answers to their Alecta is working to continue to integrate Agreement. questions. We have also noted a change and page 20 sustainability through our active ownership of more depth in the questions that are asked. limited liability companies. During 2018, asset During the autumn, we also initiated the projAlecta’s active ownership report management also continued to invest in green ect of updating the online office for corporate At the end of the year, we published Alecta’s bonds and other investments with a measurcustomers and proxies. The aim is to have it second annual active ownership report, able social or environmental impact. The portlaunched in the first quarter of 2020. which provides a more detailed description folio of green bonds is worth a total of about of our active ownership activities. The report SEK 31 billion and what are known as impact page 12 describes Alecta’s role as owner, trends identiinvestments totalled nearly SEK 6 billion. Changed funding policy fied at shareholders’ meetings during the year page 20 During 2018, Alecta’s Board decided to change and Alecta’s ownership policy. the funding policy for defined benefit insurpage 19 ance products. The new policy allows the collective funding ratio to vary between 125 and 175 per cent, which is a broadening of the interval (125–155 per cent) that has applied since 2006. These changes have been made to facilitate the the high indexation ambition in the plan, and to clarify the collective funding ratios that enable the payment of refunds to the insured parties and the companies. page 51 8 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Alecta’s long-term operational goals LONG-TERM OPERATIONAL GOALS FOLLOW-UP OUTCOME 2018 Secure Our customers should feel secure During 2018, we chose to evaluate The average score from the and satisand satisfied, and have confidence target fulfilment by monitoring how year’s surveys was 7,8. fied cusin Alecta. That’s why it is particularsatisfied the private and corporate tomers ly important to ensure that the cuscustomers who visit Alecta’s website tomers who contact us receive were with their visit. good service, and that Alecta enjoys a good reputation as a responsible The target for 2018 was that the visiplayer in society. tors should give an average score of at least 7,5 on a ten-point scale. High Alecta’s goal is to display worldCosts are monitored through key perAlecta’s operating expenses cost efficlass cost-effectiveness. Through formance indicators such as managewere SEK 876 million, excludciency our mission, we have every opporment expense ratio and cost per ing variable pay. tunity to achieve that goal. insured. As the KPIs are strongly influenced by factors other than operating expenses, the ambition is annually translated into a cost target defined in millions of kronor. For 2018, the target was that Alecta’s operating expense would not exceed SEK 865 million, excluding variable pay. Good Alecta’s return should be competiWe compare our return over time with returns tive, both in terms of the overall the industry. and strong return and the return on each asset Our average annual return financial class. We will work to achieve our The target for our defined benefit portover the past five years is 5,6 position long-term target returns while folio is an average annual return that is ensuring that Alecta is in a suffi0,5 percentage points higher than the per cent, which is 0,7 percentciently strong financial position to average for the life insurance industry, age points weaker than the withstand events that could occur excluding Alecta, over the past five-year industry average. according to our long-term risk period. assessment. The average annual return The return on our defined contribution over the past five years is 6,7 savings product, Alecta Optimal Pension, per cent, which is 1,4 percentshould exceed Morningstar’s SEK age points better than the Aggressive Balanced funds index by 1,5 benchmark. percentage points annually over the past five-year period. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 9 The occupational pensions market The Swedish pension system • Private savings which each individual is responsible for and puts money into. Two examples of has three legs long-term pension savings are investment savings accounts (ISK) and endowment policies. • An occupational pension is a component of an individual’s pension that is linked to his or her employment and is paid for by the employer. It is agreed between the employer and trade unions through a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), or provided directly by the employer if the company is not party to a CBA. An occupational pension usually comprises three components: OCCUPATIONAL retirement, disability and survivor’s protection. PENSION • The state pension is that part of a person’s pension which comes from the government. It consists of an earnings-related pension, a premium pension, a guaranteed pension, housing supplement for pensioners, income support for the eldery and a survivor’s pension. Everyone who has worked or lived in Sweden receives a state pension, which is based on all the taxed income of an individual. There are also components of the state pension that are not earnings-related, such as the guaranteed pension. The state pension is life-long. Source: Pensions Agency and Alecta Occupational pension – a vital component the payments to the policy holder are fixed but the size of the of the welfare system employers payments depends on factors such as the investOccupational pension is an important part of the welfare ment return. Under the ITP agreement, those born in 1979 system for the majority of those who work in Sweden. About and later end up in the defined contribution plan. 20 per cent of the pension normally consists of occupational In addition to retirement pension, the occupational penpension and the level for salaried employees with a higher sion includes a number of other insurance policies. The most income could be as much as 50 per cent or more. At the same common are health insurance, which covers the loss of time, tens of thousands of salaried employees and their famiincome in the event of illness, waiver of premium insurance, lies receive payments through an occupational pension in the which covers payments of premiums for retirement pensions event of illness or fatalities every year. Accordingly, a great in the event of illness, and survivor’s protection, which is responsibility rests upon Alecta to maintain this vital feature financial protection for relatives in the event of death. of the Swedish welfare system. Exactly what an occupational pension includes varies. The vast majority have a ready-negotiated occupational pension What is special with the occupational package through a collective bargaining agreement negotiated pensions market? between employers’ associations and trade unions. Without In other markets, it is the same customer who decides and pays collective bargaining agreements, employers are left to themfor what they buy. In the occupational pensions market, it is the selves to define the conditions. employer who pays while the employee often (but not always) can choose which company should manage his/her pension. What happens with the premiums? Although both of these are considered as customers by Alecta, Within a defined contribution pension, which has become the employer is the policy holder and owns the occupational more common in recent years, there are two ways of investing pension policy while the employee is insured up to retirement. paid-in premiums. The first one, which is called traditional insurance, includes a guarantee, often a money-back guaranWhat does the occupational pension tee. In traditional insurance, the capital is invested in interestinclude? bearing assets, shares and real estate. The second way is unitAn occupational pension is a promise to the employee that he/ linked insurance. This is where the employee invests in funds she will have financial security when he/she no longer has any resembling those available for other types of savings. Both of income from employment. Retirement pension, which is the the ways have advantages and disadvantages. Alecta has chosen financially largest component, is based around two systems: to offer only traditional insurance solutions. defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. In a defined contribution pension, the size of the premium payDoes everyone have an occupational ments is fixed, while payments to the policy holder depend on pension? a number of factors, such as remaining life and the return on The vast majority of those who have an employment also have the capital. some form of occupational pension. Nine of ten employees In a defined benefit pension, the opposite applies in that have a collectively agreed occupational pension and about 10 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 premiums exposed to competition amounted to SEK 149 billion, COMPETITION-EXPOSED OCCUPATIONAL PENSION PREMIUMS OF APPROXIMATELY SEK 149 BILLION IN 2018 which was an increase of 11,5 per cent compared with 2017. One explanation for this increase is that the newer collecKåpan 1 % Nordnet 6 % Avanza 4 % Alecta 16 % tively agreed pension schemes that are being procured are Swedbank 4 % more exposed to competition than those that are slowly being Nordea 2 % Handelsbanken 3 % phased out – for example, by the fully competition-exposed ITP 1 replacing ITP 2, which is only partly exposed to compeAMF 13 % SEB 10 % tition. Movestic 2 % The companies’ shares are shown in the fact box to the Danica 2 % KPA 11 % left, and further that no company has a dominating market SPP 5 % position. Viewed over a slightly longer term, Avanza, KPA, Folksam 6 % Skandia 11 % Länsförsäkringar 5 % SEB and Alecta have grown the most. In 2018, Alecta accounted for about 16 per cent of all competition-exposed premiums Premium volume of SEK 149,5 billion (134,1), of which SEK 71,7 billion (64,6) in individual choices related to savings in occupational pension schemes. made through collectively agreed selection centres and another SEK 77,8 billion (69,5) pertaining to individual occupational pensions, such as ten-fold earners who have chosen alternative ITP, ten-fold earners who have not chosen alternative ITP, salary exchanges, executive plans, employer-paid deposit insurance, etc. Source: Insurance Sweden, SPV What importance do collective bargaining agreements have for the competition? half of the others have employers who themselves offer some Because nine of ten employees have collectively agreed sort of occupational pension. It is estimated that every 20th occupational pensions, one might believe that the competiemployee completely lacks an occupational pension. tion primarily occurs within the framework of the collective agreements’ selection centres, but that is not the case. The Are all occupational pensions managed selection centres mediated SEK 72 billion on behalf of insured by insurance companies? parties who had chosen (or not chosen themselves) companies. No, but in Sweden insurance is the prevailing way of securing This is nearly half of the competition-exposed occupational the occupational pension promise. In total, the employers paid pensions market. in occupational pension premiums of approximately SEK 173 Alongside the individual choices made in the selection billion in 2018. centres, significant occupational pension premiums, approxiHowever, there are employers who do not pay insurance mately SEK 78 billion, are channelled from the employers to premiums but instead reserve a pension liability in their pension providers in other ways. In this area, the competiaccounting, which is to cover future pension payments to the tion may vary – in certain cases, only the employer decides, employees. In the private sector, PRI Pensionsgaranti makes while occasionally there are various degrees of options for the sure that the employees can feel secure in the knowledge that employees. This is not so strange as occupational pensions their occupational pension will be paid when the time comes. are fundamentally “the employer’s market” – apart from A similar accounting is applied in the public sector. when it is decided in collective agreements that employees are If we translate these reserved pension commitments to entitled to choose from among a series of approved companies pension premiums, they correspond to about one-fourth of via a selection centre. what the other employers pay in as pension premiums to That the parties to the collective agreement have the insurance companies and pension funds. right to decide which companies are allowed to compete and the terms for this has a great impact on competition in the How does the competition work? entire market. Above all, procurement within the ITP scheme We have chosen to comply with the industry standard, which has driven the trend towards lower fees and better prodis to measure the competition in terms of how much premiums ucts throughout the life assurance industry. This enforces the customers pay to the companies. There are components efficiency enhancements among the companies, which is of collectively agreed occupational pension schemes where also enabling a lowering of fee levels outside the collectively the employers or employees do not choose which company is agreed occupational pensions. to manage the pension. Within the ITP scheme, for example One factor that makes the market special is that the occuhealth insurance and the defined benefit retirement pension, pational pension is statutory for all employees, regardless of apply to insured persons with a salary of less than ten income whether or not they are interested in investing their pension base amounts. We do not include these as being part of the savings. For this reason, it is also natural that many refrain competition-exposed occupational pensions market. from choosing companies for their occupational pension, The occupational pensions market is growing rapidly, even if they have this option. The companies are essentially measured in terms of paid-in premiums. During 2018, the competing for those who decide to choose. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 11 A good pension A good pension is based on three components – low fees, good returns and comprehensible and easily accessible information. That way customers can appreciate the value of a secure old age and a secure pension system. Low fee a prerequisite How and when do you want to receive your pension from Alecta? You can test various alternatives here and compare An ITP-insured with a pension in Alecta’s defined contribution them with how your forecast looks today. There are a few things that it’s important to know before you product pays a fee of not more than 0,09 per cent of the manretire. There are also other ways of receiving your pension that aged assets, subject to a ceiling of SEK 600 per year, which is are not shown here. among the lowest fees in the industry. As a comparison, the fee Visit alecta.se to find out more. for a commercially brokered mix fund normally ranges from 0,25 to 2 per cent. However, thanks to collective procurement, cost awareness and economies of scale, Alecta can reduce the fee, which benefits the value of the pension. Easily accessible information Easily accessible and comprehensible information is a prereqGood returns with in-house management uisite for the customers’ understanding of the value of their Alecta manages assets of over SEK 820 billion. Under our pensions. That’s why we try to continuously improve informamanagement model, which is unique for such a large portfotion to our customers. Close-to-the-customer development is lio, nearly all asset management is conducted in-house. Our an important part of Alecta and we are proud to involve the equity investments are concentrated to a limited number of customers in our improvement effort. For example, we analyse shareholdings, just over 100, in which we hold significant incoming calls to improve the answers and functions on our stakes and have good insight. This is an efficient model that website. During the year, this resulted in our launching a new results in low fees and good returns. At year-end 2018, the My Pages version and the Pension Planner, as well as customer average annual return over the past five years for our defined surveys by text messages. contribution pension product, Alecta Optimal Pension, was 6,7 per cent, compared with 5,6 per cent for the defined benefit New My Pages for private customers at product within ITP 2. alecta.se In September, we launched a new My Pages version for private ROLLING FIVE-YEAR AVERAGE RETURN, IN COMPARISON WITH customers when they log into alecta.se. Following the launch, MORNINGSTAR we have noted a reduction in the number of e-mails from cus% tomers, because they can now more easily find the answers to 16 their questions. We have also noted a change and more depth 14 in the questions that are asked. In the past, for example, we 12 received questions about whether the customer had survivor’s 10 protection but now we get questions about what such protec8 6 tion means. 4 During the development of the new My Pages, a number 2 of customer surveys were implemented, which were a factor 0 underlying the successful outcome. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ITP 1 Defined benefit insurance Morningstar Sverige blandfond aggressiv Pension Planner With the help of the Pension Planner on the new My Pages, 0,09 private customers can log in themselves and plan how they in fee of assets under want to take out their pension. The service existed before, management, but when it was called “Calculate and Withdraw”. The pension % with an annual ceiling planner is a highly appreciated service, with more than of SEK 600 per year. 130 000 unique visitors in 2018. It makes it easier for cus12 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A sustainable pension system – A good pension We asked some of our customers what security meant to them. Feeling secure with everything around it. Permanent job, a bit of money, family tomers to calculate how the pension is affected by various and friends. To surround choices, for example, withdrawal periods, and then to navigate further to draw their pension. About 65 per cent of the yourself with things you customers who make changes to their pension withdrawals like. choose to do so themselves through the Pension Planner. Kerstin Satisfied customers a measurement of quality Larsson Our aim is to have secure and satisfied customers, which is why we implement semi-annual surveys according to the Customer they can rate this from 1 to 10, where 10 means very satisfied. Satisfied Index model, CSI. In these surveys, our private and The CSI score from those who visited the website in 2018 was corporate customers are asked to rate the service online. Each 7,8. Our target for this survey was a score of 7,5. visitor to the website is after three minutes given the question Since the end of June, we also conduct customer surveys “How satisfied are you with your visit to alecta.se today?” and by sending text messages to customers who have called our customer service. The text message includes a link with six short questions about how the customer experienced our serA typical En genomsnittlig vice. There is also a possibility of writing a text answer, which clientmed privatkund company ITP1 with ITP 1 is what many customers do. The results to date show high customer satisfaction and we receive predominantly positive 33 responses in text answers. For example: XX employees including 16 wage earners and 17 salaried employees år gammal 11 XX salaried employees have ITP 2 and 6 have ITP 1 procent är män SEK 35 500 The person who helped me was XX is the average salary for salaried employees highly professional and helpful. kr i premie under 2017 SEK 715 000 is the total amount the company pays per I couldn’t be more satisfied as XXXX year in ITP premiums (to Alecta and others) a customer. kr i kapital 2017-12-31 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 13 A stable and trusted company The occupational pension is a part of the pension system and Alecta thus has a considerable social responsibility. It is important to act responsibly and with great respect for the rules which govern our activities. We need to be financially stable and very cost-aware while also ensuring a high level of consumer protection. Good regulatory compliance is a must Efficient control of costs also adds stability, which enables us Pensions and insurance are subject to extensive regulatory to keep our fees low over time. This is something that truly requirements and the industry is licenced. Regulators monibenefits the pension and reduces the employers’ costs for tor that Alecta and other companies in the industry comply occupational pensions. In our effort to achieve our vision of with the applicable regulations. In 2018, two major regulabecoming the world’s most efficient occupational pension tions took effect: The EU’s Insurance Distribution Directive fund, we continuously compare ourselves with our peers. (IDD) and the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation Every second year, we participate in a study arranged by (GDPR). The regulations are intended to ensure financial CEM Benchmarking, a Canadian market research firm that stability, transparency and customer protection. Alecta has compares around 70 companies in the occupational pension tightened up its information security work which has mainly market worldwide. The study covers both costs and service been inspired by the ISO 27000 standard for developing related to the defined benefit plan. In the latest comparison structured information security activities. This means conin 2017, Alecta came third, and we are edging closer to second tinuous work to identify and rectify shortcomings and conplace. tinuous improvements in the management of, for example, personal data. During the year, this led to an increased focus PAYMENTS TO PRIVATE CUSTOMERS IN 2018 1) on information security matters generally and to our tightenRetirement pension ing up a number of procedures and controls. Number of people Amount in SEK Alecta actively pursues activities to shape opinion so that 553 000 17 865 000 000 the regulations governing the operations are formulated in an Survivor’s pension appropriate manner. Number of people Amount in SEK 55 000 1 538 000 000 Cost effectiveness is a prerequisite for stability Disability compensation Pensions are managed over a very long term and small difNumber of people Amount in SEK ferences can have major effects over time. Alecta is proud to 45 000 1 481 000 000 be cost-efficient, as it is our customers’ and thus our owners’ 1) The amounts include distributed refunds money that we manage. IDD – as of 1 October. The purpose of the EU’s Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) is to strengthen consumer protection and it covers all distribution of insurGDPR – from 25 May. ance products. The requirements are targeted at activities conducted Large parts of the regulations in the EU’s new General before the insurance contract is concluded and are designed to protect Data Protection Regulation resemble what was stipulated customers from signing agreements they do not need or understand. in the Swedish Personal Data Act; however, protection of Extracts from the requirements: privacy has been strengthened and obligations for those • Satisfactory knowledge of the customer’s requirements and needs who process personal data have been clarified. • Right information to the customer and insured before agreements are concluded Even before the General Data Protection Regulation was • Employees who participate in the distribution must have the right enacted, Alecta worked actively to protect personal data. competencies and education Prior to the introduction of the new regulation, Alecta’s • Complaints handling procedures were reviewed; for example, the right to request to see or delete one’s own personal data. Alecta has implemented the regulatory requirements and relevant employees have undergone special training in the new requirements and how we at Alecta work with them. 14 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A sustainable pension system – A stable and trusted company 1,0 SEK 0,54 SEK billion billion Tax in Sweden Suppliers and and abroad over savers; such as in terms of understanding the impact of purchases fees and how the insurance work. Occasionally, unfortunately, sellers are driven more by short-term incentives than by what 0,33 SEK 20,9 billion SEK is in the best long-term interests of the customer. Salaries and benefits To counteract this, Alecta has had a Pension Economist billion for the past eleven years with a mandate and responsibility to 10,5 SEK Retirement, disability challenge the pension industry. The Pension Economist can billion and survivor’s pensions inspire, debate and help consumers gain increased knowledge Refunds in the form of adjustments to earned of pensions. pension entitlements and premium reductions The Pension Economist’s blog Alecta’s Pension Economist works actively to stimulate a Alecta is a financially stable company whose mission is to maximise customer value. The bubbles illustrate that the large capital flows are allocated to the customers, and to some extent to debate on how to develop and improve Sweden’s pension society through taxes, while the proportions for internal costs and purchases represent evidence system. The debate is conducted in the media, through parof our focus on efficiency and cost awareness. ticipation in inquiries and panel debates, in meetings with researchers and politicians and through training courses and Financial stability over time lectures. For the past couple of years, we have also run the Providing pensions is a long-term commitment. The money Staffan Ström blog. Through this blog, our Pension Econowe manage will be returned to the customers over many mist provides guidance on how to affect one’s pension and years to come. Our relationship with a private customer can analyses current issues in the area. The readers are mainly extend for more than 80 years, and with corporate customers private individuals with an interest in pensions, but the list of even longer. That’s why having a strong financial position is subscribers also includes politicians, journalists, union and important. The solvency ratio is a measure of our financial employer representatives and senior executives in the pension strength, and of the extent to which our assets cover future industry. commitments. At year-end 2018, Alecta had a solvency ratio of 161 per cent (174), which is well above the statutory requirement of 104 per cent for traditional insurance. Pension Economist Everyone should be given an opportunity to make well-founded decisions. We believe that this is one of the best ways to uphold confidence in the pension system. Today, sellers of pension-savings products usually have a knowledge advantage Occupational pension regulations On 4 July, the Ministry of Finance introduced a bill for new legislation governing occupational pension companies. According to the bill, the EU’s occupational pension directive (IORP 2) will be implemented in Sweden. For Alecta, the bill, if it is enacted, entails the opportunity to be converted into a mutual occupational pension company. This is instead of operating under the Swedish Insurance Companies Act, which governs all forms of insurance operations and is based on the Solvency II Directive. It is of considerable interest to Alecta that the new bill on occupational pension companies is formulated as well as possible, not least in respect of the level of the risk-sensitive capital requirement. The response from the legislator is that the regulations will become effective in 2019. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 15 A stable and trusted company, cont. Collaborations with Alecta In addition to his input in external partnerships, our Pension Pension studies at Swedish universities Economist Staffan Ström is also an active source of knowledge Many employers are of the opinion that their knowledge within Alecta, both in internal events and external initiatives of the details of the pension system is poor. We at Alecta and reports. decided to find out whether pension knowledge is part During 2018, Alecta and Staffan Ström collaborated with of the syllabus for HR and economics degrees at Swedish universities and university colleges. The result was disPTK in formulating the report called “Understanding the couraging. Not a single one of them had pension studies pension pyramid” which was launched during the Almedalen on the syllabus. We decided to initiate such a training Week. During the “True and false about occupational pension” programme and the first courses were held in 2015. seminar, Alecta’s Pension Economist discussed with debaters from PTK, the National Audit, Unionen and the Swedish Since then, the pension studies course has been arranged Parliament’s pensions group. as part of the network Gilla Din Ekonomi. It is projectAlecta also publishes reports by itself; during recent managed by Alecta’s Pension Economist, who engages years, “Rovdriften på pensionsparare” (“The Exploitation of lecturers from among the various members of the network and other bodies linked to pensions. Pensioners”) and Deltidsfällan (“The Part-time Trap”) and “Ett långt arbetsliv börjar tidigt” (“A long working life starts During the year, the course was arranged on five occaearly”), for example. sions at Dalarna University, Kristianstad University, the University of Skövde and Linnaeus University. Contact Alecta’s Pension Economist If you want to come into contact with Staffan Ström, you can contact him through his blog or by e-mail: staffansstrom.se staffan.strom@alecta.se Through the blog, you will also find his Twitter Staffan Ström lectures in pension knowledge account, through which he shares pension-related at various universities. news and ideas. 16 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A sustainable pension system – A stable and trusted company We asked some of our customers what security meant to them. Good pension, good health insurance. That is security for me. George Gilla Din Ekonomi Another way of reaching out with knowledge of pensions is Elarna through the network Gilla Din Ekonomi (“Like your Personal Finances”). The network consists of government agencies, organisations and businesses that work to educate people about personal finances. The vision is to enable consumers throughout the country and of all ages to make better In-depth course for association members informed decisions about their personal finances. The PenAn in-depth course in the pension and insurance system for sion Economist has been a member of the programme council employees of trade unions. since its establishment in 2010. A coordinating office is located at the Swedish Financial For employers and trade unions Supervisory Authority (FSA), which ensures that all pubThe Pension Economist is also happy to share knowledge and lished information is fact-based and free from commercial provide inspiration at seminars, panel debates and courses at interests. Other participants include AMF, Avanza, the FSA, Swedish workplaces, at trade union and employers’ associathe Swedish Investment Fund Association, the Swedish Contions, and at universities and university colleges. sumer Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Agency, the MinPension pension portal and the Swedish Pensions Agency. Examples of training programmes during the year: Pensions and insurance A basic training course for insurance information officers. Participants are taught about the state pension, collectively agreed pensions and insurance policies. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 17 Responsible investments Our ambition is to help generate long-term value in businesses and society at large. By taking care of the management ourselves and having relatively few holdings and clear processes, we can attain sustainably favourable competitiveness while creating conditions for good pensions. Alecta is a major player With more than SEK 820 billion in assets under management, ment teams, which we do continuously with essentially all of Alecta is a significant international pension fund manager our holdings. Through discussions, we improve our underand one of the largest operators in the Swedish financial marstanding of how the companies are managed and of their susket. We are also one of the largest owners of listed Swedish tainability reasoning. Dialogue is our most important channel companies and we can influence the sustainability manageof impact and openness and transparency are prerequisites. ment activities of the companies we invest in through our Companies that do not meet our criteria do not qualify for investing activities. inclusion in our portfolio. In-house portfolio management is a A structured investment process prerequisite Alecta’s investment process takes into account both susAlecta has chosen to manage its customers’ pension capital tainability and return potential. The process comprises a almost exclusively in-house and engages in active asset mancombination of information gathering, internal analysis and agement. This means that our investments are not dependent screening. It is applied for all equity and corporate credit on an index and that each investment is the result of a thorinvestments, which account for nearly 70 per cent of our total ough internal research. Alecta invests in shares, debt securiassets. Corporate loans are included in the interest-bearing ties and real estate, mainly in Sweden, Europe and the United assets in the investment portfolio. States. By controlling our investments ourselves, we have A certification of our work with responsible investments in potential to influence and choose just those companies we asset management is scheduled for 2019. This has been delayed consider can contribute to long-term value creation. due to the accreditation process for the certification body. Few selected companies add weight to Information gathering and internal analysis our ability to influence Regardless of whether it concerns a new investment or an Alecta’s equity portfolio consists of about 100 listed shareinvestment in an existing holding, the process starts with an holdings. As we invest for the long term, environmental coninformation-gathering phase. This includes personal meetings siderations, social issues and corporate governance issues are with the companies and an external sustainability analysis. important criteria for our choice of investments. The compaWe then perform a financial analysis to assess the return nies we invest in must have a business model that we underpotential. The analysis includes an assessment of whether the stand and that we believe will contribute to our customers’ business model is sustainable long-term and the company’s pension capital. With few companies in the portfolio, we also return potential in relation to the sustainability risks associhave time to meet representatives of the companies’ manageated with the company or the industry. Total investment portfolio Geographic distribution of shares UK Denmark Real estate 9,9 % Germany 4,8 % 3,8 % 5,6 % Rest of world Shares Debt 12,7 % 39,2 % securities Sweden 40,5 % 50,9 % Switzerland 11,5 % USA 21,1 % 18 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A sustainable pension system – Responsible investments Alecta’s investment process Information gathering Internal analysis Screening • Meetings with NO BUY companies Alectas CRITICISM NEW • Return potential • Reports ownership INVESTMENT • External sustaina• Sustainability NEGATIVE policy bility analysis RESPONSE REFRAIN Alectas ägarpolicy • Meetings with companies • Return potential Alectas EXISTING NO • Reports • Sustainability ownership CRITICISM HOLD INVESTMENT • External sustainapolicy bility analysis CRITICISM Sustainability analysis POSITIVE HOLD – Indicators for human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. ANALYSIS RESPONSE – Reviews after incidents involving non-compliance with international conventions. DIALOGUE WITH – No investments in businesses which violate conventions, are associated with COMPANY NEGATIVE controversial weapons or derive more than 30 per cent of their revenue from coal. SELL RESPONSE Screening of new investments dialogues due to suspected breaches of norms connected to Alecta has undertaken to invest only in companies that follow international conventions and a further just over ten sustainthe international conventions and agreements that the Swedability-related dialogues with other companies. A selection of ish State has entered into. These include conventions on the our dialogues is presented at alecta.se. environment, human rights, labour law, anti-corruption and controversial weapons. As an extra security check, Alecta perCorporate governance, nomination forms a screening of new investments with the help of a third committees and voting party. Alecta refrains from investing in companies which: Alecta exercises active ownership by participating in nomina• violate or are suspected of violating international tion committees and voting at shareholders’ meetings, but conventions. also by means of continuous dialogue with the companies in • are engaged in activities involving controversial weapons. which Alecta holds shares. In 2018, we voted at all sharehold• derive more than 30 per cent of their revenue from coal. ers’ meetings in which we hold shares. In the run-up to the 2018 AGM season, Alecta participated Screening of existing investments in 17 nomination processes. In Swedish companies, it is normal To ensure that all holdings follow the same guidelines as for a practice for major shareholders to be members of nomination new investment, Alecta conducts an in-depth screening of the committees and propose directors. Alecta uses its long-term existing portfolios bi-annually. In case of criticism, we conownership commitment and our belief in the future of the tact the company for a dialogue. company as a point of departure. Our activities are guided by As Alecta is often a significant shareholder, we are in a the ambition to ensure that each company’s board of direcgood position to influence the company in the right direction. tors has the best possible composition. We therefore attach If it is not expected that the dialogue will achieve the desired great importance to sustainability issues and particularly to result, Alecta will sell its shareholding. In 2018, we held eight diversity, which we believe ensure that the board will have the best possible composition and expertise. Women accounted ALECTA’S GOALS FOR RESPONfor 41 per cent of the directors on average, in those companies SIBLE INVESTMENTS* OUTCOME 2018 in which Alecta was a member of the nomination committee Increase the share of companies that report Reduction from 72 to in 2018. their carbon footprint. 70 per cent Increase Alecta’s investments in green bonds. Increased by approximately Read more in the 2018 corporate SEK 14 billion governance report Participate in nomination committees when 100 per cent Since 2017, Alecta has published an annual corporate goverthis is warranted by Alecta’s ownership (17 nomination nance report, which is aimed at increasing transparency and interest in the company. committees) clarity in how we work. We also explain what we are doing to Vote at all shareholders’ meetings, both 100 per cent Swedish and foreign. contribute to a sustainable pension system and a sustainable society. The report is available at alecta.se. By 2020, the underrepresented sex should 41 per cent account for at least 40 per cent of the AGM-elected directors. * Alecta has formulated new general sustainability targets and key performance indicators for 2019 and future years. The new targets are presented in the sustainability supplement. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 19 Responsible investment, cont. Active measures to reduce climate impact To date, the available climate data is scarce and in certain Since the end of 2017, Alecta has a long-term climate cases inconsistent. In addition, there are few standardised target, whereby the equity portfolio should be managed in models for assessing climate risks. The results should thereline with the two-degree target for the climate. Alecta has also fore not be regarded as forecasts but as a basis for increasing signed the Montreal Pledge and follows Insurance Sweden’s understanding of how companies and industries can be influrecommendations for carbon footprint reporting. This means enced by climate changes or various types of climate-related that we have undertaken to measure and report the carbon regulations. footprint of our equity investments. Our measurement, which comprises all listed companies in the equity portfolio, shows Increased investments in green bonds that the carbon footprint decreased slightly in 2018. With few In a green bond, the capital is earmarked for various climatechanges in the portfolio compared to the previous year, a part and environment-oriented projects, such as investments in of the explanation is that the companies have improved their renewable energy, water purification or environmentally footprint. More detailed information on the carbon footprint of friendly infrastructure. We have the same required rate of Alecta’s equity portfolio is provided at alecta.se. return for an investment in a green bond as for other bonds. During the year, Alecta joined the international Climate However, we demand additional documentation from the Action 100+ initiative, which is designed to enter into a diaissuer of a green bond. The reason is to find out how the logue with the world’s slightly more than 100 companies showmoney will be used, and ensure that the issuer applies an ing the most carbon dioxide emissions concerning how they industry standard for green bonds and that an independent manage their climate impact. The intention is to improve the party has confirmed that the issuer is following industry companies’ sustainability reporting, that they will reduce their practice. emissions of greenhouse gases and that they will develop their In 2018, Alecta increased its investments in green bonds operations in the direction of the Paris Agreement. by around SEK 14 billion and now has over SEK 31 billion invested in green bonds issued by 22 different issuers. The Impact of climate scenarios is tested issuers include the European Investment Bank, the State of Within the framework of Alecta’s annual ORSA (Own Risk and Ireland and Region Stockholm Assembley (Stockholms Läns Solvency Assessment) reporting, the entire investment portfoLandsting). lio was stress tested on the basis of various climate scenarios. This entailed calculating the financial impact of various outA sustainable real estate owner comes connected to the climate. For example, how the value of Alecta is one of Sweden’s largest owners of real estate, the portfolio would be influenced by a sharp rise in the price of with directly owned properties in Stockholm, Gothenburg, carbon dioxide which, according to assessments, is required to Jönköping and Helsingborg, and indirectly owned properties achieve the Paris Agreement’s two-degree target. in the Nordic region, Europe and the United States. Examples SHARE OF WOMEN ON CORPORATE BOARDS, ALECTA IN CARBON FOOTPRINT, ALECTA’S EQUITY PORTFOLIO NOMINATION COMMITTEES Share of women, % tCO₂e / Mkr SEK million of revenue 45 5 40% 41% 40% 41% 40 4 27 37% 35 35% Tonnes of carbon dioxide 3 equivalents. CO2e emitted by businesses per SEK 30 2 million of revenue. 15 12 25 1 7 4,7 3,4 3,0 20 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Large Cap companies Alecta’s holdings Share of female AGM-elected directors in companies where Alecta has a seat on the The emission measurements follow the global GHG Protocol standard and are based on the nomination committee compared with the Female Representation Index of the Second latest available carbon dioxide data for direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions Swedish National Pension Fund (AP2), which shows the average for large cap companies. in connection with consumption of energy. Emissions of greenhouse gases are measured in Note that chief executives are excluded from the calculation for Alecta’s holdings for all terms of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). This is a unit of measurement which makes it years but are excluded from the AP2 Female Representation Index for 2017 and 2018. possible to uniformly measure greenhouse gases. Alecta reports according to the recomSource: Second AP Fund/Nordic Investor Services. mendation from Insurance Sweden. 20 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A sustainable pension system – Responsible investments We asked some of our customers what security meant to them. The calm you feel when you have arranged everything – That’s when of indirectly owned properties are property funds or limited you feel calm. I know that I liability companies that are jointly owned with other property will have a good pension. developers. The capital that Alecta has invested in real estate slightly exceeds SEK 81 billion and is divided into the categories of offices, retail, housing, logistics, community services Beatriz properties and hotels. The properties have a direct impact on society and the environment, which requires Alecta, our business partners and suppliers to act responsibly in all parts of Bacaiztegui their business operations. We aim to conduct business operations in a socially, ethically and environmentally sustainable manner, and thereby to show respect for people, society and terms of kWh per square meters, by 3 per cent each year the environment. according to customary standards. In 2018, energy consumption increased by slightly more than 6 per cent compared to Status review shows the way forward 2017, which means that we did not achieve our target. The rise During the year, we conducted a review of environmental and was primarily due to an increased need to cool the properties sustainability work in the directly owned real estate operaduring the hot summer. tions in order to further advance our sustainability work. The Since 2015, all of Alecta’s directly owned Swedish propanalysis showed, inter alia, that we need to develop our Code erties, including our head office, only use electricity from of Conduct for suppliers so that it is uniform for both the renewable energy sources. In 2018, Alecta launched an initiaconstruction and the management phase. The analysis contive involving the use of solar cells, with a facility that generfirmed that each assignment had an environmental manager ates an estimated 180 000 kWh per year installed during the and clear environmental targets that were decided in a spespring. Two facilities are under construction; one at the Asecs cific action plan. The plan, which is reviewed continuously, shopping centre in Jönköping and the other in one of our contains targets such as requirements on the use of specific adjacent properties, with annual electricty generation capacmaterials in construction projects or energy targets for indiity totalling 475 000 kWh. vidual properties. Alecta is a member of the Sweden Green Building Council, which is Sweden’s leading organisation for sustainable comFocus on solar cells munity buildings. Together, we want to create better buildings In its directly owned Swedish properties, Alecta’s target is that give people healthy environments to live and work in. to reduce energy consumption, measured as a normal year’s consumption of electricity, district heating and cooling in ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 21 An attractive workplace All workplaces are dependent on motivated and competent employees. Alecta’s ambition is to be the most attractive employer in the industry. As an employer, we invest in activities that promote health, motivation, skills development and good leadership. Attractive employer a certain area, and follow-up discussions with new employees Alecta currently has 340 employees and we continuously work after six months as well as after one year of employment. We to be an attractive employer. We are proud of the good scores also conduct exit interviews with all those who leave Alecta. we get in our employee surveys, the number of applicants for Overall, this continuously gives us a good picture of what our our vacant positions and the fact that our employees choose employees think of Alecta as an employer. to stay with us for a long time. Skills development a focus area Annual employee survey Development opportunities have received comparatively low To monitor the situation at the company, Alecta conducts an scores in Alecta’s employee survey in recent years. To address annual employee survey. The survey provides comparability this, we formulated a model in 2018 to clarify the developover time on key issues, such as how our employees perceive ment paths that exist at Alecta. We have also launched a new Alecta as an employer and their wellbeing. The response rate structure for product training programmes, which are offered has long been exceptionally high, with 90 per cent responding at various levels of difficulty. The aim is that the employees in 2018, which is gratifying in itself but also ensures a credible will both experience that they have good tools for developing result. We are proud that the majority of our employees feel in their current role and also be able to identify future motivated in their work, that the dialogue between managers development paths. and employees is highly rated and that our employees have a At year-end 2018, 90 per cent of Alecta’s employees had considerable level of trust in their managers. A large majority participated in performance reviews during the year, with the would also consider recommending Alecta as an employer. In remainder being employees who were employed during the addition to the annual employee survey, we implement minilatter part of the year. Each employee at Alecta is required to surveys when we want to obtain in-depth information within have a skills development plan that is followed up through our goals and skills portal. During the year, Alecta’s employees spent an average of 22 hours on skills development. Photographer: Oskar Omne 22 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 A sustainable pension system – Attractive workplace Active employeeship 58 Motivated and competent employees are a prerequisite for of Alecta % employees are accomplishing our mission and achieving our goals over the long term. We strongly believe in each employee’s motivation, responsibility and self-leadership; i.e. every single individual’s women. ability to exercise active employeeship. 53 We work continuously to secure the competencies that we need to execute our mission and reach our goals by providof Alecta ing our employees with as good conditions as possible for % managers are high motivation. In 2018 we clarified what is included in the concept of active employeeship. We also held workshops at women. a team level, including exercises and the testing of various The figures refer to employees of the tools, in part to increase the ability to collaborate, communiparent company Alecta. cate and work independently for change. Diversity gives different perspectives Making wise decisions requires access to various skills, expeTools to counter abusive behaviour riences and angles of approach. Diversity also makes us better During 2018, we continued the work to make Alecta an inclurepresentatives for our customers. We practice affirmative sive workplace with high tolerance and where no abusive action and strive to always have at least one person of the behaviour arises. In various forums (team, department and underrepresented sex among the final selection of recruitcompany level), we have looked at the concept of abusive ment candidates. Among Alecta’s managers, slightly more behaviour from every angle to increase awareness of what it than 53 per cent are women and Alecta’s management team in is, what one can do to stop it and what one should do when 2018 consisted of three women and six men. it happens. The results of the discussions have been sumAlecta is also a partner of Jobbsprånget, a national promarised in the form of a deck of cards where various behavgramme which offers four-month internships to migrant iours and dilemmas are addressed for discussion and prograduates. The programme is aimed at harnessing the parposed solutions are shown. ticipants’ skills and accelerating their entry into the Swedish labour market. A new feature in 2018 was the cooperation with Welcome App, whereby employees are given an opportunity to meet new arrivals to Sweden for an informal coffee or lunch. ALECTA’S GOALS* AS A LONG-TERM EMPLOYER OUTCOME 2018 All employees should have a skills development plan. Each employee at Alecta is required to have a skills development plan that is followed up through our goals and skills portal. At year-end 2018, 76 per cent of Alecta’s employees had a skills development plan. Of those who do not have such a plan, most were newly employed during the latter part of 2018. A smaller group of employees were absent for other reasons and thus do not have an updated plan. A review of ITP expertise should be made to ensure a high level of expertise in ITP. An annual review was conducted at all departments. Diversity should be a key element in all Alecta’s recruitment processes, both The diversity perspective was taken into account in all recruitments. internal and external. In all recruitments, there must be at least one person of the In one recruitment, affirmative action was applied in favour of underrepresented sex among the final candidates. candidates of the underrepresented sex. * Alecta has formulated new general sustainability targets and performance indicators for 2019 and future years. They are presented in the sustainability supplement. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 23 Sustainability supplement This section contains descriptions of how sustainability work is governed, as well as processes linked to the framework for sustainability reporting, GRI. Environmental information, data supplementing the information on pages 5–23 and, in certain respects, consolidated data is reported here. Alecta’s sustainability work company’s sustainability work through common objectives, Our sustainability work is intended to support Alecta’s overall tools and reporting. In the Asset Management department, a mission and business objectives by contributing to efficient Corporate Governance Team consisting of the CEO, Head and value-creating core business, managing risks and legitimaof Corporate Governance, Head of Investment Management, cy issues and striving to have a positive impact on society. Head of Equities and Head of External Communication served In 2018, within the framework of Alecta’s sustainability as a forum for following up Asset Management’s sustainpolicy, we formulated objectives for the sustainability work, ability work. Alecta’s Head of Corporate Governance drives and established the indicators that we will continuously report. the company’s corporate governance work, with a particular These reflect what was identified in external and internal emphasis on nomination committees, shareholders’ meetings stakeholder dialogues and have been assessed as being the and dialogues with boards of directors. Another focus area is most material for Alecta. The targets and indicators were to develop good corporate governance practices. adopted by the CEO at the end of 2018 and the outcome will be HR is responsible for governance documents for purchasing, reported in the 2019 Annual Report and Sustainability Report. and also has a purchasing organisation for the overall manageThey are outlined in the table below. ment of business-related purchases. All departments are responsible for direct purchases, and the Asset Management and IT Sustainability governance in Alecta’s day-to-day departments account for the most significant procurement volactivities umes. Sustainability and environmental work form a part of the Alecta has appointed a Head of Sustainability, who reports to tendering process when purchasing goods and services. the Head of Communication and Sustainability in the manAt the end of 2018, the working group for sustainability and agement team. In the Asset Management department, there is the Corporate Governance Team were replaced by a Steering a Head of Responsible Investments. Together with represenGroup for Sustainability and an ESG Forum, respectively. The tatives of the Communication, HR, Finance and Compliance steering group is headed by the Head of Sustainability and has departments, they have constituted Alecta’s working group broader representation than before, including Customer, IT for sustainability. The Head of Sustainability works to estaband Purchasing. The team is responsible for targets and indilish greater clarity on Alecta’s priorities and coordinates the cators in terms of activities and follow-up. The ESG Forum TARGETS AND INDICATORS 2019–2023* Focus areas SUSTAINABLE PENSION RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENT AND ETHICAL SYSTEM INVESTMENTS ACTIVITIES EMPLOYEES AND DIVERSITY Overall sustainWorking for a sustainable Equity portfolio in line with the More efficient use of resources Strengthen diversity ability objectives pension system climate goal of 2 degrees for reduced environmental throughout the organisation impact Indicators for • Trust in collectively agreed Active ownership Environmental impact Employees sustainability occupational pension schemes • Number of nomination committees • Energy consumption • Forms of employment efforts • Opinions on Alecta’s sustainability • Diversity of boards of directors • Carbon footprint of operations work • Voting at general meetings and travels Diversity and development • Economic value generated and • Percentage of investments that were • Paper consumption • Age, gender and turnover distributed screened socially and environmentally • Training and education • ESG dialogues Ethics and integrity • Skills development plans • Customer data • Performance reviews Responsible investments • Regulatory compliance • Carbon footprint • Whistleblowing Work environment and • Percentage of portfolio companies • Training and education employment conditions with climate reporting • Collective agreements • Investments with a measurable social Responsible purchases • Sick leave or environmental impact • Supply chain • Agreements with sustainability Real estate clauses • Environmentally labelled properties • Environmental performance, properties * The overall goals are long term, but as the sustainability work progresses, the goals may be broadened and further indicators may be added. 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Sustainability supplement is led by the Head of Investment Management and includes Examples of other governing documents for the Heads of Equity, Fixed Income Products and Real Estate, sustainability: the Head of Corporate Governance, the Head of Responsible Investments, the Head of External Communication and the Corporate governance and responsible investments Head of Sustainability. The ESG forum addresses strategic Describes Alecta’s active shareholder involvement and influence in Swedish listed companies. The ownership policy clarifies matters involving work with responsible investments and is Alecta’s position on sustainability issues and its starting point is a monitoring forum. During the year, for example, a working that the companies in which Alecta invests must comply with the group within Alecta’s real estate business formulated a clearer international conventions signed by the Swedish State. structure for sustainability work in property management, with a focus on ambitions and monitoring. It will continue in Investments 2019 and be followed up in the ESG forum. The investment guidelines describe the focus and parameters A description of the development of sustainability work is for the risk-taking of asset management. included in the quarterly reports submitted to the Board of Directors. Risk management The general governing document which describes Alecta’s Governing documents for sustainability at Alecta risk management with a focus on good risk control and approAlecta has an overall sustainability policy that is adopted by priate risk management. the Board and that, together with Alecta’s ownership policy, is Information security available on the website. Alecta’s Board of Directors adopts the Describes what we need to consider when handling and disoverall and strategic governance documents, and more detailed seminating verbal and written information. guidelines are primarily decided by the CEO to provide clearer guidance to the employees in their day-to-day work. A number Anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing of the governance documents are described here. measures Describes how Alecta needs to act to protect itself from being Sustainability policy exploited for money laundering and terrorism. Alecta’s sustainability policy is designed to give internal and external stakeholders a general idea of how sustainability Purchasing and procurement concerns are integrated into the company’s activities. In this Describes the procedures and division of responsibility for policy, we express our support for the UN’s Global Compact purchases and procurement, where the emphasis is on efficiency and quality. Decisions on purchases must take into initiative and its ten principles on the environment, human account the suppliers’ sustainability work. rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. The sustainability policy is an umbrella for other more tangible governance docuDiversity ments, such as environmental and sustainability guidelines The diversity policy describes Alecta’s responsibility to give within Alecta’s real estate business. all Alecta employees the same opportunities for development and influence, combined with zero tolerance for abusive Code of Conduct treatment and discrimination. Alecta’s Code of Conduct, which consists of four parts, is described below: Working environment Describes Alecta’s general view on working environment and • Ethics: Describes how we should take an ethical approach to the division of responsibilities on working environment issues. our work, business relations and investments. Also encompasses the whistleblower function and confidentiality. Anti-bribery measures • Managing conflicts of interest: Identifies the risk and the A governance document that provides guidance on how management of conflicts of interest or situations where it employees should act in relation to gifts and other benefits may be difficult to be objective. that could mean bribes or improper influencing. Based on the Code of Business Conduct issued by the Swedish Anti• Complaints handling: Describes how we should respond to Corruption Institute. any complaints from our customers. • Processing of personal data: This describes how we should Environment and sustainability in Alecta’s real estate work with the General Data Protection Regulation’s business requirements and protect both customers and employees Describes the general guidelines and priorities for environpersonal integrity from violations. mental and sustainability work in the real estate business. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 25 Stakeholders and ongoing engagement CUSTOMERS – retail and corporate customers Alecta’s most important stakeholders are our customers, who Current issues: are also our owners. With so many customers, and because of A secure pension, low costs, efficient asset management, ethical the mission’s character, we have a strong foundation in society. business behaviour During recent years, Alecta has prioritised increased openness Dialogue channels: Customer service, surveys, e-mail contacts, company visits and dialogue with stakeholders to ensure better exchanges of Alecta’s activities: experience and to create opportunities for influence. Clear targets for cost effectiveness and investment performance, increased transparency, membership of Global Compact INTERES TO S RG E A TI NI I E RS PR I N PRINCIPALS – unions and employers OM CI P R O SA TH ST A TI Current issues: AU CU LS ON Responsible investment, sustainability policy, fees, investment S performance Dialogue channels: The Board of Directors, committees, seminars, procurements YEES SOCIET Alecta’s activities: COMPE Certification work in asset management, increased transparency P LO DIA and new sustainability targets and indicators Y EM TIT ME OR S PA R T N E R S EMPLOYEES NS CO IO Current issues: NSU MER ORGANI S AT Skills development and career progression, equality, working environment, environmental impact, ethical business behaviour and responsible investment Dialogue channels: Focused stakeholder engagement 2018 Employee surveys, the intranet, internal seminars, meetings with Towards year-end, Alecta conducted a broader stakeholder the CEO and various meeting forums, such as breakfast and lounge meetings survey that encompassed client companies, private salaried Alecta’s activities: employees and Alecta employees. The purpose was to repeat Skills development plans, diversity plan, clear goals an earlier survey and to see how the stakeholders’ expectations of Alecta’s sustainability work have developed. The survey showed that sustainability issues are particuPARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS larly important for corporate customers, with three out of four Mainly the selection centres for the collective bargaining areas, having high expectations that their pension provider would service providers in IT, real estate and asset management, PRI display sustainable behaviour. The corresponding percentage Pensionsgaranti among private salaried employees is somewhat lower while Current issues: Procurements, environment and sustainability among Alecta employees is higher. Compared with the past, Dialogue channels: Alecta employees’ awareness of sustainability work was higher, Negotiations and agreements, forums for cooperation reflecting an increase in internal activities and focus in recent Alecta’s activities: years. Almost half of corporate customers perceive that Alecta Review of sustainability issues in agreements and procurement processes acts sustainably, although significantly fewer private salaried employees stated the same. As in the past, the customers consider the most important sustainability issues to be resource SOCIETY AND BROADER STAKEHOLDER GROUPS efficiency, responsible investments, ethical business behaviour Current issues: and subjecting suppliers to requirements, as well as low fees. Knowledge about occupational pensions, stable management of Corporate customers also assign greater importance to dispensions, the climate issue, sustainable financial market, the role seminating knowledge about pensions. In the interviews with of owner Dialogue channels: sustainability experts from various key stakeholders that were Lectures at universities, industry dialogue, meetings with conducted in 2017, responsible investments and being a stable politicians, seminars, media debate company in the welfare system were the dominant issues, Alecta’s activities: Take part in the debate on pensions, collaboration through the although resource efficiency, business ethics and responsible “Gilla Din Ekonomi” (“Like Your Personal Finances”) network and supplier work are also important matters. involvement in EU’s work on a sustainable finance market. 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Sustainability supplement Materiality analysis Alecta’s materiality analysis has constituted the basis for Skills development is an identified area in the materiality the targets and indicators that were formulated in 2018. The analysis and in the organisation’s work. We see that a diveranalysis was calibrated in relation to external monitoring, sity of perspectives is important for developing the work including reviews, and exchanges of experiences within the conducted by the operations and we have therefore highindustry. During 2017, we decided to elevate the environment lighted this as a general sustainability target going forward. and purchasing as an area outside the materiality analysis but The diversity perspective is included when we monitor skills with great expectations of high transparency, which we also development and training. took into account in the work with our targets. MATERIAL TOPIC RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference A good • Loss of default option role for Impact outside the We avoid complicated solutions, are • Operating expenses 12, 14–15 pension at a Alecta organisation – impact cost aware and utilise economies of • CEM ranking low cost • Customers migrate from Alecta on the customers. scale so that we can offer the lowest • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ fees in the industry. For private reputation individuals paying into a defined • Increased costs for society contribution scheme, the size of the contribution has a significant impact on the size of the final pension. Economic • Regulations that disfavour the Impact within and By providing a good, stable • Generated and 12–13, 14–17, 31 value for customers outside the occupational pension, Alecta adds distributed value many • Alecta’s legitimacy is challenged organisation, as the value to the national social security (GRI 201-1) • Collective agreement widely viewed value that is created system and to the economy. We have • CSI as having a lower value benefits Alecta’s therefore sharpened the focus on our • Return • Increased costs for society customers and long-term operational goals: secure employees as well as and satisfied customers, low costs society at large. and high efficiency, as well as good returns and a strong financial position. We are also working to spread knowledge among and influence our stakeholders to help more people understand how the choices they make will affect their pensions. Responsible • Financial loss for Alecta and Impact outside the We work closely and in dialogue with • Percentage of 18–21 investments therefore for our customers, who organisation through the companies that we have invested companies with are our owners the companies and in and are involved in the work of which Alecta has • Negative impact on society and the properties that Alecta nomination committees. We assess interacted (GRI FS10) environment invests in. the companies’ activities from the • Percentage of • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ sustainability perspectives described, screened assets reputation for example, in Alecta’s corporate (GRI FS11) governance policy. The properties we own have a significant direct impact on the environment that Alecta is working actively to minimise. Skills • Higher employee turnover at Impact internally in We work continuously on skills • Hours of training 22–23, 31 development Alecta the organisation development with the aim of (GRI 404-1) • Reduced competitiveness for through increased ensuring a continued high level of • Evaluation and Alecta knowledge and expertise in all departments. On the monitoring • Alecta less attractive as an employee satisfaction basis of annual reviews of the (GRI 404-3) employer as well as outside the competency status and require• Increased health problems among organisation, ments, including a mapping of ITP Alecta’s staff primarily in the form competencies, we work with of increased customer compulsory individual skills benefits. development plans, training programmes about ITP, seminars and introduction courses for new employees. * The indicated boundaries are based on the GRI framework, where the material impact takes place within or outside the organisation. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 27 MATERIAL TOPIC RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Strong • Alecta loses a licence or is hit by Impact internally, as A pension provider operates in a • Fines or sanctions 14–15, 28, 32 regulatory sanctions this is the foundation carefully regulated environment and (GRI 419-1) compliance • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ for our activities. regulations are updated continuously. reputation We attach the greatest importance • General loss of trust in the welfare to ensuring compliance with laws, system and the financial system regulations, internal governance documents and good practices so that our customers feel secure. High level of • Violations of personal integrity Impact within the Alecta processes large amounts of • Complaints about 14, 32 customer • Financial loss for Alecta organisation in the sensitive personal information and breaches of privacy • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ processing of other customer data. We do our customer privacy reputation customer data and utmost to protect our customers’ (GRI 418-1) outside the information in all situations. organisation through the impact on customer privacy. AREAS WITH HIGH EXPECTATIONS OF TRANSPARENCY RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Purchasing • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ Impact within the Alecta includes environmental and • See new targets and 24, 32 and reputation organisation and sustainability questions in all indicators for 2019 environment • Lack of credibility outside with the procurements and reviews measures and data for 2018 on possibility of engaging to reduce the direct environmental pages 24 and 32, suppliers. impact of its business. respectively. During 2018, we started to measure a number of environmental performance indicators. * The indicated boundaries are based on the GRI framework, where the material impact takes place within or outside the organisation. Description of risk analysis and preventive geographic areas. The overall assessment is that the risk of anti-corruption efforts improper influencing within Alecta is low. The risk analysis Alecta’s preventive anti-corruption efforts focus on bribes is updated annually and forms the basis for Alecta’s goverand unauthorised influence and are conducted in line with nance documents, which provide tangible guidance in what the Code of Business Conduct issued by the Swedish Anticonstitutes improper influencing and what is appropriate Corruption Institute; “Code on gifts, rewards and other behaviour. The policy comprises Alecta’s employees, Board benefits in the business community” (“the Code”). In 2018, Members, contractors and others who represent Alecta. Insurance Sweden produced recommendations for the insurDuring 2017, a comprehensive training initiative was ance industry. implemented in respect of the ethical guidelines, bribery The insurance industry is characterized by integrity-senand unauthorised impact. During this year, Compliance took sitive activities, whereby integrity shortcomings could have targeted actions, such as inviting all employees that were to major adverse effects on both the insured and continued conparticipate in the political week in Almedalen for a review of fidence in conducting the business. For this reason, particular Alecta’s guidelines for business entertainment and travel and restraint is required in connection with benefits and other for discussions about integrity and the risk of unauthorised favours that could influence behaviours or attitudes when influence in various situations. At the end of the year, two performing duties. information sessions were held about Insurance Sweden’s Alecta has conducted an analysis of the risk of improper new industry recommendation for the insurance companies’ influencing in respect of various risk categories, such as anti-corruption work. Alecta’s products, customers, distribution channels and 28 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Sustainability supplement Partnerships and memberships Swesif Alecta participates in the following initiatives or organisaSwesif is a members’ association for organisations in Sweden tions with a connection to sustainability: that want to spread and increase knowledge about sustainable investments. Alecta is an active member of the Board of CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) Directors and of the Seminar Committee through its Head By supporting the work of CDP, investors aim to drive the of Responsible Investments. companies’ transparency and environmental reports, and to get companies to work actively to reduce their environmental UN PRI impact. The UN Principles for Responsible Investment is a global initiative for institutional investors. By signing up to UN PRI, Global Compact Alecta has undertaken to integrate the initiative’s six princiThe purpose is that the business sector will support the UN’s ples for responsible investment in its activities. Alecta purcentral international conventions. As a member of the Global sues direct engagement activities under the UN PRI’s Climate Compact, Alecta supports the ten principles about the enviAction 100+ initiative. ronment, human rights, labour standards and anti-corruption upon which this initiative is based. Other investor initiatives Alecta has signed a number of initiatives with various purHållbart värdeskapande (“Sustainable value creation”) poses. The Access to Medicine Index surveys how the largest Cooperation between the largest Swedish institutional invespharmaceutical companies work to increase access to meditors in order to highlight the importance of companies workcine in developing countries. Alecta supports TCFD (Tasking in a structured manner with sustainability issues. force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure) and The Montreal Pledge, through which investors pledge to measure and Institutionella ägares förening (“Association of Institureport on the climate impact of their equity investments. tional Shareholders”) The association’s aim is to promote self-regulation in the Research partnerships Swedish stock market, for example by continuing to develop Alecta is involved in and contributes to various academic the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Alecta’s Head of research projects. In 2018, Alecta, together with the KarolinCorporate Governance is a member of the association’s board ska Institute, presented for the first time a cross-sectional of directors. study of sick leave among private-sector salaried employees. Alecta also supports the research activities of the Stockholm Stockholm Sustainable Finance Centre (SSFC) School of Economics. The initiative is a collaboration between Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) and the Stockholm School of Economics. Gilla Din Ekonomi (“Like Your Personal Finances”) The focus is on accelerating the development of a sustainable Gilla Din Ekonomi is a personal finance network among pubfinancial market through a focus on research, innovation and lic authorities, organisations and businesses. The goal is to new technology. Alecta’s CEO is Chairman of SSFC’s Advisory increase people’s understanding of personal finance through Board. various educational initiatives. Alecta’s Pension Economist contributes actively to these initiatives. Insurance Sweden Alecta participates in reference groups set up by Insurance MinPension (“My Pension”) Sweden, the employers’ organisation for the Swedish insurThe MinPension portal is a cooperation among companies in ance industry, including ones for Sustainability and Green the pension sector and is 50% driven and financed by the Bonds. Alecta submits opinions on proposals for consultation Swedish state and 50% by the pension companies. As several and engages in dialogue with the Swedish Financial Supervipension funds provide information to the same portal, users sory Authority, the Ministry of Finance and other governcan log in and view their entire pension. The aim is to provide ment agencies. clear and simple information on pensions from an independent platform. Sweden Green Building Council The Sweden Green Building Council members’ organisation SNS promotes exchanges of experiences between different operaSNS, the Centre for Business and Policy Studies, is a dialoguetors in the field of civil engineering. The organisation provides forum for key social issues based on knowledge and research. tools and training as well as support for developing sustainThe members include representatives from business, politics, ability activities. public administration and research. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 29 Supplementary information and performance measures For certain indicators, only selected data is presented in the first part of the report, pages 5–23. More detailed information and comparisons over time are presented in the following section. GRI Employment information (102-8) Other employee statistics FORMS OF 2018 2017 2016 EMPLOYEE STATISTICS EMPLOYMENT Group Women Men Women Men Women Men Group 2018 2017 2016 Number of employees Number of employees at 31 December 365 364 389 at 31 December 217 148 219 145 232 157 Average age of all employees 48 47 48 of whom, in Employee turnover 1) 7,9 % 7,3 % 6,0 % Sweden 217 148 219 145 224 153 Sick leave 1) 3,6 % 3,4 % 3,7 % of whom, outside Sweden – – 0 0 8 4 Percentage covered by collective bargaining agreements 1, 2) 100 % 100 % 100 % Permanent employees 215 146 217 145 230 157 Percentage of female employees 59 % 60 % 60 % of which, full-time 178 137 185 134 194 146 Percentage of female managers 52 % 50 % 44 % of which, part-time 37 9 32 11 36 11 Percentage of women in management 33 % 33 % 25 % Temporary Percentage of women on the Board 38 % 31 % 23 % employees 2 2 2 0 2 0 1) Refers to the Parent Company in Sweden. Number of 2) Does not include employees in senior management. consultants 10 37 9 27 9 21 From the Parent Company’s viewpoint, there were relatively Employee sick leave was slightly lower than the industry averfew major changes during the year. A few aspects are worth age. Alecta works with frequent follow-ups and dialogues in commenting on, such as employee turnover being somewhat the event of repeated sick leave to be able to provide the suphigher than previously during the year, although it is still port that is needed. We know that it is important to quickly lower than the industry average. Alecta measures employee return to work after a longer sick leave or rehabilitation and turnover in accordance with the approach of Nyckeltalswe have therefore done our utmost to faciltate work escalainstitutet, by choosing the lower of the number that started tion at the pace that works for the employee. or the number that terminated their employment in relation to the average number of employees during the year. Recruitments during the year were mainly sourced externally. This was partly because new services or functions required new competencies. Alecta conducts annual salary surveys to identify and correct unwarranted differences in salary. 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 GRI Generated and distributed value 1) (201-1) administration of training programmes and increase followSustainability supplement up reliability, in part through central registration of external SOCIO-ECONOMIC VALUE Group (SEK million) 2018 2017 2016 training programmes, formal enrolments to internal training Economic value, generated programmes, etc. Alecta’s goal is that all employees will have a skills development plan, in which skills development needs Return on capital, before operating expenses 2, 3) –17 809 53 252 37 783 and training are planned. At year-end 2018, 76 per cent of –17 809 53 252 37 783 Alecta’s employees had a skills development plan, compared Economic value, distributed with 88 per cent in 2017. The majority of those who did not Claims incurred 4) –20 884 –20 353 –19 786 have a plan had been recruited late in the year. Waiver of premium, corporate customers –2 531 –2 039 –1 882 Refunds in the form of adjustments to GRI Evaluation and development (404-3) earned pension entitlement and premium All employees should have annual performance reviews and reductions 5) –10 511 –5 618 –3 638 90 per cent of Alecta’s employees had undergone one by yearSalaries and remuneration –325 –352 –409 end 2018. This is an increase compared with 2017, when the Suppliers and partners –540 –518 –451 proportion was 88 per cent with the explanation that new Yield tax and income tax in Sweden and abroad employees who joined us in the latter part of the year did not as well as social security fees for employees –1 039 –2 594 –3 414 have time to undergo a performance review by year-end. –35 829 –31 474 –29 581 1) GRI requests a report of “retained value” but at Alecta the surplus goes to the policy Energy consumption in Alecta’s properties holders. 2) Unrealised gains/losses are included in an amount of SEK –46 291 million Normal-year adjusted energy consumption within Alecta’s (2017: 25 719, 2016: 4 074). real estate portfolio is presented below. It includes holdings in The year’s return is described in the Message from the CEO on page 6, and on page the directly owned property portfolio with a history of three 46 in the Administration Report. 3) In the income statement, asset management and property management expenses years. Energy consumption data for 2016 and 2017 has been totalling SEK 234 million (2017: 250, 2016: 254) have been offset against capital corrected and is somewhat higher than previously reported. turns. See also Note 8 Operating expenses. 4)  Claims incurred also include refunds in the form of pension supplements and The 7 per cent increase in energy efficiency measured for supplementary amounts, which are taken from the surplus fund; see Note 33 Equity. 2017 should instead be 5 per cent. Alecta did not achieve its 5) Refunds are taken from the surplus fund, see Note 33 Equity. annual target of a 3 per cent increase in energy efficiency in 2018, mainly due to the considerable cooling requirement Alecta creates economic value for its customers by giving during the hot summer. them a good and secure pension. It does so by generating a strong return over time and by keeping the costs down. In ENERGY CONSUMPTION, the area of business in which Alecta operates, the value that is ALECTA’S SWEDISH PROPERTY PORTFOLIO generated and delivered needs to be viewed from a long-term kWh per m2 perspective. The value that is created during the year will be 60 distributed for many years to come and the value that has 50 been distributed during the present year has been worked up 40 over prior years. For this reason, the value that is generated and distributed cannot be assessed on a year-by-year basis. 30 20 GRI Hours of training (404-1) 10 The average training period per employee in 2018 was 22 0 Property electricity District heating District cooling (26) hours. The average for women was 27 hours and the average for men was 14 hours. All training is registered by 2016 2017 2018 the employees themselves in the personnel administration Consumption in kWh per m2 (leased area) in Alecta’s Swedish property portfolio. For comparative purposes, only properties that were owned throughout the comparative period system, whereby the human factor probably contributes to of 2016–2018 have been included. The figures reported in last year’s annual report have a lower figure than the actual number of hours. In 2019, therefore been slightly adjusted. Indirectly owned and residential properties are not included in the comparison. Alecta will develop better systems support for facilitating the ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 31 GRI Complaints about breaches of customer During the year, the Head Office underwent comprehensive privacy (418-1) refurbishment, which probably entailed increased energy use During the year, Alecta did not receive any complaints concompared with ordinary operations. This work is continuing in cerning the loss of customer data. Two complaints about 2019. When procuring furniture for the refurbishment work, breaches of privacy were registered. These were not of a we subjected the supplier to tangible environmental requirenature that constituted a serious deficiency or that required ments in terms of the use of chemicals and our ambition of a report to the Data Inspection Board. renovating and re-using office furniture to the extent possible. We have started to measure the carbon footprint of our GRI Fines or sanctions (419-1) business travels to enable us to make more informed deciNo fines or sanctions were imposed on Alecta in 2018. sions on the choice of travel. Most of the completed journeys related to customer visits or the operations of asset manageAlecta’s environmental activities and purchases ment. We also measure our paper consumption, and simultaAs a service-sector company with a centrally located office, neously look at how we can switch to a greater use of digital our work associated with direct environmental impact is tools and work methods. A significant proportion of our cusstrongly connected to our property, our travel and our cooptomer correspondence is already digital, a development that eration with various suppliers. During the past years, we we intend to actively influence by simplifying the information improved the efficiency of resource use at our office, which and making it available in a digital format. has resulted in significant financial and environmental gains. Together with or through our suppliers, we have an opporToday, our most significant environmental footprint comes tunity to influence our carbon footprint. In 2018, for example, from the energy that is used in our property, from business the IT supplier of our servers moved to a modern, newly built travel, paper consumption and food waste. Alecta is reporting computer hall, where new technology significantly reduces its direct environmental impact for the first time in 2018 and energy consumption. Through the use of free cooling, which reducing its environmental impact is an overall sustainability entails using outdoor air to balance the temperature in the target moving forward. computer hall for optimal operational efficiency, it is possible to cover 90 per cent of the need. Together with the contractor Direct environmental impact, operations 2018 who has been operating our staff lunchroom since 2017, we implemented food-waste campaigns that resulted in tangible ENERGY USE, OFFICES MWh reductions, whereby the measured amount of food waste was Total 2 953 halved from March to October. – of which electricity 1 390 An important supplier in our internal environmental – of which, district heating 1 267 work is our provider of janitor services, and for this we use a – of which, district cooling 296 company that conducts active environmental work, chooses CARBON FOOTPRINT kg CO2 products that are a good environmental choice and also has Energy, property 1) 43 715 collective agreements for its employees. Travel 2) 193 858 In addition to the above suppliers, Alecta mainly works – of which, air travel 192 932 with external parties in training contexts, for purchases of licences and software, maintenance of equipment, office sup– of which, trains 926 plies and research services for asset management. In 2018, USE OF PAPER KG Alecta implemented transactions with a total of 627 (636) Office operations 7 500 3) suppliers, including 565 (568) in Sweden, 41 (49) in other EU Customer letters 32 299 4) countries and 21 (19) outside the EU. Five suppliers accounted 1) A  ll property electricity is origin-labeled from renewable sources. District cooling is produced from, for 61 per cent of the total transaction volume. Swedish supfor example, free cooling from water and waste heat. District heating is produced in part from coal pliers accounted for 96 per cent of the transaction volume. and oil, and carbon emissions from these sources are climate compensated through purchases of emission rights. 2) During 2018, 521 flights took place, of which 333 were international. There were 288 train journeys, of which two were international. 3) Corresponding to 22,2 kg per capita. 4) In addition, a large number of digital letters were sent and if these had been postal letters they would have corresponded to another 19 137 kg. Of the postal letters that were sent during the year, nearly 12 tonnes were connected to a non-recurring mailing connected to the ITP procurement. 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Sustainability supplement GRI table About the sustainability reporting Alecta manages collectively agreed occupational pension Alecta’s sustainability report for 2018 has been prepared schemes in Sweden. Alecta’s asset management activities according to guidelines for the Global Reporting Initiative comprise investments in shares, debt securities and real estate. (GRI), GRI Standards and the alternative Core. The content Alecta’s real estate portfolio is concentrated to Sweden. No of the Sustainability Report is mainly found on pages 5–23 material changes in the organisation’s size, structure, ownerand in this supplement on pages 24–34. The sustainability ship or suppliers occurred during the reporting period. reporting covers 2018 and forms part of Alecta’s annual report. The Annual Report and Sustainability Report are pubCalculation methods and definitions lished annually in March. The preceding annual report was GRI Disclosure 404-1: Employees refer to permanent employpublished on 31 March 2018. ees of the Parent Company with the exception of employees The report has been reviewed by Alecta’s auditors, Ernst & on long-term leave, including employees on parental leave, Young AB. sick leave or unpaid leave. GRI Disclosure 418-1: Serious shortcomings are defined as Scope and boundaries events that constitute a serious violation of an individual cusThe Sustainability Report mainly encompasses the Parent tomer’s privacy or that have led to criticism from regulators. Company Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and Alecta’s subsidiaries, apart from those specified below. The subsidContact iaries are engaged in the direct or indirect ownership of real The contact person for Alecta’s sustainability report is estate. The real estate companies that are joint-owned by Carina Silberg, Head of Sustainability. Alecta are defined as joint ventures and are handled as finanE-mail: carina.silberg@alecta.se cial instruments. The description of procedures and duties in the personnel section on pages 22–23 covers employees of the Parent Company while consolidated data including the subsidiary WTC is presented on page 30. The description of Alecta’s direct environmental impact and suppliers on page 32 refers to the Parent Company. Other exceptions to the scope are indicated in the report. GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2018, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name 45 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 33, 45 102-3 Location of headquarters 45 102-4 Location of operations 33 102-5 Ownership and legal form 45 102-6 Markets served 10–11, 45 102-7 Scale of the organisation 30, 45–46 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 30 102-9 Supply chain 24–25, 32 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 33 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach See comment Alecta is not engaged in manufacturing activities, but environmental aspects are taken into account in the investment activities. 102-12 External initiatives 20, 29 102-13 Membership of associations 2, 21, 29 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 33 GRI table, cont. GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2018, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 25 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 24–25, 37–40 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 30 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 26 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 26 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 84–85 Note 16 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 27–28, 33 102-47 List of material topics 27–28 102-48 Restatements of information See comment and Environmental and sustainability guidelines for pages 31 and 34 Alecta’s properties were adopted in 2018, not in 2017 as previously stated. Data on the energy consumption of properties for 2016 and 2017 has been corrected and is somewhat higher than previously reported. 102-49 Changes in reporting See comment No material adjustments 102-50 Reporting period 33 102-51 Date of most recent report 33 102-52 Reporting cycle 33 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 33 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 33 102-55 GRI content index 33–34 102-56 External assurance 4, 33, 35 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 27–28 103-2 Management approach and its components 24–25, 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24–25, 39–40 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 15, 31 SOCIAL TOPICS – EMPLOYMENT 404-1 Average hours of training per employee by gender and employee category 22–23, 31 See Scope and boundaries, and Calculation methods and definitions 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 22, 31 development reviews See Scope and boundaries SOCIAL TOPICS – CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Total number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 32 418-1 privacy and losses of customer data Fines and sanctions concerning breaches of financial or 32 419-1 social laws or regulations Percentage and number of companies in the institution’s portfolio with which 19 FS10 the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social 18 FS11 screening 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Auditor’s report on the review of the sustainability reporting of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt and opinion on the mandatory sustainability report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionswith FAR’s recommendation RevR 12 Auditor’s opinion on the försäkring, ömsesidigt, corp. ID no. 502014-6865 mandatory sustainability report. A review and an examination in accordance with RevR 12 have a different focus and significantly less scope than the focus and scope of an audit Introduction conducted in accordance with the International Standards on We have been engaged by the the Board of Directors of Alecta Auditing (ISA), and generally accepted auditing practices. Pensionsförsäkring AB to review the content of the company’s The audit firm applies the International Standard on sustainability reporting for 2018. The company has defined Quality Control (ISQC 1) and therefore has a broad system the scope of the sustainability reporting on pages 33–34 in for quality control consisting of documented guidelines and this document, of which the mandatory sustainability report procedures for compliance with professional ethical requireis defined on page 4. ments, standards for professional conduct, and applicable requirements in laws, regulations and administrative proviResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and sions. We are independent of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring AB management according to generally accepted auditing practices in Sweden The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the and have in other respects performed our professional preparation of the sustainability reporting, including the responsibilities according to these requirements. mandatory sustainability report, in accordance with relevant The procedures performed in a review and examination criteria or the Annual Accounts Act. The criteria are presentin accordance with RevR 12 do not enable us to obtain such ed in the sustainability reporting on page 33 and comprise assurance that we would become aware of all significant matthose parts of the Sustainability Reporting Framework issued ters that might be identified in an audit. Therefore, the opinby GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) that are applicable to ion expressed based on a review and examination in accorsustainability reporting, and the accounting and calculation dance with RevR 12 does not give the same level of assurance policies prepared by the company itself. This responsibility as a conclusion expressed based on an audit. also includes the internal controls considered necessary to Our review of the sustainability report is based on the prepare a sustainability report that is free from material miscriteria selected by the Board of Directors and management, statement, whether due to fraud or error. which are defined above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. The auditor’s responsibility We believe that the evidence that we have obtained during Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the susour review is sufficient and appropriate for the purpose of tainability reporting based on our review and to submit an expressing our opinions below. opinion on the mandatory sustainability report. We have conducted our review in accordance with ISAE Opinion 3000 Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews Based on our review, we have not discovered any circumstances of Historical Financial Information. A review consists of makthat would give us reason to believe that the sustainability ing inquiries, primarily with persons responsible for the prepreport has not, in all material respects, been prepared in aration of the sustainability report, and applying analytical accordance with the above criteria indicated by the Board of and other review procedures. We have conducted our examiDirectors and management. nation of the mandatory sustainability report in accordance A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 19 March 2019 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Outi Alestalo Authorised Public Accountant Specialist Member of FAR ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 35 Corporate Governance Report 2018 Efficient corporate governance ensures that the company is managed responsibly, sustainably and as efficiently as possible with satisfactory risk management and internal controls. Alecta’s corporate governance adapted to the fact that the company is a mutual insurance Alecta is a mutual life insurance company that is owned by company are not applied, however. One minor deviation from the employers that have concluded retirement pension agreethe Code is that the interim report is not reviewed by the ments with Alecta and by the people insured by Alecta. company’s auditor. Preparing a corporate governance report is not a requireCorporate governance involves the decision-making sysment for Alecta according to the Swedish Insurance Compatems and processes through which a company is governed nies Annual Accounts Act. However, Alecta applies the Swedish and controlled. Corporate Governance Code (the Code) even though it has no formal obligation to do so. Rules in the Code which are not 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL The Council of Administration External auditor and Preparatory Committee lay auditors Board of Directors Presidium Finance Committee Audit Committee Internal auditor CEO Senior management Staff functions Central functions Finance, Legal Affairs, HR, Communication and sustainability Risk Compliance Actuary Departments Customer, Product, Asset Management, IT Council of Administration and Preparatory Elections of directors, Chairman of the Board, external Committee auditors and lay auditors are prepared by a preparatory comThe Council of Administration is Alecta’s highest decisionmittee, appointed by the Council of Administration. The making body, corresponding to the General Meeting of Sharecommittee works in close cooperation with the organisations holders under the Swedish Insurance Companies Act. The that appoint members of the Council of Administration and Council’s duties include electing the members of the Board with the Chairman of the Board. The Preparatory Committee of Directors and external auditors, addressing the issue of also submits proposals on director fees, including remunerarelease from liability for the Board of Directors and CEO in tion for committee work and fees for Alecta’s auditors and lay respect of their management during the financial year, adoptauditors. ing income statements and balance sheets for the Parent Since the meeting of the Council of Administration held Company and the Group, and deciding on the appropriation in April 2017, the Preparatory Committee has the followof the profit or loss for the year. To ensure that the interests ing members: Kenneth Bengtsson, convenor, Peter Hellberg, and views of the retirees are represented, the principle that deputy convenor, Peter Larsson and Ulrik Wehtje. the Council’s members should include a number of retirThe convenor and deputy convenor of the Committee ees who are insured in Alecta is applied. These members are are also Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Council of appointed by the trade union organisations indicated below. Administration. No special remuneration has been paid to the members for their work on the Preparatory Committee. Council of Administration and Preparatory Committee External auditors and lay auditors The Council of Administration consists of 38 members and External auditors are elected by the Council of Administraeight deputies. Of which tion for a term of one to four years. The duty of the external a) 1 9 members and four deputy members are appointed by auditors is to examine Alecta’s Annual Report and accounting the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and as well as the management performed by the Board of Direcb) 1 9 members and four deputy members are appointed by tors and Chief Executive Officer. Unionen, the Association of Managerial and Professional The current external auditors, Ernst & Young AB, with Staff (Ledarna), the Swedish Association of Graduate EngiAuthorised Public Accountant Jesper Nilsson as auditor-inneers (Sveriges Ingenjörer) and the Council for Negotiacharge, were initially elected at the 2014 annual meeting of tion and Cooperation (PTK). the Council of Administration for a term of one year and were subsequently re-elected for one year at a time, most recently The Council of Administration elects directors and the Chairat the 2018 annual meeting of the Council of Administration. man of the Board at the annual meeting of the Council of For each financial year, the external auditors issue an Audit Administration for a period of one year and auditors for a Report, which is included in Alecta’s annual report. period of one to four years. During the 2018 financial year, Ernst & Young, in addition ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 37 to its external audit assignment, performed other assignments Rules of procedure for the Board of Directors for Alecta, such as tax consultations and inquiry assignments. As a feature of governance, Alecta applies both rules of proceFor more information on fees for the external auditors, refer to dure for the Board of Directors and instructions for the CEO, Note 49 Disclosures of auditors’ fees. which are adapted to rules in the Code. As of 1 January 2016, For the purpose of examining that Alecta’s operations are Alecta also complies with the Solvency II regulations on cormanaged appropriately and satisfactorily from a financial porate governance. standpoint, and for ensuring that other aspects of the internal Alecta’s Board of Directors continuously evaluates the control are appropriate, two lay auditors with two personal CEO’s work. A formal evaluation is conducted once a year. deputies are elected at the annual meeting of the Council of Similarly, the work within the Board is also evaluated annuAdministration until the time of the next annual meeting of ally. The results of the Board’s evaluations are reported to the the Council of Administration. For each financial year, the lay Council of Administration’s Preparatory Committee. auditors issue a review report, which is included in Alecta’s Alongside the activities of the Board itself, the Board operannual report. The 2018 annual meeting of the Council of ates through three committees: the Board Presidium, which Administration elected Niklas Hjert (with Kati Almqvist as also functions as a Remuneration Committee, the Finance personal deputy) and Lars Jansson (with Lisbeth Gustafsson Committee and the Audit Committee. The duties of the comas personal deputy) as lay auditors. For information regarding mittees are defined in the rules of procedure for the Board. the fees paid to the lay auditors, see Note 48. Board Presidium The Board of Directors The main duties of the Board Presidium are to administer and The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and adopt decisions on those matters which the Board delegates administration of Alecta. The Board decides on Alecta’s strateto the Presidium, to advise the CEO in the day-to-day managegies and long-term targets, and is responsible for ensuring that ment of the company and to prepare the business that is Alecta has adequate internal control. The Board is thereby expected to be presented at the following Board meeting. The responsible for ensuring that the necessary governance docuPresidium also acts as a remuneration committee and convenes ments for Alecta’s operations are in place, and takes decisions at the initiative of the Chairman of the Board. In 2018, the on matters such as Investment Guidelines, Actuarial GuidePresidium held five meetings, all of which were scheduled. lines and Guidelines for Managing Conflicts of Interest. Finance Committee Directors and CEO The Committee’s main task is to adopt detailed guidelines for At the annual meeting of the Council of Administration, the and to follow up Alecta’s day-to-day investment activities, to Council of Administration elects at least seven and not more prepare finance management matters that will be addressed than 14 directors for a term until the close of the next annual by the Board and to make decisions on certain investmentmeeting of the Council of Administration. The Board of related matters falling outside the remit of the CEO. In 2018, Directors also includes the directors and deputies that have the Finance Committee held five meetings, four of which been appointed in accordance with the Board Representation were scheduled. (Private Sector Employees) Act. The Board appoints Alecta’s CEO and the head of the Audit Committee internal audit and defines the framework for their work. The The Audit Committee’s main task is to continuously evaluate CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of the and communicate to the Board its view of Alecta’s risk expocompany in accordance with the guidelines and directions of sure and Management’s risk management. When it comes the Board and for ensuring that the operations are organised to financial risks, this involves ensuring that financial risk so that the company complies with applicable laws and regureporting functions well. The Audit Committee also supports lations. The CEO shall also ensure that the Board receives the Board in monitoring and evaluating the internal and reports on the performance, results and financial position external audits, preparing matters related to the Board’s work of Alecta on an ongoing basis, and is kept up to date on sigon assuring the quality of Alecta’s financial reporting and nificant operational events. The CEO’s general decisions in overseeing Alecta’s financial reporting. In 2018, the Committee the day-to-day management of the company are normally held five meetings, all of which were scheduled. prepared by the management team, which, in addition to the CEO, consists of eight of the heads of Alecta’s departments The work of the Board of Directors in 2018 and central functions. In 2018, the Board of Directors held six meetings, all of which were scheduled. Once annually, the Board meets up in a Board 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report seminar for a couple of days to discuss matters of strategic Risk importance to Alecta. The mission of Risk is to make it easier for Alecta’s Board of The major matters addressed by the Board and its commitDirectors, CEO and managers to manage, control and make tees during the year included: decisions on risks. On a quarterly basis, Risk submits a writ• Alecta 2023 – strategy work ten report to the Board and the CEO. • New consolidation policy Risk’s mission is to: • Refunds and premium pricing • work for increased awareness and better knowledge of risks • Implementation of the occupational pensions directive and to support the operations in their risk management work. into Swedish law • improve processes, methods and documentation for risk • Climate scenarios in ORSA reporting management. • Outsourced operations • check and assess the quality of the business’s risk manage• PRI and monthly individual control data ment, make independent assessments and compile reports for Senior management and the Board of Directors. Risk management and internal control At Alecta, the duties of every employee and manager include Compliance working for well-balanced internal control and appropriate Compliance’s mission involves regulatory compliance risks in risk management, although the Board of Directors and the the operations subject to licences and other regulations that CEO have ultimate responsibility for this. In order to ensure govern Alecta’s operations. On a quarterly basis, Compliance adequate risk management and compliance with laws, regusubmits a written report to the Board and the CEO. lations and internal governance documents, Alecta’s risk Compliance’s mission is to: management and internal control procedures are based on a • provide advice to managers, the CEO and the Board in model with three lines of defence. order to avoid shortcomings in regulatory compliance. • assess the consequences of changes in external and interThe first line of defence – nal regulations. operational risk management • identify and assess regulatory compliance risks relating to Alecta’s operating units and support functions are responexternal and internal regulations. sible for the risks that arise in their respective activities. This • assess whether Alecta’s measures to prevent regulatory responsibility entails identifying, evaluating, controlling and compliance shortcomings are appropriate. internally reporting risks. The operating units and support functions seek to ensure that clear processes and procedures Actuary have been established, which together with the internal govThe Senior Actuary is organisationally a part of the Product erning documents govern Alecta’s actions in various respects. Department, but has an independent role and reports on his own initiative to the CEO and the Board of Directors. The The second and third lines of defence – central Senior Actuary within Alecta is responsible for the tasks that, functions according to the Swedish Insurance Companies Act and regulaIn support of the operations, the Board of Directors and the tions, falls upon the Actuarial Function. These tasks include: CEO, there are the central functions stipulated in the Swed• coordinating and assuring the quality of Alecta’s actuarial ish Insurance Companies Act, namely the Risk, Compliance calculations and inquiries, and the Actuarial function (second line of defence) and the • assisting the Board and the CEO and, on his own initiative, Internal Audit (third line of defence) which are responsible submitting reports to them on matters relating to actuarial for independent company-wide monitoring in their respecmethods, calculations and assessments, and tive areas of responsibility. These functions use a risk-based • submitting the annual actuarial report. approach and therefore give priority to activities and followups in those areas where Alecta’s risks are greatest. Risk manInternal Audit agement is an integral part of Alecta’s governance. To protect The internal audit is an independent examination function. The its customers and other stakeholders, Alecta applies strict internal audit works on behalf of the Board and its duties are: standards for how risks are controlled and managed. More • to evaluate the internal control system, information on risks and risk management is provided in the • to evaluate other parts of the corporate governance Administration Report on page 55 and in in Note 3 Risks and system, and risk management on page 75. • to report results and, following the evaluations, present recommendations to the Board of Directors. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 39 Governance documents and monitoring Guidelines for remuneration of Everyone who works at Alecta has a responsibility to help Senior management ensure good internal control and is required to follow In March 2018, the Board adopted guidelines for remuneraAlecta’s governance documents. The governance documents tion and other employment conditions of Alecta’s Senior are adopted by the CEO or the Board of Directors and are management and the Council of Administration adopted the revised when required or at least annually. All employees are below guidelines at its meeting on 18 April 2018: informed of changes to the regulations by their managers Remuneration of the CEO and other senior executives in and also have an independent responsibility to keep themSenior management consists of a basic salary, pension proviselves informed of those governance documents which affect sions and other benefits. Other senior executives are defined them through Alecta’s intranet. As part of their mandatory as the currently eight individuals who together with the CEO introduction programme, new employees receive information comprise Senior management. about Alecta’s ethical rules. Regular monitoring and reporting of outcomes are essential to effective governance, ensurSalary ing that governance processes are adapted to new requireSalary is set taking into account competencies, spheres of ments or criteria. The heads of department are responsible responsibility, authorities and performance, and is to be for ensuring appropriate monitoring and that controls are in based on market-aligned conditions and principles. Variable place in their respective areas of responsibility. remuneration is not payable, either to the CEO or to any other senior executives in Senior management. Business follow-up The Controllers continuously monitors operational perforProvision for pensions mance regarding planned activities as well as cost outcomes All members of Senior management are covered by the FTP and target achievement in relation to business and operaplan. The normal retirement age is 65. For the CEO, a provitional plans. On a quarterly basis, the Controllers also presion of 35 per cent of salary is set aside for pensions, including pares an internal report for the Board of Directors and Senior contributions to the FTP plan. management. Severance pay and other benefits Internal control over financial reporting The CEO and other Senior executives are subject to period of The Board assures the quality of the financial reporting notice from Alecta of six months in combination with severthrough, inter alia, the work of the Audit Committee. In this ance pay corresponding to 12 monthly salaries, which is fully context, the committee addresses, where necessary, the critideductible against income from new employment. According cal accounting matters and reviews the financial reporting to an agreement that was reached before these period of that Alecta intends to submit. notice conditions started to apply, one senior executive is When compiling data for financial reporting, Alecta’s subject to a period of notice of 18 months, with full deductFinance Department conducts checks to ensure the quality of ibility of benefits received in any new employment during a the data provided and that the financial reporting complies corresponding period. with laws and other regulations. In addition, the Controllers All members of Senior management are entitled to a comanalyse the financial results and position on a quarterly basis, pany car, and sickness compensation corresponding to 90 the results of which are reported to Senior management and per cent of cash gross salary during the first 12 months of any the Board. illness. Otherwise the same benefits as for other employees The external auditors attended three of the Audit Commitapply, such as health insurance and a fitness allowance. tee’s meetings in 2018, whereby various matters related to the audit were subject to discussion between the auditors and memProcess and decision-making bers of the committee. During the year, the Audit Committee Matters relating to salary and other terms of employment of also examined and evaluated the work of the external auditors. the CEO and other senior executives, and to Alecta’s variThe entire Board takes part of the interim reports before able remuneration programme, are prepared by the Board they are published and takes part and approves the Annual of Directors’ Presidium, in its capacity as the Remuneration Report before it is published. Committee, for adoption by the Board. For information on The external auditors have submitted a written report to remuneration and incentive programmes for 2018, refer to the Board of Directors concerning the year’s examination. Note 48 on page 105. They have also participated in a Board meeting to orally present a report on the 2018 audit and on the evaluation of the work of Senior management. 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report Council of Administration and auditors Members and Deputy The 19 members and four deputy members of the Auditors Members Council of Administration elected by Unionen, the Association of Managerial and Professional Staff Elected auditors (Ledarna), the Swedish Association of Graduate Ernst & Young AB, The Council of Administration’s 19 members and four Engineers and the Council for Negotiation and Lead Audit Engagement Partner deputy members elected by the Confederation of Cooperation (PTK) for the period 2017–2019. Jesper Nilsson Swedish Enterprise for the period 2017–2019, unless otherwise indicated. Members Stefan Carlsson (Unionen), Norrköping Members Björn Alvengrip, Mölle Per-Erik Djärf (Unionen), Vadstena Lay Auditors Kenneth Bengtsson, Stockholm, Chairman 1) Björn Ekblom (Unionen), Svanesund Annika Elias (Ledarna), Gothenburg 2) Elected auditors Jan Bosaeus, Solna Niklas Hjert, Unionen Anders Canemyr, Nacka (2018–2019) Helena Hedlund (Ledarna), Märsta Lars Jansson, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Mattias Dahl, Stockholm Peter Hellberg (Unionen), Bandhagen, Deputy Chairman 1) Marcus Dahlsten, Stockholm (2018–2019) Gunnar Henriksson (Unionen), Tullinge, also a representative of Alecta’s retirees Deputy Members Eva Dunér, Gothenburg Kati Almqvist, Ledarna Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd, Enhörna (2018–2019) Martin Johansson (Unionen), Stockholm Lisbeth Gustafsson, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Inga-Kari Fryklund, Stockholm Ulrika Johansson (Unionen), Luleå Nils Åke Hallström, Nälden Gun Karlsson (Unionen), Stockholm Per Hidesten, Stockholm Victoria Kirchhoff (Unionen), Klagshamn Karin Johansson, Stockholm Peter Larsson (Sveriges Ingenjörer), Enskede 1) Hans Lindau (Unionen), Sandared Ulf Larsson, Sundsvall Leif Nicklagård (Unionen), Sundbyberg Staffan Lindquist, Helsingborg Annica Pettersson (PTK), Enskede Gård Martin Lindqvist, Stockholm Kristina Rådkvist (PTK), Enköping Jan Moström, Luleå Therese Sysimetsä (Unionen), Stockholm Ola Månsson, Alunda 2) Ulrik Wehtje, Malmö 1) Anders Tihkan (Sveriges Ingenjörer), Värmdö Klas Wåhlberg, Västerås 2) Marina Åman (Unionen), Strängnäs 2) Deputy Members Deputy Members Antje Dedering, Bromma Thomas Eriksson (Ledarna), Örebro Hans Gidhagen, Upplands Väsby Nils-Harald Forssell (Unionen), Olofstorp, Jonas Hagelqvist, Stockholm also a representative of Alecta’s retirees Charlott Richardson, Sollentuna Mikael Hansson (Unionen), Billdal Stefan Jansson (Sveriges Ingenjörer), Stockholm 1) Member of the Preparatory Committee 2) Deputy member of the Preparatory Committee ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 41 Board of Directors Name Erik Åsbrink Hanna Bisell Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren Martin Linder Position Chairman Member First Vice Chairman Member Born 1947 1969 1960 1973 Elected 2000 2016 2007 2016 Committee Board Presidium (Chairman) Audit Committee Board Presidium Finance Committee Finance Committee (Chairman) Other Stiftelsen Cancercentrum Karolinska Medlemsförsäkring AB (Chairman) – PTK (Chairman) and TCO directorships (Chairman) and Danske Hypotek AB Other Economic Council of the Swedish Trade – The Committee of Inquiry into the Labour – assignments Federation (Chairman) and the Board of Market (special investigator) Trustees of the Centre for Business and Policy Studies (SNS) Other – – – Unionen (President) Attendance 6/6 6/6 6/6 5/6 Board Meetings Committee 10/10 5/5 5/5 5/5 attendance Name Carola Lemne Petra Hedengran Per Hedelin Mikael Persson Position Second Vice Chairman Member Member Employee representative Saco Born 1958 1964 1965 1962 Elected 2018 2017 2008 2008 Committee Board Presidium Finance Committee Audit Committee (Chairman) Other Arjo AB and Calgo Enterprise AB Electrolux AB Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti, _ directorships Bliwa Livförsäkring Öms., Mgruppen, Svenska managementgruppen AB and Intermezzon AB Other _ Association for good practice in the securi_ – assignments ties market and the Swedish Association of Listed Companies (vice Chairman) Other _ Investor AB (General Counsel) – _ Attendance 3/5 (Member from April 18l) 5/6 6/6 6/6 Board Meetings Committee Attendance 4/4 (Member from April 18l) 5/5 5/5 – All directors, apart from employee representatives, are independent in relation to Alecta and Senior management. Since Alecta has no shareholders, the Code’s regulations about independent directors in relation to major shareholders are not applicable. 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report Anna-Karin Hatt Richard Malmborg Peter Jeppsson Magnus von Koch Name Member Member Member Member Position 1972 1961 1957 1962 Born 2016 2003 2016 2010 Elected Finance Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Finance Committee Committee Almega AB, Almega Tjänsteförbunden, PTK (Vice Chairman), SACO (First Vice ChairTrygghetsrådet TRR (Chairman), TrygghetsKlara Norra Fastigheter AB (Chairman) Other Castellum AB, Trygghetsfonden TSL and man), Akademikertjänst AB (Chairman) fonden TSL (Chairman), Fora AB, directorTrygghetsrådet TRR AFA Livförsäkringsaktiebolag, ships AFA Trygghetsförsäkringsaktiebolag and AFA Sjukförsäkringsaktiebolag Almega Tjänsteförbunden (Director of Asso– – – Other ciation), Swedish Higher Education Authority assignments Almega AB (CEO)1) Sveriges Ingenjörer (Director of Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Unionen (investment manager) Other Association) (Deputy CEO) 6/6 4/6 4/6 5/6 Attendance Board Meetings 5/5 2/5 4/5 5/5 Committee attendance Kaj Thorén Birgitta Pernkrans Anders Weihe Name Member Employee representative FTF Member Position 1944 1969 1961 Born 2005 2015 2017 Elected Finance Committee _ Audit Committee Committee _ _ Trygghetsrådet TRR and Trygghetsfonden Other TSL directorships _ _ TEKO (CEO), Teknikarbetsgivarna and Other Tekniktjänstearbetsgivarna assignments _ _ Association of Swedish Engineering Other Industries (General Counsel, Director of Association and Chief negotiatior) 6/6 6/6 5/6 Attendance Board Meetings Committee 5/5 – 4/5 attendance 1) Through 31 August 2019, thereafter LRF (CEO). ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 43 Senior management Name Magnus Billing Katarina Thorslund Fredrik Palm Position CEO Deputy CEO, Head of Customer Relations Head of Products Born 1968 1962 1976 Employed since 2016 2003 2013 Education LL.M. B.Sc. in Mathematics M.Sc. in Mathematical Statistics Previous CEO of Nasdaq Stockholm and CEO of Nasdaq Nordics Chief Financial Officer and Chief Actuary at Alecta. Previously Self-employed actuarial consultant. Previously, consultant and experience Chief Actuary at Folksam Gruppförsäkring. partner of consulting firm. Board Insurance Sweden, Employers’ Organisation for the Swedish assignments Insurance Industry Other Board of Trustees of the Centre for Business and Policy assignments Studies (SNS) and Stockholm Sustainable Finance Centre (Chairman) Name Hans Sterte Martin Hedensiö Camilla Wirth Position Head of Investment Management Head of Communication and Sustainability Chief Financial Officer Born 1961 1964 1970 Employed since 2018 2016 2017 Education M.Sc. in Business Administration and Economics, Stockholm M.Sc. in Accounting and Auditing M.Sc. in Business and Economics University Previous Head of Investment Management at Skandia. Previously, Director of Communications at Svenska Spel, CFO Nordax Bank AB (publ), CFO Aberdeen Property experience Director of Finance at Länsförsäkringar AB. Vice President Corporate Communications Europe, Middle Investors IIM AB, Auditor and Consultant at KPMG Financial East & Africa at Nasdaq, Executive Partner, Head of Services Corporate and Financial Communications at Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Deputy CEO of Springtime, Investor Relations Director Electrolux. Name Maria Wahl Burvall Magnus Landare Ulf Larsson Position Director of Human Resources, Purchasing and Service General Counsel 1) Head of IT Born 1964 1957 1968 Employed since 2014 1995 1998 Education M Sc. in Business and Economics, majoring in LL.M. Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration Economics and Statistics Previous Economist, HR specialist and Head of HR at the Riksbank. Lagerlöf & Leman law firm. Prior to that, Law Clerk at the Head of IT Architecture and Group Head of Infrastructure at experience Stockholm District Court. Alecta, Previously, consultant at WM-data. 1)  hrough the second quarter of 2019, when Charlotte Rydin assumes the position of General Counsel. T Magnus Landare remains at Alecta as the CEO’s senior advisor. 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report Administration Report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt hereby present their annual report for 2018, the company’s one hundred and second year of operations. Corporate Identity Number: 502014-6865 Registered office: Stockholm, Sweden Ownership and structure level of service and quality are the same as if the employees’ Alecta is a mutual life insurance company. This means retirement pensions had been secured through insurance. that the company is owned by the policy holders and the Alecta Optimal Pension is also a selectable option in the insureds, and that any surplus generated is returned to the other big collective bargaining areas: private-sector employpolicy holders and the insureds. ees covered by the collective occupational pension plan Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt is the parent comAvtalspension SAF-LO, government employees in the PA 16 pany of the Alecta Group. In 2018, the activities of the Group collective bargaining area, employees of municipally owned were conducted in-house with the exception of some parts of enterprises covered by the PA-KFS occupational pension plan, Alecta’s asset management and IT operations, which were and local authority and county council employees covered by performed by external service providers under contract. the KAP-KL/AKAP-KL plans. We are also the default option Some of the tasks performed by Collectum and other selecand a selectable option in the collective bargaining area for tion centres outside the framework of the ITP and other the insurance industry, FTP. pension plans are also considered to be performed on behalf Alecta also offers occupational group life insurance (TGL). of Alecta and the other participating insurance companies. Employees Operations and products In 2018, the average number of employees in the Alecta Group Alecta offers occupational pensions through selection centres was 367 (371), or 356 on a full-time equivalent basis (354). under collectively agreed occupational pension plans, i.e. At year-end 2018, the total number of employees in the insurance schemes based on collective bargaining agreements Group was 365 (364), of whom 340 worked in the Parent Comthat are tied to the employment relationship and for which pany (340). The share of female employees was 59 per cent (60) the premiums are paid by the employer. and the average age of employees was 48 years (47). Alecta’s principal mission is to manage the various parts of Information on the average number of employees, salaries the ITP occupational pension plan on behalf of the Confederand benefits is provided in Note 48 on pages 105–109. The ation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation Note also describes the principles for determining the remuand Cooperation (PTK), which have concluded collective barneration and benefits of senior executives as well as the appligaining agreements. Alecta manages the ITP 2 defined benefit cable drafting and decision-making processes. retirement pension plan and the ITP 1 defined contribution retirement pension plan. In addition to retirement pensions, the ITP 2 plan also comprises defined benefit family pensions and ITPK defined contribution supplementary retirement pensions. Defined contribution retirement pensions are offered through the Alecta Optimal Pension product, which is the default option and a selectable option for ITP 1 as well as ITPK. Alecta has also been contracted to manage the disability and life insurance products provided under the ITP plan. These include the risk insurance products disability pension, waiver of premium and family cover. Under the ITP agreement, employers have the option of funding their employees’ retirement pensions by recognising liabilities in their balances sheets under the “PRI model”. Obligations that have been secured under the PRI model are administered by Alecta on behalf of PRI Pensionsgaranti. The ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 45 Net profit and financial position Growth also slowed somewhat in Sweden, whereby the The Group reports a net loss for the year of SEK 26,8 Riksbank (Sweden’s central bank) revised down its inflation billion (net profit:57,3). Comments on Alecta’s results and forecast and postponed policy rate increases. The SEK subfinancial position are presented in the following. sequently weakened against other major currencies to levels not seen since the financial crisis in 2008. Strong company Premiums written reports for the second quarter, especially from the US, supPremiums written in 2018 totalled SEK 48,2 billion (38,5), see ported stock markets, which showed positive returns at the Note 4 on page 77. Premiums written can be divided into end of June. In Europe, market rage arose by Italy’s problems invoiced premiums and guaranteed refunds. to form a government, and by budget discussions with the Invoiced premiums were SEK 37,7 billion (32,9). The EU. Weak inflation in Europe compared with high growth in increase on 2017 is attributable to increased benefits, a lower the US also meant that the difference between European and premium rate for defined benefit pensions and a growing US monetary policy increased, and this is still reflected in the portfolio of defined contribution pensions. Remaining predifference between the German and US 10-year rate, which miums written pertain to guaranteed refunds, which totalled has not been higher in 30 years. SEK 10,5 billion (5,6) and comprised reductions on employHowever, the Swedish election and the protracted process ers’ premiums for disability and premium waiver insurance, to form a government had very little market impact. This was family pensions and TGL, and an increase in earned pension overshadowed by other geopolitical conflicts and political entitlements (adjustment of paid-up values). The increase processes, such as Brexit and US-China trade tensions. Several compared with the preceding year was due to a higher adjustmarket players also began to worry that the Fed was moving ment of paid-up values. too fast with its monetary policy austerity. On top of that, more and more macroeconomic indicators began to point to Return on capital a slowing global economy. Investors increasingly shifted from Financial markets risk to more reliable assets, which led to major fluctuations in In 2018, the global economy was initially strong and macroasset prices. Share prices and interest rates declined across a economic statistics for GDP growth and employment showed broad front. Like the Riksbank, the Fed raised its benchmark a positive trend in the international economy. Economic perrate by 0,25 percentage points at the end of the year, but also formance in the US was particularly favourable, prompting signalled a more cautious approach to monetary policy movthe Federal Reserve (Fed) to begin a series of gradual increases ing forward. This put investors in a better mood, but also led in its benchmark rate. During the spring, concerns for an to choppy markets with major price swings from day to day. economic slowdown in China grew and the US hard-line trade The fourth quarter was overall gloomy for investors with policy, which seemed to be leading towards a trade war, added stock market declines of 15 per cent or more for the major to the uncertainty. NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR INVOICED PREMIUMS TOTAL RETURN, FIVE-YEAR AVERAGE SEK billion SEK billion Per cent 60 50 10 40 40 8 20 30 6 0 20 4 –20 10 2 –40 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report exchanges. During the year, the SEK weakened against both positive contribution to the return. Due to lower Swedish and the EUR and the USD by 4,3 and 9,9 per cent, respectively. European interest rates, interest-bearing assets generated a The market year was highly coloured by the global fourthpositive return. Alecta’s average annual return over the past quarter decline in stock markets. For the full-year, measured in five years is 5,6 per cent (8,2). local currencies, the MSCI Sweden Index fell 5,3 per cent, the The return on shares was –6,9 per cent (12,6) while return MSCI USA Index fell 4,5 per cent and the MSCI Europe Index on debt securities was 0,3 per cent (1,0) and real estate 6,6 per fell 10,0 per cent. Asian markets suffered the biggest decline, cent (12,1). and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index subsequently fell 10,0 The return on Alecta’s defined contribution savings prodper cent. uct, Alecta Optimal Pension, was –3,5 per cent (9,1), outperIn Sweden, real estate stocks performed well, with the forming Morningstar’s benchmark index for balanced funds Carnegie Real Estate Index rallying 15,9 per cent, but in the by 1,1 percentage points. Over the past five years, Alecta Swedish housing market prices have slowed down considerOptimal Pension has generated an average annual return of ably. Compared with 2017, prices remained unchanged for the 6,7 per cent (10,9). country as a whole. The return on Alecta’s defined benefit insurance product was –2,0 per cent (6,5). The average annual return over the Return past five years is 5,6 per cent (8,0). In the income statement, The total return on Alecta’s investments in 2018 was a negathe return on capital for the Group, including unrealised tive 2,2 per cent (pos: 6,7). The negative return was mainly value changes, was SEK –18,0 billion (53,0). driven by a decline in the stock market. Real estate made a Total return table for Market value Market value Total return, per cent investments, total 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Average SEK million % SEK million % 2018 2014–2018 Shares 322 577 39,2 345 250 41,6 –6,9 7,6 Debt securities 419 781 50,9 419 809 50,6 0,3 2,9 Real estate 81 574 9,9 64 733 7,8 6,6 11,7 Total investments 823 932 100 829 792 100 –2,2 5,6 Total returns for each year and asset class for the period 2014–2018, which are included in the average total return, are presented in the five-year summary on page 56. The total return table has been prepared in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. The reporting and valuation of the investments do not agree with the accounting principles applied in the financial statements. A reconciliation between the total return table and the financial statements is presented in Note 47. Total return table for Market value Market value Total return, per cent investments, defined contribution 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 insurance (Alecta Optimal Pension) Average SEK million % SEK million % 2018 2014–2018 Shares 54 518 56,6 52 592 60,5 –6,9 7,6 Debt securities 32 130 33,4 27 414 31,6 0,3 3,0 Real estate 9 654 10,0 6 862 7,9 6,6 11,7 Total investments 96 302 100 86 867 100 –3,5 6,7 The proportion of shares in Alecta Optimal Pension is higher than in Alecta’s other products. The table above refers to the portfolio that constitutes Alecta’s default option, which has a 60 per cent share component. The market value of the total Alecta Optimal Pension portfolio, i.e. including all asset classes, is SEK 103,0 billion (92,5). Total return table for Market value Market value Total return, per cent investments, defined 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 benefit insurance Average SEK million % SEK million % 2018 2014–2018 Shares 265 337 36,8 290 232 39,4 –6,9 7,6 Debt securities 384 353 53,3 389 627 52,8 0,3 2,9 Real estate 71 250 9,9 57 425 7,8 6,6 11,7 Total investments 720 939 100 737 284 100 –2,0 5,6 The total return tables refer to the Group. Due to rounding, the sum of the figures shown in the tables may differ from the totals. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 47 At year-end 2018, the market value of Alecta’s total invest• P remiums and payment resulted in an increase in technical ment assets amounted to SEK 823,9 billion (829,8). Of this, provisions of SEK 27,3 billion (18,4), of which SEK 6,3 billion the Alecta Optimal Pension default portfolio accounted for (1,5) refers to guaranteed refunds in the form of earned SEK 96,5 billion (86,9). pension entitlements. • Due to the difference between underlying premiums and Changes in the portfolio assumptions in the calculation of technical provisions, At year-end, the proportion of shares of the portfolio was the provisions declined with SEK 16,9 billion (13,4) for sav39,2 per cent (41,6). The change is due to price declines in ings insurance. the stock market. The country allocation remained largely • Due to the disability and waiver of premium insurance unchanged compared with the previous year. results, the provisions declined with SEK 2,5 billion (2,2). At year-end, the real estate portion of the portfolio was 9,9 • Due to changes in the yield curve used to measure the techper cent (7,8). The increase was partly driven by the increased nical provisions, the provisions increased with SEK 8,4 bilmarket value of the real estate, but mainly by net investments lion (decreased: 2,5). The average cash flow-weighted rate of SEK 10,8 billion. The composition of the portfolio is predecreased from 2,25 to 2,15 per cent in 2018. sented on page 49. • Cumulative return, after deduction for tax and operating expenses, increased the technical provisions by 13,6 billion Claims incurred (13,0). Claims incurred consist partly of insurance claims paid and • During the year, there was a change in the calculation of partly of changes in provisions for claims outstanding. the provision for future yield tax. At 31 December 2018, Insurance claims paid, which mainly comprise benefits the assumption of future government borrowing rates was incurred in retirement pensions, disability and life insurance, changed from 10-year to 15-year discount rates. The change increased to SEK 21,0 billion (20,3). The increase is largely increased the life provisions by SEK 7,8 billion. attributable to a greater number of new retirees and a higher • The provision for future operating expenses was changed at average pension amount than for retirees whose payments 31 December 2018 in relation to future investment manageended due to death or because the beneficiary reached the ment expenses. The change reduced the life provision by final payment age. Operating expenses incurred in connecSEK 3,1 billion, and is motivated by the fact that the protion with the settlement of claims are included in insurance vision must cover the essential investment management claims paid and totalled SEK 140 million (142). See also expenses for Alecta’s guaranteed obligations. Previous proNote 8 on page 78. vision also included investment management expenses for The change in the provision for claims outstanding was the active management of surplus funds. SEK -0,2 billion (-0,5). • Other changes resulted in a decrease in technical provisions of SEK 0,3 billion. Technical provisions Technical provisions comprise the net present value of Alecta’s For further information, see Notes 36 and 37 on pages 101 guaranteed obligations for insurance contracts in force and and 102. are divided into provisions for life insurance and provisions for claims outstanding. Technical provisions were SEK 513,1 Operating expenses billion at 31 December 2018. This is an increase of SEK 34,3 Operating expenses for the insurance business, which billion (12,5) for 2018, which was due to the following reasons: are termed operating expenses in the income statement, increased by SEK 16 million compared with the preceding year and amounted to SEK 575 million (559). The increase was mainly driven by higher costs for the Collectum selection centre, increased IT costs, higher fees to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and increased information costs arising from Alecta’s changed product terms and conditions in conjunction with the ITP procurement, where we remain a default option. 48 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report Alecta’s portfolio composition, 31 December 2018 TOTAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO DEBT SECURITIES, geographic distribution DEBT SECURITIES, type of issuer Real estate 9,9 % USA 13,3 % Other 0,8 % Municipalities 9,9 % Corporates 24,0 % Government Shares Debt Europe Sweden 39,2 % securities 36,7 % 50,0 % and Government 50,9 % guaranteed 48,6 % Swedish housing finance institutions 16,7 % SHARES, geographic distribution SHARES, sector UK 4,8 % Denmark 3,8 % Materials 4,0 % Consumer staples 6,3 % Germany 5,6 % Switzerland IT 12,8 % Industrial 11,5 % 25,6 % Sweden 40,5 % Healthcare Rest of world 13,7 % 12,7 % Consumer Financial 23,4 % USA 21,1 % discretionary 14,2 % REAL ESTATE, geographic distribution REAL ESTATE, category Public-sector Hotel 2,8 % Rest of world 2,8 % properties 3,2% Other 0,4 % USA 10,5% Industrial 13,5 % UK 13,7 % Retail 18,7 % Office 34,2 % Sweden 73 % Residential 27,2 % Alecta’s five STOCK SECTOR MARKET VALUE, SEK MILLION largest shareholdings Investor AB (publ) Financial 18 103 December 31, 2018 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) Financial 13 231 Novo Nordisk AS Healthcare 12 056 Atlas Copco AB (publ) Industrial 11 803 Roche Holding AG Healthcare 11 538 Market value according to total return table and refers to listed shareholdings. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 49 Management expense ratio generated is returned to our customers – the policy holdThe management expense ratio declined during the year by ers and the insureds. The surplus is returned in the form of one base point to 0,08 (0,09) compared with full-year 2017, refunds. Over the past 15-year period (2004–2018), Alecta has due to an increase in average assets under management. Even distributed SEK 99 billion in refunds. The refunds have been for pension products excluding selection centre costs, the key distributed to the policy holders and the insureds in the form ratio declined one base point to 0,05 (0,06). of pension supplements, increases in earned pension entitlements, premium reductions and client-company funds. Tax expense For Alecta’s defined contribution insurance product, The yield tax expense, net of foreign tax credits, was SEK 318 Alecta Optimal Pension, any surplus or deficit is allocated million (271). The increase compared with 2017 was due to an directly to the insureds on a monthly basis. For this reason, increase in the capital base and an increase in average governthe collective funding ratio is nearly always 100 per cent. Any ment borrowing rates from 0,50 to 0,51 per cent. Yield tax is surplus is distributed in the form of refunds as a supplement payable on Alecta’s pension products and on family cover. to the guaranteed pension, in accordance with the actuarial The income tax expense, which comprises current and guidelines adopted by Alecta’s Board of Directors. deferred tax, was SEK 721 million (608). The deferred tax For defined benefit insurance products, Alecta’s Board expense is net of income and expenses. The expense includes of Directors decides each year whether and in what form a deferred tax expense of SEK 773 million attributable to a refunds should be distributed. For 2018, the Board approved reduction of the deferred tax asset associated with future an upward adjustment of defined benefit pensions by 2,12 deductions of foreign tax due to the fact that foreign tax is per cent. The adjustment applies to pensions in payment as not in its entirety expected to be used for deductions within well as earned pension entitlements, known as paid-up polithe period permitted by law. In addition to Swedish income cies, and is based on the change in CPI between September tax, the item also includes coupon tax and foreign income tax. 2016 and September 2017. For 2018, the Board also approved In Sweden, the business segments disability pension, waiver premium reductions of 65 per cent for disability and waiver of premium and TGL are subject to income tax. of premium insurance, 75 per cent for family cover and SEK 9 per insured per month for occupational group life insurance Distribution of surplus (TGL). A surplus arises when the return on Alecta’s assets exceeds the financial cost of its guaranteed obligations but can also Collective funding and solvency arise in other situations, for example when actual outcomes The defined contribution insurance products had a collective for mortality, morbidity and operational expenses are posifunding ratio of 100 per cent (100), which is the normal level tive. A more detailed presentation of how the surplus arises is when surpluses or deficits are allocated to the insureds on an provided in the alternative income statement on pages 57–58 ongoing basis. Alecta is a mutual company, which means that any surplus SOLVENCY RATIO COLLECTIVE FUNDING RATIO, MANAGEMENT EXPENSE RATIO for defined benefit insurance pension products, excluding selection centre costs Per cent Per cent Per cent 200 200 0,10 180 180 0,08 160 160 0,06 140 140 0,04 120 120 0,02 100 100 0,00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 50 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report Alecta’s funding policy (see also Significant events) for its Significant events defined benefit insurance products states to maintain a Alecta retains status as default option for ITP collective funding ratio of 125 to 175 per cent under normal In competition with other pension funds, Alecta was chosen conditions, and to apply the following limits for the allocation to remain the default option for another five years, until the of refunds: 30 September 2023. Alecta was also selected as one of the • 125 per cent – lowest limit for indexation of pensions active choices an ITP-affiliated pension saver can make for (pension supplement) traditional management (tick-box choice). • 135 per cent – lowest limit for increase in vested pension In connection with the commencement of the new agreeentitlements (adjustment of paid-up values) ment period, the offered product, Alecta Optimal Pension, • 150 per cent – lowest limit for premium reduction was improved. The already low fee was cut from 0,10 to 0,09 • 175 per cent – lowest limit for other refunds to per cent, and the annual cap on fees was lowered from SEK 900 policy holders to SEK 600. In addition, a better rule for minimising the variability of pension payments was introduced, as well as a At year-end 2018, the collective funding ratio for the Group’s strengthened guarantee during payment. defined benefit insurance products was 142 per cent (154). The collective funding capital was SEK 210,6 billion (255,8). Changed funding policy for ITP 2 Alecta’s solvency ratio at year-end 2018 was 161 per cent Alecta’s Board decided to change the funding policy for (174). defined benefit insurance products from 30 June 2018. The collective funding ratio in the new policy is allowed to vary Collective funding between 125 and 175 per cent, which is a broadening of the Solvency ratio, defined interval, 125–155 per cent, that has applied since 2006. The Development in 2018 ratio benefit insurance change will be made to further safeguard the high indexation Opening balance 174,2 % 153,8 % ambition in the plan, and to clarify the collective funding Return –3,4 % –2,8 % ratios that are required to enable refunds to the insureds and Cumulative return, TP –5,2 % –4,5 % to the companies. Changed discount rate –3,0 % –2,5 % Premiums 0,4 % 0,4 % Decision on refunds and premiums for 2019 Guaranteed pension paid 3,1 % 2,3 % Alecta’s Board of Directors has decided to increase defined Pension supplement paid –0,5 % –1,5 % benefit pensions by 2,32 per cent in January 2019, matching Adjustment of paid-up values –2,3 % –1,8 % the inflation rate over the past year. The decision covers penPremium reductions –1,5 % –1,5 % sions in payment as well as earned pension entitlements. Changed TP assumptions –1,7 % –1,3 % The Board of Directors also approved premium reduction Disability result 0,9 % 0,8 % for the defined benefit age and family pension of 10 per cent Other 0,4 % 0,3 % in relation to the currently applicable premium, and to retain Closing balance 161,4 % 141,7 % premium reductions of 65 per cent for disability and premium waiver insurance, 75 per cent for family cover and SEK 9 per Proposed appropriation of profits insured and month for TGL. The invoiced premium for occuThe Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose pational group life insurance (TGL) was reduced from SEK 29 to the Council of Administration that the Parent Company’s to SEK 26 per month and insured. loss for 2018 of SEK 27 609 411 436 be transferred to the surplus fund. Organisational changes The Board and CEO propose that the Council of AdminisCharlotte Rydin was recruited as Alecta’s General Counsel tration approve the resolution of the Board regarding refunds and Head of the Legal Department and she will assume her as set forth in the section Distribution of surplus in the position in the second quarter of 2019. Before joining Alecta, Administration Report on pages 50–51. Charlotte Rydin held a similar position at the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, and prior to that at the National Debt Office. Alecta’s current General Counsel, Magnus Landare, will remain at Alecta as the CEO’s senior advisor. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 51 Change in the law could enable Alecta to Significant events after the balance sheet convert itself into a mutual occupational date pension fund No significant events took place after the balance sheet date. On 4 July 2018, the Ministry of Finance finally presented a bill for a new regulation of occupational pension compaOutlook nies – memorandum (Fi2018/ 02661/FPM) “A new regulation Financial markets concerning occupational pension companies” – with a review 2018 was a weak year for stocks in most major markets. Stock period until 12 October 2018. The bill is very important for markets performed favourably until the fourth quarter, but Alecta because it addresses a completely new business regulaafter economic fears, reduced stimulus from central banks tion that could be of crucial significance for the rules that will and global political turmoil, investors moved more towards govern Alecta for many years to come. Will Alecta’s business risk aversion at the end of the year. Cyclical sectors such as regulation be based on Solvency II – the EU Directive that is commodities and manufacturing were particularly affected, essentially designed to suit all types of insurance operations but banks also fell more than the CPI. in the EU, or on IORP II – the EU Directive designed for occuIn the US, the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark rate pational pensions, i.e. exactly the type of business conducted four times in 2018 and the European Central Bank announced by Alecta. The bill has been under consideration since 2011 that its asset purchase programme would cease at the turn of and the long consideration period has created uncertainty the year. This initially affected the credit market, but as loan in both the insurance industry and political circles along the rates rose for companies, the stock market also needed to way. The legislative process – like so many other things – was revise its earnings forecasts. The combination of higher interstalled by the inability to form a new government after the est expense moving forward and the risk of slowing sales is election in September 2018. In December 2018, the interim proving overall difficult for the market to swallow. Although government announced that the plan was to submit a legislacentral banks raised their interest rates and the fact that intertive proposal in early 2019, propose a bill later in spring 2019 est rates were very low at the beginning of the year, long-term and to come into force by mid-year 2019 at the earliest. bond yields fell in both Germany and Sweden. Long-term rates have risen in the US, but because the Federal Reserve has Several key issues for Alecta have received a satisfactory raised its rates faster, the yield curve has still flattened. Historsolution in the bill. These include: ically, this has predicted an imminent recession and been yet • that an insurance company that currently provides only another indicator that investor risk aversion has increased. occupational pensions will be able to convert into an occuThe currency market was relatively stable in 2018. Howpational pension company, ever, most currencies fell against the USD and the GBP weak• that there is no time limit for when such a conversion can ened most. Despite an already record-low SEK at the begintake place, ning of the year, the SEK plunged another 5 per cent against • that Alecta can continue to provide all of the benefits that a competitor-weighted index. During the year, the SEK was it currently offers, including TGL, nearly as weak as it was in the height of the 2009 financial • that the transitional measures applied by Alecta since Solcrisis, when there was an obvious risk that at least one Swedvency II was introduced in the Insurance Business Act on ish bank would fall. On the other hand, the Riksbank has 1 January 2016 will be extended until the end of 2022. actively pursued a weaker SEK in order to achieve the overall target of 2 percent inflation. At the same time, there are a number of potential improveTo date, companies have not revised down their earnment areas that Alecta has drawn attention to in a compreings forecasts to any major degree, and with substantially hensive consultation response submitted jointly with AFA lower share prices, the calculation for owning shares today Försäkring, AMF and the Occupational Pension Fund Assolooks better than it did a year ago. If earnings are revised ciation, as a complement to the industry-wide response from down clearly, the market will be subject to renewed pressure. Insurance Sweden. The government will hopefully consider Liquidity in the system will obviously fall, because the central the views submitted by Alecta and produce a substantially banks are no longer providing financial stimulus to sustain revised bill. the economy. This has already affected the credit market and will certainly remain a theme for the remainder of 2019. After ten years with extremely generous central banks, this will become an increasingly overshadowing theme. 52 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report Alecta’s strategy for meeting these ever-present challenges in growth provides a higher lifelong benefit that the employer the financial market is to maintain very high safety margins pays for during the short time remaining until retirement. in its use of risk, and by only owning, and lending money to, The premium profile in ITP 1 is flatter. When ITP 2 is phased quality companies. Apart from faring relatively better in a out, employers will lose their younger employees’ “low” stock market downturn, these companies are able to exploit ITP 2 premiums. Instead, ITP 1 premiums are paid for youngturbulent situations to conclude corporate deals on favourer employees when their careers are taking off. At the same able terms. The same applies for Alecta. With good margins, time, employers will still have older employees with ITP 2, we can take a proactive approach in any recoil, and thus turn which typically means higher premiums. This creates a “cost volatile markets into a good business opportunity, laying the hump” which, although temporary, will take several decades foundation for good long-term returns for our customers. to reverse. In addition, ITP 2 premiums have risen in recent years due to increased longevity and lower market rates. The labour market and pensions market Pension effects of a longer life expectancy are addressed by The labour market is characterised by high demand for a defined contribution plan with higher provisions. Flex penlabour and lack of expertise in several parts of the business sions, for example, can be said to fulfil such a function. sector. Automation and digitalisation are increasing the There is now a trend that employers are seeking simple need for change, where work content is changing, some jobs and rational solutions for occupational pensions, rather than are disappearing and others are emerging. This means that creating special solutions. This is what makes the collectively skills development and transfer are becoming increasingly agreed occupational pension attractive. Among employees important for maintaining a high level of mobility. In Sweden, – especially private-sector employees – there is still a high labour market parties have a tradition of embarking on struclevel of confidence in the occupational pension, which they tural transformation in a constructive spirit, which is a sucmainly associate with the collective agreement, rather than cess factor for a continued competitive business sector. their own savings. And the attitude to collective agreements Both the State pension and occupational pension are is basically positive. based on the principle of lifetime income, with a long workThat the collectively agreed occupational pension is both ing life as an employee. However, rapid changes in jobs and perceived as attractive and generates growing premium volwork content mean that certain groups are excluded from the umes is increasing the interest of life insurance companies to labour market for long periods. In addition, relatively many be included in the collectively agreed platforms. While increasnewly arrived immigrants are entering the labour market ing demands for lower fees have certainly been a challenge when they are middle aged. That a growing group is unable to for the industry, the rapid premium growth has never-theless earn a pension throughout their entire working life – and will resulted in good earnings. Several companies are currently therefore have a low pension – raises questions about whether investing in order to cut costs and digitalise their customer the pension system needs to be changed, alternatively supplerelationships. In the very near future, more competitors will be mented with, for example, tax relief for private savings or able to offer fees that are very close to Alecta’s. Technological increased deductibility for employers. advances may also mean that new operators, who do not need In recent decades, real wages have shown a relatively to make heavy investment in old IT systems, can enter the marpositive trend, which has increased the significance of occuket for collectively agreed occupational pensions. pational pensions in relation to the State pension, especially among private-sector employees. However, there is growing criticism that the industry’s salary level is inhibiting wage growth in sectors driven by domestic demand. If the restraining function of the industry salary level was to lessen, wage growth could be higher, which would also lead to larger pension provisions. The premiums for occupational pensions are already growing today at a rapid pace. A contributing factor is the transition from ITP 2 to ITP 1, because of the different premium profiles of these plans. ITP 2 typically has a low premium for young employees and a high premium for older employees, since late wage ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 53 Product reporting be borne by each product. It is the growth in the defined conAlecta operates in accordance with principles of mutuality tribution product’s income and incremental costs which creand is required to ensure that income and expenses are alloates the real financial risk for the defined contribution plan cated equitably among its various products. Our ability to that is funding the deficit during the start-up phase. use economies of scale and spread shared expenses across all Incremental costs comprise product-specific system products enables us to add value for our customers. Alecta’s administration and system development, direct customer product areas are: service working hours, and costs for information and marketing activities. The incremental cost deficit was repaid in full Pension insurance during 2018. • Defined benefit pensions (primarily ITP) Shared expenses comprise costs for management and staff • Defined contribution pensions (mainly ITP but also in functions, shared systems and infrastructure. Alecta Optimal other collective bargaining areas) Pension’s total expenses, which comprise incremental costs, shared expenses and interest on the deficit, accounted for Risk insurance 0,09 per cent (0,09) of the capital in 2018. This corresponds • Disability and life insurance products (mainly ITP) to the fee level charged by Alecta for management of the • Occupational group life insurance (TGL). product as of 1 October 2018. The significant synergies that exist among Alecta’s prodAlecta monitors the financial performance of its various ucts also exist in the company’s investment management products very closely. The allocation of operating expenses activities. Alecta’s total investment management expense is among the various products is based on specific alloca0,02 per cent of assets under management, and is charged to tion principles and allocation keys. The allocation keys are all products. reviewed regularly to ensure as equitable an allocation as posThe dominant risk in pension products like Alecta Optimal sible. Pension is the financial risk exposure, i.e. the risk that the In addition to allocating income and expenses equitably product will not be able to bear the associated market risks. among its various products, Alecta also seeks to ensure that However, Alecta Optimal Pension has a higher solvency ratio risks are borne in an equitable manner. Alecta’s monitoring of than Alecta as a whole, mainly because the guarantees in solvency and risk is aimed at ensuring that each product has a Alecta Optimal Pension are lower than in the defined benefit capital that is adequate to cover these risks. pension products. At year-end 2018, Alecta Optimal Pension had a solvency ratio of 213 per cent (242), compared with 161 Product calculation for Alecta Optimal Pension per cent (174) for Alecta as a whole. Alecta Optimal Pension is a product that was introduced in connection with the ITP procurement in 2007. The pricing is based on the principle that fees charged should balance the total operating expenses over time. For a number of years after its launch, the expenses incurred for Alecta Optimal Pension exceeded fees charged. The deficit was funded through an interest-bearing capital contribution from Alecta’s defined benefit collective. For the period 1 July 2013–30 September 2018, the interest rate was set at Stibor (3-month) plus a fixed risk premium of 1,63 percentage points. The interest rate represents the four big Swedish banks’ average financing cost for five-year debentures for the same period. For the period 1 October 2018–30 September 2023, the interest rate is correspondingly set at Stibor (3-month) plus 0,88 percentage points. Alecta carefully distinguishes between operating expenses which have been incurred specifically as a result of the decision to invest in a defined contribution product, known as incremental costs, and the portion of the shared expenses to 54 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report Risk management and risk organisation Other risks To protect the interests of our customers and other stakeAll managers and employees are responsible for ensuring holders, we need to ensure that we maintain strict control good internal control in their respective areas of activity, of risks and of how risks are managed. Insurance risks need which entails a responsibility for managing and controlling to be managed in a way which ensures that Alecta is able to risks and their potential consequences. meet its insurance commitments. The financial risks taken Alecta’s management of the above risk categories is must generate the highest possible return without jeopardisdescribed in greater detail in Note 3 on pages 75–76. ing Alecta’s commitments to the insureds. Other risks, such as compliance, sustainability and information security risks, Risk management support functions need to be managed in a way that does not prevent Alecta • The independent central functions Compliance and Risk, from fulfilling its mission. Operational risks should be manand the Actuarial function make independent assessments aged in a way that strengthens internal control. of Alecta’s risks. They also perform a supporting role in It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure relation to management and other operational functions. that Alecta has a well balanced risk exposure and good inter• The Data Protection Officer assists in ensuring that Alecta nal control. The Board has delegated the task of monitorcomplies with the Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). ing Alecta’s investment activities to its Finance Committee • The Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing and the task of monitoring Alecta’s risks and management’s Officer is responsible for assessing the risk of Alecta’s prodhandling of these risks to its Audit Committee. The CEO is ucts and services being used for such purposes. responsible for the day-to-day management of Alecta’s opera• The Complaints Officer is tasked with assisting in the mantions, which includes ensuring a high level of internal control. agement of customer complaints. • R isk & Performance, an Investment Management function Insurance risks which operates independently from Alecta’s business activiThe Board of Directors defines actuarial guidelines, which ties, is responsible for daily control of financial risks. describe the methods and principles to be used for actuarial • The Internal Audit function independently audits and assumptions. The CEO determines the basis of actuarial calevaluates the company’s internal control on behalf of the culations, which contains more detailed calculation models as Board. The Internal Audit function, or Compliance, is also well as the assumptions to be applied in the actuarial calculathe recipient of whistleblower reports. tions. The Senior Actuary is responsible for the management and monitoring of Alecta’s insurance risks, which involves a Corporate governance responsibility continuously to adapt actuarial guidelines and Alecta applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code the basis of actuarial calculations by submitting proposals for even though it has no formal obligation to do so. However, changes. one minor deviation is that the interim report has not been reviewed by the company’s auditor. A corporate governance Financial risks report prepared in accordance with the Code is available on The Board of Directors adopts Alecta’s investment guidelines, pages 36–44. which regulate the portfolio structure, risk limits and other aspects. The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance Sustainability report with the guidelines. The Board’s Finance Committee adopts In accordance with Ch. 6 § 1 of the Swedish Insurance Compaguidelines for Alecta’s day-to-day investment activities, prenies Annual Accounts Act, Alecta has chosen to present its statpares matters related to the company’s investment manageutory sustainability report separately from its Administration ment activities that will be addressed by the Board and makes Report. Alecta’s sustainability report covers the whole Group decisions on investment-related matters which fall outside and describes Alecta’s standpoint on key sustainability issues, the remit of the CEO. The CEO is responsible for the investincluding sustainability risks and governance. The sustainment activities under the mandate set forth in the investment ability report has been submitted to the auditors together with guidelines and other resolutions of the Board and the Finance the annual report and comprises pages 5–34. For the auditor’s Committee. Subject to certain restrictions, this mandate has report on the review of the sustainability report and opinion on been sub-delegated to the Head of Investment Management, the mandatory sustainability report, refer to page 35. who is responsible for the management and monitoring of Alecta’s financial risks. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 55 Five-year summary GROUP, SEK MILLION 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Profit/loss Premiums written 48 184 38 514 33 557 34 377 36 122 Invoiced premiums 37 674 32 895 29 919 31 581 25 145 Guaranteed refunds 10 510 5 619 3 638 2 796 10 977 Claims incurred –21 238 –20 776 –21 907 –20 330 –20 195 Net return on capital –18 043 53 000 37 529 38 965 75 789 Profit before tax –26 118 57 863 12 320 52 916 18 876 Net profit for the year –26 839 57 255 13 428 52 234 18 216 Financial position Assets under management 1) 828 572 834 416 774 059 730 511 682 355 – of which pension products 791 297 794 982 735 430 692 150 645 726 Technical provisions 513 149 478 814 466 273 427 877 427 618 Collective funding capital 210 613 255 779 226 484 228 404 188 275 Capital base 2) 308 585 349 663 302 376 294 553 248 935 Required solvency margin 2) 21 536 20 097 19 231 17 668 17 658 Key performance indicators Total return for the Group, per cent 3) –2,2 6,7 5,2 5,9 13 – of which shares –6,9 12,6 7,2 9 17, – of which debt securities 0,3 1,0 3,1 1,2 9,4 – of which real estate 6,6 12,1 9,2 18,4 12,3 Total return table for investments, defined contribution insurance (Alecta Optimal Pension), per cent 4) –3,5 9,1 5,8 7,9 14,9 Total return, defined benefit insurance, per cent 4) –2,0 6,5 5,1 5,8 12,8 Direct return for the Group, per cent 2,2 2,4 2,6 2,7 3,5 Management expense ratio 5) 0,08 0,09 0,09 0,10 0,11 – of which pension products excluding selection centre costs 0,05 0,06 0,06 0,06 0,07 Investment management expense ratio 6) 0,02 0,02 0,02 0,03 0,03 Collective funding ratio, defined benefit insurance, per cent 142 154 149 153 143 Collective funding ratio, defined contribution insurance, per cent 7) 100 100 100 100 100 Solvency ratio, per cent 161 174 166 171 159 1)  Defined as equity, provisions for life insurance and claims outstanding. 2) Refers to the Parent Company. 3)  Refers to the Group (defined benefit and defined contribution retirement pensions and risk insurance). Calculated for all years in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. 4)  Calculated for all years in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. 5)  Calculated as operating expenses and claims settlement expenses divided by average assets under management. 6) Calculated as operating expenses for investment management divided by average assets under management. 7) Any surplus/deficit is allocated to the insureds on a monthly basis. The collective funding ratio is therefore nearly always 100 per cent. Alecta has conducted a review of which items and key performance indicators are deemed to be relevant to report in the five-year summary. All indicators and most of the items specified in the general recommendations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2015:12) are presented. In addition, some additional items and indicators not included in the general recommendations are presented. As Alecta does not apply Solvency II but the transitional provisions for occupational pension funds, Solvency II-related data is not presented in the five-year summary. 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Administration Report Alternative income statement Group Administration result It can be difficult to obtain an understanding of how the The administration result was SEK 14 million (31) and repprofit of a life insurance company was achieved on the basis resents the difference between Alecta’s income and operatof the income statement. The main reason for this is that the ing expenses (excluding investment management expenses, changes made to the technical provisions (TP) during the which are presented in the financial result). TPs include a year are recognised on a net basis in the income statement provision for future operating expenses for the company’s items Change in the provision for life insurance and Change current insurance portfolio. The provision for operating in the provision for claims outstanding. As these figures are expenses is reversed on an ongoing basis and constitutes, presented on a net basis, it is not possible to deduce, solely on together with operating expenses charged to premiums writthe basis of the income statement, the company’s mortality ten, Alecta’s income (released operating expenses). results or its total financial results for assets and liabilities. Other income, which mainly comprises administrative The alternative income statement is intended to give readfees from PRI Pensionsgaranti, is presented separately in the ers a better understanding of the factors behind the reported alternative income statement. In Note 8 Operating expenses, results, and has been prepared by allocating the change in other income has instead been deducted from operating TPs and other items from the income statement among four expenses. sub-results: administration result, risk result, financial result and tax result. For each sub-result, income and expenses are ADMINISTRATION RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2018 2017 matched. Income 783 784 The consolidated loss was SEK –26,8 billion (profit: 57,3). of which released operating expenses 729 732 of which other income 54 52 ALTERNATIVE INCOME STATEMENT Expenses –769 –753 (SEK MILLION) 2018 2017 Total administration result 14 31 Administration result 14 31 Risk result –2 154 2 728 Risk result Financial result –24 274 54 834 The risk result was SEK –2,2 billion (2,7) and shows how Tax result –425 –338 closely Alecta’s assumptions on mortality, morbidity and use Net profit/loss for the year –26 839 57 255 of insurance options agree with actual outcomes. The risk result also includes changes in the assumptions for calculating TP, and a description of changes in 2018 is included in the Technical provisions section in the Administration Report. Insurance options refer to the insured’s potential right to transfer the value of his or her insurance, decide when payments should begin or end, and discontinue regular premium payments. RISK RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2018 2017 Annual mortality result –84 –48 Annual morbidity result 2 535 2 204 Insurance options 48 172 Changes in methods and assumptions used in calculating TPs –4 716 853 Other 63 –453 Total risk result –2 154 2 728 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 57 Financial result The financial result was SEK –24,3 billion (54,8). The financial result is largely dependent on the performance of financial markets, and normally accounts for most of the net profit for the year. A longer description of Alecta’s return on capital is given in the Return on capital section of the Administration Report. The financial result is also affected by the cumulative return on TPs, changes to the discount rate, and by actual operating expenses in investment management. Finally, the financial result is affected by the profit arising when the discount rate used to value the insurance obligation exceeds the contractual premium interest rate. This profit is recognised in the item Other profit sources and is essential to Alecta’s ability to distribute substantial refunds to the insureds and the policy holders over the long term. The decrease compared with the preceding year is mainly due to negative returns and lower market rates. Refer to the Technical provisions section in the Administration Report. FINANCIAL RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2018 2017 Result, return on capital –18 604 52 982 of which investment management expenses –163 –180 Released operating expenses for investment management 152 147 Cumulative return on TPs –14 906 –14 250 Other profit sources 16 978 13 453 Changes in TPs as a result of changed market interest rates –8 434 2 502 Total financial result –24 274 54 834 Tax result The tax result was SEK –0,4 billion (–0,3). TPs include a provision for future yield tax. The result for yield tax is thus the income which arises on an ongoing basis as provisions for tax are reversed, less the actual cost. Income tax is described in the Tax section of the Administration Report. TAX RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2018 2017 Result, yield tax 296 270 Income tax –721 –608 Total tax result –425 –338 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Financial statements Contents Reports Group Income Statement 60 Statement of Comprehensive Income 60 Balance Sheet 61 Statement of Changes in Equity 63 Cash Flow Statement 64 Parent Company Income Statement 65 Statement of Comprehensive Income 65 Performance Analysis 66 Balance Sheet 67 Statement of Changes in Equity 69 Cash Flow Statement 70 Note Page Note Page 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles 71 27 Other loans 95 2 Significant estimates and judgements 74 28 Derivatives 95 3 Risks and risk management 75 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements 97 4 Premiums written 77 30  Receivables related to direct insurance operations 97 5 Return on capital, income 77 31  Other receivables 97 6 Unrealised gains on investment assets 77 32  Accrued interest and rental income 97 7 Claims paid 77 33  Equity (Group) 98 8 Operating expenses 78 34  Surplus fund (Parent Company) 100 9 Capital return, expenses 78 35 Proposed appropriation of profits 100 10 Unrealised losses on investment assets 79 36  Provision for life insurance 101 11 Yield tax 79 37  Provision for claims outstanding 102 12 Tax 79 38  Provision for pensions and similar obligations 102 13 Intangible assets 81 39 Other provisions 103 14 Property, plant and equipment 81 40  Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 103 15 Land and buildings 82 41  Other liabilities 103 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 84 42  Other accrued expenses and deferred income 103 17 Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 85 43 Assets and comparable collateral pledged for own liabilities 18 Investments in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 86 and for obligations reported as provisions 104 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 87 44  Other pledged assets and comparable collateral 104 20 Net profit by class of financial assets and liabilities 89 45 Transfer of financial assets 104 21 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities 89 46  Contingent liabilities 104 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments 47  Reconciliation of total return table to financial statements 105 measured at fair value 90 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration 105 23 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value 49 Disclosure of auditors’ fees 109 based on Level 3 92 50 Leasing 109 24 Shares and participations 94 51 Related party disclosures 109 25 Bonds and other debt securities 94 52 Significant events after the balance sheet date 110 26 Loans secured by real estate 95 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 59 Income Statement Group SEK MILLION NOTE 2018 2017 Premiums written 4 48 184 38 514 Invoiced premiums 37 674 32 895 Guaranteed refunds 10 510 5 619 Net return on capital –18 043 53 000 Return on capital, income 5 29 275 33 017 Unrealised gains on investment assets 6 1 464 30 156 Capital return, expenses 9 –1 026 –5 735 Unrealised losses on investment assets 10 –47 756 –4 438 Claims incurred –21 237 –20 776 Claims paid 7 –21 009 –20 262 Change in provision for claims outstanding –228 –514 Change in other technical provisions –34 107 –12 026 Provision for life insurance –34 107 –12 026 Operating expenses 8 –575 –559 Depreciation of owner-occupied properties 15 –22 –19 Yield tax 11 –318 –271 Total operating profit/loss –26 118 57 863 Profit/loss before tax –26 118 57 863 Income tax 12 –721 –608 NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR –26 839 57 255 Statement of Comprehensive Income Group SEK MILLION 2018 2017 Net profit/loss for the year –26 839 57 255 Items that can subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Foreign exchange difference that can subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 150 –179 Accumulated foreign exchange differences reclassified to profit or loss – –1 179 Other comprehensive income 150 –1 358 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR –26 689 55 897 Comprehensive income for the year is wholly attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. 60 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Balance Sheet Group SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2018 31 DEC 2017 ASSETS Intangible assets 13 233 259 Property, plant and equipment 14 20 14 Deferred tax 12 5 689 5 509 Investment assets Land and buildings Investment properties 15 30 901 28 216 Owner-occupied properties 15 933 878 Investments in jointly controlled entities Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19, 22, 23 23 870 15 359 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19 1 857 1 591 Other financial investment assets Shares and participations 19, 22, 23, 24 352 238 375 390 Bonds and other debt securities 19, 22, 23, 25, 43, 44 405 487 399 975 Loans secured by real estate 19, 22, 26 2 777 – Other loans 19, 22, 23, 27 3 133 2 097 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 29 5 841 6 221 827 037 829 727 Receivables Receivables related to direct insurance operations 19, 30 1 726 1 747 Current tax 874 970 Other receivables 19, 31 1 046 1 738 3 646 4 455 Cash and bank balances 19, 44 3 392 2 731 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest and rental income 19, 32 8 031 8 173 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 63 61 8 094 8 234 TOTAL ASSETS 848 111 850 929 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 61 Balance Sheet, cont. Group SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2018 31 DEC 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Translation reserve 33 279 129 Discretionary participation features reserve 33 94 720 89 388 Special indexation funds 33 10 162 10 298 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 33 210 262 255 787 Total equity 315 423 355 602 LIABILITIES Provision for life insurance 36 495 679 461 572 Claims outstanding 37 17 470 17 242 Pensions and similar commitments 38 2 4 Other provisions 39 9 29 Current tax 0 35 Deferred tax 12 1 639 1 377 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 19, 40 732 706 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 28 9 139 8 302 Other liabilities 19, 41 2 999 1 903 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 42 5 019 4 157 Total liabilities 532 688 495 327 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 848 111 850 929 62 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Statement of Changes in Equity Group Discretionary Special Retained earnings Translation participation indexation including net profit/ SEK MILLION reserve 1) features reserve 1, 2) funds 1) loss for the year 1) Total OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2017 1 487 70 855 10 445 224 999 307 786 Net profit for the year 57 255 57 255 Other comprehensive income –1 358 –1 358 Comprehensive income for the year –1 358 57 255 55 897 Allocated refunds 26 268 –26 268 – Guaranteed refunds –7 671 –220 –7 891 Collective risk premium 3) –112 –112 Other changes –64 –35 21 –78 Closing equity at 31 December 2017 129 89 388 10 298 255 787 355 602 OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2018 129 89 388 10 298 255 787 355 602 Net profit/loss for the year –26 839 –26 839 Other comprehensive income 150 150 Comprehensive income for the year 150 –26 839 –26 689 Allocated refunds 16 914 –16 914 – Guaranteed refunds –11 588 – 1 468 –13 056 Collective risk premium –116 –116 Other changes 6 –20 –304 –318 Closing equity at 31 December 2018 279 94 720 10 162 210 262 315 423 1)  See Note 33. 2) Discretionary participation features refer to allocated refunds. See Note 33. 3) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 63 Cash Flow Statement Group SEK MILLION 2018 2017 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit/loss for the year before tax and appropriations –26 118 57 863 Interest received 5 138 4 994 Interest paid 583 1 156 Dividends received 11 969 12 180 Adjustment for non-cash items 1) 2) 43 185 –44 821 Tax paid –894 –1 917 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 33 863 29 455 Change in investment assets –32 868 –26 498 Change in other operating assets 729 2 292 Change in other operating liabilities 1 923 –2 864 Cash flow from operating activities 3 647 2 385 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment –11 –8 Cash flow from investing activities –11 –8 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Pension supplements/Supplementary amounts –2 545 –2 273 Payment of indexation funds –117 –112 Other changes 2) –321 –77 Cash flow from financing activities –2 983 –2 462 Cash flow for the year 653 –85 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2 731 2 856 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 8 –40 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 3 392 2 731 1) Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment, Notes 13, 14, 15 54 51 Yield tax, Note 11 318 271 Foreign exchange gains, Note 5 –4,074 – Foreign exchange loss, Note 9 – 4 685 Capital gains, Note 5 –6 518 –13 088 Capital losses, Note 9 1 – Unrealised gains, Note 6 –1 464 –30 156 Unrealised losses, Note 10 47 756 4 438 Interest income, Note 5 –4 996 –6 043 Interest expenses, Note 9 294 291 Dividends, Note 5 –11 988 –12 170 Adjustment of paid-up values, Note 4 –6 308 –1 487 Premium reductions, Note 4 –4 202 –4 131 Change in provision for life insurance, Note 36 34 107 12 026 Change in provision for claims outstanding, Note 37 229 514 Other 2) –24 –22 43 185 –44 821 2) Adjustments compared with the Annual Report 2017 through reclassifications in operating activities. 64 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Income Statement Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 2018 2017 TECHNICAL ACCOUNT, LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS Premiums written 4 48 184 38 514 Invoiced premiums 37 674 32 895 Guaranteed refunds 10 510 5 619 Return on capital, income 5 29 390 34 629 Unrealised gains on investment assets 6 375 30 744 Claims incurred –21 238 –20 777 Claims paid 7 –21 009 –20 262 Change in provision for claims outstanding –229 –515 Change in other technical provisions –34 107 –12 026 Provision for life insurance –34 107 –12 026 Operating expenses 8 –575 –559 Capital return, expenses 9 –1 099 –11 171 Unrealised losses on investment assets 10 –47 756 –3 385 Life insurance, balance on the technical account –26 826 55 969 NON-TECHNICAL ACCOUNT Life insurance, balance on the technical account –26 826 55 969 Profit/loss before appropriations and tax –26 826 55 969 Appropriations – – Profit/loss before tax –26 826 55 969 Tax on profit/loss for the year 12 –783 –628 NET PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR –27 609 55 341 Statement of Comprehensive Income Parent Company SEK MILLION 2018 2017 Net profit/loss for the year –27 609 55 341 Other comprehensive income – – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR –27 609 55 341 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 65 Performance Analysis Parent Company 2018 DIRECT INSURANCE OF SWEDISH RISKS Other Occupational pension insurance life insurance Occupational Defined disability Group life and Defined contribution insurance and occupational benefit traditional waiver of premium group life SEK MILLION Total insurance insurance insurance insurance Premiums written 48 184 25 915 15 690 6 363 216 Return on capital, income 29 390 22 000 6 257 1 114 19 Unrealised gains on investment assets 375 281 80 14 0 Claims incurred –21 238 –16 379 –509 –4 198 –151 Claims paid –21 009 –16 377 –509 –3 966 –156 Change in provision for claims outstanding –229 –1 – –233 5 Change in other technical provisions –34 107 –23 967 –10 140 – – Provision for life insurance –34 107 –23 967 –10 140 – – Operating expenses –575 –322 –68 –172 –14 Capital return, expenses –1 099 –837 –220 –43 –1 Unrealised losses on investment assets –47 756 –35 749 –10 166 –1 811 –30 Life insurance, balance on the technical account –26 826 –29 057 924 1 269 38 Technical provisions Provision for life insurance 495 679 447 255 48 423 – – Claims outstanding 17 470 21 – 17 409 41 Total technical provisions 513 149 447 277 48 423 17 409 41 Surplus fund 336 427 266 788 53 091 16 114 435 Total operating expenses, excluding property management expenses Operating expenses (administrative expenses in the insurance business) –575 –322 –68 –172 –14 Claims management expenses (included in Claims paid) –140 –80 –18 –39 –2 Investment management expenses (included in Return on capital, expenses) –162 –134 –20 –7 0 Total operating expenses, excluding property management expenses –877 –536 –107 –219 –16 66 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Balance Sheet Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2018 31 DEC 2017 ASSETS Intangible assets Intangible assets 13 233 259 233 259 Investment assets Land and buildings 15 12 203 11 282 Investments in Group companies and jointly controlled entities Shares and participations in Group companies 16 4 902 3 909 Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 17, 19 9 066 9 272 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19, 22, 23 22 597 13 900 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19 1 857 1 591 Other financial investment assets Shares and participations 19, 22, 23, 24 351 727 374 944 Bonds and other debt securities 19, 22, 23, 25, 44, 45 405 487 399 975 Loans secured by real estate 19, 22, 26 2 777 – Other loans 19, 22, 23, 27 3 133 2 097 Derivatives 19, 22, 28, 29 5 841 6 221 819 590 823 191 Receivables Receivables related to direct insurance operations 19, 30 1 726 1 747 Other receivables 19, 31 8 434 8 959 10 160 10 706 Other assets Tangible assets 14 14 9 Cash and bank balances 19, 44 2 970 2 644 2 984 2 653 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest and rental income 19, 32 8 031 8 173 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 34 36 8 065 8 209 TOTAL ASSETS 841 032 845 018 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 67 Balance Sheet, cont. Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 31 DEC 2018 31 DEC 2017 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Surplus fund 34 336 427 294 580 Net profit for the year –27 609 55 341 308 818 349 921 Technical provisions Provision for life insurance 36 495 679 461 572 Claims outstanding 37 17 470 17 242 513 149 478 814 Other provisions Pensions and similar commitments 38 2 4 Taxes 0 35 Other provisions 39 3 23 5 62 Liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 19, 40 732 706 Derivatives 19, 22, 27, 28 9 139 8 302 Other liabilities 19, 41 4 440 3 311 14 311 12 319 Accrued expenses and deferred income Other accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 42 4 749 3 902 4 749 3 902 TOTAL EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES 841 032 845 018 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Statement of Changes in Equity Parent Company FUNDING RESERVE 1) Discretionary Collective participation Other Net profit/loss SEK MILLION consolidation features reserve 2) reserves for the year Total OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2017 205 452 70 855 10 446 15 908 302 661 Net profit for the year 55 341 55 341 Other comprehensive income – Comprehensive income for the year 55 341 55 341 Appropriation of profits from previous years 15 908 –15 908 – Allocated refunds –26 268 26 268 – Guaranteed refunds –220 –7 671 –7 891 Collective risk premium 3) –112 –112 Other changes 20 –63 –35 –78 Closing equity at 31 December 2017 194 892 89 389 10 299 55 341 349 921 Opening equity at 1 January 2018 194 892 89 389 10 299 55 341 349 921 Net profit/loss for the year –27 609 –27 609 Other comprehensive income – Comprehensive income for the year –27 609 –27 609 Appropriation of profits from previous years 55 341 –55 341 – Allocated refunds –16 914 16 914 – Guaranteed refunds –1 468 –11 588 –13 056 Collective risk premium 3) –116 –116 Other changes –306 5 –21 –322 Closing equity at 31 December 2018 231 545 94 720 10 162 –27 609 308 818 1)  See Note 34. 2)  Discretionary participation features refer to allocated refunds. See Note 34. 3) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 69 Cash Flow Statement Parent Company SEK MILLION 2018 2017 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit/loss for the year before tax and appropriations –26 826 55 969 Interest received 5 250 5 123 Interest paid 583 1 156 Dividends received 11 719 17 877 Adjustment for non-cash items 1) 2) 43 154 –43 650 Tax paid –870 –1 893 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 33 010 34 582 Change in investment assets 2) –32 251 –31 946 Change in other operating assets 616 2 171 Change in other operating liabilities 1 942 –2 139 Cash flow from operating activities 3 317 2 668 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment –8 –6 Cash flow from investing activities –8 –6 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Pension supplements/Supplementary amounts –2 545 –2 273 Payment of indexation funds –117 –112 Other changes 2) –321 –77 Cash flow from financing activities –2 983 –2 462 Cash flow for the year 326 200 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2 644 2 444 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 2 970 2 644 1) Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment, Notes 13, 14 29 29 Foreign exchange gains, Note 5 –4 074 – Foreign exchange loss, Note 9 – 5 863 Capital gains, Note 5 –6 518 –9 872 Capital losses, Note 9 1 – Unrealised gains, Note 6 –375 –30 744 Unrealised losses, Note 10 47 756 3 385 Impairment of shares in Group companies, Note 9 371 4 599 Reversal of impairment of shares in Group companies, Note 5 –393 – Interest income, Note 5 –5 108 –6 172 Interest expenses, Note 9 294 291 Dividends, Note 5 –12 654 –17 947 Adjustment of paid-up values, Note 4 –6 308 –1 487 Premium reductions, Note 4 –4 202 –4 131 Change in provision for life insurance, Note 36 34 107 12 026 Change in provision for claims outstanding, Note 37 229 514 Other 2) –1 –4 43 154 –43 647 2) Adjustments compared with the Annual Report 2017 through reclassifications in operating activities. 70 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Notes NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles These annual financial statements for Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, tion of assets and assumption of liabilities of entities. Under this method, an Corporate Identity Number 502014-6865, with registered office in Stockholm, acquisition of participations in an entity is regarded as a transaction in which cover the financial year 2018. The company’s postal address is SE-103 73 the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and contingent assets Stockholm. The visiting address of the head office is Regeringsgatan 107. and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is The annual report was approved for publication by the Board of Directors determined through a purchase price allocation (PPA) in conjunction with on 14 March 2019 and will be presented to the Council of Administration for the acquisition. In the PPA the cost of the participations or assets and liabiliadoption on 11 April 2019. ties, and the fair value of acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities Amounts indicated in the Notes refer to millions of Swedish kronor and contingent liabilities are determined. (SEK million) unless otherwise indicated. Figures in parentheses refer to the When an entity is acquired an assessment is made of whether the acquisiprevious year. tion should be classified as a business or an asset. If a property is acquired through the acquisition of a company, the acquisition is treated as if the Presentation property had been purchased directly. This type of company normally has no General accounting principles and new accounting rules are described in employees and no organisation, or any operations other than those directly Note 1 below. Other accounting principles are described in the relevant Note linked to the holding of the property. The cost comprises the fair value of in order to enhance the reader’s understanding of each area of accounting. the assets and any associated loans. Deferred tax is not recognised as a liability on premiums attributable to the acquisition. Any deductions related Basis of preparation of financial statements to deferred tax received in addition to reported tax in the acquired entity are Laws and regulations applying to the Group recognised as a reduction of the fair value of the acquired property, both on The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance acquisition and in the subsequent financial statements. with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC If the acquired assets and assumed liabilities belong to an entity which interpretations, as adopted by the EU. In preparing the financial statements, also engaged in business activities through employees, Alecta will define the the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act, the Regulations and acquisition as a business combination. Business combinations are accounted General Guidelines on the Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS for in accordance with IFRS 3, which means, for example, that acquisition 2015:12) of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and Recommendacosts are expensed directly and that deferred tax is recognised as the differtion RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Corporate Groups of the ence between the market value of the acquired assets and their tax residual Swedish Financial Reporting Board have also been applied. value. For each acquisition, Alecta determines whether the acquisition should be Consolidated financial statements classified as a business or an asset. As at 31 December 2018, all of Alecta’s The consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company, Alecta acquisitions have been classified as asset acquisitions. Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and those subsidiaries in which the Parent Company directly or indirectly owns more than half of the voting rights for Translation of foreign currency all shares and participations or otherwise has control. Control means that The Parent Company’s functional currency is the Swedish krona and the Alecta has the ability to govern the company, is exposed to or has the right financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor. to returns that may vary and is able to govern those activities of the company The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing which affect the returns. Disclosures on shares and participations in Group rates at the balance sheet date while income statements of foreign subsidiarcompanies are provided in Note 16. Profits or losses from the operations ies are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Translation differof subsidiaries that were acquired or sold during the year are included in ences arising on translation are recognised in Other comprehensive income the consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date until the and are transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. date when the Parent Company ceases to have control. All intercompany Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated transactions, balance sheet items, income and expenses are fully eliminated into Swedish kronor at the closing rates at the balance sheet date. Realised on consolidation. Untaxed reserves in legal entities are eliminated in the conand unrealised changes in value resulting from changes in exchange rates solidated financial statements and allocated to equity and deferred tax. are recognised on a net basis in the income statement in Return on capital, income or Return on capital, expenses. Basis of measurement The basis of measurement applied in preparing the consolidated financial Insurance contracts statements is historical cost, except for derivatives, and assets and liabilities As an insurer, Alecta provides a range of insurance products. Alecta distinclassified to the category financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value guishes between pension products and disability and life insurance products. through profit or loss. The breakdown by category is described in Note 19. Disability and life insurance products comprise risk insurance policies, for Technical provisions are calculated at present value and these calculations which the premium is determined for periods of one year at a time. These are based on prudent actuarial assumptions on interest rates, mortality, insurance policies do not include a savings component. For pension products, morbidity, operating expenses and other variables. the pension entitlement is earned during the premium payment period. For The preparation of financial statements in compliance with IFRS requires accounting and actuarial purposes, all of Alecta’s products are classified as the use of critical accounting estimates. Management is also required to insurance contracts. The defining feature of an insurance contract is the make certain judgements in applying the Group’s accounting principles. Areas existence of a significant insurance risk of some kind. which involve a high degree of judgement, are complex or where assumptions and estimates have a material impact on the consolidated financial Allocation of surplus and deficit funds statements are described in Note 2. As regards Alecta Optimal Pension, which is a defined contribution product, surpluses and deficits are allocated to the insureds on a monthly basis. An Asset acquisitions and business combinations allocated surplus is disbursed in the form of a supplement to the guaranteed In preparing the financial statements, the purchase method has been applied pension (“supplementary amount”). The surplus is not guaranteed but is for the acquisition of participations in entities as well as for the direct acquisipart of Alecta’s risk capital. The size of the surplus or deficit depends on ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 71 NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. changes in the pension capital, which in turn reflects actual outcomes for IFRS 4 exceeds the threshold of 90 per cent of the company’s total liabilities returns, tax, mortality and operating expenses in the relevant defined confor the financial year ending on 31 December 2015. Accordingly, Alecta will tribution insurance collective. The Company allocates surpluses and deficits only provide those disclosures related to effects of IFRS 9 that are required by calculating the refund rate on a monthly basis in arrears, which means under IFRS 4 to facilitate comparison with companies that apply IFRS 9. Refer that the collective funding ratio normally remains close to 100 per cent. The to Note 3 Risks and risk management, Note 16 Shares and participations in surplus is recognised in equity in the balance sheet. Group companies, Note 18 Investments in jointly controlled entities (joint A surplus or deficit arising in other products is transferred to Alecta’s ventures) and Note 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities. funding reserve. The primary function of the funding reserve is to safeguard Alecta’s ability to meet its insurance commitments. In the second hand, it is Classification and measurement used for distribution of surpluses to policy holders and insureds. A surplus Under IFRS 9, all recognised financial assets covered by IAS 39 Financial Instruthat is distributed to policy holders and the insureds can take the form of a ments should be measured at either amortised cost or fair value through pension supplement for pensions in payment, an increase in earned pension other comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. The entitlements, a reduction of insurance premiums, cash payments and allocaclassification into the three categories should be based on the company’s tions to policy holders in the form of client company funds. Pension supplebusiness model for the various holdings and the characteristics of the cash ments, premium reductions and client company funds become guaranteed flows generated by the assets. in conjunction with disbursement, deposit and use, respectively, and in conAlecta’s assessment is that the new standard will not result in any material nection therewith capital is transferred from the funding reserve. An increase change in the classification and measurement of Alecta’s financial assets in vested pension entitlements becomes guaranteed in conjunction with its and liabilities. All financial instruments with the exception of loans to joint allocation to the insurance policies and results in a technical provision. ventures and loans secured by real estate are currently measured in the fair value through profit or loss category. The loans are measured at amortised Changes in accounting principles cost and account for a small portion of Alecta’s investment assets. New and changed IASB accounting standards applied from 1 January 2018: Impairment (Recognition of expected credit losses) Under IFRS 9, provisions for credit losses should be recognised for loans and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers receivables which are measured at amortised cost or fair value through other IFRS 15 is an integrated model for recognition of revenue from customer comprehensive income. The provisions should be based on expected future contracts that is not covered by other standards. The basis for the standard credit losses and probability-weighted outcomes. Under the model, twelveis a contract between two parties for the sale of a good or service. The month expected credit losses should be recognised on the initial recognition first step is to identify a contract with a customer, which creates an asset of the instrument (Stage 1). If the credit risk of the instrument increases (rights, a promise of payment) and a liability (obligation, a promise to significantly, the instrument is moved to Stage 2, where the provision must transfer goods/services) for the seller. Under the model, revenue should be cover the credit losses which are expected to be incurred during the remainrecognised when an obligation to deliver goods or services to the customer ing term of the instrument. is satisfied. The standard does not cover Alecta’s core operations, since Alecta’s assessment in respect of the impairment part of the standard, insurance operations are regulated by IFRS 4 and income from financial which covers Alecta’s loans and rent receivables, is that it will not have a mainstruments by IAS 39. terial impact on Alecta’s financial statements. The loans account for a small Alecta has made the assessment that only some income in property portion of Alecta’s financial instruments, and historically no credit losses management is covered by the standard. Income for which the tenant is have been incurred. With regard to rent receivables, too, the transition to re-invoiced for property improvements and the sale of property and/or IFRS 9 and the introduction of a model for expected rental losses will have no companies is considered covered by this standard. All re-invoicing for propmaterial impact on Alecta’s financial statements compared with the model erty improvements in 2018 was of a non-recurring nature and fully debited for provisions for rental losses that is applied today. directly. Income from property improvements, which amounted to SEK 17,2 million, is recognised in the Income from land and buildings item and defined Hedge accounting in Note 5, Return on capital, income. No properties or companies were sold As Alecta does not apply hedge accounting, this part of the standard will not in 2018. have any impact on the financial statements. The introduction of IFRS 15 did not have any impact on the Group’s balance sheets or income statements. IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 will replace IAS 17 Leases and enter into force on 1 January 2019. For New and changed IASB accounting standards to be applied from the lessee, IFRS 16 means that the classification of leases as either operating 1 January 2019 or later: or finance leases will be eliminated and replaced by a model in which the assets Only those standards that are expected to have an impact on Alecta are and liabilities for all leases where the lease term is longer than 12 months or described. the leased asset does not have a low value must be recognised in the balance sheet. The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated and an interest IFRS 9 Financial Instruments expense is recognised for the lease liability. For lessors, the classification of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments includes new bases for the classification and leases as either operating lease or finance leases will continue and means that measurement of financial instruments, a forward-looking impairment model their recognition will remain essentially unchanged. and simplified criteria for hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective from 1 January In the analysis, Alecta has identified the following leases: Leasehold agree2018. ments for which the lease payments amounted to SEK 1,3 million in 2018, Alecta conducts insurance-related activities and believes it therefore and car leases for which the lease payments amounted to SEK 4,3 million in qualifies for the temporary exemption and will postpone the application of 2018. In addition to the above, the Group has identified a lease pertaining to IFRS 9 until 1 January 2022. Alecta’s assessment that its activities are mainly a rental contract in the US, which Alecta has terminated but will remain valid insurance-related is based on the definition in IFRS 4 of the fact that the poruntil September 2020, and that Alecta will continue to sub-let for the remaintion of insurance-related liabilities relating to insurance contracts covered by ing lease term. The net cost is an estimated SEK 0,4 million for 2019. 72 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. Alecta’s assessment is that the standard will not have any material impact on Other financial investment assets the financial statements in monetary terms. Alecta identifies and classifies its financial investment assets as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Derivatives IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (Not adopted by the EU) are also accounted for in the financial assets at fair value through profit or On 18 May 2017, the IFRS 17 standard for insurance contracts was published. loss category, as they are considered, by definition, to be held for trade. The standard affects all companies with insurance contracts that report in This classification is based on the fact that Alecta manages and measures all accordance with IFRS. The standard will become effective on 1 January 2022 investment assets at fair value. One exception is a small loan portfolio, which if it is approved by the EU. has been recognised at amortised cost. The measurement of financial assets IFRS 17 brings extensive changes in relation to the measurement of insurtraded in an active market is based on observable market data. The fair values ance contracts, the presentation of line items in the income statement and of financial assets that are not traded in an active market are determined revenue recognition. In addition, the profit margins of insurance contracts with the help of established valuation techniques. Note 22 provides fair value must be accrued over the terms of the contracts. Those parts of the standard disclosures for each class of financial instrument in a table format, based on a to be applied by unlisted insurance companies in Sweden is not clear. The hierarchy with three levels of fair value. Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority is investigating whether and how IFRS 17 should be implemented in legal entities and consolidated accounts in Cash and cash equivalents Sweden. Cash and cash equivalents constitute a financial asset and are classified in the A project is taking place in Alecta to analyse the effects of adopting the loans and receivables category. Cash and cash equivalents are termed cash standard. The assessment is that the adoption of IFRS 17 will have a major and bank balances in the Group as well as the Parent Company. impact on Alecta’s financial statements. Technical provisions Return on capital Technical provisions comprise the capital value of the Company’s guaranteed Return on capital includes net operating income from investment properties, commitments for insurance contracts in force and consist of the provision interest income, interest expenses, dividends on shares and participations, for life insurance and the provision for claims outstanding. These provisions foreign exchange gains and losses, capital gains and losses, and unrealised are calculated according to generally accepted actuarial principles. This changes in value on investment assets less operating expenses for investment means that the provisions are measured at present value and that the calculamanagement. Capital gains and losses are recognised on a net basis for each tions are based on prudent actuarial assumptions on interest rates, mortality, asset class in Return on capital, income and Return on capital, expenses, morbidity, operating expenses and other variables. Technical provisions also respectively. Unrealised gains and losses are also recognised on a net basis include pension commitments to Alecta’s employees in accordance with the for each asset class. Unrealised gains and losses comprise the change for FTP plan. the year in the difference between cost and fair value. When an asset is sold the accumulated unrealised changes in value are reversed as unrealised Pensions in the Alecta Group gain or loss. Changes in value for the year, both realised and unrealised, are All pension plans in the Group are accounted for as defined contribution recognised through profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Return on plans. This means that contributions are recognised as an expense in the capital is presented in Notes 5, 6, 9 and 10. period in which the benefits are earned, which in most cases is the same as when the contribution is paid. Investment assets General information Cash flows Investment assets consist of the balance sheet items Land and buildings, Cash flows are recognised according to the indirect method. Alecta recogInvestments in Group companies and jointly controlled entities, and Other nises cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing financial investment assets. activities by applying the necessary adjustments for the insurance business. As cash flows in the insurance business are mostly invested, investment Reporting of business events assets are accounted for as an integral part of operating activities. Financing Financial assets at fair value are recognised at fair value after the acquisition activities in Alecta refer to payments that flow directly to/from equity. Bank date. The cost of investment assets excludes transaction costs related to balances are recognised as cash and cash equivalents, i.e. the same as the financial instruments. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised Cash and bank balances item in the balance sheet. Short-term investments in the balance sheet on the transaction date. Transactions which have not are not included in cash and cash equivalents but are recognised as investbeen settled at the balance sheet date are recognised as a receivable from or ment assets. Interest received or paid and dividends received are recognised liability to the counterparty in Other receivables or Other liabilities. Purchases as cash flow from operating activities. and sales of land and buildings are recognised in the balance sheet on the completion date. Laws and regulations applying to the Parent Company The Parent Company applies IFRS with certain limitations contained in Swedish Transaction costs statutes, which means that international financial reporting standards are Transaction costs which are directly attributable to purchases and sales of applied to the extent possible under Swedish accounting legislation. The Parent financial investment assets are recognised through profit or loss and included Company’s financial reporting follows the Swedish Insurance Companies in net capital gain or loss in the items Return on capital, income or Return on Annual Accounts Act (ÅRFL), the Regulations and General Guidelines on the capital, expenses. Transaction costs attributable to purchases and sales of Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS 2015:12) of the Swedish Finanland and buildings and assets measured at amortised cost are accounted for cial Supervisory Authority and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal as an increase in cost or a decrease in capital gain or loss, respectively. Entities of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. In the Parent Company, the For acquisitions of companies classified as a business combination, the mandatory formats for income statements and balance sheets provided for in transaction costs are recognised through profit or loss and included the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act are applied whereas in the item Return on capital, expenses. IAS/IFRS formats are used in the consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 73 Group and Parent Company Significant estimates and NOTE 1 accounting principles, cont. NOTE 2 judgements As the Group complies with IAS/IFRS standards, as adopted by the EU, the The preparation of financial statements and application of different accounting accounting treatment for certain income statement and balance sheet items standards are often based on estimates and judgements made by managein the Parent Company differs from the accounting treatment applied in the ment and the Board of Directors. These estimates and judgements are in Group. The most significant differences are described below. most cases based on historical experience but may also be based on other factors, including expectations of future events. Management evaluates Land and buildings these estimates and judgements on a continuous basis. Actual outcomes may In the Parent Company, investment properties and owner-occupied properties differ from the estimates and judgements applied. are recognised at fair value. In the Group, owner-occupied properties are Those estimates and judgements which Alecta deems to have the biggest recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation. impact on earnings and/or on assets and liabilities are presented below or in the notes indicated in the table Shares and participations in Group companies Shares and participations in Group companies are recognised at cost in the Significant estimates and judgements Note Parent Company but are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Provision for life insurance, Provision Technical provisions 36, 37 for claims outstanding Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies Valuation categories for financial Intercompany loans and receivables are recognised at cost in the Parent Financial instruments 22 instruments measured at fair value Company but are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Investment properties 15 Land and buildings Intangible assets 13 Intangible assets Surplus fund Income tax 12 Tax Life insurance companies which do not have the right to distribute profits Deferred tax 12 Tax are required to maintain a surplus fund to which funds are allocated that can be used to cover losses. The funding reserve is part of equity in the Parent Technical provisions Company and consists of collective funding, the discretionary participation The calculation of technical provisions requires qualified judgements as well features reserve and other reserves. This differs from the composition of as assumptions on mortality, morbidity, interest rates, expenses, tax and equity in the Group. other variables. The valuation of technical provisions and information on current assumptions are described in the accounting principles in Notes 35 and Appropriations, untaxed reserves, Group contributions 36. Significant estimates and judgements The sensitivity of the assumptions Swedish tax legislation allows companies to reduce their taxable income used as a basis for the valuation of technical provisions is described in Note 3. for the year by transferring funds to untaxed reserves in the balance sheet through the income statement item Appropriations. Financial instruments Due to the relationship between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax The measurement of financial instruments at fair value is based primarily on liability attributable to untaxed reserves is not accounted for separately in the quoted prices in active markets. For holdings for which quoted prices in an Parent Company. active market are not available, valuation techniques are used. These are deThe Parent Company recognises Group contributions received from and scribed in Note 22. The measurement of financial instruments is described in provided to subsidiaries as appropriations. the accounting principles in the relevant note. A sensitivity analysis is shown in Note 3. Yield tax In the Parent Company income statement, yield tax is recognised together with income tax in the Tax on profit for the year item. In the consolidated financial statements, yield tax is included in operating profit. Business combinations On the acquisition of a real estate company, all acquisition costs are accounted for as an increase in the cost of shares and participations in the Parent Company. 74 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 3 Risks and risk management A general description of Alecta’s risk management and risk organisation is Interest rate risk provided on page 55 of the Administration Report. In this note Alecta’s variInterest rate risk arises from the assumptions on future returns used as a ous risk categories are described in greater detail. basis for calculating premiums and benefits and calculation of technical provisions. Technical provisions are valued mainly on the basis of the yield curve Risk of loss defined in the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. This risk category refers to the risk of consequences in the form of loss of In the annual report the yield curve is expressed as a cash flow-weighted reputation or financial loss, for example. Such consequences may result from average interest rate. The impact of the interest rate on Alecta’s results and a failure to manage risks in the risk categories described below. solvency ratio is described in the sensitivity analysis on page 76. A further description of the management of the total interest rate risk for assets and Insurance risks liabilities is provided under Matching risk on the next page. Insurance risks are risks associated with Alecta’s insurance products and insurance portfolio, and relate to factors such as pricing, the calculation of technical Financial risks provisions, and the calculation and allocation of surplus funds. These calculations Financial risks exist in the investment activities and comprise market, credit are based on actuarial assumptions, primarily assumptions on mortality, morbidand liquidity risks, matching risk and solvency risk. The goal for the investity, operating expenses and interest rates, each of which constitutes a risk. ment activities is to generate a sustainable positive inflation-adjusted return, To determine the reliability of the actuarial assumptions used, Alecta’s i.e. a return which consistently exceeds both inflation and the growth of reported earnings are analysed from an actuarial perspective each year. This Alecta’s insurance commitments. In 2018, the central function Risk assessed is done by comparing actual outcomes for mortality, morbidity, operating the value of Alecta’s investment assets. Some aspects of risk management in expenses and return on capital with the assumptions used. The assumptions Alecta’s investment management activities were also reviewed. are revised when the analysis shows this to be necessary. Changes to assumptions can lead to a change in technical provisions and/or the determination Market risk of premiums. As Alecta’s insurance collectives are large and diversified, Market risk is the risk that the value of Alecta’s investments will be negatively concentration risks are negligible. affected by changes in interest rates, exchange rates or the prices of shares, bonds or real estate. To limit market risk and avoid concentrations in the portMortality risk folio, Alecta spreads its investments across different asset classes and markets. Mortality risk is the risk that the average life expectancy of the insureds will Asset allocation differ from what has been assumed. The risk varies depending on whether Exposure Share of portfolio the insurance offers a death benefit or life benefit. In a death benefit insurAsset class 2018 2017 2018 2017 ance policy the insurance amount is paid out when the insured dies. Alecta’s Shares 322 577 345 250 39,2 % 41,6% family pension, family cover and TGL (occupational group life insurance) Debt securities 419 781 419 809 50,9 % 50,6 % products are death benefit policies. In a life benefit insurance policy the Real estate 81 574 64 733 9,9 % 7,8% insurance amount is paid out when the insured reaches the age specified in the contract. Retirement pension is a life benefit insurance policy. Retirement Total 823 932 829 792 100 % 100 % pension with repayment cover is an example of a combined death benefit and The table shows Alecta’s asset allocation based on the classification in the tolife benefit insurance policy. tal return table, see page 47. A detailed breakdown by asset class is presented A reduction in mortality means that the insureds live longer than the in the diagrams on page 49. Company had assumed. A life benefit insurance policy is negatively affected To ensure that Alecta is able to meet its solvency requirements by a by reduced mortality, as the costs for the policy increase because the pencomfortable margin even in adverse market conditions, the investment sions have to be paid out over a longer period than originally assumed. The policy establishes limits for risk levels. Various derivatives, such as interest opposite applies to death benefit insurance. rate futures, equity futures, forward exchange contracts and interest rate Under the mortality assumptions used, a man or a woman born in the 1950s and currency swaps, are used to reduce the risks in the event of major price is expected to live for a further 22,2 (22,2) and 23,9 (23,9) years, respectively, fluctuations, and to increase the cost-effectiveness of Alecta’s asset manafter their 65th birthday. The increase in life expectancy for individuals born agement activities. Alecta also hedges its entire holdings of foreign bonds thereafter is assumed to be approximately 0,8 (0,8) years for each birth decade. and real estate and a portion of its holding of foreign shares. Alecta’s total A 20 per cent decrease in assumed mortality means that the life expectancy currency exposure after hedging was equal to 11,0 per cent (12,4) of total of people aged 65 today will increase by 1,6 (1,6) years and that Alecta’s life investments at year-end. Without currency hedging, 43,3 per cent (42,1) of insurance provision will increase by approximately 5 (5) per cent. Alecta’s assets would have been exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Currency exposure after Share of Morbidity risk hedging Exposure investment portfolio Morbidity risk is the risk that the insured will remain ill for a longer period or at 2018 20171) 2018 2017 a higher level of compensation than originally assumed. Alecta’s morbidity risk DKK 12 320 13 381 1,5 % 1,6 % is included in its disability and waiver of premium insurance products. When an EUR –28 857 63 –3,5 % 0,0 % insured falls ill, a technical provision is made based on specific assumptions on CHF –34 3 409 0,0 % 0,4 % the future degree of incapacity to work and the duration of the illness. GBP 9 140 5 559 1,1 % 0,7 % If the probability of recovery decreases by 20 per cent at each future date USD 37 834 75 960 4,6 % 9,2 % while the level of working capacity decreases by 20 per cent, the technical Other currencies 2 257 4 519 0,3 % 0,5 % provisions for disability pension and waiver of premium would increase by Net exposure 90 443 102 891 11,0 % 12,4 % approximately 20 (21) per cent. Summation is in absolute terms, which means that a negative position in one currency cannot cancel a positive exposure in another currency. Operating expenses risk The operating expenses risk consists in the possibility that Alecta’s operatThe currency exposure deviates slightly from the 2017 Annual Report due to a refined calculation 1)  method. ing expenses will be higher than was assumed. Alecta monitors operating expenses on an ongoing basis to ensure that they are in line with the levels assumed in the calculations. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 75 NOTE 3 Risks and risk management, cont. Credit risk Alecta’s long-term assessments of market conditions in relation to its obligaCredit risk is the risk of financial losses due to the insolvency of an issuer or tions, targets and financial position. Decisions are reported on an ongoing counterparty. Alecta analyses the credit risks associated with different types basis in Board’s Finance Committee. of investment and establishes credit limits for issuers and counterparties. Limits have also been established for single exposures, i.e. limits for Alecta’s Solvency risk total equity and fixed income exposure to the same corporate group. Risk & Solvency risk is the risk that Alecta will be considered to have insufficient risk Performance verifies that these limits are not exceeded on a daily basis. Fixed capital to ensure that it is able to meet its guaranteed commitments. The income investments mainly comprise investments in securities issued by borSwedish Financial Supervisory Authority measures solvency risk using its rowers with very high credit ratings. Investments are made mainly in bonds traffic light model. Alecta’s risk capital meets the criteria for “green light” by a assigned a rating of BBB– or higher by the Standard & Poor’s, Moodys and wide margin. In addition, Alecta performs its own stress tests on a daily basis. Fitch rating agencies. In addition to external ratings, all issuers are assessed The tests identify significant financial risks and are based on slightly more adfor credit risk using internal credit rating models. verse market scenarios than those prescribed in the traffic light model. The Bonds and other debt securities stress tests measure risk exposure, and in the event that a limit is reached, Credit exposure Market value including action is taken to safeguard Alecta’s solvency. forward exposure Share 2018 20171) 2018 2017 Sensitivity analysis Effect on Rating Aaa/AAA 173 930 161 456 42,9 % 40,5 % Solvency ratio (% points) Net profit for year/Equity Rating Aa/AA 107 371 126 895 26,5 % 31,8 % Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rating A/A 72 572 54 331 17,9 % 13,6 % Interest rate decrease 1% point, 1) –11,7 % –13,3 % –35 773 –34 487 Rating Baa/BBB 23 386 33 410 5,8 % 8,4 % Share price decrease 10 % –6,3 % –7,2 % –32 258 –34 525 Rating Ba/BB 5 564 3 146 1,4 % 0,8 % Real estate value decrease 10 % –1,6 % –1,4 % –8 157 –6 473 Unrated 22 928 19 408 5,7 % 4,9 % Exchange rate decrease 10 % –1,8 % –2,2 % –9 095 –10 344 of which securities issued by 1) The comparative figures deviate slightly from the 2017 Annual Report due to a refined calculation method. stated-owned issuers 8 018 6 689 2,0 % 1,7 % Total 405 751 398 646 100 % 100 % The table shows how the solvency ratio and net profit for the year would be Market value including forward exposure deviates slightly from the 2017 Annual Report due to a 1)  affected by a decrease in the value of shares, properties and currencies, and refined calculation method. by a decrease in market interest rates, regardless of maturity and market. A Liquidity risk decrease in the market rates increases the value of Alecta’s commitments by Liquidity risk is the risk of loss on financial instruments arising from the inSEK 48.8 billion (47.6) and the value of its fixed income investments by SEK ability to immediately sell an instrument without a reduction in the price or 15.9 million (16.6). the risk that Alecta will be unable to meet its payment obligations at maturity without an increase in the cost of obtaining the necessary funds. Alecta’s Other risks payment obligations consist of insurance obligations and financial liabilities. In addition to the aforementioned risks, Alecta needs to manage other risks, such Of Alecta’s total obligations, approximately 95 per cent have a maturity in exas compliance risks, sustainability risks and information security risks. An imporcess of five years, see Notes 35 and 36. Alecta’s financial liabilities are limited tant method for mitigating these risks, as well as the above risk categories, is to to the derivatives used to hedge foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, control operational risks, see below. More information on Alecta’s management and usually have a maturity of less than one year. Information on the nominal of these risks is presented in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36. values of Alecta’s derivatives is presented in Note 27. A maturity analysis of financial liabilities is also presented in Note 21. Liquidity risk is monitored Operational risks through detailed cash flow forecasts and is limited by the fact that a large Alecta defines operational risk as the risk of operational inadequacies or failportion of Alecta’s investments is invested in highly liquid assets. Note 22 ures related to personnel, organisation and processes, IT systems or security. shows that SEK 326.3 billion of Alecta’s investments consist of shares in listed Such inadequacies or failures can cause risks in other risk categories. For companies that can be converted into cash within one week. The remaining example, inadequate expertise on the part of Alecta’s personnel could result investments are deemed to convertible into cash within one year, and the in the Company unknowingly being exposed to financial risks. Operational liquidity risk is therefore regarded as negligible. risks are counteracted by good internal control. Good internal control is achieved through a clear division of responsibilities, documented processes Matching risk and procedures, effective controls and by other means. Matching risk is the risk of a deterioration in the Company’s financial position due to differing characteristics between assets and technical provisions. Risk self-assessment The value of Alecta’s insurance commitments and fixed income investments Using a central self-assessment method, all departments at Alecta identify depends on the level of interest rates. When interest rates fall, Alecta’s comand assess their risks and controls in various risk categories on an annual mitments increase, as does the value of its fixed income investments. Given basis. Areas of potential improvement are identified and decisions are made that the commitments are larger and have a longer average maturity than the on which risk reduction measures or financially motivated or other measures fixed income investments, a decrease in interest rates has a negative impact. to take. Work on continuous improvement in Alecta’s day-to-day operations Information on the maturities of the commitments as well as fixed-rate also helps to reduce risks. terms for the asset portfolio is provided in Notes 35 and 36, and Note 25, respectively. Incident management To calculate the matching risk, Alecta uses an asset liability management Despite the preventive actions that are taken to identify and reduce risks, (ALM) analysis that is aimed at identifying the optimal composition of investincidents may still occur. Such incidents must of course be addressed imment assets with regard to Alecta’s insurance commitments. The analysis mediately to limit any possible damage and loss. Equally important is to learn also takes account of how Alecta’s investment assets and liabilities at market from what has occurred and take measures to try to prevent similar incidents value, and thus also its risk capital, are affected by price fluctuations in from occurring again. Incidents are therefore discussed and reported at all financial markets. Decisions on the composition of investments are based on levels of Alecta on a regular basis. 76 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 4 Premiums written NOTE 5 Return on capital, income Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Group Parent Company Current premiums 35 173 31 279 2018 2017 2018 2017 Single premiums 2 601 1 721 Rental income from land and buildings 1 682 1 702 643 638 Premium tax 1) –100 –105 Dividends received 11 988 12 170 12 654 17 947 Invoiced premiums 37 674 32 895 of which Group companies – – 952 5 867 Interest income, etc. 4 996 6 043 5 108 6 172 Adjustment of paid-up values 6 308 1 487 bonds and other debt securities 4 518 5 815 4 518 5 815 Premium reduction 4 202 4 132 loans secured by real estate 66 – 66 – Guaranteed refunds 10 510 5 619 other interest income 412 228 410 227 Total premiums written 48 184 38 514 other interest expenses, Group companies – – 114 130 1) The tax base is 95 per cent (95) of premiums received for TGL. The tax is 45 per cent (45) of the tax base. Reversal of impairment – – 393 – shares in Group companies – – 393 – Net foreign exchange gains 4 074 – 4 074 – Accounting principle Net capital gains 6 518 13 088 6 518 9 872 Premiums written can comprise paid-in and credited premiums as well as land and buildings 3 3 361 3 145 refunds in the form of adjustments of paid-up values and premium reducshares and participations 5 764 8 175 5 764 8 175 tions. Reductions are made for special premium tax (relates to TGL). The bonds and other debt accounting treatment of premiums written differs depending on whether securities 751 1 552 751 1 552 the premiums relate to defined contribution or defined benefit insurance. Other 17 14 – – The cash principle is applied for defined contribution insurance while the Total capital return, income 29 275 33 017 29 390 34 629 charging system is applied for defined benefit insurance when accounting for premiums written. Premiums are recognised as income and affect different balance sheet items depending on whether the premium relates to pension insurance or risk insurance. For pension insurance, an increase is made in technical proviUnrealised gains on sions on the liabilities side of the balance sheet while risk insurance premiums are allocated through profit or loss to equity. NOTE 6 investment assets Calculation of premiums Group Parent Company Premiums are intended to cover Alecta’s commitments to its policy holders. 2018 2017 2018 2017 The premium is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions on interest Land and buildings 1 380 – 291 611 rates, mortality, morbidity and operating expenses. These assumptions are Shares and participations – 30 148 – 30 124 based on experience and observations, and are broken down by insurance Bonds and other debt securities – – – – portfolio. Pension insurance can either be defined benefit or defined contribution. For defined benefit insurance, the benefits are specified in the insurance Other loans 84 8 84 9 contract and premiums are determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Total unrealised gains on investment assets 1 464 30 156 375 30 744 Premiums are determined individually for each insured. For defined contribution insurance, the premium is specified in the insurance contract and the benefits are determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. The premium for risk insurance is either calculated individually for each insured or distributed collectively over a group of insureds and applies for NOTE 7 one calendar year at a time. Claims paid Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Basic amount paid before indexation –17 970 –17 513 Waiver of premium paid –2 531 –2 039 Cancellations and repurchases 1) –368 –568 Operating expenses for claims management –140 –142 Total claims paid –21 009 –20 262 1) The item includes transferred capital of SEK 353 million (550). Accounting principle Benefits can either be guaranteed under the concluded contract or contingent in the form of a pension supplement, for example. A guaranteed benefit is recognised in the income statement as an expense and reduces the technical provision in the balance sheet by the same amount. A contingent benefit does not affect profit or loss but is recognised directly in equity. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 77 NOTE 8 Operating expenses Group Parent Company Investment management 2018 2017 2018 2017 Investment management expenses are recognised in the item Return on Administrative expenses –575 –559 –575 –559 capital, expenses in the income statement. These expenses consist of direct Total operating expenses in the costs, primarily personnel, information and IT costs, as well as indirect costs, insurance business –575 –559 –575 –559 such as the share of costs for premises and costs allocated for central Group functions. Claims management 1) –140 –142 –140 –142 Investment management 2) –163 –180 –162 –170 Property management Property management 3) –71 –70 –34 –34 Like investment management expenses, property management expenses Total operating expenses –948 –951 –911 –905 are recognised in Return on capital, expenses in the income statement. A significant expense item related to property management is external costs, as Specification of total operating the management of Alecta’s real estate has to a large extent been outsourced expenses to external service providers. Personnel costs –409 –435 –409 –430 Costs for premises –18 –21 –20 –22 Amortisation/depreciation –26 –26 –26 –26 IT costs –226 –216 –226 –215 Property management costs –71 –70 –34 –34 Selection centre costs –142 –133 –142 –133 Other costs 4) Administration fees –105 49 –98 48 –103 49 –93 48 NOTE 9 Capital return, expenses Total operating expenses –948 –951 –911 –905 Group Parent Company 1)  Recognised in Insurance claims paid in the income statement, see Note 7. 2018 2017 2018 2017 2)  Recognised in Return on capital, expenses in the income statement, see Note 9. Operating expenses for land and buildings –516 –527 –249 –225 3) Recognised in Return on capital, expenses in the income statement (included in the item Operating expenses for land and buildings in Note 9). Investment management expenses1) –163 –180 –162 –170 4)  Other expenses largely comprise costs for consultants and fees paid to the Swedish Financial Interest expenses, etc. –294 –291 –294 –290 Supervisory Authority. bonds and other debt securities –262 –259 –262 –258 other interest expenses –32 –32 –32 –32 Accounting principle other interest expenses, Group Operating expenses are expenses for employees or temporary staff, costs companies – – – – for premises, IT costs, scheduled depreciation of property, plant and equipCustodian expenses –23 –24 –23 –24 ment and amortisation of intangible assets, costs for the agency agreement Depreciation/amortisation and impairment – – –371 –4 599 with Collectum related to defined benefit retirement pension and disability inshares in Group companies – – –371 –4 599 surance, and other operations-related costs. These expenses are recognised Net foreign exchange losses – –4 685 – –5 863 as incurred. Operating expenses are divided into the following functions: Net capital losses –1 – – 0 acquisition, administration, claims management, investment management land and buildings –1 – – – and property management. Acquisition expenses and administrative expenses other loans – – – 0 are recognised in the item Operating expenses in the income statement. Other –29 –28 – – Alecta does not regard depreciation and impairment of owner-occupied Total capital return, expenses –1 026 –5 735 –1 099 –11 171 property as an operating expense in the insurance business. These are therefore recognised as a separate item in the income statement. 1)  In addition to these expenses, external fees of approximately SEK 157 million (90) were paid for investments in unlisted real estate and fixed-income holdings. These fees have been recognised as a negative change in the value of the holding and are therefore included in the net amount of Acquisition expenses unrealised losses on shares and participations in Note 10. Acquisition expenses refer to expenses incurred by the company in acquiring new insurance contracts. Alecta does not capitalise its acquisition expenses, as the amount is insignificant. Administrative expenses Administrative expenses consist of operating expenses incurred by Alecta for the day-to-day administration of its insurance contracts as well as costs for central Group functions, such as finance and legal counsel. Claims management Expenses for claims management consist of expenses for managing contracts that are under payment. They also include a portion of the IT costs incurred in supporting the claims management process and expenses allocated to cover a portion of costs for the central Group functions. Claims management expenses are recognised in the income statement in the item Claims paid. 78 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Unrealised losses on NOTE 10 investment assets NOTE 12 Tax Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Land and buildings – –1 053 – – Current tax Shares and participations –43 271 –43 271 – Tax on profit for the year in Sweden 1) –24 –24 – – Bonds and other debt securities –4 484 –3 385 –4 484 –3 385 Foreign tax on directly and indirectly owned properties –77 –1 626 –77 –1 626 Loans secured by real estate –1 –1 – Adjustment of tax attributable to Total unrealised losses previous years 80 – 80 – on investment assets –47 756 –4 438 –47 756 –3 385 Coupon tax –616 –591 –616 –591 Total current tax –637 –2 241 –613 –2 217 Deferred tax Change in deferred tax assets/liabilities –84 1 633 148 1 860 NOTE 11 Yield tax Total deferred tax –84 1 633 148 1 860 Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Income tax (Group) –721 –608 –465 –357 Yield tax 1) –318 –271 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years 0 0 Yield tax Total yield tax –318 –271 Yield tax 2) –318 –271 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years – 0 1) Yield tax Total yield tax –318 –271 Capital base 2) 797 009 737 227 Tax base 3) 4 065 3 686 Tax on profit for the year (Parent –783 –628 Yield tax before tax credit 4) –610 –553 Company) Tax credit for paid coupon tax and income and property tax (foreign properties) in previous year 292 282 1) In the Parent Company, the portion subject to income tax comprises disability pension, waiver of Yield tax after tax credits –318 –271 premium and occupational group life insurance (TGL). 2) For the calculation of yield tax, see Note 11. Sensitivity analysis Effect on yield tax before foreign tax credit Group Parent Company Group 2018 2017 Reconciliation of theoretical tax expense and Capital base +/– 10 % –/+ 61 –/+ 55 reported tax 2018 2017 2018 2017 Allocation percentage +/– 1 % point –/+ 6 –/+ 6 Profit/loss before yield tax and income Average government borrowing rates tax according to income statement –25 800 58 134 –26 826 55 969 +/– 1 % point –/+ 1 196 –/+ 1 106 Less: Profit/loss from operations subject to yield tax, including consolidation 2) The calculation of the capital base for yield tax is based on the value of all assets at the beginning adjustments 28 710 –50 792 28 138 –51 462 of 2018 less financial liabilities at the same date. The capital base is adjusted for premiums on Profit/loss from operations subject to 2 910 7 342 1 312 4 507 indirectly owned foreign and Swedish properties. Of the capital base, SEK 6 529 million (5 790) income tax refers to premiums. The capital base for yield tax, which includes Alecta’s pension products and family protection, represents 95,42 per cent (95,16) of the total base. This portion is calculated on the basis of equity and technical provisions attributable to these products. Tax at applicable tax rate, 22 % –640 –1 615 –289 –991 3) The tax base is calculated as the capital base multiplied by the average government borrowing rate for the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the tax year, which results in a Difference in tax rate 1) – –53 – – form of standardised yield. Average government borrowing rates amounted to 0,51 per cent Effect of changed tax rate 73 –5 (0,50). 4) Tax rate: 15 per cent (15). Non-deductible expenses –9 –1 –5 –50 Non-taxable income 16 386 22 75 Taxable income not included in profit –3 –6 –3 –6 Guaranteed premium reduction 908 891 908 891 Accounting principle Effect of initial recognition of properties 14 4 – – Yield tax is payable on Alecta’s pension products and on family cover. Other 0 0 – – Group: Alecta has made the assessment that the standardised return on Adjustment of tax attributable to the basis of which the yield tax is determined does not constitute a taxable previous years 13 –76 4 –32 profit as defined in IAS 12. Yield tax is therefore not classified as income Creditable foreign tax 2) –473 638 –485 1 973 tax but is recognised as an expense in operating profit in the consolidated Foreign income tax –4 –185 4 –1 626 income statement. Coupon tax –616 –591 –616 –591 Parent Company: In the Parent Company income statement, yield tax is Reported income tax –721 –608 –465 –357 recognised together with income tax in the Tax on profit for the year item. Effective tax –25 % –8 % –35 % –8 % 1) Refers to the USA. 2) Comprises creditable foreign tax exceeding the maximum limit, creditable foreign tax paid during the year and the corresponding deferred tax on the difference between the book and tax values of foreign properties. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 79 NOTE 12 Tax, cont. Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Deferred tax related to: Temporary differences Land and buildings in Sweden – –1 450 – –1 226 – –44 – –48 Land and buildings outside of Sweden – –183 – –155 – – – Other financial investment assets – –836 – –1 337 – –836 – –1 337 Accelerated depreciation – –50 – –47 – – – – Loss carry-forwards 966 – 837 – 963 – 837 – Creditable foreign tax 1) 5 603 – 6 060 – 5 427 – 5 911 – Deferred tax assets and liabilities 6 569 –2 519 6 897 –2 765 6 390 –880 6 748 –1 385 Netting of assets and liabilities –880 880 –1 388 –1 388 –880 880 –1 385 1 385 Net deferred tax assets and liabilities 5 689 –1 639 5 509 –1 377 5 510 – 5 363 – of which expected to be settled after more than 12 months, amount before netting 6 263 –2 519 6 607 –2 765 6 090 –880 6 458 –1 385 1)  Comprises creditable foreign tax exceeding the maximum limit, creditable foreign tax paid during the year and the corresponding deferred tax on the difference between the book and tax values of foreign properties. Group Parent Company Changes in net deferred tax assets and liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance 4 132 2 496 5 362 3 502 Recognised in profit or loss –84 1 633 148 1 860 Foreign exchange differences 2 1 – – Change through business combinations/sale – 2 – – Closing balance 4 050 4 132 5 510 5 362 Accounting principle Significant estimates and judgements The tax is calculated individually for each company based on the applicable Income tax tax rules. Income tax refers to current tax and deferred tax. Current tax When calculating the basis for income tax in the Parent Company, an assessincludes tax on profit for the period and coupon tax on dividends received. ment needs to be made of the allocation of income and expenses between Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method for temoperations subject to income tax and operations subject to yield tax. The porary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and principles applied have a direct impact on the estimated income tax. liabilities as well as tax loss carry-forwards and other unused tax deductions. In an asset acquisition, the temporary difference arising on the initial recogniDeferred tax tion of assets and liabilities is not taken into account. Deferred tax assets are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differences, recognised to the extent that it is probable that they can be used. unused tax loss carry-forwards and other unused tax deductions. The Alecta is entitled to deduct foreign tax credits when calculating future reported deferred tax is affected by assumptions and judgements used in yield tax and income tax. Alecta’s tax expense (yield tax and income tax) will determining the carrying amounts of different assets and liabilities, and in thus be reduced, resulting in future economic benefits. Alecta’s assessment estimating future taxable profits. is that a tax asset should be recognised if the future tax credit can be reliably Each year, Alecta assesses whether new deferred tax assets can be recogestimated. The offset of future tax credits against yield tax is not specifically nised and whether tax loss carry-forwards or unused tax deductions from regulated in IFRS. Alecta’s assessment is that the right to future tax credits previous years have been impaired. is of a similar nature to income tax credits under IAS 12. An asset related to Alecta is entitled to deduct foreign tax credits when calculating future future tax credits will therefore be recognised as a deferred tax asset even yield tax and income tax. The resulting future economic benefits are recthough it will mainly be offset against yield tax. ognised as a deferred tax asset, even though the asset will largely be offset Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are recognised on a net against yield tax. An asset is recognised when the future tax credit can be basis when there is a legal right of set-off and the assets and liabilities refer to reliably measured. taxes levied by the same tax authority. The business segments in the Parent Company on which income tax is levied are disability pension, waiver of premium and occupational group life insurance (TGL). 80 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 13 Intangible assets NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cost Cost Opening balance, cost 683 683 683 683 Opening balance, cost 55 51 27 21 Investments during the year – – – – Purchases during the year 11 8 8 6 Disposals during the year – – – – Sales/disposals during the year – –4 – – Closing balance, cost 683 683 683 683 Translation difference – – – – Closing balance, cost 66 55 35 27 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Accumulated depreciation Opening balance, amortisation –310 –284 –310 –284 Opening balance, depreciation –41 –40 –18 –15 Amortisation for the year –26 –26 –26 –26 Depreciation for the year –5 –4 –3 –3 Disposals during the year – – – – Sales/disposals during the year – 3 – – Closing balance, amortisation –336 –310 –336 –310 Translation difference – – – – Closing balance, depreciation -46 –41 –21 –18 Opening balance, impairment –114 –114 –114 –114 Carrying amount, Closing balance, impairment –114 –114 –114 –114 property, plant and equipment 20 14 14 9 Carrying amount, intangible assets 233 259 233 259 Intangible assets comprise internally generated expenditure for Accounting principle IT development, mainly IT development for the insurance system that Property, plant and equipment consist of IT equipment, machinery and was taken into use in April 2008, and account for SEK 680 million (680) equipment, and artwork, and are measured at cost less accumulated depreciof the total cost. ation. Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis based on their estimated useful lives. The depreciation period is three years for IT equipment and three to five years for machinery and equipment. Artwork is not depreciated. Depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed at each closing date. At Accounting principle each closing date, an assessment is made of whether there are any indicaIntangible assets comprise direct expenditure for in-house-developed tions of impairment of items of property, plant and equipment. If this is the software. Internally generated intangible assets in the Group are measured at case, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined, and if this amount is less cost. They are expected to generate future economic benefits. All internally than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the lower amount. generated intangible assets related to in-house-developed software are recognised only if all of the following criteria are met: an identifiable asset exists, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits, the Company has control over the asset, and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date on which the asset goes into production. Amortisation schedules are prepared based on the estimated useful lives. The amortisation period is 20 years for the insurance system’s core system and five years for other, peripheral functions. For other capitalised development costs the amortisation period is three years. The insurance system’s core system has functionality for managing Alecta’s long-term insurance commitments. Amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed at each closing date. An individual review is made for each asset. Amortisation is recognised as an operating expense. The value of Alecta’s intangible assets is reviewed at each closing date through an assessment of internal and external indications of impairment. If there are indications of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined, and if this amount is less than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the lower amount. Significant estimates and judgements Alecta has a significant intangible asset in the form of accrued development costs for the insurance system. At each closing date, the value of each asset is assessed individually. The amortisation method and the useful life of the asset are also reviewed. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 81 NOTE 15 Land and buildings Investment properties Specification of change in fair value Group Parent Company Group 2018 Sweden United Kingdom Total Fair value by sector 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance 28 216 – 28 216 Industrial 160 163 160 163 New builds, extensions and Office 20 278 18 425 7 247 6 445 conversions 1 027 – 1 027 Residential 1 100 644 – – Acquisitions 113 – 113 Retail 7 948 7 731 3 947 3 839 Sales – – – Other 1 415 1 253 849 835 Change in value 1 545 – 1 545 Total 30 901 28 216 12 203 11 282 Exchange rate fluctuations – – – Closing balance 30 901 – 30 901 Group Lettable floor area by sector, sq.m 2018 2017 Group 2017 Sweden United Kingdom Total Industrial 17 146 17 146 Opening balance 25 447 – 25 447 Office 420 667 449 292 New builds, extensions and Residential 33 719 4 212 conversions 3 212 – 3 212 Retail 279 652 274 473 Acquisitions 140 – 140 Other 24 396 24 396 Sales –2 830 – –2 830 Total 775 580 769 519 Change in value 2 247 – 2 247 Group Exchange rate fluctuations – – – Future lease payments by maturity 2018 2017 Closing balance 28 216 – 28 216 Within one year 1 395 1 395 Later than one year but within five years 3 423 3 267 Parent Company 2018 Sweden United Kingdom Total Later than five years 2 381 1 966 Opening balance 11 282 – 11 282 Total 7 199 6 628 New builds, extensions and conversions 631 – 631 Acquisitions – – – Sales – – – Owner-occupied properties Change in value 290 – 290 Group 2018 2017 Exchange rate fluctuations – – – Cost Closing balance 12 203 – 12 203 Opening balance, cost 1 037 994 Purchases during the year 77 43 Parent Company 2017 Sweden United Kingdom Total Closing balance, cost 1 114 1 037 Opening balance 10 614 127 10 741 New builds, extensions and Accumulated depreciation conversions 240 – 240 Opening balance, depreciation –159 –139 Acquisitions – – – Depreciation for the year –22 –20 Sales –272 –125 –397 Closing balance, depreciation –181 –159 Change in value 700 –1 699 Carrying amount, owner-occupied properties 933 878 Exchange rate fluctuations – –1 –1 Closing balance 11 282 – 11 282 Specification of historical costs Parent Company Sweden United Kingdom Total 2018 7 292 – 7 292 2017 6 661 – 6 661 82 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 15 Land and buildings, cont. Accounting principle Significant estimates and judgements Investment property Valuation method All properties in the Group, other than owner-occupied properties, are clasAlecta engages an external valuation firm to assess the market value of all sified and accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, properties as at 31 December and 30 June each year. The external valuer as they are held for rental income or capital appreciation of a combination of bases its estimates on information about the specific characteristics of each the two. property, such as current tenancies, running costs and estimated market Investment properties are measured at fair value, which is the price that rents. In connection with the external valuation the information is qualitywould be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market assured by Alecta. participants at the measurement date. In accordance with IFRS 13, Alecta’s The total value of Alecta’s property portfolio is based on the estimated investment properties are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, market value of each individual property. The market value consists of the which means that non-observable inputs have been used. No properties future benefits which an acquirer could obtain from the property. The key were transferred to a different level of the hierarchy during the year. Alecta’s factors are what the property may be used for, and the extent to which and current use of the investment properties is deemed to be the best use, which in what way an acquirer can use the property. means that the valuation of the properties should reflect the assets’ maxiMarket values of properties are normally determined through cash flow mum value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair values of the assessments based on estimates of each property’s earnings potential. The investment properties are recognised in the income statement in the period method involves analysing expected future cash flows over a period of time, in which the gain or loss occurs. Purchases and sales of investment propernormally ten years, and calculating the present value of these cash flows ties are recognised in the balance sheet on the completion date. using an estimated discount rate. The components of the nominal discount Alecta also owns properties that are being developed or exploited for rate are the estimated inflation rate, the risk-free real interest rate and a risk future use as investment properties. These project properties are measured premium. In determining the risk premium, account is taken of the nature of at fair value or, if fair value cannot be determined at the time of construction, the investment, the property, contractual relationships and financial risks. this investment property is measured at cost until its fair value can be reliably The valuations have been designed to meet the requirements of the MSCI determined. Project properties recognised at cost account for SEK 3 340 Sweden Real Estate Index. million (2 863) of the total carrying amount of SEK 30 901 million (28 216) in the Group. Significant valuation assumptions The valuation method used is based on several assumptions, such as estimates Owner-occupied property of market rents, future costs, long-term vacancies, inflation, discount rates Alecta’s owner-occupied properties are recognised at fair value in the Parent and required rates of return in the residual value assessment. A change in Company in accordance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual any of these assumptions will affect the valuation. Some of the key valuation Accounts Act and classified as land and buildings in the balance sheet. The assumptions are presented below. Group applies IAS 16 for owner-occupied properties, since a large portion of the property is held for the provision of the company’s own services. In Valuation assumptions, weighted 2018 2017 the Group, owner-occupied properties are measured at cost. The cost is Market rent per square metre 2 366 2 218 kr recognised less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment. Long-term vacancy rate 4,16 % 4,40 % Owner-occupied properties are divided into components and the depreciaRequired rate of return, initial 4,10 % 4,09 % tion method used reflects the time at which the asset’s future economic Required rate of return, exit 4,47 % 4,63 % benefits are expected to have been exhausted. Actual operating and maintenance expenses for Alecta’s owner-occupied properties are recognised in Sensitivity analysis operating expenses in the income statement. The full amount of depreciation The value-affecting parameters used in the valuation should reflect the and impairment of owner-occupied properties is recognised as depreciation reasoning of a prospective buyer in the market. To illustrate the uncertainty of owner-occupied properties in the consolidated income statement. in the valuation, a number of parameters which show the impact on the valuation in SEK million have been singled out. Sensitivity analysis Change 2018 2017 Market rent +/– 10 % +/– 2 967 +/– 2 675 Property costs +/– SEK 50/sq.m +/– 729 +/– 716 Long-term vacancy rate +/– 2 % +/– 619 +/– 560 Required rate of return, exit +/– 0,25 % +/– 1 652 +/– 1 441 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 83 NOTE 16 Shares and participations in Group companies1) Number of Share of Carrying amount Carrying amount Parent Company Corporate Identity Number Registered office shares equity 2018 2017 Swedish companies Alecta AB 556597-9266 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 0 0 Alecta Köpcentrum AB 556943-7071 Stockholm 500 100 % 10 10 Alfab Nacka 12 AB 559006-1015 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Värmdö 1 AB 556687-7071 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Värmdö 2 AB 556743-0102 Stockholm 100 000 100 % – – Alecta Retail Holding AB 556660-2594 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 124 124 Alfab Borås 1 AB 556708-2002 Stockholm 100 000 100 % – – Alfab Järfälla 1 AB 556664-7599 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 1 AB 556692-9385 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – Alfab Västerås 1 AB 556606-3656 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 4 AB 556188-6127 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 5 AB 556658-9783 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Valutan 13 AB 556708-2713 Stockholm 100 000 100 % – – Fastighet Ädel AB 556604-9275 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fastighetsaktiebolaget Borås Filtret 556790-5525 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fastighetsaktiebolaget Åkersberga Österåker Runö 556785-6389 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fyrfast AB 556604-5513 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alecta Tjänstepensioner AB 556713-7160 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 0 0 Alecta Fastigheter AB 2) 559103-4086 Stockholm 500 100 % 0 – Alfab Indirekt Holding AB 556931-5459 Stockholm 50 000 100 % 319 318 Kabelverket Holding AB 556587-1075 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 500 500 Alfab Göteborg 3 AB 556913-5717 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Göteborg 4 AB 556718-6654 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Göteborg 5 AB 556690-0386 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Helsingborg 1 AB 559032-2128 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Stockholm 1 AB 556660-5530 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Vällingby 1 AB 556892-7858 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Vällingby 2 AB 556892-7882 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Västerport 1 AB 556690-0378 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Västerport 2 AB 556946-8944 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Fastighets AB Kablaget 556577-4642 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – Alecta Fastighetsutveckling AB 556577-4618 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – Fastighets AB Kabelverket 556577-4568 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Vasaterminalen AB 556118-8722 Stockholm 2 022 000 100 % – – – World Trade Center Stockholm AB 556273-0803 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – WTC Parkering AB 556424-3920 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fastighetsbolaget Augustendal KB 916635-9084 Stockholm – 99,9 % 679 401 Fastighetsbolaget Båthamnen KB 916626-5711 Stockholm – 99,9 % 51 50 Fastighetsbolaget Ellensvik KB 916625-6991 Stockholm – 99,9 % 163 152 Fastighetsbolaget Gustafshög KB 916625-6983 Stockholm – 99,9 % 4 4 Fastighetsbolaget Klaraberg KB 916625-6975 Stockholm – 99,9 % 445 242 Fastighetsbolaget Mässan KB 916626-5653 Stockholm – 99,9 % 85 62 Fastighetsbolaget Oljekällaren KB 916626-5638 Stockholm – 99,9 % 187 166 Fastighetsbolaget Philipin KB 916626-5679 Stockholm – 99,9 % 315 295 Fastighetsbolaget Saluhallen KB 916626-5695 Stockholm – 99,9 % 46 16 Kontorshotellet Nacka Strand KB 969646-7225 Stockholm – 99,9 % 0 1 Morgonen 1 i Lund KB 2) 969784-9975 Stockholm – 99,9 % 12 – 2 Kilo i Halmstad KB 2) 969784-9967 Stockholm – 99,9 % 44 – Alfab Helsingborg 2 KB 969775-2583 Stockholm – 99,9 % 12 2 Naraden Göteborg 1 KB 969697-7892 Stockholm – 99,9 % 320 317 Total, Sweden 3 316 2 660 1)  As all shares are unlisted, market values are not indicated. Carrying amounts are not indicated for subsidiaries of sub-groups. 2) The company was acquired in 2018. 84 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 16 Shares and participations in Group companies1), cont. Number of Share of Carrying amount Carrying amount Parent Company Corporate Identity Number Registered office shares equity 2018 2017 Foreign companies, USA 2)  Alecta Real Estate USA, LLC DE ID 4078782 Delaware – 100 % 1 586 1 249 Alecta Real Estate Investment, LLC DE ID 4223706 Delaware – 100 % – – – Alecta Real Estate Winsted, LLC DE ID 3601057 Delaware – 100 % – – Alecta Value Add Investments, LLC DE ID 5469880 Delaware – 100 % – – Boylston Street Investors, LLC DE ID 5405204 Delaware – 100 % – – Cupertino – Tantau, LLC DE ID 4895201 Delaware – 100 % – – SRP Valley, LLC DE ID 5125176 Delaware – 100 % – – Total, USA 1 586 1 249 Total shares and participations in Group companies 4 902 3 909 1) As all shares are unlisted, market values are not indicated. Carrying amounts are not indicated for subsidiaries of sub-groups. In 2017, the sale of the entire directly owned foreign real estate property portfolio in the US was completed. The remaining assets of foreign 2)  companies mainly comprise indirect holdings. Carrying amount Carrying amount Debt securities issued by, and Parent Company Cost 2018 2017 NOTE 17 loans to, Group companies Opening balance, cost 13 245 11 556 Purchases during the year 55 1 320 Carrying Carrying Shareholder contributions during the year – 289 amount amount Liquidations during the year – – Parent Company 2018 2017 Share of profit for the year 916 80 Cost Closing balance, cost 14 216 13 245 Opening balance, cost 9 272 10 380 Change for the year –206 –1 108 Accumulated impairment Total debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 9 066 9 272 Opening balance, impairment –9 336 –4 737 Impairment for the year –371 –4 599 Reversal of impairment 393 – The item consists wholly of long-term loans to property-owning subsidiaries Liquidations during the year – – that are measured at amortised cost. Closing balance, impairment –9 314 –9 336 Total shares and participations in Group companies 4 902 3 909 Accounting principle Intercompany loans and receivables are financial assets which are not quoted Accounting principle in an active market. These assets are classified as loans receivable and are In the Parent Company, shares and participations in Group companies measured at amortised cost by applying the effective interest method. are recognised at cost less impairment. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 85 NOTE 18 Investments in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 31 Dec 2018 Corporate Identity Fair value, Carrying Parent Company Country Number Share of equity shares amount, loans Interest income Alfa SSM JV AB Sweden 556840-4262 50,00 % 0 – – KB Alfa SSM Sweden 969715-3998 49,00 % 44 121 3 Ancore Fastigheter AB Sweden 556817-8858 50,00 % 1 396 – – Bredden III Förvaltning AB Sweden 556922-4198 39,30 % 194 105 19 Convea AB Sweden 556912-4505 50,00 % 54 – – Fastighets AB Stenvalvet Sweden 556803-3111 25,60 % 655 652 59 Global Business Gate JV AB Sweden 559109-9030 50,00 % 0 – – Global Business Gate JV KB Sweden 969781-4847 49,50 % 35 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Pref B Sweden 556864-0873 59,20 % 12 527 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Stamaktie Sweden 556864-0873 30,80 % 3 331 – – Kongahälla Holding AB Sweden 559126-1903 50,00 % 105 275 – Logistikfastigheter Sverige AB Sweden 559047-9738 50,00 % 515 370 21 Midstar Hotels AB Sweden 559007-7979 49,90 % 1 140 – – Sollentuna Stinsen JV AB Sweden 559085-9954 50,00 % 77 334 20 Stadsrum Fastigheter AB Sweden 559028-9624 49,00 % 828 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure Holding AB Sweden 559012-5182 50,00 % 0 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure Holding KB Sweden 969775-2609 49,90 % 1 696 – – Total, Parent Company 22 597 1 857 122 Group company Långeberga Logistics AB Sweden 556928-2840 50,00 % 429 – – ARE-LEI Venture, LLC USA DE ID 5473708 95,00 % 839 – – Boylston Street Associates, LLC USA DE ID 4906542 95,00 % 5 – – Total, Group 23 870 1 857 122 31 Dec 2017 Corporate Identity Fair value, Carrying Parent Company Country Number Share of equity shares amount, loans Interest income Alfa SSM JV AB Sweden 556840-4262 50,00 % 0 – – KB Alfa SSM Sweden 969715-3998 49,00 % 166 46 3 Ancore Fastigheter AB Sweden 556817-8858 50,00 % 1 259 – – Convea AB Sweden 556912-4505 50,00 % 30 – 0 Fastighets AB Stenvalvet Sweden 556803-3111 25,60 % 512 614 52 Global Business Gate JV AB Sweden 559109-9030 50,00 % 0 – – Global Business Gate JV KB Sweden 969781-4847 49,50 % 15 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Pref B Sweden 556864-0873 55,04 % 6 545 – 56 1) Heimstaden Bostad AB – Stamaktie Sweden 556864-0873 29,35 % 1 762 – – Kongahälla Holding AB Sweden 559126-1903 50,00 % 77 275 – Logistikfastigheter Sverige AB Sweden 559047-9738 50,00 % 254 103 2 Midstar Hotels AB Sweden 559007-7979 49,90 % 936 – – Profi lll Infracity AB Sweden 556922-4198 39,30 % 176 269 21 Sollentuna Stinsen JV AB Sweden 559085-9954 50,00 % 107 284 31 Stadsrum Fastigheter AB Sweden 559028-9624 49,00 % 591 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB Sweden 559012-5182 50,00 % 0 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure KB Sweden 969775-2609 49,90 % 1 470 – – Total, Parent Company 13 900 1 591 165 Group company Långeberga Logistics AB Sweden 556928-2840 50,00 % 431 – – ARE-LEI Venture, LLC USA DE ID 5473708 95,00 % 1 022 – – Boylston Street Associates, LLC USA DE ID 4906542 95,00 % 6 – – Total, Group 15 359 1 591 165 1) In 2017, Heimstaden Bostad AB converted debt into equity. Accounting principle Alecta’s investments in jointly controlled entities are made through joint unrealised gains or losses. Dividends are recognised as dividends received ventures. A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which Alecta exercises in the item Return on capital, income. Valuation techniques for shares and joint control together with the other co-owners. Alecta’s investments consist participations are described in Note 22. of shares and participations as well as shareholder loans to jointly owned real Loans in joint ventures refer to shareholder loans which are measured at estate companies. amortised cost using the effective interest method and recognised in the loans Shares and participations in joint ventures are recognised as financial receivable category. Accrued interest income and interest payments received instruments at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 28. In are recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, income. the balance sheet, shares and participations are recognised in the investment Information on transactions between Alecta and the above joint ventures assets category. Changes in value are accounted for in the balance sheet as is provided in Note 51 Related party disclosures. 86 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Group, 31 Dec 2018 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 23 870 – – 23 870 23 870 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 1 857 1 857 1 857 Shares and participations 352 238 – – 352 238 352 238 Bonds and other debt securities 405 487 – – 405 487 405 487 Loans secured by real estate – – 2 777 2 777 2 777 Other loans 3 133 – – 3 133 3 133 Derivatives – 5 841 – 5 841 5 841 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 726 1 726 1 726 Other receivables – – 966 966 966 Cash and bank balances – – 3 392 3 392 3 392 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8 028 8 028 8 028 Total 784 728 5 841 18 746 809 315 809 315 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 6 6 6 Derivatives – 9 139 – 9 139 9 139 Other liabilities – – 2 898 2 898 2 898 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 4 458 4 458 4 458 Total – 9 139 7 362 16 501 16 501 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Group, 31 Dec 2017 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities joint ventures) 15 359 – – 15 359 15 359 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 1 591 1 591 1 591 Shares and participations 375 390 – – 375 390 375 390 Bonds and other debt securities 399 975 – – 399 975 399 975 Other loans 2 039 – 58 2 097 2 097 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 6 221 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 747 1 747 1 747 Other receivables – – 1 696 1 696 1 696 Cash and bank balances – – 2 731 2 731 2 731 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8 170 8 170 8 170 Total 792 763 6 221 15 993 814 977 814 977 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 7 7 7 Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 8 302 Other liabilities – – 1 800 1 800 1 800 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 3 579 3 579 3 579 Total – 8 302 5 386 13 688 13 688 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 87 NOTE 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities, cont. Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Parent Company, 31 Dec 2018 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies – – 9 066 9 066 9 066 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 22 597 – – 22 597 22 597 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 1 857 1 857 1 857 Shares and participations 351 727 – – 351 727 351 727 Bonds and other debt securities 405 487 – – 405 487 405 487 Loans secured by real estate – – 2 777 2 777 2 777 Other loans 3 133 – – 3 133 3 133 Derivatives – 5 841 – 5 841 5 841 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 726 1 726 1 726 Other receivables – – 2 050 2 050 2 050 Cash and bank balances – – 2 970 2 970 2 970 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8 028 8 028 8 028 Total 782 944 5 841 28 474 817 259 817 259 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 6 6 6 Derivatives – 9 139 – 9 139 9 139 Other liabilities – – 4 390 4 390 4 390 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 4 458 4 458 4 458 Total – 9 139 8 854 17 993 17 993 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Parent Company, 31 Dec 2017 liabilities measured at liabilities measured at fair value through fair value through Loans and receivables/ Total profit or loss profit or loss other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies – – 9 272 9 272 9 272 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 13 900 – – 13 900 13 900 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 1 591 1 591 1 591 Shares and participations 374 944 – – 374 944 374 944 Bonds and other debt securities 399 975 – – 399 975 399 975 Other loans 2 039 – 58 2 097 2 097 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 6 221 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 747 1 747 1 747 Other receivables – – 2 625 2 625 2 625 Cash and bank balances – – 2 644 2 644 2 644 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8 170 8 170 8 170 Total 790 858 6 221 26 107 823 186 823 186 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 7 7 7 Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 8 302 Other liabilities – – 3 254 3 254 3 254 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 3 570 3 570 3 570 Total – 8 302 6 831 15 133 15 133 88 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 20 Net profit by class of financial assets and liabilities Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss shares and participations –14 308 35 181 –14 363 35 181 debt securities 11 349 2 493 11 349 2 493 loans 418 237 418 237 Financial assets and liabilities held for trade derivatives –18 269 10 445 –18 269 10 445 Loans and receivables 232 211 346 342 Other liabilities –27 –29 –27 –29 Total net profit 1) –20 605 48 538 –20 546 48 669 Land and buildings, net 2 745 4 664 1 637 2 340 Investment management and custodian expenses –186 –204 –184 –194 Other, net 3 2 3 2 Total return on capital as reported in income statement –18 043 53 000 –19 090 50 817 1) Net profit includes realised and unrealised changes in value as well as interest, dividends and foreign exchange gains and losses. NOTE 21 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Time to maturity Group, 31 Dec 2018 < 3 months 3 months < 1 year 1–5 years >5 years Total Non-liquidated securities transactions –554 – – – –554 Liability for cash collateral received for derivatives –2 069 – – – –2 069 Derivatives gross – outflow –325 526 –27 027 –30 616 –42 059 –425 228 Derivatives gross – inflow 326 500 27 419 29 525 34 941 418 385 Other liabilities –281 – – – –281 Other accrued expenses and deferred income –4 458 – – – –4 458 Total cash flow –6 388 392 –1 091 –7 118 –14 205 Time to maturity Group, 31 Dec 2017 < 3 months 3 months < 1 year 1–5 years >5 years Total Non-liquidated securities transactions –72 – – – –72 Liability for cash collateral received for derivatives –1 443 – – – –1 443 Derivatives gross – outflow –255 046 –1 811 –29 442 –40 461 –326 760 Derivatives gross – inflow 254 283 2 203 29 800 35 131 321 417 Other liabilities –292 – – – –292 Other accrued expenses and deferred income –3 579 – – – –3 579 Total cash flow –6 149 392 358 –5 330 –10 729 The purpose of this Note is to illustrate when the Group’s financial liabilities fall due for payment. The table shows actual future cash flows in each period, based on remaining times to maturity. The amounts presented for each time to maturity refer to undiscounted cash flows. For derivatives, cash flows are reported on a gross basis, i.e. both outflows and inflows, to create a better understanding of these flows. For variable interest rate derivatives, the last known interest rate has been applied to approximate future cash flows. For a description of liquidity risk, see Note 3 Risks and risk management. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 89 NOTE 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value Under the disclosure requirements in IFRS 13, Level 3: Measurement based on Similarly, a reclassification from Level 3 to Level 1 financial assets and liabilities which are measured unobservable inputs may be made if the Level 3 financial instrument is at fair value must be classified into three levels Financial assets which are measured at fair value quoted in an active market. based on the valuation technique that is used. without access to observable market inputs are In 2018, one share was transferred from Level Assets and liabilities must be measured using the classified to Level 3. 3 to Level 1 since the share was listed on an active valuation technique that is appropriate in the Financial assets at fair value which are meamarket and one share was transferred from Level circumstances, maximising the use of relevant sured on the basis of some observable inputs 1 to Level 3 after delisting. In 2017, no financial observable inputs. The objective is to identify but for which Alecta does not have the ability to instruments were transferred from Level 1 to the valuation technique which best estimates the inspect the used valuation technique are also clasLevel 3 or from Level 3 to Level 1. price at which the financial assets can be sold or sified to this level. the financial liabilities transferred between market Examples of financial assets in this level mainly Sensitivity analysis for Level 3 financial participants under current market conditions. comprise financial instruments with real estate instruments The three levels of valuation categories are: and fixed income investments as underlying asUnder IFRS 13, a sensitivity analysis must be set but also, to a lesser degree, unlisted shares presented for those financial instruments which Level 1: Measurement using prices quoted in and venture capital investments. Fair values for have been measured at fair value in accordance an active market these assets are obtained from fund managers, with Level 3. The sensitivity analysis must include Fair value measurement based on prices quoted counterparts or the property-owning companies a narrative description of the sensitivity of the fair in an active market is used if quoted prices are following an external valuation of the underlying value measurement to changes in unobservable easily and regularly available and these prices properties. inputs. represent actual and regularly occurring market Alecta’s assets in Level 3 mainly comprise transactions. Examples of financial assets which Principles for reclassification between levels financial instruments with real estate and fixed are classified to this level include listed shares, Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair income investments as underlying asset but also, government bonds and Swedish mortgage bonds. value are classified to one of the three valuation to a lesser degree, unlisted shares and venture Prices for these financial assets are obtained categories on acquisition and then normally capital investments. daily through providers of index prices retrieved retain their classification until they are sold. As we do not have the means to inspect the from each exchange, which, where applicable, are Under certain circumstances a financial asset may, unobservable inputs used by external price translated at exchange rates quoted on a daily basis however, be reclassified to another level after the providers, fund managers, counterparts or real (5 p.m.) from the price provider, WM Company. acquisition date. The following principles apply to estate companies in their fair value measurements Last trading day in Sweden rates are used. such reclassification: of these financial instruments, any sensitivity analysis is subject to a degree of uncertainty. For Level 2: Measurement based on observable Principle for reclassification between Level 1 real estate-related investments, however, it is inputs and Level 2 reasonable to assume that these will be affected Financial assets and liabilities for which there To be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2, a financial by roughly the same value-influencing factors as are no quoted prices in an active market are instrument must no longer be traded in an active directly owned properties, i.e. changes in net opermeasured at fair value based on as many available market but still be capable of being measured ating income and required rates of return, while market inputs as possible. Examples of market in accordance with the description for Level 2. the fixed-income investments are mainly impacted inputs used in the measurement include: Similarly, a reclassification from Level 2 to Level 1 by interest and credit risk and unlisted shares, and • Quoted interest rates, credit spreads and may be made if the Level 2 financial instrument is venture capital by equity market risk. exchange rates quoted in an active market. • Market information on prices for similar finanNo financial instrument was transferred from The following table presents the estimated effects cial instruments Level 1 to Level 2 or from Level 2 to Level 1 either of fair value if the required rates of return on • Market information on prices in recently in 2018 or in 2017. property rose 0,5 percentage points, an interestcompleted transactions in the same or similar rate increase of 1 per cent and a share-price financial instruments Principle for reclassification between Level 2 decrease of 10 per cent. and Level 3 Examples of financial assets and liabilities which A reclassification from Level 2 to Level 3 may Sensitivity analysis are classified to this level include debt instruments be made if it is no longer possible to measure a Group (SEK Fair Value-influencing Effect on in the form of Swedish and foreign corporate financial instrument at fair value based on observmillion) value factor fair value bonds, structured bonds, and all OTC derivaable market inputs. Similarly, Level 3 financial Return tives in the form of interest rate swaps, currency instruments may be transferred to Level 2 if Real estate requirement derivatives and credit derivatives. observable market inputs become available and -related increase of 0,5 For debt instruments, daily prices from exteran external price provider is able to measure fair holdings 40 605 percentage points –4 512 nal price providers Thomson Reuters and value based on these inputs. InterestInterest-rate Bloomberg are used. Under the concluded agreeIn 2018, no financial instruments were transrelated increase of 1 ments, Alecta has the right to inspect the price ferred from Level 2 to Level 3 or from Level 3 to holdings 11 168 percentage point –127 provider’s valuation data to assure the quality of Level 2, nor in 2017. EquityShare price the provided price information. related decrease of For OTC derivatives fair value is determined Principle for reclassification between Level 1 holdings 3 396 10 per cent –340 on a daily basis in Alecta’s financial system in and Level 3 Total Level 3 55 169 –4 978 accordance with market practice by estimating A reclassification from Level 1 to Level 3 is made the present value of each derivative’s future cash if a financial instrument is delisted from an active flows based on quoted market prices in respect of market and there are insufficient market inputs to interest rates, credit spreads and exchange rates. allow for Level 2 measurement. 90 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value, cont. Fair values of financial instruments, 31 Dec 2018 Measurement using prices quoted in an active Measurement based on Measurement based on market observable inputs unobservable inputs Carrying amount Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 Dec 2018 Assets Shares and participations 330 327 – 21 911 352 238 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 23 870 23 870 Bonds and other debt securities 212 358 186 874 6 255 405 487 Other loans – – 3 133 3 133 Derivatives – 5 841 – 5 841 Total assets 542 685 192 715 55 169 790 569 Liabilities Derivatives – 9 139 – 9 139 Total liabilities – 9 139 – 9 139 Parent Company Assets Shares and participations 330 327 – 21 400 351 727 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 22 597 22 597 Bonds and other debt securities 212 358 186 874 6 255 405 487 Other loans – – 3 133 3 133 Derivatives – 5 841 – 5 841 Total assets 542 685 192 715 53 385 788 785 Liabilities Derivatives – 9 139 – 9 139 Total liabilities – 9 139 – 9 139 Fair values of financial instruments, 31 Dec 2017 Measurement using prices quoted in an active Measurement based on Measurement based on market observable inputs unobservable inputs Carrying amount Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 Dec 2017 Assets Shares and participations 360 080 – 15 310 375 390 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 15 359 15 359 Bonds and other debt securities 243 295 156 680 – 399 975 Other loans – – 2 039 2 039 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 Total assets 603 375 162 901 32 708 798 984 Liabilities Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 Total liabilities – 8 302 – 8 302 Parent Company Assets Shares and participations 360 079 – 14 865 374 944 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 13 900 13 900 Bonds and other debt securities 243 295 156 680 – 399 975 Other loans – – 2 039 2 039 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 Total assets 603 374 162 901 30 804 797 079 Liabilities Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 Total liabilities – 8 302 – 8 302 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 91 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value NOTE 23 based on Level 31) Fair value at year-end 2018 Shares and participaShares and tions in jointly controlled Bonds and other Group participations entities (joint ventures) debt securities Other loans Total Opening balance 2018 15 310 15 359 – 2 039 32 708 Purchased 7 565 6 815 6 327 1 069 21 776 Sold –275 –141 – –109 –525 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –40 0 – – –40 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 7 25 – – 32 Unrealised gains/losses 458 1 760 –1 84 2 301 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses 742 52 –71 50 773 Transferred from Level 3 –1 856 – – – –1 856 Transferred to Level 3 0 – – – 0 Closing balance 2018 21 911 23 870 6 255 3 133 55 169 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1 167 1 837 –72 134 3 066 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1 167 1 837 –72 134 3 066 Parent Company Opening balance 2018 14 865 13 900 – 2 039 30 804 Purchased 7 537 6 802 6 327 1 069 21 735 Sold –275 – – –109 –384 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –40 – – – –40 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 7 – – – 7 Unrealised gains/losses 451 1 895 –1 84 2 429 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses 711 – –71 50 690 Transferred from Level 3 –1 856 – – – –1 856 Transferred to Level 3 0 – – – 0 Closing balance 2018 21 400 22 597 6 255 3 133 53 385 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1 129 1 895 –72 134 3 086 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1 129 1 895 –72 134 3 086 1) The definition of Level 3 is found in Note 22 Valuation categories. 92 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value NOTE 23 based on Level 31), cont. Fair value at year-end 2017 Shares and participaShares and tions in jointly controlled Bonds and other Group participations entities (joint ventures) debt securities Other loans Total Opening balance 2017 8 770 6 045 – 2 161 16 976 Purchased 5 598 8 542 – – 14 140 Sold –689 –77 – –201 –967 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –53 1 – 68 16 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 41 – – – 41 Unrealised gains/losses 1 965 929 – 9 2 903 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses –322 –81 – 2 –401 Transferred from Level 3 – – – – – Transferred to Level 3 – – – – – Closing balance 2017 15 310 15 359 – 2 039 32 708 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1 590 848 – 89 2 527 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1 631 849 – 79 2 559 Parent Company Opening balance 2017 8 309 4 825 – 2 161 15 295 Purchased 5 571 8 227 – – 13 798 Sold –686 –77 – –201 –964 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –53 1 – 68 16 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 41 – – – 41 Unrealised gains/losses 1 973 924 – 9 2 906 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses –290 – – 2 –288 Transferred from Level 3 – – – – – Transferred to Level 3 – – – – – Closing balance 2017 14 865 13 900 – 2 039 30 804 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1 630 924 – 89 2 643 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1 671 925 – 79 2 675 1) The definition of Level 3 is found in Note 22 Valuation categories. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 93 Bonds and other debt NOTE 24 Shares and participations NOTE 25 securities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fair Cost Fair Cost Group value value Fair Amortised Fair Amortised Group and Parent Company value cost value cost Swedish listed shares 143 306 106 635 158 938 99 486 Swedish government 48 996 44 908 60 079 55 712 Swedish unlisted shares 1 636 1 503 166 1 Swedish mortgage bonds 56 822 56 423 97 679 97 189 Foreign listed shares 187 021 160 390 201 141 152 935 Other Swedish issuers 92 738 92 124 55 577 54 309 Foreign unlisted shares 20 275 16 473 15 145 10 572 Foreign governments 131 577 125 089 115 541 106 899 Total 352 238 285 001 375 390 262 994 Other foreign issuers 75 354 69 758 71 099 70 157 Parent Company Total 405 487 388 302 399 975 384 266 Swedish listed shares 143 306 106 635 158 938 99 486 Swedish unlisted shares 1 636 1 503 166 1 The fair value of debt securities exceeds or is lower than the amount payable Foreign listed shares 187 021 160 390 201 141 152 935 on the due date by SEK 20 289 million (24 854) and SEK 786 million (428), Foreign unlisted shares 19 764 16 118 14 699 10 276 respectively. The items Swedish government and Foreign governments also include state-guaranteed holdings. Total 351 727 284 646 374 944 262 698 A list of all shares is available at alecta.se Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Fixed-rate term Accounting principle 0–1 years 133 689 136 383 >1–5 years 143 465 135 375 Shares and participations are measured at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Valuation techniques for shares and participations are >5–10 years 85 633 72 126 described in Note 22. Accumulated changes in value for shares comprise >10 years 42 700 56 091 the difference between cost and fair value. Dividends are accounted for as Total 405 487 399 975 dividends received in the item Return on capital, income (Note 5). Accounting principle Bonds and other debt securities are measured at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Valuation techniques for bonds and other debt securities are described in Note 22. Accumulated changes in value for debt instruments comprise the difference between amortised cost and fair value. Amortised cost refers to future payments discounted to present value at the effective interest rate. The effective interest is the interest that is accrued over the term of the financial instrument. The calculation takes account of any premiums or discounts at acquisition that have been allocated over the remaining term of the instrument. Accruals of premiums and discounts, accrued interest income and coupon payments received are recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, income. 94 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 26 Loans secured by real estate NOTE 28 Derivatives 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fair Cost Fair Cost Fair value Fair value Group and Parent Company value value Group and Parent Nominal Nominal Swedish loans secured by Company value Assets Liabilities value Assets Liabilities real estate 312 312 – – Equity-related Foreign loans secured by real instruments –5 862 – – –15 189 – – estate 2 465 2 465 – – Futures –5 862 – – –15 189 – – Total 2 777 2 777 – – Fixed-income instruments 129 760 3 608 6 828 166 606 4 396 4 960 Swaps 136 780 3 608 6 828 148 979 4 396 4 960 Accounting principle Futures –7 020 – – 17 627 – – Loans secured by real estate are measured at amortised cost using the Currency-related effective interest method. instruments 282 573 2 233 2 311 206 723 1 825 3 342 Futures/swaps 282 573 2 233 2 311 206 723 1 825 3 342 Total 406 471 5 841 9 139 358 140 6 221 8 302 The management of collateral for derivatives is described in Note 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements. For a description of the use of derivatives, see the section Market risk in NOTE 27 Other loans Note 3 Risks and risk management. 2018 2017 Accounting principle Fair Cost Fair Cost A derivative is a financial instrument whose value is based on the perforGroup and Parent Company value value mance of an underlying instrument. Alecta uses derivatives to improve the Other loans, Swedish 1 071 1 025 362 189 efficiency of the management of its assets and to reduce financial risks. Other loans, foreign 2 062 1 581 1 735 2 465 Derivatives are classified as held for trade and recognised in the balance sheet Total 3 133 2 606 2 097 1 654 at fair value, while changes in value are recognised through profit or loss. Derivatives with positive fair values are recognised as financial investment assets while derivatives with negative fair values are recognised as liabilities Accounting principle in the balance sheet. In the income statement, derivatives are accounted for Alecta’s other loans consist mainly of real estate-related profit participating together with the underlying instrument and the net gain or loss is presented loans. Participating loans are classified as financial assets at fair value through in Note 20. Alecta does not apply hedge accounting. profit or loss. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 95 NOTE 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements of which amounts are not netted Group and Parent Company Financial assets but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral 2018–12–31 balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency received received Net amount 3) Assets Derivatives 4) 8 497 –7 459 –46 –2 069 0 Securities lending 1) 22 995 – –23 456 – 0 of which amounts are not netted Financial liabilities but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency pledged 2) pledged Net amount 3) Liabilities Derivatives 4) 11 973 –7 459 –5 986 –512 0 of which amounts are not netted Group and Parent Company Financial assets but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral 2017–12–31 balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency received received Net amount 3) Assets Derivatives 4) 8 611 –7 791 – –1 443 0 Securities lending 1) 19 0125) – –19 3925) – 0 of which amounts are not netted Financial liabilities but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency pledged 2) pledged Net amount 3) Liabilities Derivatives 4) 10 775 –7 791 –4 885 –262 0 1) Lending of debt securities is described in Note 45 Transfer of financial assets. 2) Collateral pledged is also presented in Note 44 Other pledged assets and comparable collateral. 3) In accordance with IFRS 7, the net amount can never be less than 0. 4) The amounts include accrued interest income of SEK 2 656 million (2 390) and accrued interest expenses of SEK 2 834 million (2 473). 5) Adjusted compared with the Annual Report 2017. Disclosures on financial instruments subject to enforceable master Derivatives netting agreements At 31 December Alecta had derivatives with a positive value of SEK 8 497 The purpose of this Note is to provide information on Alecta’s ability to settle million and derivatives with a negative value of SEK 11 973 million. All derivaassets and liabilities on a net basis (netting) in the event of the insolvency of tives are subject to ISDA Master Agreements, under which the parties have either party, and on the collateral that has been exchanged for the net asset/ a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts in the event of liability which remains between the parties after netting. insolvency. If there is no insolvency situation, the amounts are not netted. Derivatives and loaned debt securities are reported on a gross basis in the In addition to having the right to settle on a net basis, Alecta has concluded balance sheet. These financial instruments are subject to enforceable master CSA agreements which regulate the daily exchange of collateral during the netting agreements in the event of the insolvency of either party. All values in term of the contracts. From those counterparties for which the sum of all the table above are stated at fair value. derivatives is positive Alecta obtains corresponding collateral, and in cases where the sum of all derivatives is negative Alecta provides corresponding collateral. Under these CSA agreements, Alecta has received SEK 46 million in debt securities in the form of Swedish cash in cases where the sum of all derivatives is positive. Similarly, Alecta has pledged SEK 5 986 million in debt securities in the form of Swedish mortgage bonds, and French and US government bonds, and SEK 512 million in cash in cases where the sum of all derivatives is negative. 96 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Receivables related to Accrued interest NOTE 30 direct insurance operations NOTE 32 and rental income Group Parent Company Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Receivables from policy holders 1 726 1 747 Accrued interest income 8 031 8 173 8 031 8 173 Total 1 726 1 747 Total 8 031 8 173 8 031 8 173 Refers mainly to a receivable from Collectum, which handles Alecta’s receivables from insurance customers in the defined benefit plan. Accounting principle Prepaid expenses and accrued income Prepaid expenses and accrued income comprise expenditure for future Accounting principle financial years and income earned during the financial year that has not been Receivables related to direct insurance operations are recognised received or invoiced at the balance sheet date. Alecta’s prepaid expenses and at amortised cost. accrued income mainly comprise interest receivables not yet due for investment assets. NOTE 31 Other receivables Group 2018 2017 Payment receivables from sale of investment assets 29 1 067 Approved dividend 66 48 Value-added tax 81 42 Receivable, PRI Pensionsgaranti 193 185 Collateral pledged for derivatives 1) 512 262 Other 165 134 Total 1 046 1 738 Parent Company Payment receivables from sale of investment assets 29 1 067 Swedish tax 30 54 Foreign tax 844 916 Deferred tax 2) 5 510 5 363 Approved dividend 66 48 Value-added tax 0 1 Receivable from subsidiary 1 129 982 Receivable, PRI Pensionsgaranti 193 185 Collateral pledged for derivatives 1) 512 262 Other 121 81 Total 8 434 8 959 1)  See also Note 28. 2)  See also Note 12. Accounting principle Other receivables are recognised at amortised cost. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 97 NOTE 33 Equity Discretionary Retained earnings Translation participation Special indexation including net Group reserve features reserve 1) funds 2) profit for the year Total Opening balance 2017 1 487 70 855 10 445 224 999 307 786 Net profit/loss for the year – – – 57 255 57 255 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan – 13 957 – –13 957 – Defined contribution plan – 12 311 – –12 311 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2 156 – – –2 156 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –117 – – –117 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan – –1 267 – –220 –1 487 Premium reduction – –4 131 – – –4 131 Collective risk premium 3) – – –112 – –112 Other changes Fees – – 15 –15 – Interest – 251 –51 –200 – Effect of changes in market interest rates – –106 – 106 – Exchange rate fluctuations for the period –179 – – – –179 Accumulated foreign exchange differences reclassified to profit or loss –1 179 – – – –1 179 Other 4) – –209 1 130 –78 Closing balance 2017 129 89 388 10 298 255 787 355 602 Opening balance 2018 129 89 388 10 298 255 787 355 602 Net profit/loss for the year – – – –26 839 –26 839 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan – 15 751 – –15 751 – Defined contribution plan – 1 162 – –1 162 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2 390 – – –2 390 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –156 – – –156 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan – –4 841 – –1 468 –6 309 Premium reduction – –4 202 – – –4 202 Collective risk premium 3) – – –116 – –116 Other changes Fees – – 6 –6 – Interest – 290 –47 –243 – Effect of changes in market interest rates – 126 – –126 – Effect of changes in assumptions – 141 – –141 – Exchange rate fluctuations for the period 150 – – – 150 Other 4) – –549 21 211 –317 Closing balance 2018 279 94 720 10 162 210 262 315 423 1)  Funds which have been allocated to Alecta’s insureds and policy holders under various discretionary resolutions. These funds constitute a part of Alecta’s risk capital and are not guaranteed until assigned. Formally, Alecta can claw back the funds. SEK 1 468 million (1 468) of a total of SEK 94 720 million (89 388) refers to funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide how the funds are used. The decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. 2)  Funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of pensions or for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternatively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. The Council of Administration decides how the funds should be used. 3)  Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 4) The item comprises cumulative return, inheritance gains and portfolio changes. 98 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 33 Equity, cont. Accounting principle Translation reserve Balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates at with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. The allocation of surpluses the balance sheet date and income statements of foreign subsidiaries are is regulated in the Company’s funding policy in the actuarial guidelines. As translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Foreign exchange differthe surplus is preliminary and not guaranteed, it is regarded as risk capital ences arising on translation are recognised in Other comprehensive income and is included in the Company’s funding reserve. The surplus is allocated in and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Currencies that have been conjunction with payment under the applicable internal regulations and is translated are the US dollar. recognised directly in equity. Discretionary participation features reserve Special indexation funds The discretionary participation features reserve in equity consists of refunds Special indexation funds are funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of to policy holders and insureds that have been allocated on a preliminary pensions in payment and for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternabasis. Allocated refunds to the insureds include pension supplements and tively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. adjustments of paid-up values for defined benefit pension products as well Decisions on the use of the funds for these purposes are made by the Council as refunds for defined contribution insurance that have been allocated on a of Administration. Special indexation funds are not included in collective preliminary basis. Allocated refunds to policy holders comprise a premium funding capital. Change items are recognised directly in equity. reduction for risk insurance. Allocated refunds to policy holders and the insureds also include funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming Retained earnings including net profit for the year part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have This item includes collective funding and net profit for the year. Collective been given the right to indicate how the funds should be used. The decision funding includes other risk capital, which is not allocated. on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 99 NOTE 34 Surplus fund Discretionary participation features reserve Other reserves Allocated refunds to insureds Special indexation Parent Company Collective funding and policy holders 1) funds 2) Total Opening balance 2017 205 453 70 855 10 445 286 753 Appropriation of profits from previous years 15 908 – – 15 908 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan –13 957 13 957 – – Defined contribution plan –12 311 12 311 – – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2 156 – –2 156 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –117 – –117 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan –220 –1 267 – –1 487 Premium reduction – –4 131 – –4 131 Fees –15 – 15 – Interest –200 251 –51 – Collective risk premium 3) – – –112 –112 Effect of changes in market interest rates 106 –106 – – Other changes 4) 130 –209 1 –78 Closing balance 2017 194 894 89 388 10 298 294 580 Opening balance 2018 194 894 89 388 10 298 294 580 Appropriation of profits from previous years 55 341 55 341 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan –15 751 15 751 – Defined contribution plan – 1 162 1 162 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan –2 390 –2 390 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan –156 –156 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan –1 468 –4 841 –6 309 Premium reduction –4 202 –4 202 Fees –6 6 – Interest –243 290 –47 – Collective risk premium 3) –116 –116 Effect of changes in market interest rates –126 126 – Effect of changes in assumptions –141 141 – Other changes 4) 208 –549 20 –320 Closing balance 2018 231 546 94 720 10 161 336 427 1)  Funds which have been allocated to Alecta’s insureds and policy holders under various discretionary resolutions. These funds constitute a part of Alecta’s risk capital and are not guaranteed until assigned. Formally, Alecta can claw back the funds. SEK 1 468 million (1 468) of a total of SEK 94 720 million (89 388) refers to funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide how the funds are used. The decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. 2)  Funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of pensions or for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternatively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. The Council of Administration decides how the funds should be used. 3)  Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 4) The item comprises cumulative return, inheritance gains and portfolio changes. Accounting principle Surplus fund NOTE 35 Proposed appropriation of profits Life insurance companies which do not have the right to distribute profits are required to maintain a surplus fund to which funds are allocated that can The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose to the Council of be used to cover losses. If permitted by the articles of association, the fund Administration that the Parent Company’s loss for 2018 of may also be used for other purposes. The surplus fund is part of equity and SEK 27 609 411 436 be transferred to the surplus fund. The Board and CEO consists of collective funding, the discretionary participation features reserve propose that the Council of Administration approve the resolution of the and other reserves. Board regarding refunds as set forth in the section Distribution of surplus in the Administration Report on pages 50–51. See also Proposed appropriation of profits in the Administration Report on page 51. 100 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 36 Provision for life insurance Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 EXPECTED DISCOUNTED NET CASH OUTFLOW FOR RETIREMENT PENSION, FAMILY PENSION AND ORIGINAL ITPK Opening balance 461 572 449 546 Change for the year 37 964 28 652 SEK million Premiums 41 821 32 287 100 000 Payments –16 943 –16 652 90 000 Cumulative returns 14 712 14 064 80 000 Released operating expenses –627 –638 70 000 Yield tax –614 –542 60 000 Mortality result 84 48 50 000 Other changes –469 85 40 000 Change in interest rate assumption 8 349 –2 409 30 000 Difference between premium and provisioning assumptions –16 922 –13 364 20 000 Change in operating expenses assumption –3 075 722 10 000 Changed assumption for yield tax 7 791 – 0 Changed assumption for redistribution – –2 074 year 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45-50 50-55 55-60 60-65 Changed family pension assumptions – 499 Closing balance 495 679 461 572 Accounting principle The following assumptions have been applied in calculating the provision Provision for life insurance for life insurance at 31 December 2018: The provision for life insurance is calculated as the capital value of expected guaranteed future pension payments, operating expenses, yield tax and • Interest rate assumption: The average rate of interest was 2,16 per cent contractual future premiums. (2,27) at 31 December 2018. The method of determining this rate is described in Note 3. Change in the provision for life insurance • Mortality assumption: General mortality is applied. It is assumed that a The change in the provision for life insurance reflects actual events during 65-year-old male and a 65-year-old female born in the 1950s will live for a the period, such as premium payments received or outgoing payments made further 22,2 (22,2) years and 23,9 (23,9) years, respectively. in conjunction with an insured event. The provision for life insurance is also • Family pension assumption: Gender-dependent assumptions on family adjusted by the period’s cumulative returns, assumed operating expenses, composition are applied. mortality results and the exercise of the right to switch pension providers, and • Operating expenses assumption: Future operating expenses are considered by the amount of paid-up policies. In addition, the provision for life insurance to comprise the present value of future expected expenses including cost is affected by any changes to the method of calculation and the assumptions increases due to inflation. Operating expenses are also recognised in conapplied. Examples of assumptions used in calculating the provision for life nection with premium payments. insurance are the discount rate, mortality and operating expenses. Changes • Deduction for yield tax: Future yield tax is considered to comprise the presin the provisions are recognised as an income and expense item in the income ent value of the yield tax that Alecta is expected to pay on assets representstatement. ing the present value of guaranteed commitments. Interest rate sensitivity • For longer tenors, a fixed forward rate has been applied, which means that the average interest rate does not fluctuate as much as long-term market rates. If market rates were to fall by 1 percentage point, the average interest rate would fall by 0,5 percentage points and the provision for life insurance would increase by SEK 42,6 billion (47,5). ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 101 NOTE 37 Provision for claims outstanding Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Accounting principle Opening balance 17 242 16 727 Provision for claims outstanding Change for the year 144 608 The provision for claims outstanding is intended to cover future costs for Provision for new claims 6 234 5 899 insurance claims arising from incapacity to work. The technical provision is Discontinuation income –2 907 –2 608 determined when the right to compensation arises. A portion of the proviPayments –3 241 –2 865 sion for claims outstanding relates to claims incurred but not reported and Cumulative returns 194 186 is based exclusively on the company’s experience of the backlog of reported Released operating expenses –56 –57 cases of illness, which does not normally extend beyond one year. Other changes –80 53 Change in interest rate assumption 85 –93 Change in provision for claims outstanding The calculation of the provision for claims outstanding is based on Alecta’s Change in operating expenses assumption – – insurance portfolio and on actuarial assumptions made on the basis of Alecta’s Closing balance 17 470 17 242 actuarial calculation data. Changes in the portfolio or in the assumptions lead to a change in the provision for claims outstanding. Such changes are The following assumptions have been used in calculating, as at 31 December recognised as an income or expense item in the income statement. 2018, the provision for claims outstanding in respect of disability pension and waiver of premium, which comprise the dominant portion of the provision: • Interest rate assumption: The rate of interest was 1,03 per cent (1,09) at 31 December 2018. The method of determining this rate is described in Note 3. • Morbidity  assumption: Assumptions regarding the probability of remaining ill Provision for pensions and similar at a given point in time and regarding changes in benefit levels and the degree of incapacity for work. NOTE 38 obligations • Operating  expenses assumption: Future operating expenses have been taken into account in the form of a supplement for expected pension payments. Group Parent Company Operating expenses are also recorded in conjunction with premium pay2018 2017 2018 2017 ments. Provision for pensions 2 4 2 4 • Indexation: It is assumed that benefits linked to changes in the price basic 2 4 2 4 amount and income basic amount (guaranteed indexation) will increase annually by 2 per cent and 3 per cent, respectively. The provision for pensions is largely attributable to employees born in 1955 or earlier, who are entitled to retire on their own initiative from the age of Interest rate sensitivity 62 under the terms of the FTP agreement. See Notes 1 and 47. • If market rates fall by 1 percentage point, the provision increases by SEK 0,5 billion (0,7). Accounting principle All pension plans in the Group are recognised as defined contribution plans. EXPECTED DISCOUNTED NET CASH OUTFLOW FOR The FTP Agreement provides an option for employees born in 1955 or earlier DISABILITY INSURANCE AND WAIVER OF PREMIUM INSURANCE to retire on their own initiative with effect from the month after they turn 62. If this option is exercised, Alecta will pay a single premium to cover the SEK million additional retirement benefits. An unfunded provision equal to 100 per cent 8 000 of the expected premium is made for employees who have notified Alecta 7 000 that they intend to exercise this option. For other employees who have the opportunity to retire early, an unfunded provision is made based on the 6 000 assumptions that the benefit will be earned on a straight-line basis up to the 5 000 age of 62 and that 60 per cent (60) of employees will exercise the option. 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 year 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 102 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Miljoner kronor 8 000 Financial statements NOTE 39 Other provisions NOTE 41 Other liabilities Group Parent Company Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Payment liability on purchase of investment assets 554 72 Indexation of pensions for Collateral received for derivatives 1) 2 069 1 443 former employees 1 18 1 18 Accounts payable 238 248 Provision for real estate 8 11 2 5 Property tax 97 91 9 29 3 23 Value-added tax 4 12 Other 37 37 Accounting principle Total 2 999 1 903 A provision is a liability that is uncertain in terms of its due date and/or amount. A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when an existing All liabilities mature within one year of the balance sheet date. obligation arises as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow Parent Company 2018 2017 of resources will be required to settle the obligation and that the amount can be reliably estimated. An obligation can be legal or constructive. If these Liabilities to subsidiaries 1 573 1 550 criteria are not met, no provision is recognised in the balance sheet. Instead, Payment liability on purchase of investment assets 554 72 a contingent liability will arise, if the criteria for a contingent liability are met. Collateral received for derivatives 1) 2 069 1 443 Provisions are reviewed at each closing date. Provisions are used only for the Accounts payable 171 162 expenditure for which the provision was originally intended. Property tax 46 45 Value-added tax 4 12 Other 23 27 Total 4 440 3 311 1) See also Note 28. Liabilities related to direct NOTE 40 insurance operations Other accrued expenses and Group and Parent Company Liabilities to policy holders 2018 6 2017 6 NOTE 42 deferred income Preliminary tax, pensions 716 689 Group Parent Company Other 10 11 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 732 706 Accrued interest expense 4 439 3 562 4 439 3 562 Accrued property costs 82 72 56 44 Accounting principle Accrued personnel costs 96 136 93 131 Prepaid rental income 383 370 142 157 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations are recognised at Other 19 17 19 8 amortised cost. Total 5 019 4 157 4 749 3 902 Accounting principle Accrued expenses and deferred income comprise expenses for the financial year that have been incurred by the business but have not been paid or invoiced at the balance sheet date, and income that has been paid or invoiced but has not been earned at the balance sheet date. Alecta’s accrued expenses and deferred income mainly relate to property costs, rental income, personnel costs and interest expenses for currency swaps. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 103 Assets and comparable collateral pledged for own liabilities and for obligations reported as NOTE 43 provisions NOTE 45 Transfers of financial assets Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Assets registered on behalf of policy holders 803 574 811 221 Loaned debt securities 22 995 19 012 1) in addition to required pledge 287 628 332 408 Collateral received for loaned securities 23 456 19 392 1) 803 574 811 221 1) Adjusted compared with the Annual Report 2017. Land and buildings 23 025 20 947 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 22 597 13 900 Accounting principle Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 1 859 1 594 Loaned debt securities consist of Swedish government bonds, which are recogShares and participations 351 727 374 944 nised at fair value in the balance sheet, in accordance with the applicable Bonds and other debt securities 398 946 397 257 accounting principles. Collateral received for loaned debt securities consist Loans secured by real estate 2 794 – of Swedish and Danish covered bonds and are not recognised in the balance Other loans 3 133 2 098 sheet. Compensation received for loaned debt securities has been recogDerivatives –3 477 –2 163 nised as interest income in the item Return on capital, income, see Note 5. Cash and bank balances 2 970 2 644 Total 803 574 811 221 The table above shows assets that have been registered for debt coverage under Regulation FFFS 2011:20 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. NOTE 46 Contingent liabilities Group 2018 2017 Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets 15 622 9 328 Guarantee commitments 709 825 Other pledged assets and Total 16 331 10 153 NOTE 44 comparable collateral Parent Company Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets 15 614 9 237 Group and Parent Company 2018 2017 Liabilities in limited partnerships 97 103 Collateral pledged to clearing houses for derivatives Total 15 711 9 340 trading Bonds and other debt securities 2 460 2 734 Cash and bank balances 62 168 Contingent liabilities is a generic term for guarantees, financial commitments Collateral pledged for derivatives trading in and obligations that are not included in the balance sheet. accordance with CSA contracts Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets refers to an obligaBonds and other debt securities 5 748 4 483 tion to inject capital, if requested, into unlisted real estate-related investments Cash and bank balances 511 262 and unlisted fixed-income investments. Total 8 781 7 647 The majority of Alecta’s guarantee commitments refer to loans in connection with the development of tenant-owner apartments. Collateral pledged for derivatives trading in accordance with CSA contracts is In the course of its normal business operations Alecta is party to several described in Note 29 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master disputes, most of which relate to minor amounts. Alecta does not expect netting agreements. these disputes to have a material adverse impact on the Group’s financial position. 104 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 47 Reconciliation of total return table to financial statements Group 2018 2017 Group 2018 2017 Market value according to total return table1) 823 932 829 792 Total return according to total return table –18 300 51 980 Assets not classified as investments 7 482 7 259 Items from the income statement (Notes 5, 6, 9, 10) which Items from the liabilities side of the balance sheet which are not included in the total return table –367 743 have been deducted in the total return table 16 852 14 039 Foreign exchange effects in foreign subsidiaries, Valuation differences –155 –159 recognised in equity in the financial statements –152 238 Other – –2 Tax included in the total return table, classified as income tax in the income statement 797 23 Total assets according to balance sheet 848 111 850 929 Other –21 16 Net return on capital according to income statement 2) –18 043 53 000 1) See page 47. 2) Notes 5, 6, 9 and 10 in the income statement. NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration 2018 2017 Number Number Average number of of Of whom Of whom of Of whom Of whom 2018 2017 employees 1) employees women men employees women men Parent Company Gender distribution in senior positions Women Men Women Men Sweden 343 202 141 343 202 141 Parent Company United Kingdom 2) – – – 0 0 0 Board of Directors 5 8 4 11 Total, Parent Company 343 202 141 343 202 141 CEO – 1 – 1 Other senior executives 3 6 3 5 Subsidiaries Total, Parent Company 8 15 7 17 Sweden 24 17 7 25 17 8 USA 2) – – – 3 2 1 Subsidiaries Total, subsidiaries 24 17 7 28 19 9 Board of Directors 1 6 – 6 Total, Group 367 219 148 371 221 150 Other senior executives – – 1 1 Total, subsidiaries 1 6 1 7 Total, Group 9 21 8 24 Salaries, remuneration and fees paid to the CEO, senior executives, Directors and other employees 3) 2018 2017 Salaries, fees Salaries, fees and and other remuSocial security other remuSocial security kSEK neration contributions Pension costs Total neration contributions Pension costs Total Parent Company CEO and senior executives4) 23 558 9 216 7 479 40 253 28 008 10 591 7 380 45 979 Board of Directors5) 3 077 833 – 3 910 3 003 759 – 3 762 Other employees 229 867 70 064 49 684 349 615 238 737 66 873 52 038 357 648 Total, Parent Company 256 502 80 113 57 163 393 778 269 748 78 223 59 418 407 389 Subsidiaries Sweden Other employees 11 073 3 690 972 15 735 10 660 3 302 872 14 834 USA Senior executives – – – – 5 107 66 748 5 921 Other employees – – – – 4 303 184 647 5 134 Total, subsidiaries 11 073 3 690 972 15 735 20 070 3 552 2 267 25 889 Total, Group 267 575 83 803 58 135 409 513 289 818 81 775 61 685 433 278 1) Refers to the average number of employees, both full-time and part-time. 2) All employees had left Alecta as at 31 May 2017 in connection with the closure of the foreign offices. 3) The Note shows salaries, remuneration and fees charged to expense in each financial year. 4) Consists of senior management for 2018. For the current composition of senior management, see page 44. 5) Members of the Board receive Directors’ fees and fees for work on Board committees, which are determined by the Council of Administration. One Director also receives remuneration for nomination committee work. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 105 NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Salaries, remuneration, fees and benefits paid to senior executives and Directors 2018 Salaries, fees and other remuneration Variable Total Social security Pension kSEK 1) remuneration 1, 4) Benefits 3) remuneration contributions costs Parent Company CEO Magnus Billing 5 925 – 78 6 003 2 423 2 212 Deputy CEO Katarina Thorslund 2 402 – 13 2 415 889 537 Senior executives Senior executives 2) 14 948 190 2 15 140 5 904 4 730 Total, CEO and senior executives 23 275 190 93 23 558 9 216 7 479 Chairman of the Board Erik Åsbrink 609 – – 609 100 – Other members of the Board Hanna Bisell (previously Brandt Gonzalez) 190 – – 190 60 – Cecilia Fahlberg 225 – – 225 71 – Anna-Karin Hatt 190 – – 190 60 – Per Hedelin 219 – – 219 69 – Peter Jeppsson 190 – – 190 60 – Carola Lemne 114 – – 114 36 – Martin Linder 190 – – 190 60 – Petra Hedengran 190 – – 190 60 – Richard Malmborg 190 – – 190 60 – Anders Weihe 190 – – 190 60 – Kaj Thorén 280 – – 280 46 – Magnus von Koch 190 – – 190 60 – Other members of the Board that have left Christer Ågren 110 – – 110 35 – Total, Board 3 077 – – 3 077 833 – Total, Parent Company 26 352 190 93 26 635 10 049 7 479 1) Salaries, fees, other remuneration and variable remuneration shown as total salaries, fees and other remuneration charged to expense in the financial year 2018. 2)  Other senior executives refer to seven positions (seven), which together with the CEO and the Deputy CEO comprised Alecta’s senior management team. For the composition of senior management, see page 44. The expense refers to those individuals who held a position as senior executive at some point during the year. 3) Typical benefits include a company car, attractive mortgage rates, household services and healthcare insurance. 4) Refers to variable remuneration under the Investment Management incentive scheme for which provisions have been made. A presentation of remuneration paid by Alecta, including variable remuneration, in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Reports of Insurance Undertakings (FFFS 2015:12) will be published on alecta.se in April 2019. 106 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Salaries, remuneration, fees and benefits paid to senior executives and Directors 2017 Salaries, fees and other remuneration Variable Total Social security Pension kSEK 1) remuneration 1, 5) Benefits 4) remuneration contributions costs Parent Company CEO Magnus Billing 5 924 – 76 6 000 2 478 2 444 Deputy CEO Per Frennberg 2) 5 833 1 612 7 7 452 2 701 1 484 Katarina Thorslund 2 369 – 18 2 387 887 564 Senior executives Senior executives 3) 10 678 1 452 39 12 169 4 525 2 888 Total, CEO and senior executives 24 804 3 064 140 28 008 10 591 7 380 Chairman of the Board Erik Åsbrink 594 – – 594 60 – Other members of the Board Hanna Brandt Gonzalez 185 – – 185 58 – Cecilia Fahlberg 219 – – 219 69 – Anna-Karin Hatt 185 – – 185 58 – Per Hedelin 199 – – 199 63 – Peter Jeppsson 185 – – 185 58 – Martin Linder 185 – – 185 58 – Petra Hedengran 94 – – 94 30 – Richard Malmborg 185 – – 185 58 – Anders Weihe 94 – – 94 30 – Kaj Thorén 276 – – 276 28 – Magnus von Koch 185 – – 185 58 – Christer Ågren 219 – – 219 69 – Other members of the Board that have left Jonas Milton 106 – – 106 33 – Lars Wedenborn 92 – – 92 29 – Total, Board 3 003 – – 3 003 759 – Total, Parent Company 27 807 3 064 140 31 011 11 350 7 380 1) Salaries, fees and other remuneration, variable remuneration and severance pay shown as total salaries, fees and other remuneration charged to expense in the financial year 2017. 2) Per Frennberg was Deputy CEO until 31 May 2017 and remained an employee until 19 November 2017. Salaries, fees and other remuneration include severance pay of SEK 3 132 000, representing 12 months’ salary, of which SEK 2 740 000 will be paid in 2018. 3)  Other senior executives refer to seven positions (five), which together with the CEO and the Deputy CEO comprised Alecta’s senior management team from August 2017. During the period January to May 2017, the other senior executives category consisted of five individuals. From June 2017, the Acting Head of Investment Management has been included in other senior executives and from August 2017 the senior management team was increased by one person. The expense refers to those individuals who held a position as senior executive at some point during the year. 4) Typical benefits include a company car, attractive mortgage rates, household services and healthcare insurance. 5) Refers to variable remuneration under the Investment Management incentive scheme for which provisions have been made. A presentation of remuneration paid by Alecta, including variable remuneration, in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Reports of Insurance Undertakings (FFFS 2015:12) was published on alecta.se in April 2018. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 107 NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Remuneration to Directors, CEO tional pension premiums. In 2018, one of the targets was fully achieved. The and senior executives outcome per employee was kSEK 4 (12), representing a total cost for Alecta The Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors receive Directors’ of approximately SEK 1 million (4), including social security contributions. fees in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Council of AdministraThe Investment Management incentive scheme for employees in the Equity tion. The remuneration determined by the Council of Administration relates and Interest Management Department has an evaluation period of three years. to the period until the next regular meeting of the Council of Administration. The Board of Directors has defined caps for payouts as well as the targets The remuneration paid to the CEO and senior executives in 2018 comprised against which performance will be measured. Key factors determining the basic salary, other benefits, such as a company car, mortgage interest outcome for variable remuneration are total return on investment assets, benefits, healthcare insurance, household services, pension costs and social return in relation to Alecta’s competitors and return from active management security contributions. Tony Persson, Acting Head of Investment Management in the asset classes equities and debt instruments. The outcome for each as of 31 March 2018, has received variable remuneration under the Investment individual also depends on the extent to which individually defined targets Management incentive scheme. have been achieved. For 2018, a provision of SEK 1,7 million, excluding social The remuneration of the CEO is determined by the Board and is reviewed security contributions, has been made for variable remuneration. For 2017, annually. The remuneration of senior executives is determined by the CEO the vested variable remuneration was SEK 15,9 million excluding social security subject to approval by the Board of Directors. contributions. Other senior executives refer to eight individuals who together with the In the incentive scheme for subsidiaries engaged in restaurant and conferCEO have constituted Alecta’s management team. For the current composience activities, SEK 0,5 million excluding social security contributions was tion of senior management, see page 44. vested for 2018. For 2017, the vested variable remuneration was SEK 0,5 million In accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s General excluding social security contributions. Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Reports of Insurance Undertakings (FFFS 2015:12), supplementary disclosures on remuneration will be Pension plans presented on Alecta’s website, alecta.se, in April 2019. All employees of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, who are based in Sweden are covered by an occupational pension plan, FTP 17. The plan Pensions, severance pay and other benefits of the CEO, consists of two parts, FTP 1 and FTP 2. Employees born in 1972 or later are deputy CEOs and other senior executives covered by FTP 1 while employees born in 1971 or earlier are covered by FTP The CEO has a pension agreement under which 35 per cent of the monthly 2. FTP 1 covers defined contribution retirement pensions with or without salary is set aside each month for pensions, including contributions to the repayment cover, family protection, disability pension and waiver of premium FTP plan. Any portion of the contribution which exceeds the contribution insurance. The premium for retirement pension is 4,9 per cent of the gross required for the FTP plan may be used for retirement pension, survivor’s salary on portions of salary up to 7,5 times the income basic amount and pension and/or disability pension, as decided by the CEO. The pensionable 30,5 per cent on portions of salary in excess of 7,5 times the income basic age for the CEO is 65. The CEO’s employment contract is terminable on six amount. Employees born in 1971 or earlier with a salary in excess of ten months’ notice on the part of the company, in which case the CEO is entitled times the income basic amount can choose to be covered by FTP 1. FTP 2 is to severance pay in the amount of twelve months’ salary. If a senior executive a defined benefit pension plan, which means that the employee is guaranteed takes up other employment, the amount of severance pay will be reduced by a pension defined as a specific percentage of his or her final salary. FTP 2 any benefits received from such employment during the period of severance includes retirement pension, family pension, FTPK, disability pension, family pay. The contract can be terminated by the CEO on six months’ notice. protection, waiver of premium insurance and a separate children’s pension. The Deputy CEO is also covered by the FTP plan. The Deputy CEO Katarina Pension commitments are secured through payments of fixed insurance Thorslund is covered by a previous contract stipulating a notice period of 18 premiums during the period of service. Under IAS 19, multi-employer months, with any benefits received from other employment being fully deductdefined benefit pension plans should, as a rule, be recoognised as defined ible from severance pay. The contract can be terminated by the Deputy CEO benefit pension plans. If insufficient information is available to determine on six months’ notice. the employer’s share of the obligations and plan assets, the pension plan Senior executives are covered by the FTP plan. Three executives are should instead be accounted for as if it were a defined contribution pension covered by FTP 2 and the remaining executives by FTP 1. Their contracts are plan. Alecta accounts for the whole FTP plan as a defined contribution plan, terminable on six months’ notice in case of termination by the Company and as the criteria for recognising the defined benefit components of the plan provide for severance pay in the amount of twelve months’ salary. If a senior in accordance with the main rule in IAS 19 are not met. This means that the executive takes up other employment, the amount of severance pay will be expense is recognised when the benefits are earned. The total insurance reduced by any benefits received from such employment during the period of premium for defined benefit retirement and family pensions in FTP 2 was SEK severance pay. Since early 2013 employees of Alecta have had the option of 22,6 million in 2018 and is expected to reach SEK 31,8 million in 2019. The exchanging a part of their salary for occupational pension premiums. Salary premium represents approximately 0,10 per cent of the total premiums for exchange is cost-neutral for Alecta. This option is available to all employees defined benefit retirement and family pensions paid to Alecta by the client of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt. companies. Premiums are calculated on a per insured basis and for each type of benefit by applying Alecta’s assumptions on interest rates, operating Incentive schemes expenses and yield tax. In 2018, employees in the Equity and Interest Management and Investment Alecta’s collective funding ratio for defined benefit plans at the end of the Management departments and employees of a subsidiary which provides year was 142 per cent (154). The collective funding ratio is defined as the restaurant and conference services were covered by an incentive scheme. market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its commitments to policy Alecta has been running a general variable pay incentive scheme covering all holders calculated using Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which are not conemployees except senior management, employees of the Equity and Interest sistent with IAS 19. According to Alecta’s funding policy for defined benefit Management Department and employees of the Internal Audit, Risk and insurance products, the specific normal range for the collective funding ratio Compliance units. The outcome for the general incentive scheme is continis 125–175 per cent. gent on achievement of targets linked to the business plan for 2018, with a FTP 2 provides an option for employees born in 1955 or earlier to retire maximum payout of kSEK 12 per employee in the form of increased occupaon their own initiative with effect from the month after they turn 62. The 108 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Financial statements Average number of employees, NOTE 48 salaries and remuneration, cont. NOTE 50 Leasing, cont. provision is recognised in the item Provision for pensions and similar obligations, see Note 37. Accounting principle The subsidiaries have only defined contribution plans. These plans are The recognition of leases is treated in IAS 17 Leases. Leases in which essensecured mainly through payments of insurance premiums by each Group tially all risks and rewards of ownership accrue to the lessor are classified as company and in some cases also by the employees. Some Group companies operating leases. Based on this definition, all of the Group’s rental agreealso provide various forms of healthcare insurance. ments are classified as operating leases. Lease payments for operating leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the Provision for pensions lease. All rental agreements for the Group’s investment properties are classiIn the Parent Company, the calculation of the provision for pensions for fied as operating leases, see Note 15. Rental income is recognised as income Alecta’s employees is made in compliance with the Swedish Pension Obligaon a straight-line basis so that only that portion of the rent which is attributtions Vesting Act and based on assumptions provided for in Regulation FFFS able to each period is recognised as income in the period. 2007:31 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Fee to lay auditors The lay auditors receive fees in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Council of Administration. In 2018, fees amounted to kSEK 118 (115). NOTE 51 Related party disclosures This Note contains descriptions of transactions between Alecta and related parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Alecta considers the NOTE 49 Disclosure of auditors’ fees following legal entities and physical persons to be related parties according to this definition: Group Parent Company • all companies in the Alecta Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 • members of the Board and management team EY • close family of members of the Board of Directors and management team Statutory audit 3,6 3,4 3,6 3,4 • the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK and their member organisaAudit activities not included in tions/unions statutory audit 0,4 0,6 0,4 0,6 • associates and joint ventures Tax advisory services 2,0 1,2 0,4 – • the occupational pension information centres Collectum and Fora (the Other services 0,3 0,1 0,2 0,1 main owner of Collectum being the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Total, EY 6,3 5,3 4,6 4,1 which also owns half of Fora) • AMF and AFA are half-owned by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Transactions with related parties must, like other transactions, be undertaken on commercial terms. When such transactions are undertaken particular attention must be paid to the internal rule on handling of conflicts of interNOTE 50 Leasing est and Alecta’s ethics policy, both of which have been adopted by Alecta’s Board of Directors. Alecta has entered into operating leases for premises, office equipment and The operations of Alecta are conducted in accordance with principles of cars. The due dates for the sum of future minimum lease payments under mutuality. The profit or loss arising in the company must be returned to or non-cancellable leases at 31 December 2018 are indicated below. borne by the policy holders and the insureds. The operations are conducted Group Parent Company on a non-profit basis and no profits are distributed. Subsidiaries are regarded Expiration 2018 2017 2018 2017 chiefly as capital investments aimed at generating the best return for the Within one year 7,4 6,1 3,0 3,1 owners. Later than one year but within five years 13,3 13,5 6,1 8,1 Transactions between Alecta and subsidiaries Later than five years – – – – Alecta-to-subsidiary transactions refer to loans or shareholder contribuTotal 20,7 19,6 9,1 11,2 tions provided in connection with investments made by the subsidiaries. Subsidiary-to-Alecta transactions refer mainly to loan repayments and Total lease payments interest payments as well as dividends. Shares and participations in Group during period 13,4 7,4 5,5 4,5 companies are presented in Note 16. of which minimum lease payments 13,4 7,4 5,5 4,5 Transactions with members of the Board, senior management Rental contracts outside Sweden are sublet. The lease income was SEK 2,7 million (1,5) in 2018, is and their immediate family estimated at SEK 2,8 million (2,6) within one year and SEK 2,1 million (4,6) in total after more than Information on remuneration of senior executives and members of the Board one year but within five years. is presented in Note 48. No remuneration was paid to family members of related parties in 2018. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 109 NOTE 51 Related party disclosures, cont. Transactions with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK Transactions between Alecta and these joint ventures refer to lending, The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation and shareholder contributions and interest payments, and are shown in the table Cooperation (PTK) are central labour market organisations in the Swedish below. There are currently no investments in associated companies. private sector. Member organisations and unions of these central organisations are represented on the nomination committees which, on behalf of the owners, Transactions with the occupational pension information appoint members of Alecta’s Council of Administration and thus indirectly also centres Collectum and Fora of Alecta’s Board of Directors. No transactions took place between Alecta and Transactions made between Alecta and the Collectum and Fora selection the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK in 2018. centres are based on concluded agency agreements under which the selecIn 2018, Unionen and some of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise’s tion centres undertake to perform a number of duties related to the ITP member organisations transferred insurance portfolios from another insurplans and the occupational pension plans collectively agreed between the ance provider to Alecta. The transferred portfolios had a total value of SEK Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Trade Union Confed691 million (0) and the transfers were made on commercial terms. eration (Avtalspension SAF-LO). Collectum and Fora receive agency fees from Alecta for work performed under the agency agreements. Transactions Transactions with associated companies and joint ventures with the selection centres are shown in the table below. The agency fees have Joint ventures are defined as entities in which Alecta exercises joint control been charged to operating expenses for the year and are shown in Note 8. together with the other co-owners. Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, is a co-owner of a number of jointly controlled real estate companies in Sweden Transactions with AMF and AFA and the United States. In the US, these participations are owned through the No transactions took place with AMF or AFA. wholly owned subsidiary company Alecta Real Estate USA, LLC. A list of joint ventures is found in Note 18. Payments received Payments made Related parties Transactions 2018 2017 2018 2017 Information on transactions Swedish Group companies Interest income 114 118 – – between the Parent Company, Share of profit 917 80 – – Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and related Management fee 9 9 – – parties Foreign Group companies Dividends 35 5 788 – – Shareholder contributions provided – – – 289 Selection centres (Collectum and Fora) Premium payments 35 102 29 386 – – Agency fees – – 142 133 Joint ventures Interest income 122 165 – – 36 299 35 546 142 422 Receivables Liabilities Related parties Balances 2018 2017 2018 2017 Information on the Parent Swedish Group companies Non-current receivables 9 066 9 272 – – Company’s, Alecta PensionsReceivables from/liabilities to Group försäkring, ömsesidigt, companies – – 445 568 outstanding claims and liabilities to related Accrued interest expense – – – 0 parties at 31 December Selection centres (Collectum and Fora) Receivables 1 722 1 744 – – Joint ventures Loans receivable 1 857 1 591 – – Accrued interest income 2 3 – – 12 647 12 610 445 568 NOTE 52 Significant events after the balance sheet date No significant events occurred after the balance sheet date. 110 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s signatures We hereby declare that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the information provided gives a true and fair view of the circumstances of the Company and nothing of material significance has been omitted which could affect the view of the Company created by the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. Stockholm, 14 March 2019 Erik Åsbrink Chairman Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren Carola Lemne Hanna Bisell First Vice Chairman Second Vice Chairman Board member Anna-Karin Hatt Per Hedelin Petra Hedengran Peter Jeppsson Board member Board member Board member Board member Magnus von Koch Martin Linder Richard Malmborg Kaj Thorén Board member Board member Board member Board member Anders Weihe Birgitta Pernkrans Mikael Persson Board member Employee representative Employee representative Magnus Billing CEO Our audit report was submitted on 19 March 2019. Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 111 Audit Report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, corp. ID no. 502014-6865 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements Opinion We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated financial The opinion expressed in this report on the annual accounts and statements of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for 2018 (financonsolidated financial statements is consistent with the content of cial year). The company’s annual accounts and consolidated finanthe supplementary report submitted to the Audit Committee of the cial statements are presented on pages 45–111 of this document. Parent Company in accordance with Article 11 of the Audit RegulaIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accortion (537/2014). dance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act and give an essentially true and fair view of the Parent Company’s Basis of opinion financial position at 31 December 2018 and of its financial results We have conducted our audit in accordance with the International and cash flows for the year in accordance with the Insurance ComStandards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing stanpanies Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated financial statements dards (GAAS) in Sweden. Our responsibility under these standards have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Insurance is described in the section The auditor’s responsibility. We are indeCompanies Annual Accounts Act and give an essentially true and pendent of the Parent Company and the Group in accordance with fair view of the Group’s financial position at 31 December 2018 and Swedish GAAS and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibiliof its financial results and cash flows for the year in accordance with ties under these standards. This includes ensuring, based on our the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted best knowledge and conviction, that no prohibited services within by the EU, and the Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act. the meaning of Article 5.1 of the Audit Regulation (537/2014) have The Administration Report is consistent with the other parts of the been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. Parent Company or its controlled undertakings within the EU. We therefore recommend that the Council of Administration We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient adopt the income statements and balance sheets for the Parent and adequate as a basis for our opinion. Company and the Group. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters which, in our professional We have fulfilled the obligations described in the section The audijudgement, were of greatest significance for the audit of the annual tor’s responsibility in our report on the annual accounts also in accounts and consolidated accounts for the period concerned. These these areas. We thus carried out audit procedures which have been matters were addressed in the context of the audit of, and in the designed to take account of our assessment of the risk of material preparation of our opinion on, the annual accounts and consolierrors in the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. dated accounts as a whole, but we do not present a separate opinion The outcome of our audit and the audit procedures that have been on these matters. The below description of how the audit has been carried out to address the areas described below constitute the basis implemented in these areas should also be read in this context. for our auditor’s report. Valuation of provisions for life insurance Description of the matter How this matter was considered in the audit At 31 December 2018, the Group had life insurance provisions We have evaluated the company’s process for determining proviof SEK 496 billion, accounting for 93 per cent of total liabilities. sions and assessed whether material risks are covered by existing In the Parent Company, these amounted to SEK 496 billion, controls. We have also assessed the suitability of the methods accounting for 93 per cent of the Parent Company’s liabilities. and assumptions used, and have made independent calculations of Disclosures on provisions for life insurance are provided in provisions for those insurance classes which involve the highest Note 1 Accounting principles, Note 2 Significant accounting degree of judgement. In our audit, we have engaged our internal estimates and judgements, Note 3 Risks and risk management, actuaries to assist us in carrying out audit procedures in respect and Note 36 Provision for life insurance. Life insurance proviof technical provisions. We have also assessed whether the dissions need to cover expected future payments of insurance closures made in the financial statements in respect of life insurclaims. Provisions for future claims are calculated using statisance provisions are appropriate. tical methods. In view of the size of the balance sheet item relative to total liabilities, and the fact that the valuation requires management to make estimates and judgements, the valuation of life insurance provisions is considered a key audit matter in our audit. 112 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Audit report, cont. Valuation of investment assets Description of the matter In view of the size of the balance sheet item relative to total At 31 December 2018, the Group had investment assets of SEK assets, and the fact that the measurement of financial instru827 billion, accounting for 98 per cent of total assets. In the ments at Level 2 and Level 3 requires management to make Parent Company, these amounted to SEK 820 billion, accountcertain estimates and judgements, the valuation of investment ing for 97 per cent of the Parent Company’s total assets. Of the assets is considered a key audit matter in our audit. investment assets, SEK 818 billion is measured at fair value in the Group and SEK 798 billion is measured at fair value in the How this matter was considered in the audit Parent Company. Financial instruments at fair value are dividWe have evaluated the company’s process for the valuation of ed into different levels based on a fair value hierarchy (Levels financial instruments and other investment assets, and the 1, 2 and 3). Level 1 consists of financial instrument for which valuation methods used and have, where applicable, assessed quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets are available for the reasonableness of management’s estimates and judgements identical assets or liabilities. For financial instruments in Level in calculating fair values. We have tested a selection of key con2, certain estimates and judgements may be required to detertrols in the valuation process and have independently valued a mine fair value, although the use of estimates and judgements selection of financial instruments and other investment assets. is much less significant than for financial instruments in Level 3. The results of this valuation have been compared with the comAt 31 December 2018, there were investment assets of SEK 543 pany’s own valuation and differences have been analysed. We billion which are measured at fair value at Level 1, SEK 193 billion have also assessed whether the disclosures made in the finanmeasured at Level 2 and SEK 55 billion measured at Level 3. For cial statements in respect of investment assets are appropriate. the Parent Company, there were investment assets of SEK 543 billion which are measured at fair value at Level 1, SEK 193 billion measured at Level 2 and SEK 53 billion measured at Level 3. Disclosures on the valuation of investment assets are found in Note 1 Accounting principles and Note 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value. Information is also provided in Note 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities and in Note 23 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value based on Level 3. Disclosures are also provided in Note 15 Land and buildings. Other information than the annual accounts Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive and consolidated financial statements Officer Responsibility for ensuring that the annual accounts and consoliThis document also contains other information than the annual dated financial statements are prepared and give a true and fair view accounts and consolidated financial statements, which is found on pursuant to the Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act and, pages 1–44 and 116–120. Responsibility for this other information as regards the consolidated financial statements, pursuant to IFRS rests with the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. as adopted by the EU, rests with the Board of Directors and Chief Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated financial Executive Officer. The Board and CEO are also responsible for such statements does not cover this other information, and we do not internal control as they deem necessary for the purpose of preparing express any opinion, or make any certification, in respect of this annual accounts and consolidated financial statements that are free information. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In connection with of our audit of the annual accounts and conIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated financial solidated financial statements it is our responsibility to read the statements, the Board and CEO are responsible for assessing the information identified above and, in so doing, to consider whether it company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Where applicable, is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated they are also required to disclose circumstances which could affect financial statements. In this review we also take account of other the company’s ability to continue as a going concern and use the knowledge obtained in the course of our audit and assess whether going concern assumption. The going concern assumption applies the information otherwise appears to contain material misstateunless the Board and CEO intend to liquidate the company or cease ments. to operate, or have no realistic alternative to doing so. If, based on the work carried out in respect of this information, The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is tasked with we conclude that the other information contains a material mismonitoring, without prejudice to the other responsibilities and statement, we have a duty to report this. We have nothing to report duties of the Board, the financial reporting of the company. in that regard. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 113 Audit report, cont. The auditor’s responsibility • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual annual accounts and consolidated financial statements, including accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole are from the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to submit financial statements provide a true and fair view of the underlying an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a transactions and events. high degree of assurance, but does not constitute a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISA and generally accepted • obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence in respect of the auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatefinancial information for the entities or business activities in the ment if it exists. Misstatements can arise due to fraud or error and Group so as to be able to express an opinion on the consolidated are considered material if they individually or jointly can reasonably financial statements. We are responsible for the governance, monibe expected to affect financial decisions made by users on the basis toring and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. statements. We are solely responsible for the opinion that we issue. As part of our audit in accordance with ISA, we use our professional judgement and maintain a professionally sceptical attitude We are required to inform the Board on, for example, the planned throughout our audit. We also: scope, focus and timing of the audit. We are also required to communicate any significant observations made in the course of our • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the annual audit, including any significant internal control issues that we have accounts and consolidated financial statements, whether due to identified. fraud or error, devise and perform audit procedures partly on the We are furthermore required to submit a statement to the Board basis of these risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient confirming that we have complied with all professional ethical and appropriate as a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detectrequirements with regard to independence, address all relations and ing a material misstatement that is due to fraud is higher than for other circumstances which could reasonably affect our independence a material misstatement that is due to error, as fraud can involve and, where applicable, take relevant countermeasures. persons acting in collusion, falsification, intentional omissions, Of those areas that are communicated to the Board, we determine incorrect information or neglect of internal control. which were most significant for the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements, including the most important • obtain an understanding of that part of the company’s internal assessed risks of material misstatement, and which therefore concontrol system that is of significance for our audit in order to stitute the key audit matters. We describe these areas in our audit devise audit procedures which are appropriate in view of the cirreport unless laws, regulations or administrative provisions prohibit cumstances, but not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the disclosure of the matter. the internal control system. • evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting principles used Report on other legal and regulatory and the reasonableness of the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s estirequirements mates in the accounts and related disclosures. Opinion • draw a conclusion on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have audited the and CEO’s use of the going concern assumption in preparing Board of Directors’ and Chief Executive Officer’s management of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. We Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for 2018 and the proposed also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, on appropriation of the company’s profit or loss. whether there is any material uncertainty related to events or cirWe recommend that the Council of Administration allocate the cumstances which could cast significant doubt on the company’s retained earnings as proposed in the Administration Report and ability to continue as a going concern. If we draw the conclusion grant release from liability to the Directors and Chief Executive that there is a material uncertainty, we need to draw attention Officer in respect of the financial year. in our audit report to those disclosures which concern the material uncertainty in the annual accounts or, if such disclosures are Basis of opinion insufficient, modify our opinion on the annual accounts and conWe have conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted solidated financial statements. Our conclusions are based on the auditing standards (GAAS) in Sweden. Our responsibility under these audit evidence obtained up to the date of the audit report. However, standards is described in the section The auditor’s responsibility. We future events or circumstances could result in a company being are independent of the Parent Company and the Group in accordance unable to continue as a going concern. 114 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Audit report, cont. with Swedish GAAS and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsipany’s profit or loss is consistent with the Insurance Business Act or bilities under these standards. the Articles of Association. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient As part of our audit in accordance with Swedish GAAS, we use and adequate as a basis for our opinion. our professional judgement and maintain a professionally sceptical attitude throughout our audit. Our examination of the management Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive and the proposed appropriation of the company’s profit or loss is Officer based primarily on our audit of the financial statements. We use our Responsibility for the proposed appropriation of the company’s professional judgement to decide which additional audit procedures profit or loss rests with the Board of Directors. The preparation of a to carry out based on risk and materiality. This means that we focus dividend proposal involves assessing whether the dividend is justifiour examination on such procedures, areas and circumstances that able with regard to the equity, consolidation, liquidity and financial are material to the business and where deviations and violations position requirements of the Parent Company and Group arising would be particularly significant for the company’s situation. We from the nature, scope and risks of the operations of the Parent review and test the decisions that have been made, the bases for Company and Group. these decisions, the measures taken and other circumstances that The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and the are relevant to our opinion on release from liability. As a basis for management of its affairs. This involves continuously assessing the our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposal for appropriation company’s and Group’s financial situation, and ensuring that the of the company’s profit or loss, we have examined whether the procompany’s organisation is structured so as to ensure satisfactory posal is consistent with the Insurance Business Act and the Articles control of its accounting, management of funds and financial affairs. of Association. The CEO is responsible for day-to-day management in accordance with the guidelines and instructions issued by the Board and shall Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, SE-103 99 Stockholm, were appointed take such actions as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the auditors of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt by the Council of company’s statutory accounting obligations and satisfactory manAdministration on 18 April 2018 and have been the company’s audiagement of funds. tors since 10 April 2014. The auditor’s responsibility Our objective for the management audit, and thus for our opinion on Stockholm, 19 March 2019 release from liability, is to obtain audit evidence that enables us to Ernst & Young AB assess with reasonable assurance whether any member of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer has in any material respect: • taken any action or been guilty of any neglect that could give rise Jesper Nilsson to a liability to indemnify the company. Authorised Public Accountant • otherwise acted in contravention of the Insurance Business Act, the Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Our objective in respect of our audit of the proposed appropriation of the company’s profit or loss, and thus for our opinion on the same, is to obtain reasonable assurance that the proposed appropriation is consistent with the Insurance Business Act or the Articles of Association. Reasonable assurance is a high degree of assurance but does guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden (Swedish GAAS) will always detect actions or neglect that could give rise to a liability to indemnify the company, or that the proposed appropriation of the comALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 115 Review report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, corp. ID. no. 502014-6865 We have, in our capacity as lay auditors, reviewed the operations of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for the year 2018. We performed our review in accordance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Act and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. This means that we planned and performed our review so as to obtain reasonable assurance that the company’s operations have been conducted in an appropriate and financially satisfactory manner, and that the company’s internal control is adequate. Our review did not result in any qualifications. Stockholm, 20 March 2019 Niklas Hjert Lars Jansson 116 ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 Glossary Adjustment of paid-up values Distributable assets Premium reduction Assigned refunds through an increase of the pension The total market value of assets less financial liabilities, Distribution of surplus funds through a reduction of entitlement earned prior to retirement age. This adjustspecial indexation funds and guarantee reserves. premiums. Premium reduction is applied for risk insurance. ment is primarily made to compensate for inflation. Insurance contracts PRI model Agency agreement with Collectum A contract between an insurance provider and a policy Rather than paying premiums to an insurance company, An agreement under which Collectum performs adminisholder containing a significant insurance risk. the employer reports its pension commitment as a liabilitrative services relating to the ITP plan for Alecta. ty in the balance sheet. The distribution of funds begins Insured only on the retirement of an employee. A credit insurance Assets under management The person covered by the insurance contract. arrangement with PRI Pensionsgaranti guarantees that Calculated as equity, provision for life insurance and the employees will receive their pensions even if their claims outstanding, according to the balance sheet. Investments employer becomes insolvent. Investment assets, cash and bank balances, and other Capital base assets and liabilities related to investment assets (such as Refund The insurance company is required to maintain a capital accrued interest and rental income) at market value in A surplus that is guaranteed or allocated to base of sufficient size to be able to cover any unforeseen the balance sheet. – the policy holders in the form of premium reductions. future losses. The capital base consists of the difference – the insureds, in the form of an increase of the insurance between the market value of the Company’s assets, less Investment assets benefit. intangible assets and financial liabilities, and technical Assets having the character of a capital investment, i.e. – cost coverage for measures under the ITP plan. The provisions. debt securities, shares and real estate. parties to the collective agreement have been granted the right to indicate how the funds should be used. The Capital value Investment management expense ratio decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s The estimated present value of future payment flows. Operating expenses in the Company’s investment manBoard of Directors, provided that the Board unaniagement activities in relation to average assets under mously agrees that the designated use is consistent Client-company funds management. with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. Funds assigned to the policy holders in 1998 from the Guaranteed refunds are formally guaranteed. Allocated surplus generated by Alecta during the years 1994–1998. Management expense ratio refunds are not formally guaranteed. The funds have primarily been used as pension premiums Operating expenses in the insurance business (acquisition at Alecta and other life insurance companies. and administrative expenses) and claims settlement Risk insurance expenses in relation to average assets under management. Insurance for which the entire premium is used to proCollective agreement guarantee The key ratio is calculated on an aggregate basis and for tect against risk. There is no savings component in this If an employer that has agreed to enrol in the ITP plan the pension products, excluding selection centre costs. type of insurance. under a collective agreement subsequently fails to sign or maintain the ITP agreement, fees and other benefits shall Occupational group life insurance (TGL) Solvency margin accrue to the employee to the same extent as if the A life insurance policy under which surviving family memThe required solvency margin is a minimum requirement employer had fulfilled its obligations under the ITP plan. bers receive a specified amount if the insured dies before for the size of the capital base. Put simply, the solvency The collective agreement guarantee is administered by retirement. Under the collective agreement, the employer margin is defined as certain percentages of technical proCollectum. is required to take out occupational group life insurance visions and the Company’s insurance risks. for its employees. Collective funding capital Solvency ratio The difference between distributable assets, valued at Original ITPK Total assets at market value less intangible assets and market value, and insurance commitments (guaranteed Introduced in 1977, defined contribution ITPK was at that financial liabilities, in relation to guaranteed commitments. commitments as well as allocated refunds) to policy holdtime automatically invested in Alecta. As of 1990 the indiers and the insureds. vidual beneficiary has been able to make their own Special indexation funds choice. Those who had made no choice by year-end 2007 Funds allocated to guarantee the indexation of pensions Collective funding ratio had their ITPK invested in the default option, the original or for other pension-promoting purposes. These funds Distributable assets in relation to insurance commitITPK. No further money has been invested in the original only become available to Alecta subject to a decision by ments to policy holders and insureds (guaranteed comITPK after 2007. the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council mitments as well as allocated refunds). for Negotiation and Cooperation (PTK). Special indexPension supplement ation funds are therefore not included in collective fundDefault option Refunds allocated to the insureds in addition to the guaring capital. In a defined contribution plan where the employee does anteed pension. Under the applicable actuarial guidelines, not make an active choice of insurance company, the the pension supplement must not exceed the increase in Technical provisions employee automatically becomes a customer of the the consumer price index for the year concerned, starting Provisions in the balance sheet for an insurance company’s insurance company that has been designated as the from the date on which the first pension payment was obligations arising from insurance contracts. Technical default service provider in the procurement for the manmade to the insured. The pension supplement is deterprovisions comprise the capital value of the insurance agement of the plan. mined by the Board each year. company’s guaranteed obligations. Technical provisions consist of provisions for life insurance and claims outDefined benefit insurance (ITP 2) Policy holder standing. A defined benefit pension plan is a plan under which the The party that has entered into an insurance contract size of the pension is determined in advance, for example with an insurance company. Total return as a specified amount or a percentage of the final salary. The return on investments, adjusted for cash flows and Premium rate expressed as a percentage, according to the recommenDefined contribution insurance For defined benefit insurance, the size of the premium dations of Insurance Sweden. In a defined contribution pension the size of the premium depends partly on the applied premium rate. The premiis defined in advance, either as a certain percentage of ums paid, including the cumulative return based on the Waiver of premium insurance the employee’s salary or as a specified amount. The size premium rate, must be sufficient to pay the guaranteed Part of the collective risk insurance provided under the of the pension depends on the amount of pension capital benefit during the payment period. This means that the ITP plan, waiver of premium insurance means that the on retirement. premium will be higher the lower the applied premium employer is released from paying premiums if an employee rate. becomes incapacitated for work. In such case, premiums Discount rate for insurance provided under the ITP plan will be paid The interest rate used to calculate the present value of from the waiver of premium insurance and are regarded future cash inflows and outflows. as insurance compensation. ALECTA’S ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2018 117 8057 | 2019.03 | Photos: Evelina Carborn, Oskar Omne, Alecta | Illustrations: Emily Ryan Production: Alecta | Final art: Griller Grafisk Form | Prepress and print: Bildrepro Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt Telephone +46 20 78 22 80 SE-103 73 Stockholm | alecta.se
