SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES KEY PERFORMANCE 2018 OIL AND GAS RESERVES (A,B,C1) million BOE INDICATORS IN 2016 8,254.5 Oil Gas condensate Natural gas 625.8 42.4 414.3 GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-7, 102-8, OG1 2017 7,954.1 million tons million tons billion m³ 2018 7,811.2 PROFIT PROCUREMENT 2016 2016 OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 360.1 1,871 thousand tons of oil million m3 of gas per day CO2 emissions intensity KZT billion KZT billion 2017 2017 tons per 1,000 tons 525.4 2,553 2016 2016 2016 22,639 20.2 115 2018 693.5 2018 2,428 2017 23,362 2017 21.9 2017 110 2018 23,606 2018 22.3 2018 101 of hydrocarbons ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS REFINING MARKETING thousand tons of oil CO2 emissions intensity Refueling tons per 1,000 tons Water withdrawal, СО2 emissions, Energy resources saving, Level of recovery of associated million m3 million tons thousand Gj petroleum gas, % 2016 17,673 2016 219 >100 2016 81.3 7.6 113.2 86 thousand 2017 2017 of hydrocarbons 18,207 221 2017 84.4 8.5 119.5 85 2018 19,715 2018 216 2018 93.7 9.3 167.6 93 vehicles a day OIL AND GAS TRANSPORTATION Group’s main pipelines Oil transportation by sea, EMPLOYEES * BY GENDER, % Oil transportation, Gas transportation, thousand tons 21 19.2 18.8 thousand tons million m3 per day 2016 2016 2016 62,390 62,390 2016 2016 241 2412016 2016 7,081 7,081 90,267 2017 84,061 2016 2017 2018 2017 2017 67,864 67,8642017 2017 276 2762017 2017 6,951 6,951 2018 2018 67,96167,961 2018 2018 306 306 2018 2018 7,077 7,077 2018 78,933 * Actual number of employees at the end of 2018, details on p. 120 79 80.8 81.2 SERVICE Social support expenses Number of fatal incidents land and air support of drilling and automation of oil spill prevention production transport offshore integrated services technological & response of oil and gas operations processes equipment 2016 19 2016 7 KZT billion 2018 2017 18.9 22 2018 2017 1 5 more than 10.5 thousand vehicles are used daily at our production facilities Sustainability Report 2 4 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY 18 Sustainability is our Strategic Goal 29 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTENT Stakeholder Interaction 30 AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE 58 Key Areas of Interaction 31 Our Approach 60 ABOUT THE REPORT 4 Identification of Material Topics 34 Workplace Safety 64 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN of the Report Health Care and Workplace Hygiene 66 OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD 6 Ethics and Fair Practices 37 Industrial Safety 68 Mechanisms for Seeking Advice 39 1 Environmental Index 71 on Unethical Conduct Compliance with the Requirements 93 ANNEXES 112 Information Belief System and “Hot Line” 40 HSE Training 94 Independent Assurance Report on the 114 Initiatives and Memberships 42 Sustainability Report 2018 ADDRESS BY THE CHAIRMAN 5 OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 44 Annex 1 Reporting Boundaries, Changes, 116 Notes Supplements, Assumptions and 118 Description of Methodology for Data Collection, Consolidation and Calculation 3 Annex 2 Key Sustainable Development 121 Indicators Annex 3 GRI Content Index 126 Annex 4 Abbreviations and Acronyms 135 ABOUT THE COMPANY 8 Contact Information 137 Mission and Strategic Objectives 14 Corporate Key Events 15 Transformation and Digitalization 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 96 in the Company Employment 98 Human Rights 102 Interactive version: Staff Development 104 CONTRIBUTION TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 46 Personal Evaluation 107 Low-carbon Development 48 Equal Possibilities 107 Economic Performance 51 Our Communities 108 Procurement Practices 54 Anti-corruption 55 2 3 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes About the Report Recognizing the principles of the UN Global Compact, the Company declares its commitment to adhere in its activities to the following Sustainability Report principles: Business community should Human Rights support and respect the protection Principle 1 of internationally proclaimed human GRI 102-32, 102-46, 102-50, 102-52, 102-54 rights. Business community should not be KMG Sustainability Report (hereinafter – the Report) prepared in accordance with the international financial Principle 2 involved in violation of human rights. highlights the company’s approach to sustainable reporting standards were used. Business community should development, social, economic and environmental support the freedom of association responsibilities, as well as key events and indicators for This Report has been prepared in accordance with Global Principle 3 and the effective recognition reporting period. Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards of the right to collective bargaining. (GRI Standards, 2016) as well as GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector The Report is a corporate governance tool for us and a Disclosures. To ensure data comparison and comparability Business community should significant component of stakeholder interaction. In order capabilities, quantitative indicators are presented in Principle 4 advocate liquidation of all forms Labour to achieve consistency of our sustainable development dynamics over several years. of forced and compulsory labour. goals, we believe it is crucial to regularly report Business community should and provide stakeholders with comprehensive information All KMG Sustainability Reports are Principle 5 advocate eradication of child labour. on the aspects of activities significant for them and receive available in Kazakh, Russian and English Business community feedback on the Report. on the company’s website. should advocate liquidation Principle 6 of discrimination in the area JSC NC “KazMunayGas” prepares the reports on its The KMG Sustainability Report is of labour and employment. activities in the field of corporate social responsibility every approved by decision of the KMG Board of Directors year since 2008, starting from 2012 it publishes reports and communicated to the stakeholders through publication Business community should in accordance with the GRI reporting framework. on the corporate website and distribution of the printed Principle 7 support a prudent approach version. to environmental issues. Environment This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Business community should adopt Standards: Core option. Since 2006, KMG has been a member and active Principle 8 initiatives to promote greater participant of the UN Global Compact (hereinafter – UNGC) environmental responsibility. The Report presents consolidated information on JSC NC and adheres to ten UNGC principles and 17 Sustainable Business community should facilitate “KazMunayGas” and its subsidiaries and affiliates (referred Development Goals (hereinafter – SDG). the development and dissemination to in the Report as KMG, the Company, the Group of Principle 9 of environmentally friendly Companies) for the 2018 calendar year. The Report covers Annual Sustainability Report technologies. KMG subsidiaries and affiliates, in which fifty or more of the Company reflects our percent of the voting shares (interests) directly or indirectly communication on Progress under belong to KMG on the right of ownership or trust the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights management, as well as legal entities, whose activities are and is available through the link. Anti-Corruption under the KMG control (detailed scope of the reporting sections is provided in the Annex 1 to the Report). The Report sections graphically indicate the SDGs for which Business community should Labour The financial position and results of the Company’s the Company is taking measures to achieve and implement Principle 10 counteract corruption in all its forms, operations are presented using the company’s consolidated them. Integrating SDGs with the reporting data will make it including extortion and bribery. data with organizational support from the relevant Blocks possible to assess more effectively the progress in achieving Environment of the Company. When preparing this Report, the KMG’s the SDG objectives and focus efforts on improvement management and audited consolidated financial statements of Company’s performance in implementing the principles of sustainable development. Anti-Corruption 4 5 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Message from the Chairman Sustainability Report of the Management Board GRI 102-10, 102-14, 102-44 will have a positive impact on our goodwill During the year, we continued to actively Dear readers, and reputation of our company. The more implement the Transformation Program. transparent we are, the more attractive we According to the new management model, I am glad to present to your attention the KMG are to investors and other stakeholders. one of the major sub-holdings, KMG Sustainability Report for 2018. For the second year in a row, KMG holds Exploration and Production, merged with the highest place in the Rating of openness us in 2018. Now production assets are Consistently implementing new changes in business of oil and gas companies of Kazakhstan managed directly by KMG. The holding processes, we strive to ensure compliance of our in the field of environmental responsibility. structure continues to improve business activities with the principles of sustainable development, processes, simplify the management system consistency of our economic, environmental and social Last year, the Company was focused and improve the quality of works performed. goals. on improving financial stability and we managed to cover losses and significantly As one of the largest employers In 2018, we approved a new Strategy for the Company’s improve our financial performance. in the country, we strive for high social development for a ten-year period. And one In 2018, the KMG external debt was also orientation, which is based on the principles of the important strategic goals of the Company was reduced, limits on investments were of partnership with employees and trade to revise our management policy taking into account set and the regulations were adopted unions. We are focused on promoting the components of sustainable development and to set for project deadlines. We were also able productive employment, ensuring decent performance targets for the new level of development. to bring non-core activities into the market work and working conditions, training This initiative is fully consistent with the strategic goals environment, which allowed us to reduce and education of employees, promoting and our shareholder – the Fund “Samruk-Kazyna”. duplicate functions, such as KMG-Retail LLP the development in the regions where we Sustainable development for us is a significant component (gasoline stations network), Kazakh-British operate. of corporate governance. Technical University JSC, and KMG-Service Georgia. A significant event of the year Next year we are aimed at ensuring our Over the past 4 years, we have done tremendous work was the completion of the modernization investment attractiveness by increasing in the field of occupational health, industrial safety of oil refineries. The plants fully provided the transparency of activities, the level and the environment, at that 2018 was the best year the domestic market with their own oil of environmental and social responsibilities in terms of safety and health. We achieved our goal products of environmental class K4, K5 of business, as well as improving to join the top 20 global industry companies in terms (Euro-4, Euro-5 standards), a contract was the indicators of long-term sustainability. of safety by 2020 in terms of the fatality rate, and by 2020 signed for increasing the export of Kazakh the Company expects to join the top in terms of injury gas to China from 5 billion to 10 billion Sincerely, Alik Aidarbayev rate. cubic meters per year, work on gasification of the regions of the Republic was continued. Now, we focus on transparency of environmental reporting. This is also one of the new initiatives that 6 7 1 ABOUT THE COMPANY Consistently implementing new SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES changes in business processes, we strive to ensure compliance of Sustainability Report our activities with the principles of sustainable development, consistency of our economic, environmental and social goals. •• Digital transformation •• Production processes automatization •• Processes re-engineering •• Management system change •• Corporate culture development •• Corporate values introduction •• Financial stability improvement •• Ecological reporting transparency •• Labor safety indicators leadership 8 9 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Location of KMG production assets and value chain About the Company Sustainability Report KMG ships diesel fuel for field agricultural works, and also to the results of 2018, the share of deliveries provides social and production facilities and institutions to the domestic market amounted to 75 % of the total with fuel oil during the heating period. The remaining sales of KMG oil products. volumes of oil products are sold to third-party buyers in the domestic market and for export. In the structure of export deliveries of oil products GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9 in 2018, the shipment of dark oil products to Europe All volumes of light oil products are sold in bulk prevailed, small volumes of oil products were supplied Joint Stock Company National Company “KazMunayGas” is a unique vertically in the domestic market of Kazakhstan. According to Russia and China. integrated oil and gas operator that carries out a full production cycle from exploration and production of hydrocarbons, their transportation and refining to provision of specialized services and represents the interests of the state in the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan. KMG was formed by the decree KMG shareholders: Joint Stock Company National Wealth of the President of Kazakhstan Fund “Samruk-Kazyna” (90 %) and the RoK National Bank dated February 20, 2002 by merging (10 %). Petropavl CJSC “NOC “Kazakhoil” and CJSC “NC “Oil and Gas Transportation”. Karachaganak Gas Processing Plant Kokshetau The founder of KMG is the Government Kostanai of the Republic of Kazakhstan Pavlodar (hereinafter – RoK) represented Oral Aksai by the State Property and Privatization Aktobe Committee of the Ministry of Finance Semei Atyrau Oil Refinery Zhanazhol Nur-Sultan Oskemen of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Urikhtau Karaganda Bukhara – Ural MGP Kurmangazy EMG Kashagan Atyrau Tengiz Zhanazhol Gas Beineu – Bosoi – Akbulak MGP Processing Plant Kalamkas “A” offshore Kazgermunai Kumkol Karazhanbasmunai Kazakhstan – China MGP Aktau Amangeldy Ozenmunaygas Kyzylorda Almaty Taraz Pre-Caspian MGP Shymkent Oil KazMunayGas is the leading national oil and gas company Refinery Shymkent that owns 44 oil and gas fields on the territory of Kazakhstan and is one of the largest employers of the country. The company specializes in many areas of the oil and gas sector, manages major oil refineries in Kazakhstan and refineries in Romania, owns assets in such countries as Switzerland, Bulgaria, Georgia, Moldova and Turkey. Besides, the Company expands the scope of its activities working on implementation of new investment projects. 10 11 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes KMG OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS VALUE CHAIN Wholesale distribution of KMG oil products produced by RoK refineries (2018 actual)*, thousand tons 2018 actual Domestic market Export Total Sustainability Report 1 2 3 4 Gasolines 701 – 701 exploration development and production transportation sales Diesel fuel 954 – 954 Jet fuel 34 – 34 Fuel oil 192 414 606 Vacuum gas oil 0 200 200 Heating oil 43 34 66 Calcinated coke – 25 25 Total coke 44 33 77 Sulfur 9 4 13 5 6 7 Benzene – 5 5 refining logistic and storage oil products sales Bitumen 53 – 53 Paraxylene – 2 2 Liquefied gas 128 – 128 HGU raw materials 4 – 4 Total 2018 2,162 717 2,868 * total sales volumes of petroleum products are specified for 2018 out of resources of KMG EP and KMG As required by the Technical Regulations •• Concentration of lead is not more than KMG GAS VALUE CHAIN of the Customs Union, motor fuels 5 mg/dm3, for environmental class K4, K5. corresponding to environmental classes K4, K5 have been produced at domestic refineries The Сompany provides information on the since 2018. quality of products manufactured at the 1 2 3 К4, К5 (EURO 4, EURO 5) Kazakhstani refineries through press releases in the media. Stakeholders can also familiarize exploration development production themselves with the necessary information GRI OG8 on the quality of fuel produced on the official Herewith: websites of the refineries: PPCP https://www. •• Volume fraction of benzene of not more pnhz.kz/product/quality_of_product/ than 1 % for the environmental class K4, K5; Atyrau Refinery https://www.anpz.kz/ •• Mass fraction of sulfur is not more than production/product/ 50 mg/kg for class K4, and not more than PKOP http://www.petrokazakhstan.kz/rus/ 10 mg/kg for class K5; pages/processing_subdivision.html. Balance of production and consumption main types of fuels and lubricants in RoK** 2018 actual, thousand tons Name GASOLINES DIESEL FUEL KEROSENE 4 5 6 Production Consumption 3,943 4,217 4,434 4,865 388 647 refining transportation sales Import 408 377 261 More details on the Company’s operations and financial results are set out in the Annual Report for 2018. ** the difference between production and consumption + import is the carry-over balance for the last year 12 13 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes MISSION AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CORPORATE KEY EVENTS Sustainability Report GRI 102-16 2018 GRI 102-44 January MISSION VISION Global Depositary Receipts and common shares of JSC In May 2018, KMG redeemed Eurobonds with a total nominal “KazMunaiGas” Exploration value of 3.1 bln USD, which had Maximizing the Shareholders’ A highly efficient national and competitive integrated February Production have been delisted been financed by a Eurobond issue benefits from participation in oil and gas producing and transporting company from London and Kazakhstan stock of 3.25 bln USD, ahead of schedule the development of the national meeting the highest standards of safety operations exchange since 10 May 2018 and in full petroleum industry and corporate governance March STRATEGIC GOALS April 1 Value creation and financial sustainability strengthening Increasing the level of manageability of subsidiaries and affiliates / JV 2 Corporate governance and sustainability 3 May June In October 2018, KazTransGas and Petrochina International Alashankou Company Limited signed a five-year contract to increase In October 2018, KMG took over the trustee management of 50% of Samruk-Kazyna common shares in JSC “AstanaGas KMG” to manage the construction of the Kazakhstan gas exports to China STRATEGIC RESULTS FOR KMG Environmentally from 5 bcm to 10 bcm per year Saryarka Gas Pipeline to supply July responsible company the Kazakhstan capital, central and northern regions of the country Implementation of a Modernisation work at three oil with gas Growth of free cash flow and Ethics, compliance, refineries has been completed two-level management return on investment corporate culture August system September STRATEGIC RESULTS FOR SHAREHOLDERS October Increase in dividends to Shareholders November In November 2018, Alik Aidarbayev was appointed Chairman December of the KMG Management Board 14 15 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes TRANSFORMATION Sustainability Report AND DIGITALIZATION IN THE COMPANY GRI 102-10 eventually will improve the KMG Corporate Centre oil field of JSC “Embamunaygas” for ensuring In 2018, the implementation stage of the Program of established in the form of a department of category control over the progress in investment projects. maximum production performance. As a result, transformation of JSC NC “KazMunayGas” continued. management and provision of large projects with goods, stable operation of wells were achieved by The project activities were carried out in accordance with works and services (hereinafter referred to as GWS). The second project ensures better compliance with means of automation systems and the electricity the initiatives announced by JSC “Samruk-Kazyna”. This unit solves the problem of reducing procurement requirements of the Corporate Governance Code, consumption was reduced. In 2017-2018, the costs, improving the quality of procured GWS through a positive impact on KMG’s corporate governance project was replicated at the facilities of the Prorva In the framework of implementation of the new KMG standardization and unification of procured goods and rating, improvement of the attractiveness of group of fields of JSC “Embamunaygas” where operating model, which enables outsourcing of nonservices. Based on the standards of the Fund Samruk-Kazyna, the Company for investors in accordance with the further expansion in 2019 at the fields of core support functions, the Shared Services Centre on KMG developed its own Regulations for GWS Procurement. expectations of stakeholders. The project establishes JSC “Ozenmunaygas” and “Kazgermunay” JV LLP. Information Technology of JSC NC “KazMunayGas” on the a methodological foundation for operation in the basis of LLP “KMG – Kumkol” was officially launched. The process of procurement category management brings Company of three mandatory and interrelated In the downstream segment, a project is being considerable benefits to the Company. For example, in the systems – risk management, internal control and implemented at the Pavlodar and Atyrau oil The most important project of transformation in framework of the PCMS ‘Procurement of Motor Transport management/business continuity management. refineries with the aim of extending the period the area of systematic and methodological changes Services for KMG Group in Nur-Sultan’, the planned between overhauls. It is aimed at ensuring the (hereinafter referred to as SMC) in KMG operations is economic effect for 2018–2020 is KZT 867 million. Under The introduction of such a methodology will necessary level of maintenance, reliability and the Transformation of Key Business Functions and ERP the PCMS ‘Production and Drilling Pipes’, it is planned to ensure timely prevention of process risks mechanical integrity of refinery equipment. Owing Implementation. The methodological component of the receive benefits in the amount of KZT 1.3 billion during 5 through the introduction of control procedures to this initiative, due to automation and introduction project was completed in the reporting period. years. and the identification of fraud risks through the of new management processes, it will be possible to enhancement of business processes. The project perform scheduled overhauls of refineries once in Another major SMC project is the Introduction of In 2018, two SMC transformation projects were addresses areas of operational inefficiency. The three years and accordingly less frequently to stop Procurement Category Management (hereinafter referred implemented – “Introduction of New Model for manageability and controllability of key business production. to as PCM*). KMG was tasked to cover by PCM at least Investment Portfolio Management in JSC NC processes, the degree of reliability of financial 80% of expenditures for annual procurement under “KazMunayGas” and “Introduction of New Risk statements required for decision-making, planning Upon completion of the project, it is expected that managed categories by 2022. For this purpose, it was Management Model: Improvement of Internal Control and control of achievement of KMG objectives and the reliability of equipment will increase by 8%, necessary to develop and approve procurement category System and Implementation of the Business Continuity reasonable assurance of reliability of its formation repair costs will reduce by nearly 10%. It is also management strategies (hereinafter referred to as PCMS) Management System”. will improve. In addition, the potential threats planned to reduce inventory by 10%; unscheduled for 67 categories. should be identified and their impact on the KMG downtime of equipment and the scope of emergency The first project was implemented on the basis of SAP operation should be assessed with the aim of further work will also be lower. In 2018, 7 PCMS were approved, including ‘Procurement PPM software. The project is aimed at the transition improvement of sustainability and their response of Motor Transport Services for KMG Group in RoK’, of KMG to a fundamentally new business process of to the threats. This will enable the protection of the In accordance with the updated vision of the ‘Technical Gases’, ‘IT Equipment’, ‘Additives and investment management – portfolio management. This key stakeholders, reputation, brand and the efficient Transformation Program presented by the Fund Reagents’, ‘Pump Rental Services’, ‘Split Service in Drilling’, approach allows to collect a pool of investment projects business operations. Finally, the level of risk culture Samruk-Kazyna, a new portfolio of KazMunayGas ‘Procurement of Special Machinery Services’. 9 strategies of SDEs/divisions of KMG and select high-performance of the Company’s employees will improve due to transformation projects will be formed in 2019. were implemented: ‘Production and Drilling Pipes’, ‘Oil projects once a year. It also ensures the selection of highinvolvement in the risk management process. Criteria for selection of projects for the portfolio Pumps’, ‘Diesel Fuel’, ‘Procurement of Motor Transport performance investment projects, taking into account were developed taking into account the specifics Services for KMG Group in Nur-Sultan’, ‘Catalyst for KMG costs of other capital investments (current CAPEX) In 2018, the first pool of KMG digitization projects of KMG. In particular, transformation initiatives Catalytic Cracking’, ‘Technical Gases, Stage-1 (POCR)’, ‘Cars and financial opportunities to the Company. was pre-approved. The implementation of current should support the achievement of the Company’s and Buses’, ‘Medical Insurance’, ‘Electric power’. digital initiatives continued in all basic areas of strategic objectives and KPIs. The Program portfolio In addition, the system implementation will make it Company operations. Thus, in oil production, will include projects aimed at reengineering of During the implementation of the project on introduction possible to receive timely and reliable information on such a basic project was Digital Oil Field. In production and corporate business processes, the of PCM in KMG, a specific Centre of Competence was disbursement of capital investments under investment 2016 an oil and gas field management system culture of high efficiency and digital solutions for the projects. This will greatly contribute to the control over was implemented as a pilot project at the Uaz Business and etc. * Procurement Category Management is an integrated approach to procurement, which allows to take into account the features of certain categories in a specific business area. approved project budgets, making timely decisions Categorical management involves the analysis of purchase prices, the supplier market to ensure successful implementation of projects that and the development of a procurement strategy based on the data. 16 17 2 One of the important strategic CORPORATE goals of the Company was to revise our management policy taking SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES Sustainability Report GOVERNANCE AND into account the components of sustainable development and to set performance targets for SUSTAINABILITY the new level of development. Sustainable development for us is a significant component of corporate governance. Management system change In 2018 we continued to actively implement the Transformation Program. According to the new management model, one of the major sub-holdings, KMG Exploration and Production, merged with us in 2018. Now production assets are managed directly by KMG. Corporate culture development In 2018, we approved a new Code of Business Conduct (hereinafter – the Code) which enshrines KMG’s corporate values, defines the most important principles and rules of business conduct and stakeholder relations, and is a set of corporate ethics requirements to be followed by all employees of the Company. 18 19 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability 3. Finance Committee established for the purpose of effective CORPORATE GOVERNANCE financial policy, by assessing a financial condition, monitoring Sustainability Report a financial structure and strategy, as well as monitoring the implementation of investment projects; GRI 102-18 4. Audit Committee which functions are aimed at effective control Transparency of the corporate governance and over financial and economic activities, the performance of systems organization structure is essential for ensuring The KMG corporate governance structure of internal control, risk management and corporate governance, accountability of these bodies and those audit and financial reporting; involved. These reporting elements contain 5. Committee on Safety, Health and Environment and Sustainability information about how the organization creates GENERAL MEETING Nominating and established in 2018 to consider a range of issues on safety, health Remuneration its supreme corporate governance body, forms OF SHAREHOLDERS Committee and the environment, the implementation of the principles its structure taking into account its goals, of sustainability and socio-economic development, social and how these goals relate to the economic, obligations and programs, ensuring business continuity environmental and social impacts of the THE BOARD OF Strategy and Portfolio and environmental efficiency. This Committee is responsible Management Committee organization. DIRECTORS for initiating, in-depth consideration and decision-making on the economic, environmental and social aspects of the impact Corporate Governance MANAGEMENT Finance Committee of the organization. Structure BOARD Audit Committee Delegation of Powers Investment Committee GRI 102-19 In accordance with the KMG Charter, KMG corporate governance bodies are: Committee on Safety, 1) Supreme Body – General Shareholders Major Oil and Gas Health and Environment Delegation of powers to solve economic, environmental and social Meeting, Project Committee and Sustainability problems from the Supreme body of corporate governance to top 2) Management Body – Board of Directors, executives and other employees is carried out within the framework 3) Executive Body – Management Board. Planning Committee of corporate governance in accordance with the KMG Charter and the Corporate Governance Code. Corporate governance is The Board of Directors performs general the responsibility of the Board of Directors, with the Corporate management of KMG activities, defines priority Credit Committee Secretary monitoring and advising the Board of Directors, the Executive areas of activities, development strategy of the body and other bodies on proper implementation of the Corporate company, and is responsible to the General Governance Code, the development of medium-term plans to improve Principle 1 Meeting of Shareholders for implementation of Centralized Service of corporate governance and their implementation. A set of issues Business communities shall HSE Committee Internal Audit support and respect protection of its leadership functions. Management of current on sustainability, including the delegation of solutions of the economic, internationally recognized human activities is carried out by the Management environmental and social problems, is detailed in the action plans rights. Board, which in turn reports to the Board of for improving corporate governance. Principle 2 Directors. Business communities shall make sure that they GRI 102-20 are contributory infringer of human rights. In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Board Principle 4 Committees of the Board of Directors of Directors and the Management Board, within their competencies, Business community should ensure the development of an appropriate system for sustainability advocate liquidation of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. To consider the most important issues system, as well as social support, and its implementation, with all employees and officials at all levels Principle 6 and prepare recommendations to the Board professional development and training contributing to sustainability. Business community should advocate liquidation of Directors, KMG establishes committees of KMG officials and employees; of discrimination in the area of labour of the Board of Directors. In 2018, the following 2. Strategy and Portfolio Management and employment. Committees operated under the Board Committee, formerly known as the Strategy Principle 7 of Directors: and Innovation Committee, established Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 1. Nominating and Remuneration Committee for such issues as the development environmental challenges. established for the tasks of succession strategy and investment policy, priority Principle 8 planning of the Board of Directors areas of KMG’s activities, improving Undertake initiatives to promote greater and the Management Board, assessment the investment attractiveness of KMG, environmental responsibility. of the activities of KMG authorities, ensuring planning financial and economic activities Principle 10 effective personnel policy, remuneration and monitoring the transformation of KMG; Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 20 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability Responsibility for Economic, Environmental and Social Issues Composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees 102-22, 102-23 Sustainability Report GRI At the level of the Executive body, •• Deputy Chairman of the Management Board – the responsibility for addressing sustainability Financial Director is responsible for resolving issues is as follows: a range of issues related to the economic As of the date of this Report, the Board 5. Whyte Stephen James, Independent •• Managing Director for Strategy is responsible component of sustainability, including of Directors includes: Director; for creation and implementation of a the promotion of economic development 1. Walton Christopher John, Chairman 6. Dyer Philip John, Independent Director; sustainable development management of the presence regions and the share of local 1. of the Board of Directors; 7. Viana Palha Da Silva Luis Maria, system that allows to follow the principles content in procurements. 2. Baljeet Kaur Grewal, Representative Independent Director; and objectives of sustainable development, of Interests of JSC “Samruk-Kazyna”; 8. Anthony Espina, Representative of Interests integration of the management system The above persons are accountable 3. Uzakbay Karabalin, Representative of JSC “Samruk-Kazyna”; in the field of sustainable development into to the Management Board and/or its Chairman. of Interests of JSC “Samruk-Kazyna”; 9. Alik Aidarbayev, Chairman of the KMG key processes, the Development Strategy Accountability of responsible persons 4. Almasadam Satkaliyev, Representative Management Board. and the decision-making processes of KMG; for economic, environmental and social issues of Interests of JSC “Samruk-Kazyna”; •• Managing Director on occupational is governed in detail by regulatory documents, As of the date of this Report, the composition of the Committees is as follows: health and environment is responsible procedures of internal control and continuity for development and enforcement of the Company’s activities. Thus, in accordance of the KMG’s HSE strategy and policy, as well with the development plans, issues are regularly Strategy and Portfolio Management Audit Committee as for ensuring occupational safety, health, submitted to the Management Board, which Committee 1. Dyer Philip John, Chairman environment and environmental safety; in turn is accountable to the Board of Directors. 1. Whyte Stephen James, Chairman of the Committee •• Managing Director on human resources Comprehensive control over performance of the Committee 2. Whyte Steven James is responsible for implementation of the appropriate functions and measures 2. Walton Christopher John 3. Viana Palha Da Silva Luis Maria of the processes and management of human, to improve corporate governance is carried personnel and social aspects of sustainability; out within the powers of the Audit Committee 3. Uzakbay Karabalin Committee on Safety, Health of the KMG Board of Directors. 4. Grewal Baljeet Kaur and Environment and Sustainability 5. Dyer Philip John 1. Dayer Philip John, Chairman of the Committee Advising Stakeholders on Economic, Environmental and Social Issues 6. Viana Palha Da Silva Luis Maria 7. Anthony Espina 2. Walton Christopher John GRI 102-21 Nominating and Remuneration Committee 3. Whyte Steven James 1 Viana Palha Da Silva Luis Maria, 4. Uzakbay Karabalin Consultations on economic, environmental is carried out through the Company’s website, and social issues between stakeholders the public relations service (press service), as well Chairman of the Committee 5. Viana Palha Da Silva Luis Maria and the Supreme corporate governance body as through the release of the annual Sustainability 2. Dyer Philip John of the Company are conducted in various Report, which is the KMG central communication 3. Walton Christopher John The Board of Directors consists of four ways on an ongoing basis. Thus, in 2018, channel with external and internal stakeholders independent directors, four – representatives the sustainability issues were considered 11 times on sustainability. At the same time, there 4. Whyte Steven James of the shareholder, and the Chairman within the framework of meetings of the Board are various ways of communication in KMG, 5. Uzakbay Karabalin of the KMG Management Board. Members of Directors, as well as 5 times at consultative which allow properly building a dialogue with 6. Anthony Espina of the Management Board, except and consultative meetings in the context stakeholders and the Company. For example, for the Chairman of the Management Board, of the competence of the Strategy and Innovation information for the investment community Finance Committee may not be elected to the Board of Directors, Committee. Current and operational issues are is placed in detail on a special portal 1. Walton Christopher John, Chairman and the Chairman of the Management Board reviewed by the Management Board every week. http://ir.kmg.kz, employment issues are posted of the Committee may not be elected as a Chairman of the Board Officials and responsible persons of various on http://work.kmg.kz, the system of confidential 2. Whyte Steven James of Directors. Members of the Board of Directors authorities and levels of management, including information is arranged through the belief are elected for a term of up to three years. representatives of shareholders, external system channel (doverie@kmg.kz), there is 3. Grewal Baljeet Kaur KMG Board of Directors includes of one consultants, partners and other stakeholders, are also a functional interaction on the activities 4. Dyer Philip John woman – Grewal Baljeet Kaur, three of the nine involved in such meetings. of the Ombudsman ombudsman@kmg.kz, health 5. Viana Palha Da Silva Luis Maria members of the Board of Directors are citizens and environmental protection hse@kmg.kz, of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Board Advising an extensive list of stakeholders and sustainability sustainability@kmg.kz. 6. Anthony Espina of Directors includes two people in the age on economic, environmental and social issues group from 30 to 50 years and seven people older than 50 years. The Board of Directors and its Committees maintain a balance of skills, 22 23 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability Conflict of Interests 102-25 Sustainability Report GRI Procedures to Prevent Conflicts of Interests The inadmissibility of a conflict of interest is one determining the requirements for the behaviour of the fundamental principles of sustainable of employees and/or officials the compliance development and is enshrined in the Code of with which will ensure honest and impartial Corporate Governance. performance of their official duties (or duties within any corporate elected bodies, such as The Company also approved the Policy for committees, commissions, etc.) and impartial the settlement of conflicts of interest among decision making. employees and officials of KazMunaiGas NC JSC, which was developed for the purposes of Each employee and/or official, while performing creating a uniform system for managing real and his/her official duties, is obliged to put KMG’s potential conflicts of interest in KMG, as well as interests above his/her private interests. Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest In the case of a conflict of interest, an employee The information on a conflict of interest and/or official shall be obliged to immediately should be disclosed by an employee and/or an and fully disclose the information (to declare) official of KMG only in writing and in the most about a real or potential conflict of interest, understandable form. as well as to actively contribute to resolution thereof. At the same time, KMG undertakes to keep confidential the process of disclosing the A possible source of disclosure of the information about a conflict of interest and the experience and knowledge to ensure that all shareholders are treated fairly and in information about a conflict of interest may be process of settlement thereof (at the request independent, objective and effective decisions accordance with the principles of sustainability. third parties (the so-called “whistle blowers” of an employee and/or official), to protect an are made for the benefit of KMG and that that are employees who report violations or employee and/or official from prosecution in abuses). connection with a conflict of interest that was disclosed and settled by him/her in a timely Nominating and Selection of the Board of Directors manner. GRI 102-24 Role of the Board of Directors in Defining Goals, Values, Mission Procedure for Nominating and Selection of Candidates to the Board of Directors and Strategy The procedure for Nominating and selection representatives of shareholders and other GRI 102-26 of candidates to the members of the Board persons. Candidates to the Board of Directors of Directors is determined by the Charter members should have the knowledge, skills The Board of Directors shall determine and sustainability as one of the three strategic and other regulatory documents, and experience necessary to perform their the priority areas of activities, goals of the Company for the next ten years. by the General Shareholder Meeting functions and ensure long-term value growth approve and monitor implementation Implementation of the strategic goal “Corporate together with the Chairman of the Board and sustainability, as well as an impeccable of the development strategy, which Governance and Sustainability” should be of Directors and Chairman of the Nominating business reputation. Chairman of the Board includes goals, values, mission, as well as resulted in establishment of a management and Remuneration Committee, and also due of Directors is elected by the General policies and tasks in relation to economic, system that ensures achievement of improved to the principles of transparency, fairness Shareholder Meeting. Independent Directors environmental and social impacts, indicators of corporate social responsibility, and professionalism in implementing are selected in accordance with the approved in consultation with shareholders on the basis health, safety and environment, improving the sourcing and recruitment of candidates. Rules for Selection of Independent Directors of proposals developed by the Executive body. the economic impact in the presence Members of the Board of Directors are elected of Companies belonging to the Samruk-Kazyna regions, combating corruption, improving from among those proposed for election as Group. Thus, in 2018, the Board of Directors approved the quality of relations with stakeholders, a new KMG Development Strategy for 2018– improving the rating of corporate governance 2028, which defines corporate governance and corporate culture of ethics. 24 25 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability Competence and Evaluation of the Board of Directors Management of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts 102-29 Sustainability Report GRI Collective Knowledge of Members of the Board of Directors KMG’s Board of Directors plays a key role and documents in the field of ensuring GRI 102-27 in managing economic, environmental and social the continuity of KMG activities. impacts, risks and associated prospects. Members of the Board of Directors the involvement of external consultants The Company regularly assesses risk on a quarterly In particular, in 2018, independent consultants strive to regularly improve their skills and industry experts. On a periodic basis, field basis and at the end of the year in accordance with identified a number of system improvements and professionalism, including in the management sessions of the Board of Directors are held the approved methodology for risk management, based on the results of corporate governance of economic, environmental and social aspects. in the places of production activities. Also, including economic, environmental and social diagnostics, which subsequently increased The Nominating and Remuneration Committee since 2018, separate plans are being developed risks. Based on the identified risks, the appropriate the corporate governance rating from “B” regularly reviews the current balance of skills to train KMG management and employees action plans for their prevention, monitoring to “BB”. Namely, the company has implemented and knowledge of the Board of Directors members on sustainability, ethics and compliance, along with and elimination are developed and implemented. key recommendations for development and develops a training plan. other ongoing seminars and sessions in the context In particular, the Board of Directors is responsible of a comprehensive system for determining of corporate governance components. for determining the corporate risk management risk appetite, critical evaluation of the risk On an annual basis, the Company holds Information on improving the skills and knowledge policy, approving the register and risk map, management plan, discussion of risks at meetings a Forum of Directors General devoted of members of the Board of Directors is posted the action plan for critical risk management, of the Executive body Committee on risks and a to safety and environmental protection, with on the company’s website http://www.kmg. the overall risk appetite, the levels of tolerance number of other activities. the participation of members of the Board kz/rus/kompaniya/korporativnoe_upravlenie/ for each key risk, approving the risk report of Directors, the Management Board treningi_chlenov_soveta_direkt/. of KMG, the CEOs of KMG subsidiaries, with Role of the Board of Directors in Risk Management Assessment of Performance of the Board of Directors GRI 102-28 Effectiveness of the Risk Management Process GRI 102-30 In accordance with the Corporate Governance results, which identifies specific and clear Code, the Board of Directors annually assesses steps to improve performance of the KMG’s its activities, performance of the Committees, management bodies. A procedure for performance The KMG Board of Directors annually approves the Management Board and the Board of Directors Chairman and members of the Board of Directors. assessment of the Board of Directors is governed the Risk Register, Risk Map, and Risk Management of KMG by sending quarterly reporting on risks is The assessment is carried out every three years by the Regulations on Performance Assessment Plan of the Company. According to the Company’s performed. In 2019, we plan to update the risk by an independent consultant. In 2018, as of the Board of Directors, Committees of the Board Risk Register and Map for 2018, 34 risks register and supplement it with risks related required by the Code, an independent consultant of Directors, Chairman, members of the Board were identified and assessed in these areas. to climate change and water scarcity. We have of PricewaterhouseCoopers conducted an of Directors and Corporate Secretary of KMG. The measures have been developed for each risk changed the approach to risk management in interim corporate governance diagnosis at KMG, to manage them, and the risk owners have been the field of health, safety and environmental which included an assessment of performance The corporate governance diagnostics and an identified. Constant monitoring of the dynamics protection and now all leaders of KMG business of the Board of Directors and the Executive accompanying plan includes the following of key risks and the implementation of measures areas are the owners of these risks. body. The diagnostic results were reviewed components: to reduce them, as well as informing in accordance with the established procedure 1. Performance of the Board of Directors by the KMG shareholder, at the meetings and the Executive body, Consideration of Economic, Environmental and Social Issues of the Nominating and Remuneration Committee 2. Risk management, internal control and audit, GRI 102-31 and directly by the Board of Directors. In addition, 3. Sustainability, an independent consultant developed a Plan 4. Rights of shareholders and fair treatment to improve KMG’s Corporate Governance of shareholders, Until 2018, a frequency of consideration Safety, health and environmental protection is our for 2018–2020 based on the diagnostic 5. Transparency. of economic and social impacts (except labor most important aspect in the field of sustainability, protection issues), as well as related risks it is one of the main priorities of the KMG Strategy and opportunities was formed based on an annual and HSE Policy. HSE questions are heard monthly Action Plan of the Board of Directors. However, at the meetings of the Management Board since 2018, such issues are considered regularly and BoD of KMG, increasing the responsibility in the framework of the company’s current of managers and specialists. A practice of personal activities. accountability of Directors General of subsidiaries to the KMG BoD of KMG has been introduced for every fatal case in the workplace. 26 27 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability In December 2018, the Board of Directors •• KMG business continuity management. established an independent Committee •• KMG environmental efficiency. SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR STRATEGIC GOAL Sustainability Report on Safety, Health and Environment and Sustainability. Prior to that, this function was Starting from 2019, the meetings of this GRI 102-16 performed by the Strategy and Innovation Committee are scheduled on a quarterly basis, Committee. the Committee consists of five independent In 2018, the Board of Directors approved The Action Plan for implementation directors. Thus, the Board of Directors holds an a new KMG Development Strategy until 2028 of the Strategy includes in the corporate key Further, in accordance with the decision expanded discussion and analyses of economic, (hereinafter – the Strategy), which defines performance indicators (KPI) the indicators of the Board of Directors, in December 2018, environmental and social impacts, as well as corporate governance and sustainability as one related to implementation of sustainability the Board of Directors established related risks and opportunities, four times of the three strategic goals of the Company components in the Company and its business the Committee on Safety, Health a year. for the next ten years. Implementation units. Next year sustainability KPIs are planned and Environment, and Sustainability to assist of the strategic goal “Corporate Governance to be integrated in the system of strategic the Board of Directors on the following issues: More information about GRI disclosures 102-15, and Sustainability” should be resulted and medium-term planning and KPI tree •• Safety, health and environmental protection. 102-30, 102-31, 102-33, 102-34,102-35,102in establishment of a management system that of the Company. •• Implementation of the principles 36,102-37,102-38,102-39 (risk management, ensures achievement of improved indicators of sustainability in strategic planning BoD activity, BoD remuneration) is specified of corporate social responsibility, health, safety In order to implement and introduce and socio-economic development of KMG. in the Annual Report http://ir.kmg.kz/storage/ and environment, improving the economic the sustainability system, a Guide •• Social obligations and programs of KMG files/272ede75d8454f06/KMG_ANNUAL_ impact in the presence regions, combating on Sustainability Management System within the framework of concluded REPORT_2018_ENG.pdf. corruption, improving the quality of relations with for the KMG Group of Companies will be contracts for subsoil use. stakeholders, improving the rating of corporate developed in 2019. governance and corporate culture of ethics. When planning KPIs for 2019, KPIs for sustainability is reflected as follows: Sustainability indicators Description Economic indicators Financial and economic KPIs are included in the maps of Deputy Chairmen of the Management Board Environmental responsibility Relevant KPIs to achieve full utilization of historical oil wastes are provided for the HSE Managing Director and the HSE Co-Managing Director, as well as the General Director of “Embamunaygas” JSC, “Ozenmunaygas” JSC. Social responsibility Relevant KPIs on social stability, labor resources, etc. are included in KPI Map of the Managing Director for human resources. In 2019, an indicator of contractors’ safety management and contractors’ reporting transparency is planned to be introduce as KPI. Contractors make up more than 50 % of our workforce, and improving their safety will ultimately affect KMG’s overall performance. In 2018, the Company underwent an independent Our key performance indicator for sustainability is diagnostics of the corporate governance system an achievement of the following main goals: assessment. Assessment of the “Sustainability” 1. The Company ensures the consistency component includes such areas as the purpose of its economic, environmental and social and KPI of sustainability, corporate ethics, objectives for long-term sustainable a system of confidential reporting, the process development, which includes the growth of combating the legalization of illegally obtained of the Company’s long-term value. income, the involvement of suppliers and owners 2. The Company implements a system that of contracts, social programs, environmental allows consistent and continuous follow objectives, purpose of occupational health the principles of sustainable development. and safety system for sustainability and reporting. In 2018, a rating of B (average level) was achieved Оffsite meeting of the Board of Directors In the overall assessment of the for the above goals. corporate governance system, the “Sustainability”component as one of the five components occupies 20%. 28 29 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability Interaction level Interaction methods STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION Negotiations Collective negotiations based on the principles of social Sustainability Report partnership GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Involvement Multilateral forums; KMG carries out a full production cycle from and abroad, and represents the interests Bilateral or multilateral interaction; building consulting panels; the exploration and production of hydrocarbons, of the state in the oil and gas sector. Due to its expertise and knowledge from all sides; consensus-building process; their transportation and processing to the sale complex structure and activities, KMG interacts stakeholders and organizations operate the process of joint decision-making; of oil and oil products both inside Kazakhstan with a wide range of stakeholders. independently focus groups; feedback schemes Cooperation Joint projects; Bilateral or multilateral interaction; joint building of joint ventures; experience and knowledge, decision-making and measures partnership; joint initiatives of stakeholders Delegation of authority Integration of issues of interaction with stakeholders in Stakeholders participate in the management management, strategy and operations Groups of KEY AREAS OF INTERACTION stakeholders GRI 102-43 IR / Investor relations Classification of stakeholders: activities. As for the internal structural units, •• Holders of bonds; depending on the specifics of the issue, the IR •• Investment banks; team interacts with the financial and production •• Rating agencies; blocks (upstream, midstream and downstream), as •• Potential investors of KMG; well as directly with SDEs, if necessary. •• Kazakhstan Stock Exchange JSC; Identification of stakeholders •• Depositary of financial statements Maintenance of communications with of the National Bank of the Republic the investment community is provided through KMG on an ongoing basis takes measures perspectives. Plans of stakeholder interaction of Kazakhstan; the following IR activities: to establish a dialogue and long-term for effective implementation of the tasks are •• Other professional market participants. •• Quarterly conference calls with investors cooperation and management of relations with drawn up. on the results of the company’s activities the Stakeholders. Disclosure of information about the activities for the previous quarter; In identifying and interacting with stakeholders, of KMG occurs in accordance with the applicable •• Road-shows, meetings with investors; In KMG, a Stakeholder Map has been prepared, KMG applies best practices for stakeholder requirements of stock exchanges, which are •• Answers to inquiries about the activities taking into account risks and ranking, taking into engagement, including international standards, addressed by KMG securities and the requirements of KMG from interested investors, investment account the dependence (direct or indirect), such as the AA1000SES Stakeholder Engagement of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan banks / companies, financial analysts, etc. obligations, situation (paying special attention Standard. regarding disclosure of information. by e-mail ir@kmg.kz or by phone; to high-risk areas), influence, various (diverse) •• Publication of periodic IR materials on financial The list of KMG investors is replenished on a and production results of KMG – press Methods of stakeholder interaction include the following: regular basis after meetings, conferences, road releases, presentation for investors, brochure Interaction level Interaction methods shows. The list consists of investment banks on KMG, KMG factsheet, Annual report; and KMG bond holders, as well as professional •• Maintaining the “Investors” section of the KMG Consultations Questionnaires; market participants who showed interest in KMG website http://www.ir.kmg.kz. Bilateral interaction; Stakeholders answer the questions of focus groups; the Fund and organizations meetings with stakeholders; public meetings; seminars; providing feedback through means of communication; advisory councils 30 31 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability Investor interaction Basic principles of KMG information policy: •• neutrality of information, i.e. exclusion •• frequency, consistency and timeliness of the possibility of priority satisfaction Sustainability Report Period Event Place of information; of the interests of one audience over another; •• equal, unhindered and easy access for all •• reasonable balance between the Company’s January, 2018 Road show with investors (non-deal road-show) Frankfurt, London, stakeholders; openness and its commercial interests. Boston, New York •• objectivity, reliability, completeness February, 2018 Meetings with investors in the framework of conferences Miami and comparability of the disclosed data; Interaction with mass media is governed March, 2018 Conference call with investors on the results of financial Nur-Sultan by the KMG Regulations of Information Disclosure. and operational results for 2017 June, 2018 Conference call with investors on the results of financial Nur-Sultan and operational results for Q1 2018 GR / Government Relations: September, 2018 Meetings with investors in the framework of conferences London Classification of stakeholders: of Kazakhstan, the Government of the RoK, September, 2018 Conference call with investors on the results of financial Nur-Sultan •• Authorized bodies of the RoK. “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC and other state bodies; and operational results for Q2 2018 •• International organizations / Partners. •• preparation of information materials •• Foreign embassies, agencies. for the meetings of the Oil and Gas October, 2018 Road show with investors (non-deal road-show) Frankfurt, London, •• Profile structural subdivisions of KMG SDEs Council under the President of the RoK, New York and “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC. the Interdepartmental Commission December, 2018 Conference call with investors on the results of financial Nur-Sultan for the Development of the Oil and Gas and operational results for Q3 2018 GR is the only structural unit of KMG, which and Energy Industries under the chairmanship performs centralized collection and preparation of the Prime Minister of the RoK; of consolidated information on the general •• Coordination of participation of management PR / Public Relations: activities of KMG and SDEs. GR subdivision and representatives of KMG in: provides execution of requests / requests —— events of state significance, in official visits Classification of stakeholders: •• Organization of briefings and interviews with of the Administration of the President of the Head of State abroad; •• Kazakhstani and foreign media; the Company’s management. of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Government —— in intergovernmental events, work •• Foreign mass media; of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Parliament of the Intergovernmental Commissions •• Local and regional communities; Frequency of interaction depends on important of the Republic of Kazakhstan, “Samrukand committees for cooperation with •• Board of Directors; events in the Company, planned PR activities, Kazyna” JSC and the state bodies of the Republic foreign countries, major international •• Government bodies; requests. of Kazakhstan by sending a meaningful letter events (conferences, forums) in RoK •• General public. of reply. There are no principles for the selection and abroad. The Company improves a system of external of interested parties for interaction with In compliance with the principles communications aimed at developing a dialogue government bodies in GR-activities. International organizations / Partners, foreign of transparency and openness, the Company with external audiences and informing embassies, agencies: interacts with all the republican and regional stakeholders about significant events Interaction with state bodies is carried out by: •• Protocol-organizational and information media, including placing information in the KMG activities, building reputation •• sending a meaningful letter of reply support for meetings and negotiations on the official website of the Company and promoting the KMG brand. to the request of government agencies; of the Chairman of the Board of KMG with for access to all interested parties, distributing •• assisting KMG structural divisions on initiative representatives of foreign states, international information messages, providing answers The Company’s key tool for information issues (proposals concerning the activities organizations and foreign companies. to media inquiries, organizing press conferences disclosure and feedback to external audiences of the KMG Group, on issuing permits, •• Profile structural subdivisions of KMG SDEs with an invitation all interested media is the official website http://www.kmg.kz. regulatory and licensing documents, and “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC. and so on. The Department of Public Relations promptly for participation in joint working groups); •• A frequency of interaction depends provides comprehensive and detailed •• preparation and compilation of information on the questions posed, the type of GR Maintaining communications with the media information on corporate projects, comments on the general activities of KMG for submission activities and GR tasks. The interaction takes and the general public is ensured through on important topics of the industry-wide to the Administration of the President place promptly through calls, Electronic the following PR activities: information agenda at the request of media of the RoK, the Parliament of the Republic document management system (EDMS), •• Publication of press releases, information representatives. e-mail. messages, articles on the Company’s website and in the media; KMG regularly holds press conferences •• Providing answers to media inquiries; and briefings with the Company’s top •• Conducting forums, production meetings, management and leading mass media, info-sessions, etc. with the invitation and organizes press tours to production facilities of the media; for journalists. 32 33 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability Distribution of weights in the assessment structure of significant topics IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 102-47 Sustainability Report OF THE REPORT GRI 102-46, 102-47 100% To assess and disclose material topics, the Report constructed of 152 potential topics. This matrix Assessment of significant topics analyzed information on both external is divided into 4 conditional zones (quadrants) and internal stakeholders. Based on the results according to the level of importance of those of the procedures, a materiality matrix was or other topics as presented below. 100% 100% Quadrant 3 Internal filters External filters Topics important for external (assessment of external stakeholders is stakeholders, but less important for more than 3.5, and assessment of internal internal stakeholders stakeholders is less than 3.5) Quadrant 4 75% 25% 75% 25% 23 TOPICS Workshop Online survey of External review Online survey of external Most important topics Quadrant 1 KMG management stakeholders Least important topics 33 TOPICS 45 TOPICS (assessment of external and internal stakeholders is more than 3.5) (assessment of external and internal Topics important for internal 50% 25% 25% stakeholders is less than 3.5) stakeholders, but less important Review of analogue Media field Megatrends for external stakeholders companies analysis The results of internal and external filters 1 to 7 was used to determine the materiality value (assessment of external stakeholders on the horizontal and vertical axes of the matrix, for each filter. is less than 3.5, and assessment of internal stakeholders is more than 3.5) 51 TOPICS respectively, were used to construct the materiality matrix. For some topics, the value was raised Online stakeholder survey was prepared in a Quadrant 2 “manually”, which was assigned a maximal point 7. similar way to the KMG management survey. The rating scale used in the matrix ranges from 1 to 7 points. Accordingly, the same range from The materiality matrix of 152 topics is provided below. To select the most significant topics from the External filters are: general list of potential topics, certain procedures •• Online survey of external stakeholders; were carried out aimed at prioritizing and ranking •• Media field (mass media) analysis; topics. In other words, so-called “filters” were •• Review of reports of analogue companies; applied. •• Analysis of global trends, so-called “Megatrends”. Internal filters are: •• Workshop or seminar for KMG employees; A certain correction factor (weights) was applied •• Online survey of KMG management. to each filter and only after that the values were used to build the matrix. Figure shows the distribution of weights for each source. 34 35 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability The KMG materiality matrix for disclosure in the Report for 2018 102-47 GRI List of significant topics GRI 102-47 7.0 49 Participation in international/local Sustainability Report Economic topics Quadrant 3 Quadrant 4 11, 39, 53, 54, 58, 83, 91, 86, 4 Investments for production upgrading environmental/climate change initiatives 94, 109, 115 61 Measures to improve energy efficiency and 7 Key financial indicators Economic reduce energy intensity 11 Company’s approaches to procurement and Personnel, company, corporate governance Environmental 17 work with suppliers 65 Fatal accidents 12 Company’s approaches to ensuring HSE, personnel, society, corporate management 99 responsibility for its products: quality and 73 Injury rate 25 compliance with requirements 76 Transport security 145 90 2 24 17 Main objectives and directions of the 83 Salary and benefits package 35 139 7 strategy 84 Staff health and safety 79, 4 73 88 Assessment of external stakeholders 55 63 61 119 31 20 Production results by types of products 86 Collective agreement 80 49 84 65 6 102 104 121 117 Environment 88 Staff training and education 101 133 81 122 32 51 45 12 41 25 Water use 91 Recruitment 57 125 47 76 20 3.5 92 143 114 31 Air pollutant emissions 94 Employee incentive program 9 34 69 138 36 110 87, 66 141 129144 78, 64, 72, 32 Measures to reduce flaring of associated 99 Investments in infrastructure of the presence 23 106, 82, 149, 116 14 96 petroleum gas regions 148 100 40 128 8 135 16, 105 52 27 132 152 77 3 97 26 93 39 Information on protected areas in the 109 Local content in procurement 70, 89 137 71 150 127 123 134 131 44 presence regions 115 Sponsorship and charity 50 28 19 56 37 118 15 108 42 75 95 41 Impact on biodiversity 117 Employment of local staff in the presence 151 48 130 38 22 46 53 Compliance with the environmental regions 29 30 140 13 5 59 protection requirements 119 Combating corruption 111 107 112 33 1 98 74 13 54 Types and volumes of waste generation 122 Business ethics / Corporate governance 85 62 126, 68 60 58 Energy consumption 136 Availability of the company’s development 103 47 Climate change risks and adaptation strategy, its availability Quadrant 1 Quadrant 2 0.0 3.5 7.0 ETHICS AND FAIR PRACTICES Assessment of internal stakeholders Quadrant 4 GRI 102-16 7 11, 39, 53, 6,5 54, 58, 83, 91, 86, 94, Economic Values, Principles, Standards and Code of Conduct 109, 115 Environvental In 2018, Company approved a new Code The Code is an important part of KMG’s 6 of Business Conduct (hereinafter – the Code) corporate governance system; it contributes Assessment of external stakeholders HSE, personnel, society, corporate management which enshrines KMG’s corporate values, to the long-term economic growth of the 17 defines the most important principles Company. The provisions of the Code apply 5,5 and rules of business conduct and stakeholder to KMG employees, regardless of their 99 relations, and is a set of corporate ethics position. KMG employees are required requirements to be followed by all employees to familiarize themselves with the principles 5 25 of the Company. and recommendations of the Code and comply with them. 4,5 7 4 119 88 73 61 31 65 49 84 4 117 122 12 3 41 136 76 47 20 3,5 3,5 4 4,5 5 5,5 6 6,5 7 36 Assessment of internal stakeholders 37 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability In our daily work we are guided by the following corporate values and principles: GRI 102-16 The Code is a public document and is freely distributed to KMG business partners Sustainability Report 1. life and health of our employees is an absolute priority for KMG; and any other stakeholders. It is also posted 2. we are uncompromising in matters of safety and health; on the Company’s website in the “Corporate 3. we take care of the environment and treat KMG property as our own; Documents” section. “SAQTYQ” / 4. we follow ethical standards, rules and try to do the right thing; Safety 5. we keep information confidential. 1. a desire for KMG common success unites us into a single team; MECHANISMS FOR SEEKING ADVICE ON UNETHICAL 2. people and interaction are more important to us than processes and tools; CONDUCT “BIRLIK” / 3. we believe that everyone can and wants to make the maximum contribution to the common cause, which is capable of; Unity 4. we efficiently solve tasks in the team, regardless of positions and functions. The overall GRI 102-17 result is above the individual one; We have developed various mechanisms report on received complaints and sends it to 5. we use each other’s strengths and complement each other. through which employees, business partners the Compliance Service on a daily basis. and stakeholders can report any noncompliance with corporate ethics, human rights, Compliance Service employees decide on “SABYR” / 1. we treat each other with honesty and understanding; labor practices, negative environmental or social further actions to consider received complaints Reasonableness 2. we respect our colleagues, contractors and partners and treat them as we would like impact: in accordance with internal policies. other people to treat us; •• Employees – by informing their direct 3. we are ready for difficulties and overcome obstacles; supervisor or superior; or by providing In accordance with the best international 4. making decisions, we comprehensively consider questions, we take into account all information to the Ombudsman practice, including the standards and principles advantages and disadvantages, we hear and we consider all points of view; (by phone 78-65-60, or via email: of the International Association of Ombudsmen 5. we respect the results and achievements of the past and ensure continuity. ombudsman@kmg.kz). (IAO), the KMG Ombudsman is accountable •• Employees and others – by phone to the Board of Directors of KMG and is an “SAPA” / 78-65-60, or via email of trust: independent high-level manager who advises Quality 1. we always try to achieve the highest results; ombudsman@kmg.kz. and contacts the employees, participants 2. we always keep our promises with high quality and on time; •• “Hot line” calls by phone 8-800-080in labor disputes and conflicts assistance 3. we work for the benefit of our internal and external customers; 1994, e-mail: sk.hotline@deloitte.kz, or at in the development of a mutually beneficial, 4. we simplify, standardize and streamline our work; www.sk.deloitte-hotline.com. constructive and realizable solution, taking 5. we are constantly looking for new opportunities to do something better. We want to into account the observance of the norms be the first and the best. For confidentiality purposes, all information of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan is accepted and processed by an external (including necessity), assistance in resolving independent company. This company draws up the problematic social and labor issues of both According to the approved Code, the KMG activities are based on the following principles: employees and KMG and the organization, as well as in observing the principles of business ethics of KMG employees and organizations. When resolving disputes within the Company, the Ombudsman seeks to help the parties to the conflict resolve it through peaceful Hotline 8 800 080 19 94 settlement. For this purpose, the Ombudsman You can communicate any sk.hotline@deloitte.kz can act as a consultant, negotiator, mediator violations of the Code of Conduct, www.sk.deloitte-hotline.com or a resolution lawyer, while adhering including but not limited to to the principles of objectivity, confidentiality corruption, fraud, unethical All the received reports will and independence. In the process of conflict behaviour or discrimination be collected and handled resolution, the Ombudsman relies KMG adopts and follows the provisions of this Code partners and other stakeholders, both in business We guarantee by an independent Deloitte on the principle of equality and fairness, in its relations with KMG shareholders, employees, decision-making and in everyday situations. confidentiality and anonymity company which contributes to improving the moral subsidiaries and affiliates, government agencies, 100% handling of reports and psychological climate in the workplace 38 39 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability and increasing the motivation and loyalty •• meetings of managers with labor collectives checked for employment in the Сompany, while 223 potential counterparties were checked of employees. and trade union; no information has been revealed that hinders for civil-legal solvency, and the related conclusions Sustainability Report •• reception of employees by a CEO the refusal to hire, for appointment in the order were provided to the initiators of the requests in a The activities of the Ombudsman allow KMG on personal issues; of transfer and nomination. timely manner. to also comply with international standards •• CEO blog; for dealing with conflict resolution (ISO •• Boxes for proposals. 10003), and work with complaints (ISO 10002) provided by the International Organization Applications for non-compliance with the Code The 2017 KMG Sustainability Report and Annual Report were for Standardization. of Business Conduct are considered with the obligatory participation of the Ombudsman the best reports in the Annual Reports Competition We strive to prevent any kind of disputes on the terms of confidentiality. and conflicts in the organizations of the Group. December 14, 2018, the ceremony of awarding The right of any person to appeal should not be The Group management is informed when laureates and nominees of the VIII Annual violated. any applications are received. All received Report Competition, organized by the RAEX complaints and proposals are recorded, Rating Agency (Expert RA Kazakhstan), In addition, within the Unified System a decision of the management on the results was held. In 2018, within the framework of Internal Communications there are such of consideration of an application is brought of the contest, 107 annual reports of Kazakhstan mechanisms as: to an applicant. companies, including 44 financial organizations and 64 non-financial companies, were evaluated. When determining a long list in the best annual report category, annual reports issued INFORMATION BELIEF SYSTEM AND “HOT LINE” in Kazakhstan are analyzed, with the main emphasis on the content – the documents GRI 102-17 were selected which were featured by the most complete and qualitative Active preventive work on anti-corruption issues To avoid possible corruptogenic standards, disclosure of information. The short-list, has led to a certain increase in involvement more than 60 draft internal documents, more consisting of ten reports, formed on the results of employees and other persons to use than 100 draft contracts on procurement of the preliminary analysis, was put to the vote the capabilities of the information belief of goods, works and services were examined. of the Expert Commission which included system (hereinafter – IBS), by phone 78-65-65, 413 employees and candidates for vacant professionals on corporate governance or by e-mail of trust: doverie@kmg.kz, administrative positions for involvement and reporting. (confidentiality is guaranteed), as well as the in corruption and other offenses were checked. Fund’s hot line by phone 8-800-080-1994, The KMG Sustainability Report and Annual by e-mail: sk.hotline@deloitte.kz or to In total, over the past three years, more than Report took the first place among Kazakh www.sk.deloitte-hotline.com and other 1,500 employees and candidates have been companies as the Best Annual Report in Nonchannels in order to inform about all known Financial sector and was nominated for two Statements and appeals 2018, % or established violations in the KMG Group. awards: the Best Interactive Version of a 12% Report, the Best Disclosure of Information Thus, in 2018, 67 applications were received on Sustainability. only through KMG IBS, another 57 applications were received through the same channels of subsidiaries (in 2016 – 65, in 2017 – 60, respectively). 24 applications were received through the Fund’s hotline. 48 applications were received as part of personal reception of KMG management and postal communication. 63% 25% All applications of legal entities and individuals are considered in accordance with the established procedure and terms, with ISD applications and appeals the adoption of appropriate measures Postal communication and as part of and notification of their authors. personal reception of management Fund Hot line 40 41 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Sustainability KMG and the Association of Legal Entities “Kazakhstan diagnostics and operation of pipelines, transportation INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS Association of Organizations of Oil and Gas and Energy and storage of oil. Sustainability Report Complex “KAZENERGY” signed a Memorandum GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-40 of Cooperation. Association of Taxpayers of Kazakhstan The World Bank initiative “Complete cessation Environmental responsibility rating for oil and gas The Memorandum provides for joint activities in such of regular flaring of APG by 2030” companies in Kazakhstan important areas of legal activities as the improvement of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Union of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan KMG supported this initiative By the end of 2017 and 2018, KMG the development of joint programs and projects aimed in 2015. It unites governments, oil became the most transparent oil at enhancing the legal culture; cooperation in holding companies and development company in environmental issues roundtables, seminars, conferences on topical issues organizations that agree to cooperate to stop the practice in the rating of environmental in the field of jurisprudence. Kazakhstan Welding Association “KazWeld” of regular flaring of APG no later than 2030. Our goal is responsibility for the oil and gas to increase the beneficial use and utilization of APG, companies of Kazakhstan, organized National Chamber of Entrepreneurs minimizing flaring. We report annually on progress by the Russia World Wildlife Fund and CREON Group of the RoK “Atameken” to the World Bank. of Companies with support of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan. KMG and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Union of Energy Engineers of the Republic of Kazakhstan Global Methane Initiative of the Republic of Kazakhstan “Atameken” signed an ISO International Organization for Standardization agreement on cooperation in legal matters. In 2017 KMG joined the Global Methane Initiative (GMI) Project Network, which Since 2006, the management system The agreement provides for interaction of the parties is a growing community of private in the field of quality, environmental in such important areas of legal activity as the improvement National Association of Business “IRIS” sector actors, financial institutions protection, health and safety at work has been of legislation, the development of joint programs and other governmental and non-governmental maintained in accordance with the requirements of ISO and projects aimed at raising the legal culture, expanding organizations interested in methane emission reduction 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. the resolution of commercial disputes in arbitration. projects, as well as methane recovery and use. Association of Marine Transport Entrepreneurs Working with countries that are partners of the GMI, Subsidiaries and affiliates with significant levels of energy The UN Global Compact of the Republic of Kazakhstan the members of the Project Network can intensify their consumption are certified according to ISO 50001. activities, setting the stage for specific methane projects. Demonstration of our commitment Supporting the initiative of KMG, the Ministry of Energy In 2018 all companies of the Group successfully passed to the principles of sustainable development of the Republic of Kazakhstan entered the Subcommittee supervisory audits that confirmed the compliance is membership in the UN Global Compact, as well as of Oil and Gas of the GMI. of the existing integrated management systems with the annual posting of the Sustainability Report IOGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers the requirements of international standards. on the UNGC website as a Report on KMG’s progress CDP Climate Program in promoting the principles of the Global Compact and 17 The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Global Sustainable Development Goals. Since 2018, KMG has been participating in the submission of voluntary reporting It is a global standard that promotes IOGP International Association of Oil Trans-Caspian International Transport Route Middle on indirect greenhouse gas emissions transparency of revenues from oil, and Gas Producers Corridor under the CDP Climate Program. gas and mining industries. We comply with the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Initiative Since 2018, KMG has become a full member and provide reporting on taxes and other payments of the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. to the country’s budget. http://eiti.geology.gov.kz/en Our health and safety statistics will be publicly available and our performance indicators will be compared to that In 2018, we resumed membership in the Oil Spill Response of more than 75 oil and gas companies worldwide. Our Limited (OSRL). Membership in Associations GRI 102-13 strategic goal is to enter the Top 20 companies in this list. Kazakhstan Association of Oil and Gas and Energy The chairmanship of the Coordination Council International Association of Scientific, Technical Complex Organizations “KAZENERGY” of KAZENERGY on issues of ecology, social responsibility and Business Cooperation in Geophysical and transparency is an opportunity for KMG to promote Research and Well Work (WRA) A Memorandum between KMG and Kazakhstan Bar The management of KMG takes part issues of sustainable development in the oil and gas Association was updated. in the work of several committees industry in Kazakhstan. International Petroleum Transportation and working groups of the Association. Association (IPTA) Since 2015, KTO is a member of the IPTA to improve international oil transportation systems. The Association is considering issues related to the formation of tariffs, 42 43 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Address by the Chairman Sustainability Report of the Board of Directors GRI 102-14, 102-44 Dear readers! In 2018, the highest level of APG to climate change, prevention of negative As you know, in September 2015, the leaders of 193 utilization in the history of the KMG impacts on the environment, social countries approved an ambitious comprehensive program Group of Companies was reached – 93 %. responsibility and ensuring the economic named “Transformation of our World: 2030 Agenda The gas flaring rate is 6 tons per 1,000 tons growth of the Company. for Sustainability” or “Sustainable Development Goals”. of produced RHM, which is almost 50 % lower The Program is aimed to help the world community than the IOGP global average (International Effective implementation of the sustainability work together to create a better future. The scale Association of Oil and Gas Producers). We principles into the main activity and strategy of the goals suggests the need for a universal effort continue to implement the World Bank of the Company requires a high degree for their successful implementation. It is worth noting Initiative “Complete Cessation of Regular of involvement of all of us. All KazMunayGas that business plays a significant role in this. Combating APG Flaring by 2030” and intend to stop employees should know that sustainability climate change and transforming the energy system are the practice of regular APG flaring no later is of great importance. To do this, we key challenges to a sustainable future for business, society than 2030. need to focus on ambitious goals, adjust and the environment. The Paris Agreement sent a strong our policies, procedures and long-term and global message that the beginning of the transition In 2018, we announced our participation strategies, train and motivate staff, to a low-carbon economy is inevitable. in the initiative, The Carbon Disclosure implement the principles of sustainability Project (CDP) – an international community into the management system and business As a major national oil and gas producer in Kazakhstan, of investors for disclosure of information processes, and ensure transparency in our we are aware of our impact on economic growth about direct and indirect greenhouse gas reporting on efforts made and results in the country and are responsible for implementation emissions and the risks associated with achieved. Sustainability development of our production and environmental programs. As climate change, and began estimation requires a long-term vision and a willingness one of the key national companies and stakeholders of the carbon footprint of commercial to make constant efforts to achieve positive in the development of environmental legislation, products from the wellhead to end-use. results and to keep pace with a rapidly KazMunayGas contributes to the fulfillment of Kazakhstan’s changing world. obligations under the Paris Agreement. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to the principles With respect, One of the areas in the field of sustainability where of sustainability, support the sustainable Christopher John Walton the Company has achieved significant results is development goals, paying special attention the reduction of flaring associated petroleum gas (APG). 44 45 3 CONTRIBUTION In 2018, we approved a new SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES Development Strategy for 2018–2028. The strategy defines Sustainability Report TO ECONOMIC the target state of the Company in the medium term as a stable company with an acceptable DEVELOPMENT level of debt and a strict leverage management system. Financial stability improvement In 2018 we managed to cover losses and significantly improve our financial performance. In 2018, the KMG external debt was reduced, limits on investments were set and the regulations were adopted for project deadlines. We were also able to bring non-core activities into the market environment, which allowed us to reduce duplicate functions. 46 47 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Development Contribution to Economic Sustainability Report Risks related to transition to lowerDevelopment carbon economy Political and regulatory risks (e.g., implementation of mechanisms for establishment/enhancement of carbon prices for reducing greenhouse gas emissions; transition of the state to distribution of quotas only through the use of specific emission factors as a result, some enterprises may have a shortage of quotas; reduction of energy LOW-CARBON DEVELOPMENT consumption to reduce emissions; adoption of energy-saving solutions; strengthening of measures to improve water use efficiency GRI 102-15, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 302-1, OG3 and promoting more sustainable land use practices). In our long-term KMG Development Strategy, •• carbon asset management; we have identified the following priority areas •• continuous improvement of emission on climate aspects: management activities (e.g. forecasting, —— management of greenhouse gas emissions; prevention and mitigation of climate Market risk (a risk of changes in supply and demand for certain —— reduction of regular flaring of associated change-related damage). climate-related goods, products and services). petroleum gas; Technological risk (development and use of new technologies such —— improvement in emission rates per Climate change issues require the identification as renewable energy sources (RES), energy-saving technologies, production volume and energy efficiency. of risks and the adoption of measures to reduce best available technologies (BAT), carbon capture and storage burden on the environment. technologies, etc.). In 2018, KMG developed an emission management policy consisting of eight key The corporate risk management system is Reputational risks associated with changing the perception principles, six of which are directly related a key component of the corporate governance of the Company by stakeholders in terms of its contribution to climate change: system and is aimed at timely identification, to the transition to a low-carbon economy, or evasion of this •• compliance with the volume of established assessment, monitoring and reduction transition. quotas for greenhouse gas emissions; of potential risk events that may adversely affect •• regular accounting, inventory the achievement of strategic and operational Principle 7 and monitoring of emissions, including goals. We identify and report quarterly Businesses should support a indirect greenhouse gas emissions; to the Board of Directors on the HSE risks, precautionary approach to •• cessation of regular flaring of raw gas while as well as include the risks related to climate environmental challenges. extraction of hydrocarbons; change in the corporate risk matrix: Principle 8 •• implementation of measures to reduce Risks related to physical Undertake initiatives to promote emissions and reduce the carbon footprint; impact of climate greater environmental responsibility. change Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Climate change-related Short-term risks caused by extreme weather events such as cyclones, including extortion and bribery. risks hurricanes, floods. Systematic (chronic) risks caused by long-term changes in climate models (e.g., long periods of abnormally high air temperatures, sea Risks related to Risks related to physical level rise and inundation of onshore wells). transition to lowerimpact of climate carbon economy change 48 49 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Economic Development In order to mitigate these risks, we are •• management of power consumption The total amount actively involved as part of the Working modes, increasing the efficient electricity of generated ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Sustainability Report Groups under the Ministry of Energy use in the technological processes (produced) of Kazakhstan in improving the regulatory of the refineries; renewable energy 2 GRI GRI 102-7, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 201-4 framework of Kazakhstan in the field of state •• predictive analysis, real-time monitoring; by sources for 2018 regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. •• creation of a common environment was: The Company makes a significant contribution The economic performance of the Company for monitoring and analysis of electricity to development of the Kazakhstan regions, allows assessing this contribution Every year the Company builds new recycling consumption of subsidiaries and affiliates increase of socio-economic capacity to the country’s economy, revenues, liabilities facilities, reconstructs the existing production of KMG Oil Refining; and improvement of welfare of the population and taxes paid. facilities, invests in the construction •• development of a statistical database Output of geothermal of the regions. of pipelines and infrastructure, for example, on electricity consumption in the context (thermal) energy by KMG does not receive financial assistance from the construction of integrated gas processing of time and facilities; heat pumps is the state. at the Prorvinskaya group of fields, the •• identification of emergency situations 678.53 Gcal construction of the Saryarka gas pipeline. and development of solutions; Direct economic value generated and distributed* In 2019, it is planned to put the gas •• implementation of one of the main steps Output of electric treatment plant-40 into full-scale operation in establishment of a digital enterprise. power generation Indicator Units 2016 2017 2018 at the Kozhasay field in Aktobe region. solar panels is These measures contribute to the increase Also, research of the current level Direct economic value generated (gross revenue) KZT billion 4,035 5,451 7,905 103,572 kW*hour of APG utilization level and, accordingly, lead of development of the Kazakhstan refineries Economic value distributed ( gross expenses) KZT billion 3,675 4,926 7,211 to the reduction of direct carbon dioxide is in progress as compared with the world’s Economic value retained (profit) KZT billion 360 525 694 Output of electric emissions. best refineries under the HSB Solomon power generation Associates LLC methodology (hereinafter – by thermal power At the same time, the role of natural gas Solomon). The purpose of Solomon’s Indicator Units 2016 2017 2018 generators (TPG – will grow in connection with the desire research is: determination of the main Rankine cycle) is Other taxes and payments (without CIT) KZT billion 781 914 1,258 of electricity-generating companies to transit indicators – “Solomon indices” – refineries to fuels that would reduce emissions into in a comparable basis, i.e. how effectively 240,900 kW*hour Income tax paid KZT billion 106 113 186 the atmosphere. It is expected that in about the available capacity is used. Performance Payments to providers of capital KZT billion 294 275 291 ten years gas will become one of the main indicators are designed to compare refineries * Data are taken from the KMG Audited Financial Statements for 2018, prepared in accordance with the international financial reporting standards (IFRS). Economic fuels for electricity generation. that are similar in size and configuration, performance indicators are presented in accordance with GRI Standards (201-1). and are better used for operational As part of modernization in 2019–2021, it comparisons that allow comparison is planned to introduce at the Kazakhstan of refinery performance (both production refineries an automated system of technical and economic) with the performance energy accounting to be implemented of other refineries in different groups. on the basis of microprocessor-based GRI 201-3 computing facilities and control systems, In 2019, it is planned to install solar panels which is an information and computer system with a total capacity of 10 kW to power with centralized control and distributed the lighting network of the industrial site measurement function. Implementation of “Amangeldy Gas” LLP. Social Benefits and Pension Contributions of this project will lead to: •• reduction of energy costs by optimizing Renewable energy sources (hereinafter – In accordance with the national legislation, going on a well-deserved rest, can receive some the operating mode and quality control RES) implemented in KTG subsidiaries pension savings of citizens are in the Unified material support. of electricity consumption; and affiliates in previous years operate Pension Savings Fund. Pension savings consist •• automation of the process of collecting effectively: waterkotte geothermal heat of: the minimum pension rate guaranteed In some oilfield service organizations of KMG and processing data on electricity pumps; monocrystalline solar panels by the state, the individual pension savings Group of Companies, such as “Oil Transport consumption in the context of large (batteries); thermoelectric generators (monthly contribution of 10 % of salary) Corporation” LLP, “Oil Construction Company” consumers, units, assemblies; (Closed cycle vapor turbogenerator). and additional regional allowances. LLP, “Oil Services Company” LLP, a project is implemented on provision of the pre-retirement In addition to the state social security age employees with early retirement with and pension program, the KMG Group compensation to be paid upon termination implements a pension program for non-working of labor relations by agreement of the parties pensioners, according to which employees, after with employees who have reached retirement 50 51 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Economic Development age, with compensation being paid upon Social support of KMG Group employees, subscribers, including 6.7 thousand houses 3. Work has begun on development of a termination of labor relations. KZT billion and apartments, 184 small municipal Technical and Economic Assessment to expand Sustainability Report enterprises, 12 industrial enterprises (with the capacity of Beyneu – Bozoy – Shymkent In 2018, expenses for social support of KMG a total consumption of 28 million m3 of gas). to 15 billion m3 per year. Group employees amounted to KZT 22 billion 3. As part of the gasification of the Northern 4. Gasification of Almaty, modernization, 15 (in 2017 – KZT 18.9 billion), including social 2014 and Central regions of the Republic reconstruction of gas distribution systems assistance to non-working pensioners. 17 2015 of Kazakhstan, the Saryarka Pipeline of Almaty. The Project contributes 2016 construction DED was developed in 2018. to improvement of the environmental situation 19 2017 in the city, will connect about 4.1 thousand 2018 In 2018, the following new investment projects new subscribers to the gas supply with an 19 were launched: average annual consumption of 15.8 million m3 22 1. Construction of three compressor stations of gas. at Beyneu – Bozoy – Shymkent Pipeline. 5. “MunaiTas” LLP launched the Kenkiyak – 2. Work has begun on development of a Atyrau oil pipeline reverse project. The project 0 5 10 15 20 25 Feasibility Study “Increase in Capacity is aimed at ensuring the transportation of West of Kazakhstan – China Pipeline (Lines A and B) Kazakhstan oil in the amount of up to 6 million to 40 billion m3 per year. tons per year to PPCP and PKOP. Indicator Units 2016 2017 2018 Investments for Production Upgrading Social benefits and pension contributions paid KZT billion 43 52 52 GRI 203-1 It is planned to continue work in the framework As part of modernization of the Kazakhstan of investment projects for modernization of gas refineries, the following investments were made: Indirect Economic Impacts distribution networks: •• Complex of deep oil refining within the framework of Atyrau refinery Capital expenditures for 2016–2018 1. Modernization of the gas distribution system modernization: assimilation of CAPEX for 2018 GRI 203-1, 203-2 in Taraz. From 2012 to 2018, 862 km of new is KZT 54,172.8 million (without VAT) gas pipelines were built and 29 thousand •• Modernization and reconstruction of Shymkent Units 2016 2017 2018 subscribers were re-connected to the new refinery is KZT 260,730 million (without VAT) gas supply system. In 2019, the construction •• Modernization of Pavlodar Oil Chemistry Сapital expenditures KZT billion 554 669 628 of about 38 km of gas pipelines is planned, Refinery was completed in December 2017. the completion of the project is planned. As part of the region gasification program, stable socio-economic development of NurModernization of the refineries will ensure KazTransGas continues the gasification Sultan and central regions. 2. Modernization, reconstruction and new the production of K4, K5 motor fuels, as well and modernization of settlements construction of gas distribution system as significantly reduce emissions of harmful in Kazakhstan. A road map has been In 2018, the following investment projects were of the Mangistau region settlements. Since and polluting substances. As a result developed for implementation of Five Social successfully completed: 2015, 1,323 km of gas pipelines have been of the reconstruction and modernization Initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan 1. Increase in Capacity of Kazakhstan – China built and modernized, 6 sets of automatic of the capacity of oil refineries will be 17.5 million in terms of the Project “Construction of Gas Pipeline (Line C). With the commissioning gas distribution stations, 34 gas distribution tons per year, and one of its main results is Distribution Networks to Connect to Saryarka of the third line of the gas pipeline (Line C), cabinet points, 41 gas distribution block points a significant increase in output of light oil products Pipeline”. The project will create the necessary the capacity of Kazakhstan – China Pipeline have been installed. 5 settlements have been (including gasoline, diesel fuel), which ensured conditions for development of production was increased to 55 billion m3 per year. gasified. the elimination of their deficit in the country. capacities of the existing enterprises 2. Expansion of Gasification of Kostanay and the establishment of new plants, stable gas Region Settlements. 7 settlements have 3. Gasification of Almaty, modernization, Other capital expenditures in 2018 amounted supplies to Nur-Sultan and Central Kazakhstan, been gasified (Kachar settlement in Rudny, reconstruction of gas distribution to KZT 16.7 billion, which also included improving the environmental situation, Oktyabrsky settlement in Lisakovsk, Toguzak systems of Almaty. The project envisages the construction of the Martial Arts Palace improving the quality of life of the population, village in Karabalyk district, Antonovka, the construction of 288 km of gas pipelines, in Nur-Sultan. attracting and increasing employment Alchanovka in Denisovsk district, Auliyekol the reconstruction of 101 km of gas pipelines of the local population by creating additional in Auliyekol district – a supply pipeline and 34 cabinet gas control points. jobs at the stage of construction and operation has been commissioned, continued of the main gas pipeline and infrastructure gasification in Rudny). In total, the Project facilities of the main gas pipeline, as well as plans to connect about 7 thousand new 52 53 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Economic Development The total amount of procurement of goods, works and services and the share of local content (bn, KZT) PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Sustainability Report Goods Works & Services GRI GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-9, 204-1 Year Total LC share, % Amount LC Share, % Amount LC Share, % One of the principles of procurement in with the Rules of Procurement of Goods, 2016 1,870 76 721 83 1,149 71 Company is to provide all potential suppliers Work and Services of “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC 2017 2,553 75 863 79 1,690 73 with equal opportunities to participate (hereinafter – the Rules). 2018 2,428 79 824 77 1,604 80 in the procurement process. All purchases are conducted through The above indicators reflect consolidated data for all subsidiaries of KMG, in which fifty or more percent of voting shares (interests) are directly At the same time, the current system the Electronic Procurement Information or indirectly owned by KMG under the right of ownership or trust management, and which are subjects of the Procurement Rules for goods, works and services of Samruk-Kazyna JSC. of procurement of goods provides for an open System in accordance with the Instructions tender or procurement through a request for the conduct of electronic procurement. The amount of procurement from resident works and services is made on the basis for price offers only among producers companies of Kazakhstan of the Unified Methodology of Local Content of goods purchased, which are members An important aspect when choosing Bn, KZT Calculations for the Procurement of Goods, of the Register of producers of “Samruka supplier of goods, works, services is Work and Services, approved by order Kazyna” JSC, and also only among organizations to conduct procurement procedures in strict Year Total Goods Works & Services of the Minister for Investment and Development of persons with disabilities producing purchased accordance with the Procurement Rules of 2016 1,602.5 637.5 965 of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 260 dated goods, which are members of the Register “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC without any violations April 20, 2018. of organizations of persons with disabilities. affecting the results. This indicator is included 2017 2,257.9 775.1 1,482.8 In addition, the Procurement Rules provide in the Map of Key Performance Indicators 2018 2,280.8 739.8 1,541 The word “local” means domestic enterprises special conditions for the procurement of the Management of KMG and its SDEs. that produce goods and have a certificate of goods that are used by the subsoil users In 2018, the purchase of goods, works of origin of the form “ST-KZ”, which indicates of “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC who have concluded “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC has developed and services from resident companies the percentage of the share of local content. subsoil use contracts before January 1, 2015, and approved a Special Procurement Procedure of Kazakhstan (regardless of the citizenship When calculating local content in a contract before the expiration of such contracts for Qualified Potential Suppliers, which includes of their employees and the availability of for the performance of work (the provision or until January 1, 2021, whichever comes conducting pre-qualified selection of potential certificates of origin of goods of the form of services, except for the contract first. These special conditions stipulate that suppliers and forming a database of potential “CT-KZ”) amounted to KZT 2,280.8 billion, which for performance of work (rendering services) subsoil users are obliged, in accordance with suppliers that have been prequalified. is 93.9 % of the total amount of purchases. purchased in the framework of subsoil the requirements of paragraph 3 of Article 78 use contracts, the share of the payroll of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On It should be noted that the possibility At the same time, the calculation of the local of Kazakhstani personnel in the total wage fund Subsoil and Subsoil Use”, to purchase goods of establishing requirements for potential content share in the procurement of goods, of employees is taken into account. from Kazakhstani producers of goods subject suppliers in terms of social criteria is not to their compliance with the requirements provided for in the Procurement Rules of the project document and the legislation for goods, works and services of “Samrukof the Republic of Kazakhstan in the area Kazyna” JSC, which regulate the procurement of technical regulation. procedures of KMG organizations. In this ANTI-CORRUPTION regard, the establishment of social criteria The procurement process includes the following when choosing a supplier can be assessed GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 406-1, 409-1 main steps: by “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC as a restriction •• development and approval of the annual of competition. The Company is taking systematic, which are against the interests of the Group (long-term) procurement plan; organizational and practical measures of companies and its employees. •• selection of the supplier; At the same time, the provisions on observance to prevent corruption among the employees •• conclusion and execution of human rights and social criteria are reflected of the Group of companies. In 2017, The specified documents in the state, of the procurement contract. in the model contracts for the procurement by the decision of the KMG Management Russian and English languages are posted of goods, works and services of KMG, as well as Board, the “Rules for conducting anti-corruption on the websites of KMG and its subsidiaries The choice of the suppliers of KMG and its SDEs in the approved Code of Business Conduct. monitoring and internal analysis of corruption and affiliates. Data displays in KMG head is mainly carried out by way of holding an open risks” (hereinafter – Rules) and “Anticorruption office regularly broadcast informational clips tender with the use of tenders for downgrade, The purchases of goods, works and services in Standard” were approved and implemented. on matters of preventing and combating in the manner of requesting price proposals, 2018 amounted to 2,428 billion tenge. corruption among KMG employees as well as from one source, in accordance Previously adopted economic security policy the information monitors. defines main directions for countering corruption and other unlawful manifestations 54 55 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Economic Development In accordance with the Rules, a system analysis risks in the activities of KMG. Based of corruption risks in the Group of companies on the results of the analysis, a number Sustainability Report is carried out on a quarterly basis, the activities of risks were identified when hiring personnel of structural units of KMG and its subsidiary and resolving conflicts of interest, for which dependent entities on anti-corruption appropriate recommendations were given. and compliance with anticorruption legislation are studied and evaluated. With the aim of eliminating and resolving the risks identified by the audit, with The regulations for management organization the participation of the Agency, a joint Action of production and non-production risks, Risk Plan was developed and implemented. All Identification and Assessment Methodology suppliers of goods, works and services of KMG, at KMG and its subsidiaries and affiliates its subsidiaries and affiliates have been notified conduct quarterly monitoring and analysis of the presence of anti-corruption requirements of the state of anti-corruption risks in the Group of companies and anti-corruption for the entire group of the Company, providing methods. a report on risk dynamics and the progress of the implementation of the preventive action Starting from 2017, all contracts of KMG and its plan. subsidiaries and affiliates on the procurement of goods, works and services are supplemented At the same time, in the course of carrying out by a section on countering corruption which procedures for identifying risk factors affecting states that each party to the contract has a zerothe corruption risks of the Group of companies, tolerance policy to corruption, and each party methods of quantitative and qualitative risk is governed by applicable law and on its basis, assessment have been used. policies and procedures aimed at combating bribery and commercial bribery. As part of the work carried out in 2018, 3 actualized risks of a corruption nature, such as Placing internal documents of KMG and SDEs theft, bribery and conflict of interest (in 2016 – on anti-corruption issues on corporate websites, 2 risks, in 2017 – 0) were recorded. For broadcasting info-clips, including anti-corruption commission of corruption offenses, 2 criminal clauses in contracts with counterparties cases were initiated against 3 employees made it possible to achieve almost full with whom the employment agreement was familiarization coverage of employees, as well terminated on the initiative of the employer as potential contractors and other individuals and all of them were convicted by the courts with anti-corruption requirements, profiled with various punitive measures. 5 cases in the company. of violation of the rights of workers related to the illegal termination of employment All employees of the corporate security divisions contracts and disciplinary proceedings have of the KMG Group of companies carry out their been established. work in accordance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan There were no cases of renewal or termination and are guided by the provisions on structural of contracts with business partners due to divisions and job descriptions. violations related to corruption during 2018. According to information received from the The Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan subsidiaries and affiliates, there were no cases on Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption of abuse of power, violations of the workers’ (hereinafter – the Agency) and KMG also rights by employees of the corporate security conducted an external analysis of corruption divisions in the exercise of their duties. 56 57 4 ENVIRONMENTAL Ensuring industrial safety and SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES environmental responsibility is the important task for us. Sustainability Report RESPONSIBILITY The Company’s goodwill, reputation and financial well-being depend on successful solution AND SAFETY IN THE of this task. Today we focus on transparency of environmental WORKPLACE reporting, and thanks to this, for the second year in a row, KMG holds the highest place in the Rating of openness of oil and gas companies of Kazakhstan in the field of environmental responsibility*. Gas utilization growth In 2018, the highest level of APG utilization in the history of the KMG Group of Companies was reached – 93 %. The gas flaring rate is 6 tons per 1,000 tons of produced hydrocarbons, which is almost 50% lower than the IOGP global average. We continue to implement the World Bank Initiative “Complete Cessation of Regular APG Flaring by 2030” and intend to stop the practice of regular APG flaring no later than 2030. Environmental indicators disclosure In 2018, we announced our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) initiative – an international community of investors for disclosure of information about direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions and the risks associated with climate change, and began estimation of the carbon footprint of commercial products from the wellhead to end-use. * Environmental responsibility rating for oil and gas companies https://www.zs-rating.ru/ 58 59 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety Social Responsibility Annexes in the Workplace OUR APPROACH Environment KPI’s Sustainability Report GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 403 Spills and discharges The objectives for managing health, safety and affiliates. The purpose of creating a system of committees is to and environmental issues are directly manage the transformation process in terms of health, safety and •• Number of operational related to the Group’s Development environmental protection. •• Volume of sabotage spills spills Strategy. In 2018, the KMG Strategy 2028 •• Volume of operational •• Upstream flaring CO2 was expanded with the strategic initiative spills equivalent “Environmental Responsibility” which Key Indicators for Evaluating •• Number of sabotage spills •• Upstream hydrocarbon sets priorities for the Group in terms of environmental protection (managing the Effectiveness of Activities in the Areas volume flared greenhouse gas emissions and reducing of Health, Safety and Environmental gas flaring, water management, production waste management, land reclamation Protection Emissions and increasing energy efficiency). In terms of occupational safety, our goal is to enter •• GHG emissions the top quartile of international oil and gas •• GHG intensity / unit of hydrocarbon companies within the IOGP in terms of safety Health and safety KPIs •• NO2 & SO2 emissions / unit hydrocarbon performance. We carry out production activities Fatalities in accordance with the requirements Waste and Water of national legislation and the Group’s •• Number of fatalities Policy in the field of occupational safety, •• Elimination of legacy pollution and remediation of hydrocarbon •• Fatality rate (FAR) per 100 million people-hours industrial safety and environmental contaminated land protection, approved by the decision •• Legacy waste & contaminate land of the KMG Management Board on May 24, •• Reducing of freshwater use 2016. The Policy applies to all employees Lost time of the Group, as well as employees •• Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) of contractors who provide services at our •• Motor vehicle accident rate (MVAR) Energy use facilities. In 2019, it is planned to improve Principle 7 the Policy and develop the Environmental •• Energy intensity (by business division) Environment: Businesses should and Health and Safety Policy. Recordable cases •• Energy efficiency (%) maintain a cautious approach in dealing with environmental The HSE activity is coordinated problems. •• Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) in the corporate center by the Vice •• Major (LTIR) President for Safety and Environment. Principle 8 The corporate center analyzes achievements “A culture of safe work and respect for the environment is Environment: Businesses should and identifies areas for improvement, goals determined by behavior and personal beliefs. We are working take initiatives to promote greater and objectives for future activities in the field Health on the continuous promotion and distribution of information, environmental responsibility. of HSE and energy efficiency, conducts statistics on labor protection and environmental aspects through benchmarking with past periods and with •• Total sick days Principle 9 all communication channels in KMG. The message that safety is similar indicators of the leading international •• Non-work related fatalities Environment: Businesses should encourage the main value of our company is cultivated in the minds of our companies in the industry (IOGP, IPIECA). the development and diffusion of managers and employees”. environmentally sound technologies. Also, in 2017, a three-tier system of HSE Vincent Spinelli, HSE Managing Director Committees was introduced: at the level “Safety, environment and social performance are now closer to of KMG’s Board of Directors, Functional the core of our business plans and decisions”. Committee for HSE, Safety and Environmental Protection at the level of KMG management, Alik Aidarbayev, CEO HSE Committees at the level of subsidiaries 60 61 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace HSE Management System 1. LEADERSHIP The corporate center uses various 8. ASSET INTEGRITY means of communication, which Sustainability Report In September 2018, the Guidelines for Health, achievement, risk management and continuous •• Leadership commitment: allow to properly build a dialogue Safety and Environment Management improvement. Leadership Forums, SPE •• Fire safety preparedness with stakeholders and the Company, Systems were approved. This document has •• 3 tier HSE Committee System •• LOTO as well as in the prescribed changed the approach to managing HSE issues Also, in KMG, since 2006, the management •• Process Safety Management manner to bring information in the Company. The guide was developed system in the area of quality, environmental System to the Board of Directors of KMG. 2. GOALS based on the best international practices – protection, health protection and occupational Thus, the discussion of problematic recommendations of the Association of Oil safety is maintained in accordance with •• Incidents issues with the shareholder is 9. EXECUTION ZERO and Gas Producers (IOGP) and applies to the the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 •• Spills carried out in the framework KMG Group of companies. This system is based and OHSAS 18001. Subsidiaries and dependent •• Discharges •• Health System Management of the meetings of the BoD and its on four fundamental principles: Leadership, goal organizations with a significant level of energy •• Routine Flaring •• Transport Safety Program Committees through representatives consumption are certified to ISO 50001. •• Crisis Management Standard of the shareholder who are members of the BoD and its corresponding 3. STRATEGY •• Methane leak detection committees. program HSE MS Structure & Industry Best Practices Implementation •• Provide safety at work •• Waste Management standard •• Environmental responsibility •• Water Management standard Health, safety and environmental •• Energy efficiency Roadmap issues are monthly heard at meetings of the KMG’s Board of Directors, 4. POLICIES 10-11 1-5 which increases the responsibility of managers and specialists. •• HSE policy 10. MONITORING Assurance, review •• Transport policy Leadership, •• HSE Reporting Rules Since 2017, a three-tier system •• Alcohol policy and improvement commitment and •• HSE Database automatization of Health, Safety and Environment •• Air emissions management responsibility •• HSE KPI system Committees started its activities: policy •• Incident Investigation at the level of the KMG BoD, Procedure the Functional Committee on Health, Monitoring, 5. STANDARTS Policies, objectives •• Automated “Incident Safety and Environmental Protection measurement at the management level of KMG, GOAL and programs investigation” module and analysis •• Development & •• Benchmarking the HSE Committees at the level HIEVEMEN implementation of HSE AC T standards, based on worldwide of subsidiaries and affiliates. The purpose of creating a system CONTINUOU T best practices 11. ASSURANCE AND of committees is to manage IMPROVEMENT the process of improvement HSE Resources and LEADERSHIP Reporting 6. STAKEHOLDERS in occupational health, safety IMPROVEMEN S capabilities of MS and Incidents •• HSE Management System and environmental protection. organization •• Contractor Standard Assessment The senior management of KMG, investigation •• HSE Committee System •• Contractors Reporting production managers and managers •• Public hearings •• HSE Compliance and RT Audits for HSE of the SDEs have become •• HSE awareness Campaign members of the Functional Committee on Health, Safety MA RIS K 7. RISK MANAGEMENT and Environmental Protection. Execution NA Suppliers and and safe G E ME N T •• Risk Management System Stakeholders •• BBS program exploitation •• Risk Assessment Standard Asset design Risk management •• EIA and integrity 8-9 6-7 62 63 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Over the past 2 years, the focus has been on more The visual success of the program is the fact that WORKPLACE SAFETY thorough GPS monitoring and actions taken due to the training and experience, as well as Sustainability Report on violations, as well as a campaign to increase seatthe correct behavior of the management, the unsafe GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-2 belt use using a seat-belt simulator (Convincer), behavior is immediately corrected, the safe behavior not only among drivers, but also workers, using is highly appreciated. This program has improved Over the past 4 years, great work has been done The total number of injured male workers amounted to vehicles in everyday life and their family members. communication and the relationship between in KMG in occupational safety, industrial safety 44 people, female – 6 people. Based on results of the So, by the end of 2018, there were 4 “Convincer” the managers and the employees by demonstrating and environment (hereinafter referred to as HSE), analysis of types of incidents, it was revealed that 80% simulators simulating the work of seat belts in case caring and personal responsibility for safety. while 2018 was the best in terms of safety and health of injuries are caused by falling/sliding/tripping, falling of the accident throughout Kazakhstan, and more A detailed study of each category of SBO allowed indicators. We have achieved our goal – to enter from a height and effect of moving equipment/items than 8,000 demonstrations were held. This helped the management to accurately identify problem issues the top 20 global industry companies in terms of safety or energized equipment. In order to reduce injuries, it to raise awareness of the importance of using seat belts in business areas, as well as subsidiaries and affiliates by 2020 in terms of the fatal accident rate, and by 2020 is planned to conduct offsite meetings on HSE issues and reduce the number of people injured in road traffic for the development and implementation of corrective the Company expects to enter the top-most injury rate. in 2019 in order to clarify the essentiality of observing accidents (by 47 %). action plans. industrial safety measures. The number of injured in accidents, including fatal Key events to improve safety culture and reduce As part of the process of automating the HSE database, accidents, decreased to a historic low – 35 % (50 injured There is a significant decline in road traffic accidents injuries at work, implemented in 2018: 4 modules have been completed: “PNB”, “Culture in 2018) compared with 2017 (77 injured, respectively). (25 %) and driving injuries (47 %). Over the past three •• Conducted defensive driving training aimed Assessment”, “Incident Investigation” and “Audits”. As part of the membership in the International years, a large-scale campaign has been carried out at developing driving skills, changing drivers’ •• Continuous work is carried out on the development Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP), we submit to equip vehicles with safety belts, and passenger attitude to safety. There were 12 people trained. and implementation of corporate documents based annual OSH reports and conduct benchmarking with vehicles with GPS systems, which have already brought •• The conduct of safety behavioral observations on international best practice, ensuring a consistent global oil and gas companies. significant results: in 2016 there were 71 accidents, in (hereinafter – SBO) of works (SBOW) continues – and widespread approach to occupational safety 2017 – 89, in 2018 – 67. 68,263 observations were made. and health issues across the entire KMG Group •• Implemented Driving Safety Behavior Monitoring of companies. Program – 23,495 observations conducted. lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR per 1 million people-hours) Fatality Accident Rate (FAR per 100 million people-hours) 0.8 5 KMG (0.32) IOGP* (0.28) 4 KMG (0.65) IOGP* (1.02) 3 0.4 2 1 KMG GOLDEN RULES MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 The Golden Rules set out clear, simple and consistent communication regarding our highest safety risks. These rules apply to all employees and contractors working for KMG companies. The best-performing companies operate within a simple Comparative analysis of KMG LTIR with industry average Comparative analysis of KMG FAR with industry average framework of rules and trust their employees to do the right thing. Our Golden Rules will help us do the same – save lives! I expect our workers, leaders, managers, supervisors and contractors to make a personal commitment to understand and follow the Golden Rules. Safety will always be a core value and shall be based on respecting each other and our rules. 1.2 4.0 3.5 3.26 3.0 My message is simple, «If you choose to break the rules, you choose 0.8 not to work for the KMG» 2.5 Chairman of the Board 0.57 JSC NC “KazMunayGas” Alik Aidarbayev 2.0 1.5 0.4 0.32 IOGP = 0.28 IOGP = 1.02 1.0 0.65 наряд допуск 1.3m 0.5 0.0 0.0 Fit for work Driving safety Permit to work Energy Conﬁned space Working Moving and Lifting H X F II JJ CC U AA KMG 2018 W FF GG DD BB DD S C B isolation entry at height energized operations D KMG 2014 E F KMG 2014 L Y U objects X K R H KMG 2018 EE DDS OO CC FF HH GG BB AA LL OO PP QQ NN MM KK T V * IOGP – International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (https://www.iogp.org/) 64 65 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Number of days of incapacity for work due to Number of mortality cases not related to injuries •• A 3-tier system of HSE Committees has been •• Developed and implemented awareness programs diseases implemented and is working. for field workers, including the following main Sustainability Report •• Comprehensive audits were carried out activities: at subsidiaries and affiliates with a high level —— preparation and distribution of quarterly of injury, based on the results of which, corrective messages from the Chairman 41 350,001 action plans were developed and implemented to of the Management Board to employees with 243,876 reduce the risks of industrial accidents. the aim of increasing safety culture; 26 224,565 216,203 20 21 •• Field presentations were conducted to educate —— brochures on the topic “Prevention of heart employees on new safety programs, and top attacks and strokes” were developed management on the importance of their and published and distributed to the KMG 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 involvement in security processes. Group of companies. •• The IV Annual General Directors’ Forum in the field —— image products with HSE logo sent of workers diseases and mortality, not related from other companies of the Group in order of occupational safety and health was held to subsidiaries and affiliates. to injuries. to share experience; on the theme “100 % occupational safety as —— animated screensaver “100 % security” installed 2. A training (seminar) has been organized a personal matter of everyone”. Similar forums are on computers of employees of subsidiaries In 2018, a corporate campaign to improve healthcare and conducted on occupational health and hygiene held in SDCs for line managers. and affiliates, etc. of KMG “Prevention of heart attacks and strokes” was of the subsidiaries and affiliates on the subject •• The IV annual competition of the Chairman •• KMG holds meetings with the portfolio companies developed and implemented, aimed at preventing of “Professional pathology and certification of the KMG Board “The best innovative ideas of Samruk-Kazyna JSC to share experience and reducing mortality among workers associated of workplaces on working conditions” (based and practices in the field of health, labor in the field of HSE. with cardiovascular diseases. The implementation in the National Center for Occupational Health and environment protection of the KMG Group of the “10 steps to recovery” initiative and the internal and Occupational Diseases in Karagandy); of companies was held. regulatory document “Regulations on the organization 3. 10 audits were conducted at SDEs for compliance of emergency medical care in the KMG Group”. with occupational health and safety requirements; The main tasks of these regulations are to establish 4. production sites and workshops, rest rooms requirements to provide workers with emergency for employees, domestic premises, canteens medical care, to equip first-aid posts and to maintain an and medical aid stations were examined, HEALTH CARE AND WORKPLACE HYGIENE emergency medical response plan. and according to the results, the inspection identified deviations from the norms and 70 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-3, 403-4 Following activities were performed for improvement recommendations were issued; and effective management in the area of health 5. Based on the conducted regular medical Management of issues in the area of health diseases. Issues on their monitoring and determination protection and labor hygiene: examinations (RME) of employees at the SDEs, protection and work hygiene in KMG and SDEs is are regulated in accordance with the legislative 1. Comprehensive inspections of subsidiaries action plans for 2018 were developed carried out in accordance with the requirements requirements of the RoK. and affiliates were carried out with the involvement for the recovery of identified patients on the basis of Kazakhstani legislation: the Labor Code, the Health of specialists on occupational health and hygiene of the final reports of the RME. Code, the Sanitary Regulations and Instructions KMG Group of companies takes a set of measures to of the Republic of Kazakhstan, International Health prevent and monitor cases of detection of occupational protection and Work Hygiene Requirements. diseases at production facilities on a regular basis. Plans for 2019: In addition, the Company enters into collective The final decision on identification of occupational agreements with employees, in which special attention disease is made according to the results of a number of We do not plan to stop on the achieved success, In addition, the priorities for 2019 are: is paid to the protection of health and safety at the examinations carried out by the relevant organization: because we realize that the improvement of the HSE 1. The key labor protection program planned for workplace. All employees of the Company are covered Institute of Public Health and Professional Health of management system is an ongoing process. Now that 2019 is the launch of the pilot project “Accidentby an annual medical examination, in addition, “MUK” NC JSC. KMG is on the right track in terms of improving labor free Reporting”. In 2017 and 2018, the focus was employees of subsidiaries and affiliates undergo a daily protection, health and transport safety, we are ready on identifying and correcting unsafe behavior. pre-shift and post-shift medical examination. According to the results of medical examinations there for a new challenge – management of contracting The Accident Free Reporting program will focus on were no cases of occupational diseases (acute or organizations. In 2019, we plan to establish an indicator unsafe working conditions. This program will involve Number of days of incapacity for work due to diseases chronic) in the KMG Group of companies during the for contracting organizations’ safety management and ordinary workers and give them the opportunity to of employees of SDEs was 216,203 days in 2018, which reporting period. transparency of contracting organizations’ reporting express their concerns. is on 8,362 days less than in 2017, or 3.7 %. Number as a KPI. Contractors comprise more than 50% of our 2. Restarting the Golden Rules program, which has of mortality cases, not related to injuries among SDE Within the framework of the implementation operating personnel, and increasing their safety will proven its success. employees decreased by 5 cases compared to 2017, of the Roadmap on improvement of labor ultimately affect overall performance of KMG. Our 3. The NPS program is no longer a KPI, but a strategic or by 19.2 %. and the environment protection in the KazMunayGas expectations are aimed at ensuring that all employees initiative and will be monitored through the HSE Group – 2020, approved by the decision of the Board of the KazMunayGas Group of companies and all Committees. The range of harmful production factors inherent in on 27.09.2016, corporate health programs are contracting organizations always go home safe and 4. Despite the fact that the number of injuries the oil and gas industry has the risk of occupational introduced by the KMG, first of all, related to reduction sound. We will continue to work towards our goal of decreased to the lowest level in the entire history ensuring 100% industrial safety. of KMG, by 35 % compared with 2017, 21 of 48 66 67 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace cases of injuries fell on hands and / or fingers, 8. Development and implementation of the main association. This indicator for the IOGP group Transportation subsidiaries and affiliates (0). which is 43 % of the total number of injuries. In corporate document on the management system of companies is 0.17, which is significantly In the Upstream business area, the majority of Sustainability Report this regard, in order to solve this problem, in 2019 in the field of health and labor hygiene of KMG, lower than the Company’s E&P subsidiaries and industrial safety incidents were caused by wear we are launching a program to prevent injuries to including tools for assessing the current level of the affiliates, which was 1.3, and higher than the on pipelines and equipment breakdowns caused these areas called “Preventing injuries to hands and management system, including risk assessment and Company’s similar indicators for Processing and by corrosion. fingers”. preparedness for an emergency medical response; Marketing subsidiaries and affiliates (0.06) and 5. In October 2019, KMG will hold the 1st Caspian 9. Organization of a demonstrative training alarm Symposium on HSE in Kazakhstan, which will attract for emergency medical care in the KMG Group of more attention to safety issues than ever before, companies on the basis of Atyrau Refinery, KTO, ICA, Emergency preparedness (crisis) situations and about 400 participants from around the world EMG and KGM. will take part in it. 10. The work of functional groups in various areas. In the reporting year, the corporate center well-being or long-term viability. Crisis situations 6. Introduction of the Crisis Management Center and 11. Continued implementation of the HSE strategy and of the Company developed a draft Regulation are considered both of an industrial nature conducting training sessions. plans through the system of HSE committees. on crisis management to ensure prompt (accidents, fires, explosions, etc.) and not 7. Development of a corporate standard for risk response, prevent the escalation of possible related to production (large-scale fraud, social management and process safety management. crisis situations, reduce the severity unrest, acts of terrorism, etc.). of consequences and possible damage as a result of their occurrence. In all cases, the involvement of the Company’s senior management for making strategic The regulation assumes a three-level approach decisions aimed at reducing the impact INDUSTRIAL SAFETY to managing incidents that can have a significant and minimizing the effects of crisis situations is impact on the reputation of the Company envisaged. GRI OG13 and its subsidiaries and affiliates, its financial In order to prevent accidents and incidents at all In the reporting year, benchmarking was conducted hazardous production facilities and to reduce in the context of the Company’s business areas in the accident rate in 2018, the Company carried out terms of the Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate (Tier the following activities: 1 PSER) industrial safety incident rate with international •• Systematic control of timely conduction oil companies that are members of the IOGP of the survey, repair and replacement of technical Accident rate (technological hazards) at the devices; production facilities Level 3(company) Strategic aspects •• Strict adherence to technological discipline; Support of the republican state bodies/ (management of outstanding issues Increase in the incident severity level •• Implementation of industrial control in the area 4 1 external support of industrial safety; 3 •• Full compliance with the industrial safety 1 3 requirements established by laws and regulations. 2 1 2 1 In 2018, two accident occurred at the Company’s 1 production facilities – a gas, oil and water inflow 1 1 Level 2 (subsidiaries Tactical aspects in the oil and gas field, and depressurization 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 and affiliate companies) (incidents management) of the process pipeline followed by ignition at the oil Support of the territorial (regional) refinery. The main causes of accidents were a violation Upstream Midstream state bodies of industrial safety rules and unsatisfactory technical Downstream condition of the equipment due to its physical deterioration. The amount of losses amounted Tier 1 PSER industrial safety incident rate to 4.860 million tenge, no injuries. Level 1 (subsidiaries and 1.6 1.3 affiliate companies) In the occurred accidents, state technical investigation Resources on site was carried out establishing causes and circumstances, 1.2 and root causes were identified, corrective measures were developed at the Company’s corporate level with 0.8 INCIDENT Accident and emergencies subsequent dissemination of “Lessons learned from 0.4 Crisis situation management team Incidents management team 0.17 management team Incidents” to all subsidiaries and affiliates. 0.06 0 0.0 Upstream IOGP Downstream Midtsream 68 69 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Unauthorized Tie-Ins Fire Safety turned the tide of criminal illegal tie-ins into the company’s pipelines. Already in 2013, it was 35 14 15 12 Sustainability Report In 2018, the companies of the Group introduced 6) organization of gas-smoke protection possible to reduce the number of unauthorized 30 fire safety rating sheets, which are aimed services; tie-ins from a few dozen or even hundreds 25 30,1 10 at checking the readiness of non-state fire 7) organization of operation and maintenance per year to 17 facts; at the end of 2014, 12 20 services to prevent and extinguish fires. of fire trucks; unauthorized tie-ins were revealed; in 2015, 15 21,8 6 8) organization of operation and testing of fire14 frames were completed; in 2016 – 3 10 5 5,13 1 Inspection and evaluation of preparedness technical equipment; unauthorized connections, in 2017, 6 illegal tie5 3 1,1 for prevention and extinction of fires is carried 9) organization of fire prevention activities; ins were revealed, in 2018 – 1 tie-in. 11,5 0 0 out in order to determine the readiness 10) readiness for actions to localize and suppress 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 of non-state fire services (NSFS), as well as the fire (based on the results of the test fireThese indicators are achieved largely due the effectiveness of the fulfillment of contractual tactical training). to the implementation of the following Total damage, mln KZT obligations in the field of prevention activities: Number of unauthorized tie-ins, pcs and extinction of fires at the Company’s facilities. Scheduled inspections for evaluating •• strengthening control over the monitoring Inspections are carried out on in the following the readiness of NSFS are carried out of the work of mobile groups on GPS •• protection of pipelines through areas: by employees of the HSE service, specialists systems and the timely implementation the monitoring system “Optosense”. 1) availability of NSFS’s permits in the field of fire safety of subsidiaries of mobile groups of detours and inspections for implementation of activities in the field and associates of the company in accordance of pipelines; of fire safety regarding prevention with plans approved by the heads. and extinction of fires; 2) NSFS unit’s staffing with man-power, fireAccording to the comprehensive analysis technical equipment, RPD; of the evaluation data, a number of subsidiaries 3) presence of a fire station building or specially and affiliates where it is necessary to take urgent ENVIRONMENTAL INDEX designed boxes; corrective actions, such as: ensuring staffing of 4) organization of man-power training; NSFS staff, building a fire station, the presence GRI 102-11, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307 5) organization of guard service; and staffing of fire engines in accordance with the regulations, etc., were identified. In accordance with the precautionary Dynamics of environmental payments and costs, bln KZT principle (Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration 20 17.6 16.6 on the Protection of the Environment Land Oil Spill Prevention and Development of the United Nations), as well 15 13.9 as the requirements of the KMG environmental 11 GRI 306-3 10 management system and the provisions of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan Oil Spill Volume, tons 5 In 2018, the Company, as before, paid great at the planning stage of each project, an attention to ensuring the integrity of pipelines environmental impact assessment (EIA) is 0 as one of the important areas in the field 2015 4,527.06 carried out to determine the environmental 2015 2016 2017 2018 of industrial and environmental safety. and other effects of management and business Waste recycling 2016 1,619.93 decisions, develop recommendations Other environmental costs The volume of oil spills in 2018 decreased for improving the environment, preventing Regulatory emission payments 2017 1,749.65 by 55 % compared with the level of the previous destruction, degradation, damage and depletion year and amounted to 784.68* tons. Last of natural ecological systems and natural website of the Company, on the websites 2018 784.68* year’s figure was 1,749.65 tons. These resources. In addition, at the design stage of local authorities throughout the project results are a consequence of implementation 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5 000 of each project, public hearings are held life cycle. In the period 2017–2018, 95 of programs to improve reliability of field with the participation of representatives meetings were held with the local community pipelines in the Company’s E&P subsidiaries the Company continued to reduce the number of interested parties: administrative, state and public organizations, including 45 and affiliates aimed at replacing worn-out of failures and gusts of field pipelines through and regulatory bodies, research organizations, meetings in 2017 and 50 meetings in 2018. pipelines and protecting pipelines from corrosion the timely and high-quality implementation public associations, the local population, According to the results of public hearings, by inhibiting. of measures for diagnosis, reconstruction, the media. We provide access of all appropriate measures are taken, taking into replacement, inhibition and cleaning of pipelines interested parties to the draft EIA, reception account the recommendations and opinions The main cause of oil spills in the Company is aimed at improving their integrity and reliability. and registration of comments and suggestions. of stakeholders. impulses of field pipelines under the influence All KMG Group EIA projects are subject to state of corrosion processes. Therefore, in 2018 In close cooperation with law enforcement environmental impact assessment and are In order to effectively manage environmental agencies, starting in 2012, “KazTransOil” JSC available to the public concerned on the official risks, the Company is constantly improving * Indicator reflects data on oil spills in the “Upstream” business area. 70 71 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Energy contribution by area of activity Energy consumption (by type), % approaches to environmental management The Company has increased the budget and allocates the necessary resources for processing historical waste and restoring 6% 1% 8% 4% Sustainability Report to protect the evironment, in pariculary for polluted land. Since 2015, investments in waste 180 167.6 1% environmental costs, which include the payment recycling have increased 3 times and account 17% 135 119.5 56.8 of taxes for regulatory emissions, the cost for more than a third of all environmental 113.2 million Gj of environmental protection measures, protection costs. At the same time, there is 40.2 43 90 insurance, compensation measures in the field a decrease in emission payments associated 55.6 of environmental protection, investments with a reduction in atmospheric emissions by 32.3 37.4 45 in environmental impact prevention, etc. increasing the use of associated petroleum gas. 40.7 39.1 55.2 12% 51% 0 2016 2017 2018 Use of Energy Resources and Energy Performance Upstream Midstream Downstream GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Electricity of refineries and the introduction of new Thermal energy technological units and to increase the depth Oil As one of the tasks in the field of environmental •• increasing the responsibility of top of oil refining, as well as the increase Natural gas protection and increasing the efficiency management through the introduction in production watering at mature fields. APG of production, KMG sees continuing activities of KPI on energy efficiency for managers Boiler and furnace fuels in the field of energy efficiency. The Corporate responsible for energy saving and energy In 2018, the volume of own generated energy Burner fuel Center collects and analyzes data on energy efficiency; in the KMG Group of companies amounted to Diesel fuel consumption and energy efficiency indicators, •• ensuring the rational use of energy 683.4 million kW (2.5 million Gj) of electrical monitors progress and identifies opportunities resources; energy and 3,812.5 thousand Gcal (16.0 Gj) of for improvement, conducts benchmarking with •• reduction of the payment burden thermal energy. the past period and with indicators of similar by increasing the energy efficiency companies in the industry (IOGP). of energy-saving measures; •• ensuring energy efficiency Energy consumption outside the organization The company’s activities in the field of energy in the procurement of construction, GRI 302-2 conservation and energy efficiency are based reconstruction, overhaul of power on the methodology of the international equipment; standard ISO 50001 “Energy Management •• attracting private investment to improve Currently, we keep records of the consumption consumption outside the organization is not Systems”, which is the best generally recognized energy efficiency, including under the terms of energy resources only within reflected in this report. international practice for system management of energy service agreements (contracts); the organization; in this connection, energy in this activity. •• improving the system for monitoring compliance with the requirements Since 2017, KMG has a Roadmap on energy and indicators of energy efficiency; Reducing Energy Consumption* saving and energy efficiency of subsidiaries •• compliance with the requirements GRI 302-4 and affiliates, including jointly controlled of legislation in the field of energy saving organizations and joint ventures of KMG and energy efficiency. for 2017–2020. The objectives of the Roadmap Saving the consumption of fuel and energy are included in this register, including assets in for energy saving are: resources is one of the KPIs of the roadmap the upstream, midstream & downstream areas. for energy saving and energy efficiency in the KMG Group of companies. The roadmap is In 2018, 59 energy saving and energy efficiency Energy Consumption designed to ensure the rational use of energy measures were carried out, main main of resources, reduce the payment burden as a which are technological equipment upgrade, GRI 302-1 result of increased energy efficiency, increase implementation of devices for reactive power the involvement of management in energy compensation, introduction of energy-saving In total, 167.6 million Gj* of fuel and energy and motor fuel – 2.0 million Gj, boiler-furnace efficiency issues, and also to comply with technologies, thermal energy production and resources were consumed during the reporting fuel 146.9 million Gj. Energy consumption is legislative requirements for energy conservation consumption optimization. Saving of fuel and year, which is 40 % higher than the 2017 level, distributed between the three business areas and energy efficiency. It is worth noting that energy resources amounted to 436.8 thousand including 12.6 million Gj of electrical energy “Upstream”, “Midstream” and “Downstream”. the implementation of the relevant measures Gj, in-kind 16.8 MMkW (60.6 thousand Gj) of consumption, 6.0 million Gj of thermal energy, applies to our subsidiaries and affiliates that electricity, 8.8 thousand Gcal (37.1 thousand The increase in energy consumption compared are subjects of the State Energy Register in Gj) of thermal energy, 9.6 million m3 (324.3 * In the Annual report for 2018, operational data on energy consumption were indicated. to 2017 is primarily due to the modernization Kazakhstan. 14 KMG subsidiaries and affiliates * In the Annual report for 2018, operational data on reducing energy consumption were indicated. 72 73 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace thousand Gj) of natural gas and 458 thousand be 104.11 tons of fuel equivalent or 0.21 % Water Management liters (14.8 thousand Gj) of fuel and lubricants. of the total consumption of fuel and energy 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Sustainability Report GRI resources for the base year*. Due to the fact that the main measures for energy saving and energy efficiency, namely At the refineries, work is underway to conduct Water is an integral part of all KMG production The standard postulates the main principles the introduction of technological equipment a study of the current level of refinery processes. In its activities, the Company of KMG regarding the use of water resources – was realized in the end of 2018, the economic development in comparison with the world’s seeks to reduce water consumption, improve 8 “Water” principles, systematizes the approach effect in kind of energy resources will be best refineries according to the methodology water use efficiency, increase water reuse to water management in KMG subsidiaries visible only in 2019. The financial expenses of HSB Solomon Associates LLC (hereinafter and recycling, improve the quality of effluents and affiliates, and also helps to increase for the implementation of these measures referred to as Solomon). The goal of Solomon’s and minimize the impact on natural water the commitment of managers and employees amounted to KZT 1.8 billion. Saving financial research is to: determine the main indicators – bodies. to the issue of freshwater conservation. expenses for the purchase of fuel and energy “Solomon indices” – the oil refinery in a resources amounted to KZT 395,2 million. comparable basis, i.e. how efficiently Activity of the KMG Group in terms of water Also in 2018, the modernization The planned payback period is 4.6 years. the available capacity is used. Performance resources utilization is consolidated in corporate of the treatment facilities of “PKOP” LLP indicators are designed to compare refineries center, where integral action of the company (Shymkent Refinery) was completed: This year, an energy audit of “Kazgermunai” LLP of similar size and configuration, and it is better on water resources of the company is the capacity of the plant’s treatment facilities was held. According to the results of the energy to use them for operational comparisons, analyzed. KMG corporate center also analyzes was increased, and the quality of wastewater audit, measures were taken to install the VFD, to allowing you to compare the results of refineries achievements, problems, risks and determines treatment was improved. Additional wastewater modernize the heating system of the laboratory (both production and economic) with the result areas for improvement, purposes and tasks treatment at the reverse osmosis unit saves building of the Nurali metro station and to of other refineries in different groups. for future activity, performs comparative fresh water of up to 1.5 million m3 per year. replace fluorescent lamps with LED lamps. analysis of dynamics and spatial distribution In addition, a system for returning treated * The base year for “Kazgermunai” LLP is 2017. It is worth noting that for The total cost of implementing the agreed each KMG subsidiary and affiliate, which is a subject of the state energy of water consumption. wastewater to the fire protection system has activities is KZT 30.15 million, the total savings register, its own base period is determined in accordance with the been introduced at the treatment facilities periods of the energy audit. In accordance with the Law of the Republic will be KZT 6.5 million annually. The potential of Kazakhstan “On Energy Saving and Improving Energy Efficiency”, an The key event in terms of water resources of PKOP. These measures will help to save up energy audit is carried out at least once every five years. energy savings relative to the base year will protection in 2018 was the adoption to 30 % of fresh water previously collected from by the Company of a corporate standard urban water supply systems. for water resources management, which will be Energy Intensity gradually introduced in the Group of companies during 2019. GRI 302-3 Water Footprint In 2018, the specific energy consumption of the plant, the construction of new ones GRI 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-1, OG5 in the direction of hydrocarbon production and the reconstruction of existing process units averaged over the Group of companies was to increase the depth of oil refining. 2.38 Gj per ton of produced hydrocarbons, The total water withdrawal of the KMG Group In 2018, KMG Group of companies discharged which remains 59 % higher compared In 2019, the implementation of measures in 2018 was 93.7 million m3, which is 11 % 10.9 million m3 of wastewater (9 million m3 to the international association of oil and gas for energy saving and energy efficiency more than in 2017 (in 2017 – 84.4 million m3). in 2017). The main receiver (and end point) producers IOGP, which in 2017 was 1,5 Gj will continue, the results of which will save The increase in water withdrawal occurred of KMG enterprises is various specialized per ton of produced hydrocarbons. In oil at least 0.8 million Gj of energy. As part in the Downstream (by 4 million m3) due receivers: storage ponds, evaporation fields production, the specific consumption of energy of the modernization in 2019–2021, the refinery to the completed refinery modernization and filtration fields. These facilities are technical resources is primarily due to the increase plans to introduce an automated system and the resulting increase in the volume facilities designed for natural wastewater in water cut in production at mature fields. for technical accounting of electricity, which is and depth of oil refining; in the Midstream treatment and prevention of environmental implemented on the basis of microprocessorbusiness area, an increase in water withdrawal pollution. Enterprises that do not have their In 2018 the specific energy consumption based computing facilities and control of 2.6 million m3 is associated with an increase own drives transfer wastewater for cleaning in the direction of oil refining averaged complexes, which is a computerized system in the number of sub-subscribers who buy and disposal to specialized companies. Quality at the refinery was 3,5 Gj per ton. This is 15 % with centralized control and a distributed water for various needs from KTO; the volume standards for discharged water, established higher than the level of European plants and is measurement function. The implementation of water withdrawal in the Upstream increased by environmental legislation, are achieved primarily associated with the harsher climatic of this project will lead to a reduction in energy (by 2.8 million m3) due to an increase through the use of mechanical and biological conditions in the region of the petrochemical costs due to the organization of reliable in the withdrawal of sea water to maintain methods of wastewater treatment. enterprise. In the reporting year, technical accounting, rational distribution reservoir pressure, and also due to an the increase in specific energy consumption and consumption of electricity. increase in the withdrawal of industrial water A significant amount of treated wastewater is is associated with the modernization for production needs. used for the second time at refineries, where in 2018 4.1 million m3 of treated wastewater 74 75 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Water withdrawal sources breakdown of KMG was reused, mainly this water is used Group, thousands of m3 to feed recycled water supply units. In total, Sustainability Report 360 million m3 of water was used (circulated) 100,000 93,657 86,625 82,183 81,335 84,388 71 in the KMG refinery’s water recycling systems. 41 93 87 23,335 28,168 The percentage of water reuse at KMG’s plants 20,987 20,275 21,369 2,514 is 26 % (of the volume of water withdrawal 5,072 2,686 2,836 3,249 50,000 22,875 25,813 in the direction of Recycling). Purified 20,907 23,006 23,077 wastewater in the Mining and Transportation 35,054 36,808 41,924 sectors is reused mainly for cleaning vehicles, 35,463 32,478 dust suppression and fueling systems. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In the process of oil production large volumes Surface sources of so-called, associated-formation waters – an Underground sources oil-water emulsion is extracted to the surface, Municipal systems which is subsequently separated into water Sea and oil by the gravity method. The water Sewage of other enterprises thus separated is sent for injection into the reservoir. A total of 124.4 million m3 Use of water resources by type of operations of produced reservoir water in 2018, 99 % was in 2018, % pumped back to maintain reservoir pressure, 3% and only 1 % into absorbing wells. Significant volumes of produced-surface water extracted 30% to the surface, as well as a gradual increase in its volumes, indicate a depletion of oil fields (an increase in water-cut). In addition, in order to maintain reservoir pressure, 47.8 million m3 of water from other sources (23.3 – sea water, 7.2 – Volga and 17.3 – water from underground sources). 64% 3% Total volume of produced water, thousand m3 2015 2016 2017 2018 Production needs Drinking needs 121,933 123,172 124,416 124,372 Transmitted without use The most significant impact of the Company’s Technical losses activities is on the water bodies of the western region of Kazakhstan (the Ural and Kigach value. To prevent negative impacts on sensitive rivers, the Kokzhide sands, the Pyatimar ecosystems, regular monitoring is conducted. reservoir), which are of particular ecological, economic, historical, cultural and recreational FUTURE PLANS In 2019, the Atyrau Refinery will begin to design and build a new treatment plant for the plant. Modernization of treatment facilities will be carried out in 4 stages: the construction of the first line of mechanical wastewater treatment (MWT), the reconstruction of the biological wastewater treatment unit, the construction of the final treatment unit and the construction of the 2nd line of MWT. Modernization of wastewater treatment plants will help reduce water withdrawal from the Ural River through the use of a multi-stage wastewater treatment system, which will remove up to 99% of pollutants from wastewater and, therefore, multiply the reuse of water. Completion of the project is scheduled for the end of 2023. 76 77 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Biodiversity Conservation and Environmental Monitoring Location and scale of production activities in relation to key biodiversity areas 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 304-1, 304-4, OG4 304-1 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Key biodiversity Location Contract Area Impact reduction We recognize that biodiversity is a security damage to biodiversity, we conduct regular Site Location areas (KBA) in relation to KBA (sq. km) plan of ecological well-being. environmental monitoring, paying particular attention to specially protected natural Kansu Karakia district of Kenderli-Kayasansky Located in a 4,374.6 Decided Biodiversity management is based territories and protected areas; Mangistau region Reserve Zone conservation area to withdraw from on the following key principles: •• Implementation of preventive and Ustyurt State and located near the Project •• Identification and assessment and preventive measures or measures Reserve the reserve of environmental and social risks to reduce the impact, and in the case Samtyr Southeast Kenderli-Kayasansky Located near 10,396.9 Exploratory design and impacts. To do this, when planning of persistence of residual effects – Mangistau region Reserve Zone the reserve stage future activities, we assess the possible compensatory measures to compensate and Ustyurt State impacts that may be caused to biodiversity. the consequences of adverse effects; Reserve In accordance with international practice, •• Continuous improvement Urichtau Mugalzhar district State natural Includes part 239.9 Hydrogeological to monitor changes in the environmental of the management system in the field of Aktobe region complex reserve of the territory monitoring situation in contract areas in the process of health, safety and environmental of local significance of exploration and development of oil fields, protection. “Kokzhide – as well as to assess and clarify possible Kumzhargan” Alibekmola Mugalzhar district Sands Kokzhide Located near 156.5 Hydrogeological Natural areas of our operations under protection and affected and Kozhasay of Aktobe region Kokzhide monitoring groundwater species of flora and fauna Zhambyl Kazakhstani sector Special Located in a 1,935.2 Regular of the Caspian Sea environmentally conservation area environmental Conservation zone of the Northern Caspian areas of the North-Eastern Caspian Sea, located Atyrau district sensitive zone and includes part monitoring, of republican significance at a distance of 20–60 km from the coast (5 of Kazakhstani sector of the territory restrictions The Northern Caspian is the most productive of them are rare species listed in the Red Book of the Caspian Sea, on offshore oil part of the Caspian. The biological resources of Kazakhstan). In the coastal zones, the small Novinsky reserve operations of this part of the sea are very large. The main white egret, spoon-bill, nesting pelicans, Isatay Central part Special Located in a 1,060 Seasonal commercial objects of ichthyofauna are the whooper swan, the white-eyed black of Kazakhstani environmentally conservation area background 25 species, of which the most valuable are and the black-headed gull nest. Sultanas, Whitesector sensitive zone environmental sturgeon, constituting more than 70–80 % tailed Eagle and Osprey are also marked there. of the Caspian of Kazakhstani sector studies, Regular of their world reserves in the basin. Sea, Northern of the Caspian Sea environmental Five RoK Red Book species of birds nest there Mangistau region monitoring Water area of the eastern part of the North as well. The most numerous is steppe eagle. Caspian with deltas of Volga River (within Rare birds can be encountered such as avoset, the RoK) and Ural River are included into sandpipers, magpies, small white egret. state conservation area in the north part and Southern Caspian. In the summer, a small protection of this region since start of its activity of the Caspian Sea. Wetlands of the north The only large marine mammal (detachment number of animals live in the North Caspian in the North Caspian. In full compliance with the part of the Caspian, especially deltas of rivers of pinnipeds) living in the Caspian Sea is (about 30,000 individuals), the majority requirements of environmental legislation, the Volga, Ural and Emba, as well as adjoining the Caspian seal (Phoca caspica). It is an of the population is located in the deeper regime of use of the water area, environmental coast and water area of the sea, are the most endemic species of mammal. Seals are and colder waters of the South Caspian. In late requirements during the implementation of important agricultural lands on the Eurasian distributed throughout the Caspian Sea, but autumn, they migrate to the northern shoal economic activity and compliance with the continent, which provide support to millions their number in the Northern part varies area, where the water begins to freeze. Most principle of “zero discharge” were observed. of swimming and semiaquatic birds during with the season. The nature of the seasonal of the population is collected in the Northern nesting, mew, seasonal migration and wintering. distribution of animals in the sea area Caspian in October–November. Novinsky state natural (zoological) sanctuary One of the largest in Eurasia, the Siberian-Black is determined by the three main phases of the republican significance was found Sea-Mediterranean flyway, passes through of the annual cycle: reproduction, molting Continuous monitoring and timely protective for the purpose of creation of optimal the Northern Caspian. and feeding season. Breeding sites are located measures are required for such territory, which conditions for fauna and flora reproduction, in the northern Caspian in the freezing winter. is important for preservation of biodiversity including listed in the Red Book of the RoK. Based on background research, more than The feeding season from April to September, of Kazakhstan and the whole Eurasian Security arrangement is protection. 70 species of birds migrate through the open the seals spend mainly in the Middle continent. KMG paid attention to environmental 78 79 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Zhambyl area is located in the northern part of the Caspian Sea. The contract territory is located photo by М.Pestov History Case: Sustainability Report within the reserve zone of the Caspian Sea, as well as partly within the Novinsky wildlife sanctuary reserve, KMG, together with the Ministry of Agriculture compensation. which subsequently formed but the production sites do not affect environmentally of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the United the basis of the new environmental policy of sensitive areas. This site complies with restrictions Nations Development Program in Kazakhstan the Company. For example, the Company will on conducting production operations in a period (hereinafter referred to as UNDP) and commit itself to preventing illegal hunting and of high environmental sensitivity. During the study the NGO “Association for the Conservation fishing, both on the part of its employees and period, no abnormal natural phenomena of the state of Biodiversity of Kazakhstan” (hereinafter the side of its contracting companies. Moreover, of the environment or non-natural factors causing referred to as ACBK) discussed compensatory the intention not to carry out activities in concern or increased attention were recorded measures of harm caused during the planned specially protected natural areas will become in the water area. work at the Kansu and Samtyr sites. The results one of the points of the new environmental of the second stage of the expedition to assess policy of the Company. It has been decided to Isatai area is located in the northern part the state of biodiversity in South Ustyurt, award the southern part of the Ustyurt Plateau of the Caspian Sea, 45 km north of the coast held in April–May 2018, were also discussed. with special status, including the Kaplankyr chink, of the Bozashi Peninsula, in Mangistau Region. Kenderli-Kayasanskaya conservation area The expeditionary research was carried out within the Karakiya district of the Mangistau of the republican significance was found within the framework of the implementation region, as a reference intact region of the biome Myortvyi Kultuk (Ustyurt) is the habitat of the most for the purpose of preservation of habitat and natural of the project MSF / 203/17 “Desert Initiative of the Turanian deserts with cold winters, which characteristic representative of the Caspian Sea – reproduction of houbara bustard and saker falcon. of Central Asia” with the assistance of UNDP is a key habitat for a number of species listed in flamingo, formerly widespread in the northeast, Established modes: reserve status, protection regime, and ACBK. Also given are estimates of some the Red Book of RoK, including for gazelle and and still using this part of the sea, molting and flying regulated regime. anthropogenic threats to the biodiversity of honey badger. birds in the Komsomolets Bay area and Dead Kultuk and Korak Bay. Flamingo (Phoenicopterus roseus) Ustyurt state natural reserve is related to the firstthe region and recommendations for their is a locally nesting species with a declining number. class specially protected areas of the republican The only representative of the genus in the fauna significance. Purpose of reserve establishment – It should also be noted that the leopard is work at the site was not carried out. Given of Kazakhstan. The main nesting sites in Kazakhstan preservation of natural complex of north deserts currently not listed in the fauna list of Kazakhstan the high geological, environmental risks, as well to date are Lake Tengiz, Lake Chelkarteniz of Ustyurt in natural state, including rare species and the Red Book of RoK. Employees as economic unprofitability, KMG made a strategic and the northeast coast of the Caspian Sea. of flora and fauna. Security arrangement is protection. of the Ustyurt GPP have already sent an appeal decision to withdraw from the project. In 2019, The reserve is a key habitat for a number of species to the Committee of Forestry and Fauna the contract territory will be returned to the state. The Komsomolets Bay area, the Sorts Dead Kultuk listed in the Red Book of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic and Kaidak are still regularly used by thousands and (or) the International Red Book of IUCN: gazelle, of Kazakhstan with a proposal to immediately Samtyr section. Since 2018, KMG is the owner of birds spending their summers here. Birds from Ustyurt mountain sheep – Urial, Caracal, honey include the Persian leopard in the Red Book of a 50 % stake in “Samtyr” LLP, located the colony of Central Kazakhstan fly through these badger, saker falcon, golden eagle, eagle owl, vulture, of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will ensure in Mangistau Oblast. Located within the South areas, increasing the local non-breeding population bustard beauties, etc. According to leading experts, the necessary legal status for its effective Ustyurt sedimentary basin in the immediate in April and August–-September. Through the Gulf the USPP meets the criteria for UNESCO World Cultural protection. vicinity of the fields Uzen, Shahpaty, Dzhel. Komsomolets annually migrate up to 35 thousand and Natural Heritage sites and in the future can receive individuals. this honorary status indicating the highest international Over the past decades, the presence of a number State natural local complex reserve “Kokzhide – level of recognition of its value. of new mammal species for the region has been Kumzhargan”. There are two objects of naturalMangistau area. There is an extensive network revealed: a white-bellied arrowhead in Western reserved fund of the republican significance: of specially protected natural territories on the territory For the first time in the history of observations Ustyurt, a sharp-haired moth and a red female sands Kokzhide and underground waters of Mangistau Oblast, including the Ustyurt State of the Ustyurt GPP in 2018, a live front Azahit leopard party in North Ustyurt, a honey badger in SouthKokzhide, which are included into the List Nature Reserve and the Kenderli-Kayasan Reserve was found. Previously, the leopard in Kazakhstan was West Ustyurt, a jackal in plain Mangyshlak of geological facilities of the state naturalZone of republican significance, as well as 8 reserves known only for 3 facts of the human production of this and Karagiye depression and raccoon dog. reserved fund of the republican and international and 1 natural park of regional subordination. Among animal, including in Mangistau region in 2007 and 2015. A meeting of the striped hyena in Western Ustyurt significance. the species of reptiles living in Mangistau region, there In Mangistau, leopards periodically come from and traces of the presence of an Indian porcupine is Elaphe sauromates which is listed in the Red Book neighboring Turkmenistan and, given the satisfactory in the region, information about which has not The Urikhtau, Alibekmola and Kozhasai of the Republic of Kazakhstan (2010). The Central food base (urials and gazelles), could probably form been here for more than 40 years. fields are located in the Mugalzharsky district Asian tortoise, which is a common, widespread a local population here if there is no harassment of the Aktyubinsk region of Kazakhstan. species in Mangistau, is quite numerous in places, from humans and proper protection of their habitats. The Kansu section is located in the Karakiyansky The northwestern part of the contract area however, according to the criteria of the Red List The distance from the Ustyurt reserve to Kopetdag district of the Mangistau region, partly within of the Urikhtau deposit is located on the sands of the International Union for Conservation of Nature in Turkmenistan, where the leopard reliably lives now, is the Kenderli-Kayasansky reserve zone and borders of Kokzhide, the deposits also border the Kozhide(IUCN), it has the status of vulnerable species. at least 600 km. with the Ustyurt state natural reserve (2 km buffer Kumzhargan state natural complex reserve of local zone from the site borders). In 2016, exploration significance. In order to prevent groundwater 80 81 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace pollution, work is carried out on regular companies and in the area of the Kokzhide sand and household waste, oil-contaminated areas, transmission line between the Kenderli UGPP monitoring of the state of the environment, massif adjacent to the Contract Area. oil storage sites and stratum waters. In this cordon and the Tulep village has a negative Sustainability Report both in the area of ​​operations of the Group regard, KMG is taking a number of measures impact on the populations of birds of prey aimed at protecting groundwater and preventing in the Ustyurt State Natural Reserve and in Production sites, located within the border and specially protected natural reservations their pollution, clogging and depletion. A well the adjacent territory of Southern Ustyurt. Every design is provided to insulate groundwater strata year on this line in the area of the Kenderli Type of the specially protected Adjacent bodies (part of Outside borders using conductors lowered to a depth of 80–85 boundary there are numerous facts of the death natural reservation Inside borders territory is included) (located near 1-5 km) meters, as well as organizing regular monitoring of birds of prey from electric shock, including IUCN I-IV category 0 0 Kansu of the conditions of occurrence, level and quality those related to species listed in the Red Book Samyr of groundwater in areas of existing and potential of the Republic of Kazakhstan (golden eagle, IUCN V-VI category Zhambyl Zhambyl Alibekmola pollution. steppe eagle, owl). Satpayev Urikhtau Kozhasay Isatai Another factor influencing the industrial KMG, in order to find ways to solve this problem, Myortvyi Kultuk development of territories on biodiversity is in November 2018, took part in the Round (Ustyurt) power lines, which rearrange a serious danger Table on the topic of “Death of rare bird of prey to the avifauna. The network of overhead power species on high-voltage power lines: problems World Heritage sites – – – lines (OHTL) is constantly expanding, intruding and possible solutions”, the main purpose Ramsar lands – – – into the natural habitats of birds and often of which was to obtain initial information becoming the cause of their mass death. This on existing facts of bird deaths on high-voltage The implementation of hydrocarbon development of the region, but also allow problem is particularly relevant for birds of prey power lines. The experts noted that the problem production projects in the immediate vicinity preserving Mangistau’s unique natural and found in treeless steppe and semi-desert regions, of protection of birds from electric shock should of the reserve’s borders, the development of cultural heritage. In particular, as the most where the OHTL towers are most attractive be paid attention to even during the design, appropriate infrastructure and the emergence important compensatory measures to minimize for these birds as perches. coordination and construction of new highof a large number of people with heavy damage from the development of the Kansu voltage power lines. The most optimal solution machinery can adversely affect the unique and Samtyr deposits, it was proposed to Thus, the presence of an average-capacity to this problem is the use of modern effective nature of Ustyurt and lead to the disappearance expand the UGPP protection zone to 5–10 km (6–10 kV) average 60 km long power bird protection devices (BPD). of the South Ustyurt populations of a number of and create a new specially protected natural Percentage of significant operating sites where the biodiversity risk for 2018 was assessed and monitored “Red Book” species. area “South Ustyurt”, including the Kaplankyr chink near Kazakhstan’s state border with Land-based operation Offshore marine operations At the same time, according to experts, it is Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In an optimal quite possible to make compromise decisions variant, a cluster of the Ustyurt GPP should be 2017 2018 2017 2018 that not only ensure the socio-economic created in this territory. Biodiversity areas is covered by an EIA or similar 100 100 100 100 document (%) Areas where environmental monitoring is conducted 100 100 100 100 Number and percentage of significant operating sites where regularly (%) Areas with abandoned wells that regularly monitor 100 100 100 100 the biodiversity risk for 2018 was assessed and monitored abandoned wells (%) GRI 304-2, OG4 In 2018, background environmental studies structure of bottom sediments, including Offshore oil spill prevention (Isatay), well drilling and testing (Zhambyl) were under the influence of intensive navigation, conducted in areas located in the state reserve the physical effects of noise. The Caspian Sea is a closed reservoir, the fragile The absolute priority for the Company is to zone in the Northern part of the Caspian ecosystem of which is especially sensitive to oil ensure constant preparedness for the elimination Sea. At the present stage of activity in these On the Urikhtau section, or bordering pollution. Prior to the start of any type of work of all possible emergency oil spills before drilling areas, anthropogenic impact is not significant on specially protected land areas, at sea, background environmental studies are operations at sea begin. Therefore, the Group and does not prevent the free movement the construction of an appraisal well at the East carried out in contract areas to assess potential has a system for ensuring prompt and effective of wild animals and birds in their habitats. Urikhtau field and the construction of an social and environmental impacts. Impact response to emergency situations, including oil During drilling, the following types of work have appraisal directional well in the South Urikhtau monitoring, emission monitoring and emergency spills and the implementation of appropriate impact on the environment: rig installation, field began. Groundwater impact factors monitoring are also carried out – during and operations to eliminate their consequences. To drilling and testing of wells, shipping. Impact are the direct drilling of wells, which can be after operations. And upon completion of increase the level of preparedness for oil spill factors are: an increase in suspended a source of groundwater pollution. Pollutants work, continuous environmental monitoring of response (hereinafter – OSR), practical and matter concentrations in the water during can also get into groundwater with infiltrating abandoned wells is ongoing. theoretical exercises, trainings and exercises of construction at sea, a violation of the natural precipitation from surface sites of industrial various levels are regularly held to improve the practical skills of personnel. 82 83 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace In the event of a possible spill, contracts are also Service“. For the entire period of construction of gas in the extractive sector, a program of environmental risks, ensures transparency concluded with specialized companies for the the appraisal well, the vessels for the OSR were in to modernize refineries, the use of the latest and openness of our actions in the field Sustainability Report elimination of oil spills of the first and second the 500 meter zone from the rig. available technologies in the construction of environmental protection. levels. In the event of a spill of the third level, an of new facilities in the transportation sector, etc. agreement is concluded with the international Also, the Operator at the Zhambyl site conducted Phased implementation of programs will reduce The Company continues to work association Oil Spill Response Limited, specializing a series of command and staff exercises on first emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases on improvement of activities of production in the elimination of accidents at offshore oil and and second level OSR with the participation of to the atmosphere, increase the beneficial use facilities on reduction of impact on atmospheric gas fields. representatives of state bodies in the field of of crude gas. air. We take active part in improvement industrial safety and ecology. of the country’s regulatory legislation, hold In 2018, before the start of the construction The Company adheres to the requirements meetings of the Working Group on Emissions of the appraisal well in the Zhambyl A subsidiary of “KMG Systems & Services” LLP of national legislation, advanced international Management, participate in forums section, to ensure readiness for the OSR, an owns the North Caspian Environmental Oil standards, the provisions of the Company’s and conferences on climate change, improve agreement was concluded with a consortium Spill Response Base in Atyrau Oblast, the only internal documents in the field of occupational our knowledge and skills in order to increase represented by “KMG Systems & Services” LLP, specialized facility in Kazakhstan intended for OSR. health and safety, environmental protection our abilities on implementation of strategy “Kazmortransflot” LLP and Republican State and other internal corporate documents, on emissions reduction. Enterprise on the right of economic management During the reporting period, no oil spills were carries out identification and assessment “Professional Militarized Emergency Rescue recorded in the Caspian Sea. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Climate Change and Air Quality The Company strives to increase the production (CO2); methane (CH4); nitrogen oxide (N2O); GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 of oil and natural gas to meet the growing global perfluocarbon (PFC). demand for energy, and therefore we give priority to measures to minimize the negative The approach to establishing organizational In 2018, the Emission Management Policy was developed in the KMG group of companies, where impact of our activities on the environment, boundaries of reporting was determined on the the main principles of managing activities to reduce the harmful effects on the atmosphere are observing the requirements of environmental basis of international recommendations of the defined: legislation, rationally using natural resources GHG Protocol, according to which data on direct 1) carrying out activities in strict accordance 4) conducting regular accounting, inventory and constantly improving environmental and indirect emissions were consolidated using with legislative requirements and other and monitoring of emissions; protection activities. the operational control approach. obligations of the Company; 5) the termination of the regular combustion 2) compliance with the established emission of crude gas in the extraction of For the first time, KMG According to the results of 2018, carbon dioxide standards and emission limits, quotas for hydrocarbons; has developed a Carbon emissions in the KMG Group of companies greenhouse gas emissions; 6) taking measures to reduce greenhouse gas Disclosure Information amounted to 9.3 million tons (8.4 million tons 3) a clear distribution of roles and emissions and reduce the carbon footprint; Project under the Carbon in 2017). The increase in emissions is due responsibilities, increased competence, 7) carbon asset management; Disclosure Project (CDP), which disclose data to the increase in gas transportation volumes training and awareness; 8) continuous improvement of emission on direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) and addition of new sources.* management activities. emissions for 2018 for all KMG * Data for 2017 differ from the data in the 2017 report in assets, including international the amount of 1.9 million tons of CO2 due to the expansion of reporting limits and the inclusion of international assets (Romania, Georgia). Data We give primary attention to measures gas emissions and air contaminants, monitors on GHG emissions for 2018 will to minimize negative impact of our activities timely receipt of all necessary permits be verified and will be available on the environment, observing the requirements for operations, such as emission permits, GHG at the CDP site on following link: Direct greenhouse gas emissions by business area of environmental legislation, rationally using quota, gas flaring permits etc. at corporate center https://www.cdp.net* natural resources and constantly improving level. We develop environmental measures air 10 9.3 environmental protection activities. Our priorities protection, including inventory of emission sources Calculation of greenhouse gas emissions 8.4 7.7 are the careful and rational use of natural of pollutants and greenhouse gases, development is based on methodological guidelines 8 6.9 1.6 2.4 mln tons СО2 0.7 0.6 resources, the minimization of environmental of project document, organization of industrial for calculation of greenhouse gas emissions, 6 risks. Targeted programs are aimed at reducing environmental control and monitoring, approved by the authorized body, and cover 3.5 4.1 4.2 4.4 the combustion of crude gas in flares, developing modernization of equipment, leading to reduction following greenhouse gases: carbon dioxide 4 green energy based on renewable energy sources of pollutant emissions. 2 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.5 * The Questionnaire will be posted on the CDP platform in mid-2019. and improving overall energy efficiency. To view the Questionnaire, follow the link in the “Search” section and 0 Programs for minimizing exposure to atmospheric enter the company name in English: “KazMunayGas National Company 2015 2016 2017 2018 JCS”. Methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions, as well as KMG controls the activity of subsidiaries air are: implementation of programs the disclosures 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, were described and posted and dependent entities in the area of greenhouse for the development and processing of crude on the CDP site. Upstream Downstream Midstream 84 85 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Emissions intensity in Downstream, Emissions intensity СО2 in Upstream, Emissions intensity СH4 in Upstream, Graph Data Source: In the “Midstream” business area, there is an ton/1,000 tons ton/1,000 tons ton/1,000 tons increase in emissions intensity associated with Sustainability Report an increase in gas transportation (for export) KMG KMG IOGP KMG IOGP 219 221 216 3.19 and the commissioning of new plants. 133 134 133 2.53 2.59 127 129 129 2.44 The calculation of the emission intensity for 181 181 178 120 2.14 the business area “Gas Transportation” will 115 1.8 125 110 110 begin in the coming years after the launch 1.33 101 of new facilities at several gas transmission 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0.97 0.91 0.87 0.89 0.75 organizations. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Methane Leak Direct Detection Project Volume of direct greenhouse gas emissions emissions is associated with the measures Since 2017, KMG has been a member by business area “Hydrocarbon production” was taken to reduce flaring of associated gas, of the Global Methane Initiative (GMI) History Case: 2.5 million ton of CO2 in 2018, which 7 % lower respectively, the indicator of the intensity of CO2 project network. In 2018, pilot projects were than the level of the previous year (2.7 million and methane emissions decreases. carried out to detect and quantify methane Due to the launch of the integrated tons in 2017). The main reduction of CO2 leaks at the Company’s production facilities gas processing unit at the Prorvinskaya in Mangistau Oblast. group of fields, the volume of direct Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 GHG emissions from the flare in this Level 1. Direct emissions One of the basic principles of the Emission organization was reduced by 80 % and Management Policy is Subparagraph of Principle amounted to 41.5 thousand tons (211.6 Breakdown by area of activity 6: The company takes measures to prevent in 2017). Upstream mln t СО2 equiv.1 4.9 5.0 4.4 4.2 methane leaks at production facilities Downstream mln t СО2 equiv.1 3.5 4.2 4.3 4.4 by conducting campaigns to detect and quantify methane leaks, install floating cisterns in new Midstream mln t СО2 equiv. 1 3.2 3.7 5.2 6.1 tank farms, introduce light oil fractionation Breakdown by countries plants, the use of mobile compressor stations Kazakhstan mln t СО2 equiv.1 10.7 11.8 12.8 13.7 in the repair of gas pipelines. Romania mln t СО2 equiv. 1 0.9 1.1 1.0 1.0 KMG took part and represented the Republic Georgia mln t СО2 equiv.1 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.009 of Kazakhstan at the meeting of the GMI Oil Emissions breakdown by type of greenhouse gases and Gas Subcommittee during the Global Methane Forum held in April 2018. in Toronto СО2 mln t СО2 equiv.1 9.3 (Canada). KMG participates in the international CH4 mln t СО2 equiv. 1 5.4 project of the United Nations Economic N2O mln t СО2 equiv.1 0.02 Commission for Europe “Project on MRV Level 2. Indirect emissions (monitoring, reporting and verification) and reducing methane emissions in the oilm3), in the Zhambyl region (UMG “Taraz”). mln t СО2 equiv.2 2.5 2.5 2.7 3.2 producing and extractive industries”. Underground gas storages are intended Level 3. From using sold products to provide consumers with natural gas during mln t СО2 equiv.2 71.3 In order to minimize the impact of gas storage, the winter seasons, as well as during periods 3 underground gas storage facilities are of reduced gas supply. used to store natural gas (UGS). The largest Over the past two years the emission intensity and the introduction of new facilities as part of them UGS “Bozoy” (with an active storage CO2 emissions from biomass burning has increased in the “Downsream” business of the modernization work (data are presented capacity of 4,000,000 thousand m3) is located or decomposition are not included. direction owing to increased refinery yield for 3 Kazakhstani refineries). in the Aktobe region (UMG “Aktobe”). There are also UGS “Poltoratskoe” (with an active storage In its activities, the Company does not release capacity of 350,000 thousand m3), located ozone-depleting substances that affect climate 1 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5 100 years) in the Turkistan region (UMG “Shymkent”), change. Periodic control and monitoring are 2 The methodology used is described in the CDP report: https://www.cdp.net/en/formatted_responses/responses?campaign_id=66216852&discloser_ as well as the UGS “Akyr-tobe” (with an conducted. id=850098&locale=en&organization_name=KazMunayGas+National+Company+JCS&organization_n&=&project=nproject@number=eryproject_number = Programm % 2F% 2Fcdp.credit360.com% 2Fsurveys% 2F9hz110bc% 2F67889 & survey_id = 65670419. active storage capacity of 300,000 thousand 86 87 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace SOx emissions per thousand toe of raw hydrocarbon production in 2018 Air quality 1.2 1.0 Sustainability Report We conduct industrial environmental of fuel gas combustion in boilers, process monitoring and take measures on reduction furnaces and compressors, gas turbine plants, 0.8 of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, compressor stations, gas flares, etc. 0.6 formed in the result of operations 0.4 IOGP 0.2 and production processes. As part of industrial The actual gross amount of emissions of all 0.2 environmental monitoring programs, emissions pollutants for the Group in 2018 amounted to the atmosphere are monitored at designated to 269 thousand tons (in 2017, 256 thousand 0.0 BU AV LD SC KMG TJ IY XS SA sampling sites and measurements are made tons). There is a slight increase in emissions AH EN VB QU RV XB FK XA TN WB YC KJ LQ DY BC HV YI XD RD to assess potential impacts. The main amount due to the introduction of new sources into PQ YS UX DW NOx emissions per thousand toe of raw hydrocarbon production in 2018 of pollutant emissions is generated as a result operation. 3.0 Gross emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere in the KMG Group of companies, thousand tons 2.5 2016 2017 2018 2.0 1.5 Emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, in total, including: 241.1 256.3 269.3 1.0 IOGP 0.4 NOx emissions 12.9 13.8 16.7 0.5 SOx emissions 16.9 14.8 13.6 0.0 SC HV emissions of other pollutants 211.3 227.7 239.1 YI YS XS RV YC LQ SA RD XA QU TJ IY AH LD TN XB WB FK VB DY EN KMG KJ BU AV PQ XD BC DW UX LA KC In “Upstream” business area, emissions in the exhaust gases of road transport of pollutants are reduced by 16 % due to an and the improvement of air quality in populated increase in the beneficial use of crude gas and a areas. The sulfur content in gasoline K4 is 10 of more than 99.9 %. Due to commissioning corresponding decrease in its flaring. times less than in the fuel produced before History Case: of UPS-4000 tons, emissions of sulfur dioxide In ”Downstream” and “Midstream” business the modernization of the plant. (SO2) into the atmosphere decreased by 21 %. areas, an increase in emissions of 10–12 % is In order to reduce the impact on the air, observed due to the commissioning of new As a result of carried out projects Installation of point loading of petroleum the following measures were taken as sources and the growth of gas exports. for the modernization of oil products in the plant was commissioned. part of the modernization of the refinery. refineries, environmental indicators With the commissioning of the Point Loading The PKOP modernization project has been Sulfur production facilities were commissioned of fuel produced by plants were Equipment for light oil products, emissions of implemented in two phases. At the first in all plants. With implementation of this improved by producing oil products volatile hydrocarbons into the atmosphere stage of modernization, production of motor project, hydrogen sulfide gas will undergo of European quality standards corresponding were reduced when filling, the share of volatile fuel of environmental classes K4 and K5 regeneration, while simultaneously obtaining to K4 classes in accordance with hydrocarbons was reduced by 7 %. (analogs of Euro-4 and Euro-5) was mastered, an important production product – marketable the requirements of the Technical Regulations Connecting furnaces of existing technological in accordance with the requirements of sulfur. This affects the reduction of pollutants of the Customs Union. installations and facilities for modernization the Technical Regulations of the Customs Specific emissions of pollutants in the KMG Group of companies and reconstruction to natural gas makes it Union. Construction of an isomerization unit possible to reduce emissions of pollutants with a capacity of 600 thousand tons per year 2016 2017 2018 and greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. has been completed. In July 2017, isomerization In 2019, it is planned to replace 44 nozzles on Mining of hydrocarbons, t/1,000 TOE of extracted hydrocarbon 2.14 2.35 1.93 unit was commissioned with the release of K4 LK-6U furnaces with nozzles of an improved, raw materials and K5 classes of fuel. energy-saving design. When replacing the Oil refining, t/1,000 tons of refined oil 3.3 3.3 3.3 The second stage of modernization is set injectors, the reduction of pollutant emissions aside to increase the capacity of the plant to Oil transportation, t/1,000 tons of oil transported 0.5 0.5 0.5 into the atmosphere will be 135.8 tons per 6 million tons of oil per year and the depth of Gas transportation, t/1,000 TOE transported gas 1.4 1.2 1.4 year. oil refining. Gas-flare unit commissioned. The installation In December 2015, a sulfur production unit There is a decrease in emissions of sulfur business areas. NOx emissions increase in 2018 provides safe removal of process gases, with a capacity of 4 thousand tons per year oxide/sulfur dioxide in comparison with 2017 associated with an increase in gas exports the height of the barrel is 137 m. This was commissioned. Installation is aimed at by 9 % due to the reduction of gas flaring in oiland the introduction of new installations allows emissions to be better dispersed in utilization of acid gases, previously burnt on a producing assets, as well as measures to reduce in enterprises. the atmospheric air, which significantly reduces flare, with sulfur production with mass purity emissions in “Downstream” and “Midstream” the burden on the environment. 88 89 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Benchmarking of APG flaring rate by industry The Company does not yet make direct Average ratio of NOx emissions measurements using, for example, gas analyzers to total raw hydrocarbon 120 Graph Data Source: Sustainability Report in real time, however, under the new production in oil equivalent 100 Environmental Code, the authorized by KMG Group of companies was 80 environmental protection agency is planning 0.2 ton per thousand ton of raw to switch to automated monitoring of pollutant hydrocarbon production in 2018, average IOGP 60 KMG 2018 (6) emissions by installing sensors / gas analyzers indicator was 0.4. Compared to 2017, there is 40 at emission sources at environmental facilities a 17 % drop in in NOx emissions. Average ratio IOGP 12.1 20 1st category. Currently, a number of SOx emissions to total raw hydrocarbon 0 production in oil equivalent for KMG Group TU of organizations are developing project NU XA XB XS LA KJ SA YI YC QU TN YE WB LQ AH XH EN RD HV VB YS RV of companies was 0,25 ton per thousand ton IY LD documentation for switching to online TJ KMG FK BC SC YQ XN BU DY AV XD LP PQ DW monitoring of pollutant emissions. of raw hydrocarbon production, average IOGP was 20 %. Compared to 2017, there is to discuss the status of the implementation of crude gas under this Initiative is submitted a reduction in SOx emissions. of the initiative in KMG and possible on an annual basis. cooperation to reduce regular burning of crude The Company does not release gas. Reporting on the volume of combustion The company does not recycle APG. persistent organic pollutants in its The volume of crude gas flaring activity. 2016 2017 2018 Beneficial use of crude gas Total volume of crude gas flaring, million m 3 322.8 315.8 148.9 GRI OG6 The beneficial use of APG, % 86 85 93 The intensity of burning of crude gas, t/1,000 produced by raw 12 11 6 This section contains information on companies into operation in the Baiganinsky district hydrocarbons in the “Upstream” business area of the KMG of the Aktobe region at the Kozhasai field. Group. The Head of the State opened its work online during a national teleconference dedicated Construction of infrastructure and modern In 2018, the average ratio of gas burned One of goals in reducing greenhouse gas to the Day of Industrialization. Commissioning facilities for the utilization of crude gas make to total hydrocarbon production in oil emissions is to increase the beneficial use of the integrated gas processing unit it possible to fully develop mining assets equivalent for the KMG Group of companies and utilization of associated petroleum gas, at the Kozhasai field into full-scale operation will and significantly reduce greenhouse gas was 6 tons per thousand tons of hydrocarbon minimizing flaring. Associated petroleum gas significantly reduce gas flaring from 173 million emissions and pollutants into the atmosphere. production, the average IOGP was 12.1. utilization in 2018 is the highest in the entire m3 to 50 million m3, which will have a positive history – 93 %, gas flaring effect on the reduction of pollutant emissions is at 6 tons per 1,000 tons (by 70 %). Waste Management of produced hydrocarbons (11 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-2, 304-3, 306-4 in 2017), which is almost 50 % In 2015, KMG supported the World Bank’s lower than the average IOGP. initiative “Complete utilization of associated petroleum gas by 2030”. On November 20, Waste management in companies of the Group introduce higher world standards and industry This was achieved due 2018, working meetings were held with is one of the most important environmental practices. Companies of the Group develop to the commissioning of a comprehensive gas representatives of the World Bank Group aspects for KMG. Criticality lies primarily and implement waste management programs, processing unit (GPU) at the Prorvinskaya group in the substantial amounts of hazardous allocate substantial funds to solve problems of fields and a reduction in gas production waste formation inherent in the oil associated with waste generation and land and combustion in the oil-producing assets industry. For the quality control of this pollution at production facilities. Records of the Aktobe region. process, the Company develops a system of generated wastes are conducted throughout for managing industrial waste, constantly the entire contract area, including wastes The volume of natural and associated gas improves the accounting for the generation generated by contracting companies. KMG production by the main producing companies and movement of waste, increases the potential also controls its contractors for compliance of the KMG Group in 2018 amounted for increasing waste reuse. of their activities with the requirements to 2,873 million m3 (including associated for safe transportation, disposal and recycling. petroleum gas (APG) – 2,049.5 million m3), The companies of the Group try to meet New approaches and technologies in the field the volume of crude gas burned was the requirements of the legislation in the area of waste management for their introduction 148.9 million m3. At the end of 2018, of waste management, as well as gradually at production facilities are regularly studied. a modern gas processing complex was put 90 91 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace Volume of generated wastes in 2018 is 288.3 For each individual case, projects are being Drill mud generation thousand ton (14 % less than in 2017), among developed for the remediation of oil-contaminated OG7 Sustainability Report GRI them 268.9 thousand ton were classified lands, taking into account the climatic features as “hazardous”, and 19.4 thousand ton as of the region, the nature, volume and duration “unhazardous”. Most part of hazardous waste 67 % of pollution; selected the most effective In 2018, Extracting companies of the KMG KMG waste drilling mud generation are drill mud (drill cuttings and waste drilling mud). methods for cleaning and remediation. This generated 176.4 thousand ton of drill mud (6 % 400 The reduction in total waste generation compared issue is controlled by the top management less than in 2017), including: 38.4 thousand ton thousand ton with 2017 was primarily due to the reduction of the Company and is one of the highest priority of waste drilling mud; 138 thousand ton of drilling 300 in drilling waste generation. at the moment. In 2019, a single roadmap for all cuttings. All drill mud of extracting companies historical pollution at KMG fields will be formed, of the KMG Group is transferred to specialized 200 More 80 % of all generated wastes is transferred and by 2024 the Company plans to completely organizations for disposal. Methods of further 100 for processing to specialized companies under eliminate them. For example, already in 2018, waste disposal by these companies: inertisation, a contract. Other significant ways of waste “Embamunaygas” JSC carried out the reclamation thermal method, chemical method, biological 0 management are: reuse, recovery, combustion of historically contaminated lands in areas remediation and dumping at special disposal sites. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and placement at disposal site. in the oil and gas extraction departments of Zhylyoymunaygas and Dossormunaygas – Onshore projects Offshore projects Given the enormous role that contracting it cleared 24 hectares of oil-contaminated companies play in the process of processing land (99.4 thousand tons of oily soil). Further Waste drilling mud, Drill cuttings, Waste drilling mud, Drill cuttings, and disposing of KMG waste, the Company strives works of Embamunaygas on the reclamation thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons to improve the selection criteria of potential of historically contaminated lands will continue 2014 116.50 236.95 0.91 0.88 suppliers to ensure that work is performed at a until 2022. high level and with full transparency throughout 2015 83.08 200.62 1.14 1.10 the cycle – from waste generation, transportation, Much work in this direction is also being carried 2016 44.24 107.13 0 0 to processing and final placement. In 2019, KMG out by “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC. By the end 2017 49.50 134.28 0.99 1.06 plans to standardize the procedure for interaction of 2018, 6 oil waste storage sites were completely with contractors and ensure the same high level cleaned and disposed of. By the end of 2019, it is 2018 37.05 137.19 1.36 0.81 of environmental management for both the KMG expected to clean up and eliminate the remaining Group companies and their contractors. 4 landfills. In the future, oil waste will not be stored on the company’s territory but will immediately Transportation of hazardous wastes KMG is also carrying out tremendous work be transferred to specialized organizations on the recultivation of polluted land and sludge for processing. KMG does not import/export hazardous wastes pits – pollution of the “historical heritage”. outside/within Kazakhstan. Hazardous waste for 2018 by type treatment, % Unhazardous waste for 2018 by type treatment, % 1% 7% 2% 3% 3% COMPLIANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS 7% GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 307-1 268.9 thousand tons 19.4 thousand tons We try to conduct our production activity within For 2018, the environmental protection the framework of the legislation of the Republic Group of KMG companies was charged with of Kazakhstan and to take appropriate measures administrative fines, damages and tax payments 79% to prevent environmental damage. for excess emissions in the amount of KZT 85.6 billion, of which the Company recognized 98% The Company will continue its work on detection and actually paid KZT 9.7 billion, contested in of inconsistencies with the environmental court 55.9 billion tenge. The remaining claims are Reuse Reuse legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan disputed by the Company in court as unlawful. Secondary processing Placement at the disposal site (0.12%) at production facilities, on identification Recovery Storage at the enterpresise’s site (0.12%) of problem issues and risks management to take One of the extractive companies was imposed an Combustion (or use as fuel) Transfer to a specialized organization measures on prevention of any inconsistencies administrative penalty for disposing of production Placement at the disposal site Storage at the enterpresise’s site (0.3%) with the requirements of the legislation. waste at landfills without permits for emissions Transfer to a specialized organization into the environment for periods amounting 92 93 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Social Responsibility Annexes Workplace to KZT 55.9 billion. KMG was able to prove Environmental Fines 2014–2018, bln tenge KMG Training Overview the illegality of the claim and in January 2019, Paid Under negotiation Sustainability Report by decision of the judicial division in civil cases, Petropavlovsk it was decided to cancel the administrative fines 2.8 2014 PPCP and tax payments and terminate the proceedings. Kokshetau 2015 1.8 Kostanay Pavlodar Another company for burning sour gas without 2016 1.2 Urals a permit in the flare of the Complex Gas Nur-Sultan Semey Treatment Facility imposed penalties of KZT 29.7 2017 0.2 Ust-Kamenogorsk Aktobe billion, including administrative fines, damages 2018 9.7 20 Karaganda for environmental pollution and tax payments for excessive gas flaring. The reason for the excess of the acid gas combustion rate was the delayed In 2018, non-financial sanctions were also applied ICA Atyrau launch of the LO-CAT desulfurization system to one of the Company’s oil refineries, namely, at the CGTP. The desulfurization system began such requirements were set as: to adjust the OSC КТО to work at the end of 2018, and the flaring design of permissible discharges, comply with of sour gas at the flare was immediately stopped. established standards for the concentration of Aktau Kyzylorda Of the amount claimed, in 2018 KZT 9.2 billion was pollutants in wastewater, take the necessary ОМG actually paid. For the remaining amount, litigation measures to improve the efficiency of treatment Taraz Almaty is ongoing. facilities, develop plan for the modernization of ICA treatment facilities. The Company carried out work Shymkent on all of the above items. Location of 6 KMG Group Training Centres HSE TRAINING GRI 404-2 Six KMG Training Centres covered Remaining 66% о of mandatory by State Despite the importance of technologies designed among the production personnel who have a long 34% of HSE mandatory State legislation HSE trainings were done by 3rd to reduce risk, no technological innovation can production experience are also involved. legislation trainings for KMG Group parties for 1.1 billion KZT solve the problem of rash solutions. People continue to be the determining factor. Therefore, There are mentoring and internal coaching we are ensuring employee competence as an programs among experienced workers On the basis of “Mangistaumunaygaz” JSC in Aktau, integral part of HSE control system development. implemented, master classes and trainings, various training was conducted (seminar / training) competitions among advanced workers are held, on the topic: “Professional pathology and certification More than 45,458 people were trained which allow to improve internal communications of workplaces on working conditions”, which was in the existing 70/20/10 – on-site / internal / and motivate staff to strive to be the best in their attended by about 40 health and occupational health external / on-the-job training model implemented profession. professionals of the KMG Group. in the KMG Group of companies based on their own 6 Training and Course Plants / Centers In order to improve safety culture, in 2018, on occupational health and safety, industrial together with ExxonMobil, a free two-stage and fire safety. training course on the exchange of experience in the field of HSE and environmental protection Own training centers are located was held, in which over 65 employees of the KMG in “Ozenmunaygas” JSC (Zhanaozen), Group of companies participated. “KazTransOil” JSC (Aktau), “Intergas Central Asia” JSC (Atyrau, Shymkent), “Pavlodar As part of the implementation of the new Petrochemical Plant” LLP (Pavlodar) and “Oil modules “Incident Management” and “Audits Services Company” LLP (Aktau). and Inspections”, training was conducted for 220 employees who are users of the system in the KMG In addition to the existing teaching staff Group of companies. Training took place in Aktau, in the centers for advanced training, line Atyrau and Nur-Sultan. managers and highly qualified experts from 94 95 5 SOCIAL As one of the country’s largest SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES employers, the Company adheres to a social orientation Sustainability Report RESPONSIBILITY that is based on the principles of partnerships with workers and trade unions. The Company aims at: •• promoting productive employment; •• ensuring decent work and working conditions; •• compliance with labor and human rights; •• honest business conduct and rejection of corruption; •• assistance to the development of society and regions of presence. 96 97 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes The concept of personnel policy is based on the following EMPLOYMENT key principles: Sustainability Report 1) Balance of interests of employees and the Company; GRI 102-7, 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 402-1 2) Uniform personnel policy for the entire KMG Group; 3) Shift of the HR role from administratively supportive The basis of KMG’s personnel management Achieving this strategic objective is based to strategic for business; system is KMG’s personnel policy for 2017–2021 on the three main objectives of the HR function: 4) Creating added value for the business; (hereinafter referred to as the “Personnel Policy 1) Creation of a single HR function and a 5) Optimal organizational structure and number of KMG”). single model of personnel management of employees. for the entire KMG Group. 6) Planning the number, based on the needs It defines the main approaches, 2) Continuous improvement and increased of the business and labor market conditions. principles, requirements and directions openness of the personnel management 7) Continuous improvement of training and continuing for the development of the human resource function. education programs. management function in the KMG Group 3) Corporate culture development 8) Building a self-learning organization for the model of companies until 2021. and leadership skills. 70/20/10. 9) Responsibility of managers for personnel The concept of personnel policy is aimed Each goal includes a list of specific tasks, which management. at creating conditions for increasing the value are key areas of personnel policy. 10) Creating a culture of employee involvement of human capital in the KMG Group. in the joint achievement of strategic goals. 11) Creating conditions for motivating employees. The concept of personnel management system development: 12) Preventing law violations. Mission Increase in the value of the KMG Group of companies The total actual number of employees at the end of the reporting period in 2018 amounted to 78,933 Vision Creating of conditions to increase in the value of human capital in the KMG Group people for the KMG Group of companies, and outstaffing 3,347 people. Creation of a single HR function and Constant improvement and increase Corporate culture The number of employees was optimized due to a Goals a single personnel management model of personnel management function development and leadership moratorium on hiring, retirement of employees, natural turnover, and the withdrawal of non-core activities. throughout KMG transparency skills improvement At the same time, the share of production personnel Streamlining HR processes, policies, Regular monitoring and Improvement of corporate culture, in the total number of personnel is 91 %, administrative methods, tools, templates throughout improvement of HR function increase of social stability and and management personnel – 9 % (in 2017, 89 % Principle 1 the KMG Group development of the necessary and 11 %, respectively). Considering that the direction Business communities shall behavior characteristics of of a company’s activity is associated with difficult, support and respect protection of Regular communication and personnel dangerous and harmful working conditions, internationally recognized human rights. the proportion of men is 81.2 %, women 18.8 %. Principle 2 Streamlining approaches to the HR feedback from HR function Business communities shall make sure that organizational structure formation Personnel by categories over the reporting period, % they are contributory infringer of human throughout the KMG Group Leadership skills and personnel rights. Objectives 9% management development among Principle 3 managers at different level Business communities shall HR process automation ensure freedom of association Production personnel and effective recognition of right Administrative personnel on collective bargaining. Outsourcing HR processes that don’t Principle 5 create added value to the Shares Business communities shall ensure Services Center prohibition of child labour. Principle 6 Creating atmosphere of mutual respect Business communities shall ensure and trust, unity and cohesion within the 91 % elimination of discrimination in KMG HR function employment and occupation. 98 99 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Employees, detailed by gender for 2015–2018, % Employees, detailed by gender for reporting period, % Newly employed employees, by gender Employees with whom employment Employees with whom employment over the reporting period, % was terminated during the reporting was terminated during the reporting Years 2015 2016 2017 2018 18.8% period by age group, % period by gender, % Sustainability Report men 74.8 79 80.8 81.2 women 25.2 21 19.2 18.8 30% 27% 18% 13% In age category main share of employees is Women represented in group from 31 to 50 years old – Men 58.3 %, while share of men is 80 %, women – under the age of 30 20 %. Number of employees older than 50 Women from 31 to 50 years Women years old is 25 % of total number of staff, while Men older than 50 years Men share of men is 83 %, women – 17 %. Share 81.2% of young people under the age of 30 is 16.7 % of total number, and share of men is 83 %, 70% 55% 87% women – 17 %. KMG provides employees with a guaranteed social or provided in internal regulatory documents Employees by age groups in 2016–2018, % package which includes various types of social benefits of the enterprise. Such payments include payments and compensations: in connection with achievement of anniversary date, Employees by age groups for reporting period, % years 2016 2017 2018 •• material assistance for health improvement to annual in connection with the marriage, short-term leave leave at the time of marriage, in connection with the birth of a under 30 years 23 17.5 16.7 25% 16.7% •• payments related to pregnancy and childbirth child, due to death of relatives with the preservation from 31 to 50 54 58 58.3 •• monthly payments to employees absent on leave of wages, for treatment and payment of medical years for childcare till 1.5 years operations, in the case, if the cost of treatment exceeds older than 50 23 25 25 •• compensation for termination of employment contract limit, established by the insurance program, to disabled years under the age of 30 in case of impossibility to transfer to another job workers, disabled children, and many others. from 31 to 50 years •• due to full loss of ability to work Number of newly employed employees 9,491 older than 50 years •• disability, one-time payment in case death The number of employees on leave for child care without people, or 12.1% of the average number. of employee for organizations of funeral preservation of salary pay at the end of the accounting •• one-time payment to family of employee, who died period was 1,517 people (in 2017 – 1,697 people), with 58.3% in the result of an accident at work. share of women 97 %, and 3 % of men. Women, who are on maternity leave, are 436 (856 women in 2017). The Company also provides social guarantees Newly employed employees for 2014–2018, % for voluntary medical insurance in case of illness The collective agreement does not provide for a period and organization of rest for children of employees for notifying employees on changes in operating activities, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Newly employed employees, by age groups, % in children’s health camps in Kazakhstan. this issue is regulated in accordance with the Labor Code. 15.3 23.9 20.7 9.4 12.1 If the working conditions are changed, the Company 11.9% 34.2% Moreover, employees are provided with historically shall notify the employee in writing not later than fifteen The number of employees with whom formed types of social support. These types of social calendar days. Minimum notification period towards employment was terminated during assistance are specified in collective agreements significant changes in the company’s activities is 4 weeks. the reporting period was 10.5 thousand people, including people of the age under 30 – 18.2 % under the age of 30 Employees on maternity/paternity leave for Employees on maternity/paternity leave for the (20.4 % in 2017), from 31 to 50 years – 55 % from 31 to 50 years the accounting period and by years reporting period, % (46.4 % in 2017), older than 50 years – 27.7 % 3% older than 50 years 2,000 (23.5 % in 2017). 1,668 1,394 1,470 1,500 1,344 Employee turnover rate* by Group of companies 53.6% People KMG was in average 14 % (14 % in 2017, 13.8 % 1,000 in 2016, 11.1 % in 2015). Women 500 Men * Employee turnover rate = A / B x 100%, where A is the number of 23 22 29 47 employees with whom employment was terminated due to their own 0 initiative, by agreement of the parties and through the fault of the 2015 2016 2017 2018 employee at the end of the reporting period; B – the average number for the period. Women Men 97% 100 101 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes GRI 102-41 HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainability Report and gas, oil refining and petrochemical branches and updated. The plan of KMG activities GRI 102-41, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 406-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2017–2019. to ensure social stability covers various areas of company activity which affect the social wellThe Company recognizes the undeniable bargaining by types of activity or territorial At the regional level, there are regional being of employees (internal communications, importance of providing equal rights character in the company’s activities. We, as commissions for social partnership, which, food quality, living conditions, PPE, training, to everyone. The Company strictly honours a socially responsible company, fully support consider specific collective labour disputes career growth, etc.) A survey of the involvement the fundamental human rights. this right and create a favourable environment in addition to regional issues of employment and satisfaction of the administrative for implementation of workers’ right to freedom and labour protection. and managerial employees of the organizations The Company strictly complies with in association. of the KMG Group of companies was also the requirements of the labour legislation According to the research of the Social Stability conducted. of the Republic of Kazakhstan and does not For the KMG Group today, in many Index (SSI), conducted by the Social Partnership violate its norms, according to which no one can manufacturing enterprises collective Center of “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC, SSI of KMG has The results of the research show what be subject to any discrimination in the exercise agreements have been concluded. increased from 61 to 74 percent from 2013 kind of working conditions the employees of labour rights on grounds of origin, social, to 2017, and is at “above average” level, in of the organization are satisfied with official and property status, gender, race, For the purpose of unification, a Standard 2018, SSI is 74%. and what they don’t, how employees assess nationality, language, attitude to religion, belief, Form of Collective Agreement has been the level of development of communications place of residence, age or physical disabilities, developed, which establishes uniform principles According to the results of the SSI research, and relationships, how well-being of employees as well as belonging to public associations. The for organizing wages, providing social support, for all identified alarming zones in KMG and has changed in comparison with the previous Company did not receive complaints regarding working conditions, work and rest schedules, individual subsidiaries and affiliates, plans of period, quality of life of production workers discrimination during accounting period. etc. An algorithm for resolving collective labor activities to ensure social stability are developed of organizations, etc. disputes, if they arise, is step-by-step registered The Company does not use child labor, in the Model Form of Collective Agreement. Unified System of Internal Communications forced labor, recognizes the equal rights of all Standard requirements for the development employees, regardless of their race, religion of collective agreements for the KMG Group Since 2016, all industrial enterprises of KMG with the workforce to discuss issues that or gender. allow for the construction of labor relations are introducing internal communications tools, require prompt decision-making, employees on a legislative basis, to prevent unreasonable according to which the reporting meetings are received by the heads of subsidiaries Every employee of the Company has equal overstatement or reduction of benefits of top managers with labor collectives are held and affiliates on personal matters. opportunities in implementation of its for employees, to recommend consistent systematically twice a year, quarterly meetings rights and freedoms in the area of work. actions in the event of labor disputes in order of line managers of the KMG subsidiaries Also, in each subsidiaries and affiliates, Moreover, the company actively participates to prevent conflicts and relieve tensions. and affiliates are held with teams, managers a First Executive blog, as well as corporate in negotiations with employees on concluding, meet with the trade union, each employee’s information site were created, displays for video amending and supplementing the collective In 2018, the number of employees of the KMG ability to contact questions to the management announcements were installed to bring internal agreement, strictly observes terms Group of companies covered by collective of enterprises and get an answer in a timely corporate information to labor collectives. of the negotiations and ensures the work agreements was the same as in 2017 – 58,838 manner. In 2018, 65 reporting meetings Information boards are used to inform of the relevant joint commissions, provides people, in 2016 – 58,658 people, in 2015 – of senior managers with labor collectives. employees with operational announcements the information, necessary for the negotiations, 54,197 people. and messages. To identify problematic issues, an strictly complies with the terms of the collective In addition, in order to create and maintain annual survey among employees is conducted agreement. The Company’s interaction with trade unions is effective mechanisms for direct communication in subsidiaries and affiliates. carried out within the framework of the social between employers and employees According to the labour legislation, every partnership, established by the labour in the subsidiaries and affiliates, timely inform Also, once a quarter, the management holds employee is entitled to participate in collective legislation at the sectoral and regional levels. employees about the goals and objectives a meeting with the subsidiaries and affiliates bargaining and drafting of collective agreement At the sectoral level, the main parameters of activities in the subsidiaries and affiliates, trade union on the most pressing issues through their representatives, as well as of interaction (social guarantees, issues bring the current situation in the organization regarding the implementation of the collective familiarize themselves with the signed collective of labour organization, principles of wages, to the workers, create a positive image agreement, the state of labor discipline, agreement. employment, gender and youth policy, of the organization among employees, consideration of applications from the labor safety and labour protection, prevention monitor the parameters of climate in labor collective, safety and labor protection issues, There are no restrictions on the right and resolution of labour conflicts, etc.) are collectives in the subsidiaries and affiliates, provision of social benefits and compensations of freedom of association and collective defined in the Sectoral Agreement in oil meetings of line managers with employees and other socially significant issues of the structural unit, sector, brigade, workshop, in the enterprise. unscheduled meetings are held, management 102 103 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Average annual number of academic hours per one was completed in 2018 and received good STAFF DEVELOPMENT feedback; 99 top managers from 26 subsidiaries trained employee by category of employees, % Sustainability Report took part in the program from September 2017 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2 to October 2018. In addition, in 2018, the Human 15% Capital Development Program of the UPSTREAM 1 experts leading experts / engineers / analysts, Within the framework of capacity development, For the development of KMG Group employees, block was developed and implemented senior experts / engineers / analysts, experts / engineers KMG pays special attention to the development internships are also being held at the invitation in pilot mode in the “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP 59% / analysts, junior experts / of human resources, both production of partner companies – JCCP, JOGMEC. Each and “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP. Within Senior management engineers / analysts and administrative personnel. year, these companies accept more than 20 the framework of this Program, participants Experts1 2 workers – workers’ employees of the KMG Group for training have developed projects that will raise Workers and professions; employees – On an annual basis, KMG provides training in various areas of activity from mining, the effectiveness of companies. In 2019, this employees2 technical executors, clerks, archivists, secretaries of and personnel development, forms new exploration, processing and marketing to HR Program is planned to be implemented at other managers approaches and development programs and finance management. Training takes place UPSTREAM companies. During the passage 26% for employees of the KMG Group of companies. on average from two weeks to one month of the program, all relevant areas of human together with representatives of different resources development were covered such Total number of trained employees by years, In order to improve the process of training countries in related areas, which also allows as digital leadership, influence and emotional thousand people and development, formation and maintenance sharing experience and knowledge. leadership. of the required level of personnel qualifications, 2014 80 and the effective use of budgetary funds, a new Together with the General Electric company In addition to these projects, KMG annually 86 2015 concept of personnel training and development we have put together a training program increases the number of trained employees. has been implemented in the Group of KMG on “Oil and Gas Technologies at the Oil and Gas In 2018, KMG trained 129 thousand people* for a 2016 98 companies since 2016 “70/20/10 – on job University of GE (Florence, Italy). Since 2015, total KZT 5,7 billion, which is 2.5 % higher than 2017 120 training/internal training/external training”. during the cooperation in this area, 7 employees in the previous year. The increase in number As part of the introduction of the new training of the KMG Group have been trained. Duration of trained and expenses are associated with 2018 129 model, the Institute of internal trainers of training is 5 months. launch and implementation of the above 0 30 60 90 120 150 has been introduced as well as distance programs. employee training programs, internship Special attention is paid to executive Personnel development costs, bln tenge program and executive development programs development programs. In 2017, Among the number of trained workers, 15 % are 6 5.6 5.7 for the Group of KMG companies. by the decision of the KMG Personnel women, 85 % are men (in 2017, 14 % and 86 %, 5 4.5 Committee, the development programs respectively). At the same time, expenses 3.9 4 The Formula for Success Internship Program is for the top managers of the KMG corporate on training women make up 23 % of the total popular among subsidiaries and affiliates in the center and subsidiaries and affiliates (CEO-1, amount of expenses, with the average cost 3 manufacturing sector. Within the framework of CEO-2) “Unified Development Program” of training women – KZT 69 thousand, men – 2 the program, employees exchange experience were approved, as well as for the directors KZT 40 thousand. 8 % of those trained are 1 with colleagues from other companies of the and their deputies and for the participants administrative and managerial personnel, 92 % 0 KMG Group, as well as employees of partner of the Unified Personnel Reserve “Effective are production personnel. A high percentage 2015 2016 2017 2018 companies. During the program, more than 50 Manager”. The unified development program of trained production personnel is associated employees of KMG’s subsidiaries and affiliates with the mandatory training of workers employed Average annual number of academic hours per passed internships at 5 partner companies, at hazardous production facilities in accordance one trained employee is 15.0 hours (16.1 hours including employees of “Embamunaygas” with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan. in 2017), including: JSC, “Oil Servises Company” LLP, and •• 14.9 hours per man (15.8 hours in 2017) and “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC. 53 employees The share of workers trained in ecology, HSE, 15.6 hours per woman (18.3 hours in 2017); from 9 companies completed internships civil defense and emergency situations was •• 19.5 hours per senior manager, 18.3 hours in 6 companies of the KMG subsidiaries 59 %. At the same time, 20 % of the trained were per expert – 18.3 and 12.6 hours per worker/ and affiliates. trained in blue-collar occupations, and 5 % – employee. training related to manufacturing. 50 % of all Number of employees taking training by gender, % Also, at the moment there is cooperation training expenses were spent on training with the Corporate University ENI. Employees on these topics. Years 2015 2016 2017 2018 of the KMG Group of companies are trained in production areas based on this university. Men 86,5 88 86 85 In 2018, 15 employees of the block explored Women 13.5 12 14 15 production and oilfield services underwent * when calculating the number of trained, the passed training is taken into training at ENI University within 2 days. account (for example, if 1 employee has passed two trainings, the number of trained is 2). 104 105 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes At the same time, we note that the training 14. Training in production areas (taxiways, transportation, gas business, processing and marketing, and development of workers is carried out service projects) Sustainability Report regardless of gender and position. 15. Training for Workers One of priorities of long-term development 16. Master programs, mini MBA of KMG is training of personnel reserve, 17. Internship which includes search and identification of young and promising leaders with the purpose of training managers of new format with modern competencies. PERSONNEL EVALUATION The main principle is purposeful and systematic training of leaders to ensure GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-3 continuity of management, as well as provision of employees with opportunities The staff assessment procedure is in place of the year, and has specific quantitative results for development and career growth in KMG since 2004 and aims to determine from 1.5 to 0 of the official salary as a quarterly in the Group of companies KMG. the effectiveness of the activities bonus payment. and the promotion of adequate and nonIn addition to training programs specifically material remuneration. The evaluation of professional development is for reservists, two-diploma EMBA programs conducted annually and pursues the purpose are developed and conducted. In total, over Procedure is regulated by the Rules of non-material incentives – evaluation the period of the project implementation, for evaluation of KMG’s administrative staff commission can recommend enrolment 35 employees included in the EQF and do and is based on two types of evaluation: to personnel reserve, promotion, rotation not have a master’s degree of the Unified professional development assessment in the Group of companies KMG, individual Personnel Reserve completed the EMBA and performance evaluation. training or other opportunities for professional program. Today, another 14 employees development. continue their education under a similar building and training. To enhance personal and According to the recognized international program for 2018–2019. business skills, thematic trainings and seminars practice of effective human resources In 2018 annual assessment of employees was are also systematically conducted. management, this procedure is based made which showed that 85.4 % of them are Also, during the EQF project, three meetings on assessment of business and leadership the employees of the KMG corporate center. of reservists were held, which were team competences of employees, taking into 33.7 % of all employees of the Company passed account evaluation of performance during the performance assessment for the reporting The main topics of the implemented training and staff development programs the accounting year. period. Among them 23% are women, 77% are men; senior management – 16%, experts – 41%, 1. Participation in conferences, symposiums, forums Performance evaluation is carried out on a workers – 43%. 2. Personal business training quarterly basis, according to purposes 3. Personnel Management 4. Internal control and audit 5. Integrated management systems, ISO and OHSAS standards 6. Environment, HSE EQUAL POSSIBILITIES 7. Kazakhstani content and procurement of goods, works and services GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 202-1, 202-2, 405-1, 405-2 8. Economics and Finance 9. Corporate Governance. Project management Our approach to staff motivation is based (SSLP) was introduced, which purpose is on the principles of ensuring worthy level assistance to achieve strategic purposes 10. Documentation Support of labor payment, transparency and respect of KMG, by adjustment of payment system, 11. Information Technology for employees’ rights. All changes in labor ensuring a single labor payment system in all 12. Language Training payment system are made taking into account departments, and strengthening employees’ opinions and proposals of the interested parties. interest in labor outcomes. This system provides 13. Training in mediation programs, negotiation process for a number of conditions, when employees In the companies of the Upstream business are provided with compensation payments, area, the Single System of Labor Payment extra charges and additional payments; one 106 107 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes of these criteria is the Regional coefficient – in the same position receive the same salary an indicator of the relative increase in salary and other payments as stipulated by the rules History Case: Sustainability Report in order to compensate for the additional of payment in the organization. costs and increased labor costs, related For example, “Ozenmunaygas” JSC annually of the Shetpe – Kyzan road in the Mangistau to performance of work in regions with severe To improve the payment system, the Company allocates KZT 900 million to the fund district in the amount of KZT 371 million. climatic conditions. The highest value of this has introduced a new approach to evaluation of social programs for the development ratio is in Mangistau and Atyrau oblasts. of number of positions (from the level of the infrastructure of Zhanaozen In order to support certain sports and sporting of the administrative staff of the Corporate and the Karakiya district. events, “Pavlodar Petrochemical Plant” LLP has The ratio of salary of initial level in the Group Center to the level of top management allocated KZT 200 million to the city of Pavlodar. to the minimum salary, established of subsidiaries), using international “Embamunaygas” JSC allocated more by the national legislation for 2018, is methodology in the area of human resources than KZT 586 million for the construction “Kazgermunai” JV LLP has allocated in the range from 6:1. management. of kindergartens, a secondary school and a funds in the amount of KZT 1,465 million health and fitness complex in the villages for the construction of the Youth Service Center The ratio of senior management* The payroll system for the top management of Sagyz and Karabau of the Kyzylkoginsky in the city of Kyzylorda, the contribution counted in regions of presence** employed among body and the management team is focused district, in the village of Akkystau of the Isatai on socio-economic development for the period the representatives of the local population*** is on performance, motivation, productivity district in 2018. 2018–2019. 85 %. and efficiency, and includes elements of shortterm remuneration based on the performance “KazMunayTeniz” LLP MNE has contributed “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP provided social The ratio of employees in the executive team is of key performance indicators. In accordance to the financing of the reconstruction assistance to needy segments of the population 9 % of the total number of employees, including with the best world practices, performance in the amount of more than KZT 9 million. 17 % of women and 83 % of men. indicators of managers reflect economic, environmental and social objectives There are no differences in the base salary of the Group. of companies are carried out by the Samrukin the field of public and social policy. and in remuneration system depending Kazyna Trust Social Project Development Fund The administrators of charitable projects on gender differences in the Group Within the framework of the Transformation (hereinafter referred to as the Fund). of the Corporate Fund are non-governmental of companies KMG. The level of salary Program in 2018, project on the assessment organizations identified on a competitive basis. in the organizations of the Group of companies of the correspondence of senior employees Priority areas of acivity of the Fund: KMG is associated with position, but not to the occupied positions (Job Matching****) has —— help people, communities in the social to the employee, i.e. men and women working been continued. and medical sector; —— development of media, cultural community, Amount of funds allocated to charity by KMG, * Senior management (First leader and his deputies) ** Region of presence – region (district) of operating activities ****Job Matching – a project on the assessment of candidates for human development; million KZT (to finance Samruk-Kazyna Trust *** Local population – citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan compliance with the requirements of the positions target functional. —— strengthening labor relations, international projects) relations, investments in the sustainable development of society; 2016 1,544 —— support for regional business initiatives; OUR COMMUNITIES —— promotion of the image of Nur-Sultan 2017 1,225 on the world arena. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1 2018 1,698 Fund implements charity projects and programs Contracts for the subsoil use of KMG for the development of regions by the KMG aimed at solving socially important issues 0 500 1,000 1,500 2000 subsidiaries provide for the allocation Group. for the population from the entire Group of significant funds for the development of companies of “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC. of the region of production presence and social In 2016, by the decision of the Board The activities of the Fund are carried out with assistance to segments of the population of Directors of “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC, the Fund’s the assistance of state bodies, the Government in need. Companies transfer funds to local Charity Policy and the Fund’s Charity Program of the Republic of Kazakhstan and experts executive bodies, which allocate funds, were approved, according to which KMG based on the needs of local communities. and its subsidiaries cannot plan and provide The company plans to introduce an impact sponsorship and charitable assistance on their assessment of this activity. own. In 2018, under the subsoil use contracts, According to the Charity Policy, all charitable about KZT 5.2 billion was allocated activities of the “Samruk-Kazyna” JSC Group 108 109 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes History Case: History Case: Sustainability Report In the KMG Group of companies In order to develop corporate culture and strengthen harmonious relationships in labor on the overall solution of labor collectives, KMG supports other team-building initiatives, including regular Spartakiad collectives and trade unions of among employees of the KMG Group of companies. the Group of companies, new tools have been introduced to consolidate Spartakiad is an annual sporting event in which and labor collectives of KMG subsidiaries.In 2018, the the labor collectives of the KMG KMG employees and teams of KMG subsidiaries Spartakiad was held for the third time at the KMG Group of companies – corporate and affiliates participate. Healthy competitive spirit level with the participation of employees of the KMG events that are organized at and informal communication during the Spartakiad Group of companies. the KMG level: the “Uzdіk Maman” contribute to the formation of affection and The Spartakiad gathers a large number of participants professional skill contest among responsibility for the image of your company and every year: in 2018, 30 organizations (more than working professions, the Summer KMG as a whole. 310 people) took part in the Spartakiad in 8 kinds of Games and the Youth Meeting. The idea of holding this event under the single flag of sports (futsal, volleyball, swimming, basketball, chess, In 2018, at industrial sites of KMG KMG was proposed by the leaders of trade unions tennis, arm wrestling, togyzqumalak). Information on subsidiaries the final stage of the professional skill the Games is posted on the KMG equipment, a computer class and equipment were corporate website: http://www.kmg. competition “Best in profession – 2018” passed prepared, and regulations for each profession kz/spartakiada2018. among KMG Group employees on following were developed and approved, indicating the professions: procedure and conditions for the Competition and • “Mangistaumunaygaz” JSC (Kalamkas area) the technical characteristics of the practice. by professions is an oil and gas production operator, well research operator, reservoir To assess the practical skills of the contestants, pressure support operator, process equipment a competent jury of representatives from KMG repairs and maintenance technician, turner; subsidiaries – experts in their profession was • “KazTransOil” JSC (Training and Course created. Works, the city of Aktau) by profession is a The theoretical part of the Competition for all gas and gas welder, electrician, instrumentation and fitter and by professions a chemical professions is organized by online computer testing History Case: in two languages at the choice of the participant of analysis technician, oil preparation operator the Competition. (commodity operator) (GNPS, Aktau); Since 2014, the youth policy has been actively implemented in the KMG Group of • “Oil Services Company” LLP (Zhetybai field) by According to the results of the competition, a highcompanies. Youth councils were created in KMG and in 45 subsidiaries and affiliates of workover and wireline crew; profile award ceremony was held. The best were KMG. • “Oil Transport Corporation” LLP (MUTT, awarded with the “Uzdіk Maman” medal, money Annual youth gatherings are held where mass cultural Once again, in order to form and implement a unified Aktau) by professions is a car driver, engine prizes in size for 1st place – 100 MCI, for 2nd place – events, meetings with government officials, relevant youth policy for the KMG Group of companies in driver TSA – 320, steam truck operator. 70 MCI, for 3rd place – 50 MCI. At the same time, in master classes are organized for participants (for October 2018, young specialists of the KMG Group accordance with the established regulations of KMG, In the first stage, which was completed earlier in example, on such topics as “mediation like conflict of companies gathered in the city of Almaty from each subsidiary for professional skills for employees the subsidiaries, 3,300 employees from 34 basic prevention in the youth environment”, “leadership in different regions to exchange experience and discuss who won a prize in the “Best in Profession” professions of the oil and gas complex took part. action”, “personal effectiveness” and others), issues of future prospects. competition at the first stage can set additional In the second, final part of the competition at concern to young workers discussed and appropriate payments for the 1st place – 30 %; 2nd place – 20 %; Young specialists took part in the cycling marathon, the KMG level, 186 participants demonstrated recommendations are developed. 3rd place – 10 % of the corresponding wage rate or met with the Akim of the city of Almaty, B. Baibek, their skills in 20 trade jobs, in 2017 the number of and organized a creative concert for socially official salary. competitors was 120 people from 17 trade jobs. vulnerable people with their own resources. As a result, at the closing ceremony of Along with experienced workers, the best young the Competition a video “Uzdik Maman – 2018” professionals with conscientious labor and high skill, was shown, which demonstrated the entire course who proved the right to represent their enterprises of the Competition from the beginning to the end. on the main professional sites of KMG, took part in News about the Contest, photos and videos posted the united KMG competition. on: http://www.kmg.kz/uzdik_maman2018. To perform theoretical and practical assignments at production facilities, premises, special work sites, 110 111 6 ANNEXES SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH CHANGES Sustainability Report Independent Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report 2018 Annex 1. Reporting Boundaries, Changes, Notes Supplements, Assumptions and Description of Methodology for Data Collection, Consolidation and Calculation Annex 2. Key Sustainable Development Indicator Annex 3. GRI Content Index Annex 4. Abbreviations and Acronyms 112 113 114 Sustainability Report 115 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes “JV “CASPI BITUM” LLP, “Zhambyl Petroleum” LLP, Boundaries of the “Equal Opportunities” section: ANNEX 1 REPORTING BOUNDARIES, CHANGES, NOTES “Ozenmunayservice” LLP, “Oil Construction Company” LLP, subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly controlled entities Sustainability Report “Oil Services Company” LLP. with a 50% or more KMG interest, with the exception of GRI 102-45, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49 “TenizService” LLP with a 49% interest, “PKOP” LLP with a Boundaries of the section “Greenhouse gas emissions” 49.7% interest and Caspi Meruerty Operaiting Company cover the following subsidiaries and affiliates of KMG: BV with a 40% interest. “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, Reporting boundaries “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, “Embamunaygas” JSC, Boundaries of the “Our Communities” section: “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, “Kazgermunai” JV JSC, subsidiaries, affiliates and jointly controlled entities The Report covers subsidiaries and affiliates of KMG, “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, “Embamunaygas” JSC, “Karazhanbasmunay” JSC, “KazGPZ” LLP, with a 50% or more KMG interest, with the exception of in which fifty or more percent of voting shares “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, “Kazgermunai” LLP “KazTransGas” JSC, “KazTransOil” JSC, “Pavlodar “TenizService” LLP with a 49% interest. (participation shares) are directly or indirectly owned JV, “Karazhanbasmunay” JSC, “KazGPZ” LLP, Refinery” LLP, “Atyrau Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan Oil by KMG by right of ownership or trust management, as “KazTransOil” JSC, “KazTransGas” JSC, “NMSK Products” LLP, “JV “CASPI BITUM” LLP, KMG-International Boundaries of the section “Human Rights”: subsidiaries, well as legal entities whose activities KMG is entitled “Kazmortransflot” LLP, “Pavlodar Refinery” LLP, “Atyrau (Rompetrol, Petroleum, Vega), “Batumi Oil Terminal” LLC affiliates and jointly controlled entities with a 50% or to control. Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan Oil Products” LLP, and oilfield services organizations. more KMG interest, with the exception of “PKOP” LLP “JV “CASPI BITUM” LLP, “Zhambyl Petroleum” LLP, with a 49.7% interest. The list of legal entities included in the consolidated “Ozenmunayservis” LLP, “Oil Construction Company” LLP, Boundaries of the section “Compliance with financial statements is presented by the following “Oil Services Company” LLP. environmental requirements”: “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, organizations: “KMG Exploration Production” JSC, “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, “KazTransGas” JSC, “KazTransOil” JSC, “Atyrau Boundaries of the section “Climate change and air “Embamunaygas” JSC, “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, Refinery” LLP, “Pavlodar Refinery” LLP, “KMG quality” cover the following subsidiaries and affiliates “Kazgermunai” JV LLP, “Karazhanbasmunay” JSC, Onimderi” LLP, “KazMunayTeniz” LLP, “KMGS” LLP, of KMG: “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, “KazGPZ” LLP, “KazTransOil” JSC, “KazTransGas” JSC, “Cooperative KMG PKI U.A.”, “KMG International N.V.”, “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, “Embamunaygas” JSC, “NMSC “Kazmortransflot” LLP, “Pavlodar Refinery” LLP, “KMG Karachaganak” LLP, “Kazmortransflot” LLP, “KMG “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, “Kazgermunai” LLP “Atyrau Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan Oil Products” LLP, Drilling & Services” LLP. JV, “Karazhanbasmunay” JSC, “KazGPZ” LLP, “JV “CASPI BITUM” LLP, “Zhambyl Petroleum” LLP “KazTransGas” JSC, “KazTransOil” JSC, “Pavlodar and oilfield services organizations. Boundaries of sections “Management System for Health, Refinery” LLP, “Atyrau Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan Oil Safety and Environmental Protection” and “Safety at Products” LLP, “JV “CASPI BITUM” LLP and oilfield service Boundaries of the “Environmental Expenses” section the Workplace”: subsidiaries and affiliates with 50% organizations. The Report does not cover subsidiaries and include: “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, “Embamunaygas” JSC, or more of KMG’s participation. Contractors and joint affiliates such as “KMG Security” LLP, “Cooperative KMG “Karazhambasmunay” JSC, “Kazgermunai” JV LLP, “Kazakh ventures with a KMG interest of <50% are not included PKI U.A.”, “KMG Karachaganak LLP”, “KMG Onimderi” LLP GPZ” LLP, “Ozenmunayservice” LLP, “Ural Oil and Gas” LLP, in the reporting boundaries (with the exception of and “KMG Drilling & Services” LLP, which were covered by “TulparMunayService” LLP, “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, “TenizService” LLP with a 49% interest). Additionally, the financial statements. “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, besides to full-time employees, the outsourced and “KazTransOil” JSC, “KazTransGas” JSC, outstaffed workers of the Company are included in the Boundaries of the section “Associated petroleum gas “KazMunayTeniz” JSC MNE, “NMSC “Kazmortransflot” LLP, reporting boundaries. utilization” cover the following subsidiaries and affiliates “Oil Construction Company” LLP, “Oil Services of KMG, in which fifty or more percent of voting Company” LLP, “Satpayev Operating” LLP, “Urikhtau Boundaries of sections “Use Of Energy Resources shares (participation shares) are directly or indirectly Operating” LLP, “KMG Systems & Services” LLP, “Atyrau And Energy Performance”, “Utility Consumption”, owned by KMG on the right of ownership or trust Refinery” LLP, “Pavlodar Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan “Reducing Energy Consumption” and “Energy Intensity” management, as well as legal entities whose activities Oil Products” LLP, “JV “CASPI BITUM” LLP. include 14 subsidiaries and affiliates that fully reflect KMG is entitled to control: “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, the energy-intensive enterprises of the Group: “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, The “Employment” section includes data on the actual Upstream – “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, “Embamunaygas” “Embamunaygas” JSC, “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, number of employees for all subsidiaries and jointly JSC, “Kazgermunai” LLP JV, “Karazhanbasmunay” “Kazgermunai” JV LLP, “Karazhanbasmunay” JSC. controlled entities on the activities of which KMG has a JSC, “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, “Kazakhturkmunay” significant influence regardless of percentage of voting LLP, “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP. Midstream – “NMSK Boundaries of the “Waste Management” section: shares (ownership interest). “Kazmortransflot” LLP, “KazTransGas” JSC,“KazTransOil” “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, JSC. Downstream – “Atyrau Refinery” LLP, “Pavlodar “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC, “Embamunaygas” JSC, Boundaries of the “Personnel Development” section: Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan Oil Products” LLP, “JV “Ozenmunaygas” JSC, “Kazgermunai” JV LLP, subsidiaries, affiliates, and jointly controlled entities “CASPI BITUM” LLP. “Karazhanbasmunay” JSC, “KazGPZ” JSC, “Urikhtau with a 50% or more KMG interest, with the exception of Operating” LLP, “KazTransOil” JSC, “KazTransGas” JSC “TenizService” LLP with a 49% interest and “PKOP” LLP Boundaries of the section “Water resources use”: group of companies, “Pavlodar Refinery” LLP, “Atyrau with a 49.7% interest. “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP, “Kazakhturkmunay” LLP, Refinery” LLP, “PetroKazakhstan Oil Products” LLP, 116 117 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Supplements, assumptions and description of methodology for data Methodology for collection, consolidation and indicators estimation in the “Water collection, consolidation and calculation footprint” Section Sustainability Report Data in the text of the Report may slightly differ The following business areas are included in Analysis of water withdrawal, water consumption supply systems plus indirect water withdrawal from the data presented in consolidated financial the text of the Report: “Upstream” – KMG’s and water disposal is carried out in accordance from the Irtysh River through the city CHP in the statements (CFS) due to estimate indicators subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in oil and with IOGP and IPIECA reporting requirements. form of non-return of condensate and chemically rounding. In such cases, data of the relevant gas exploration and production; “Midsteam” – Based on these requirements, forms for purified water. CFD posted on the KMG website is correct and KMG’s subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in oil environmental information provision by paramount. Given data may slightly differ from and gas transportation; “Downstream” – KMG’s subsidiaries and affiliates were developed. KazTransOil supplies the Volga water through previously published due to different calculation subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in oil refining. Besides numerical information, information on the Astrakhan – Mangyshlak water line to users methods and approaches to information disclosure measurement methods, metering devices and of droughty Atyrau and Mangystau regions of in the Report. technological features of water resources use in Kazakhstan. KTO transfers more than 90% of the fields and oil refineries is also taken into account. collected water to other water users without Methodology for collection, consolidation and indicators estimation in the using it. Therefore, in order to calculate total “Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace” chapter POCR purchases steam from the city CHP. water withdrawal value for the entire group of Condensate return to the CHP is about 30% and is companies corresponding to the physical picture, recorded using metering devices. The remaining it is necessary to not take the water transferred by The IOGP (International Oil and Gas Producers Environmental performance indicators – 2017 data condensate is recorded by the calculation method KTO to other KMG companies into account. Also, Association) benchmarks are listed in the chapter benchmarks, which can be read on the Association as part of the POCR water withdrawal since 2016. the amount of actual water withdrawal for the on various parameters. KMG has been a member official website: https://www.iogp.org were used in Consequently, direct water withdrawal from group of companies will not be equal to the sum of this Association since 2018. The Association this report. natural sources is calculated for the AOR and PKOP, of water withdrawal volumes for business areas for posts HSE report compiled on the basis of data and for the POCR the withdrawal from urban water the same reason. provided by all the major players in the world oil KMG currently does not record and calculate data and gas industry on a yearly basis. Thus, KMG on absentee rate & lost day rate in accordance Supplements to the “Water footprint” Section obtains HSE industry average values to grasp the with GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety state of this or that aspect. IOGP Report 2017s – 2016. The Caspian Sea and the Irtysh River, the total KMG also conducts exploration and production Safety performance indicators – 2018 data and length of which is 4,254 km, are included in the of hydrocarbon raw materials at the “Urikhtau” List of water bodies of special state significance field, an oil and gas condensate field located in the Methodology for collection, consolidation and indicators estimation in the “Key approved by the Government of the Republic Mugalzhar district of the Aktobe oblast. Most of Performance Indicators for KMG Group” Section of Kazakhstan dated January 21, 2004. The Ural the field is located in the Kokzhide sands known River, with a length of 2,428 km, is not included for their fresh water reserves. Kokzhide sands are in this list, however, in October 2016, a Treaty the largest underground water reserves in Western Average barrellization ratio for each asset is Oil and gas production data are presented between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and unique in drinking water quality. determined for reserves data. Each field has its considering operating assets in which KMG is Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian There are also rare, endemic plant species listed in own ratio (through hydrocarbon densities), and for directly involved in the management of production Federation on preservation of the transboundary the “Red Book” of Kazakhstan on the territory, for the asset and KMG in general we use the average processes, as well as in megaprojects where KMG Ural basin ecosystem was signed in Astana city example: Medikago komarovii – a rare, endemic ratio. has a share of participation, but is not involved in (now – Nur-Sultan city), which, in turn, is based species with a declining range; Centaurea talievii – the production process. on the Convention on wetlands of international a rare species with a declining range; Tulira importance, mainly as habitats for waterfowl, Schrekii Ragel – a species with a declining range. dated February 2, 1971 and the Convention Underground waters of Kokzhide are included on Protection and Use of Transboundary in the List of geological, geomorphological and Watercourses and International lakes dated hydrogeological bodies of the state nature reserve March 17, 1992. The Pyatimar reservoir, having fund of national and international significance a water line area of 5,000 ha and located on the (Resolution No. 1212 of the Government of the territory of the Pyatimar rural district along the Republic of Kazakhstan dated November 18, 2010) Kushum River, is included in the list of fishery and represent a huge potential for providing the reservoirs of local importance (Resolution No. population with drinking water in the future. 176 of the West Kazakhstan Region Akimat dated June 16, 2017). 118 119 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Supplements to the “Drill mud generation” Section ANNEX 2 KEY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS Sustainability Report Drilling is carried out at KMG exclusively by recycling companies. Further treatment of contracting companies and on a turnkey basis – drilling waste is carried out in accordance with meaning that all generated drilling waste is initially requirements of the environmental legislation of owned by drilling contractors, which conclude the RoK. Environmetal Indicators agreements with specialized waste disposal/ Upstream Midstream Downstream Supplements to the “Biodiversity Conservation and Environmental Monitoring” Section 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 KMG conducts the necessary research in the make timely decisions on measures to preserve Greenhouse gas emissions field of forecasting impacts and assessing the biodiversity or mitigate the negative impact on Greenhouse gases direct emissions (CO2, 2.8 2.7 2.5 0.7 1.6 2.4 4.1 4.2 4.4 level of impacts on biodiversity as part of the EIA ecosystems. More detailed information on the mln ton)1 in accordance with the legislative requirements impact of our company’s activities on biodiversity Greenhouse emissions intensity 115 110 101 – – 219 221 of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of in the regions of presence is disclosed in the EIA (ton CO2 per 1,000 ton HCS environmental protection. These studies, as well as projects at http://kmg.kz/rus/ustoichivoe_razvitie/ the implementation of environmental monitoring environment/. APG combustion programs, allow the Company to identify risks and Flame combustion (mln ton CO2) 0.7 0.7 0.3 – – – – – – Number of combusted gas per unit 12.0 11.0 6.0 – – – – – – Methodology for collection, consolidation and indicators estimation in the “Energy of extracted HCS (ton per 1,000 ton consumption” Section of extracted HCS) Flame combustion (mln m3) 332.9 315.8 148.9 – – – – – – Indicators for the generation and consumption types of fuel and energy resources is presented Energy consumption (mln gigajoule) of electric and thermal energy are presented according to actual consumption data for the Power capacity 40.7 39.1 55.2 32.3 37.4 55.6 40.2 43.0 56.8 on the basis of data obtained from energy following types of fuel: natural gas, oil, associated metering (consumption) devices on a monthly gas, fuel gas, fuel oil, gasoline and diesel fuel. Pollutant emissions basis, including data from commercial metering National ratios are used in order to convert data Sulfur oxides (SOx) (thousand ton SO2) 9.0 7.8 6.7 0.4 0.2 0.2 7.5 6.8 6.5 devices for calculating consumption of purchased on energy resource consumption to tons of fuel Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousand ton NO2) 5.8 5.9 4.8 3.2 3.5 5.5 3.5 3.9 5.9 electric and thermal energy. In the absence of equivalent in accordance with Appendix 2 to the metering devices, the indicators are determined by Rules for the Formation and Maintenance of the Spillages calculation method in accordance with regulatory State Energy Register. Illegal tapping – volume (thousand ton) – – – – – – – – – and technical documentation. Reporting on other Illegal tapping – quantity 1 – – 3 6 1 – – – Methodology for collection, consolidation and indicators estimation in the Oil spillages – volume (ground) (thousand 1.6 1.7 0.78 – – 0.005 – – 0.063 ton) “Employment” Section Water GRI 102-8 Total amount of water withdrawal (mln m3) 49.6 49.4 52.2 29.2 30.9 33.5 10.7 12.2 16.2 The employee turnover rate is calculated according forms, which are filled out by subsidiaries and Water discharge – volume (mln m ) 3 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.0 6.8 6.5 8.8 to the formula Et = A / B x 100%, where A is the affiliates on a quarterly basis. number of employees who quit on their own Wastes initiative, by agreement of the parties and due to Information on subparagraph d) “Total number of the employee’s fault at the end of the reporting employees that returned to work after parental Hazardous (thousand ton) 195 273 220.6 8.8 8.9 2.9 38 41.2 39.1 period; B – average number for the period leave ended that were still employed 12 months Unhazardous (thousand ton) 6.7 2.7 5.9 6.6 3.4 5.2 11 6.6 8.0 after their return to work, by gender” (Disclosure Total wastes (thousand ton) 201.7 275.7 226.5 15 15.4 8.1 49 47.8 47.1 The text of the Report reflects the actual number 401-3) is partially collected; The information for * among them drilling wastes, ground 151 186 174.2 – – – – – – of employees of the Company; the number of staff subparagraph e) “Return to work and retention (thousand ton) was presented earlier in the Reports. rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender” (Disclosure 401-3) is not calculated, since * among them drilling wastes, sea 0 2.05 2.2 – – – – – – Data on the number of employees are both subparagraphs are not material topics. (thousand ton) consolidated on the basis of national statistical 1 Direct GHG emissions by Company business areas were rounded to decimal places. In this regard, the amount of emissions by areas slightly differs from the total values of emissions presented in the section “Greenhouse gas emissions” * Values ​​by indicators in this table are presented by KMG business areas and their summation may not correspond to the total volumes / values relevant indicators presented in the text of the Report, since this breakdown does not take into account the reallocation of resources within the KMG group of companies and does not provide data in the “Service” business area. 120 121 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Environmental expenses* Environmental payments (standard) Sustainability Report 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 mln mln mln mln mln KZT USD mln KZT USD mln KZT USD mln KZT USD Expenses mln KZT USD mln KZT USD mln KZT USD mln KZT USD Atmospheric emissions 3,340 15,063,365 4,325 12,655,820 3,886 11,917,244 1,998 5,795,192 1 Expenses related to waste 4,719.8 21.2 6,682.8 19.5 10,929.4 33.5 11,844.6 34.3 due to APG flame management, emission combustion and discharges clearing, total Atmospheric emissions 1,087 4,902,359 1,064 3,113,478 1,217 3,733,852 1,424 4,133,201 1.1 Waste disposal and processing 1,858.1 8.4 2,330.6 6.8 5,285.1 16.2 5,833.9 16.9 (without APG flame 1.2 Emissions and discharges 2,515.1 11.3 3,778.3 11.0 5,398.4 16.5 4,531.5 13.1 combustion) clearing Water pollution 38 171,379 40 117,048 43 131,125 47 135,858 1.3 Expenses for development 79.9 0.4 52.6 0.15 91.5 0.3 104.4 0.3 Waste disposal 514 2,318,135 412 1,205,595 178 547,228 259 753,902 and confirmation of document package on greenhouse gas emissions Affected kinds of flora and fauna on specially protected natural reservations 1.4 Ecological insurance 238.0 1.0 365.5 1.1 97.2 0.3 58.6 0.2 1.5 Expenses for liquidation 27.8 0.1 152.1 0.45 1.3 0.004 1,278.8 3.7 KenderliConservation area of State integrated nature of environmental damage, Kind of flora and Sayanskaya state Ustyurt state Novinskiy the North part of reserve “Kokzhideincluding expenses for oil spill fauna conservation area nature reserve reserve the Caspian Sea Kumzhargan” response Vegetation 20 (13) 336 (5) 4 229 (54) 94 1.6 Expenses for compensatory n/a n/a n/a n/a 55.8 0.17 34.3 0.1 Birds 10 166 (18) 27 466 (63) 75 measures in the area of environment protection Animals, including 18 3 2 Expenses for prevention 1,367.2 6.2 1,394.7 4.08 1,398.7 4.3 1,035.8 3 Mammals 17 29 (8) 125 (41) 44 of environmental impact Reptiles 15 (1) 20 (9) 8 and Environmental Fish 133 (27) management, total * In brackets: number of species, listed in the Red Book of the RoK. 2.1 Staff for employees education 9.7 0.04 246.3 0.7 76.4 0.2 58.6 0.17 and training 2.2 Management systems external 62.9 0.25 47.2 0.11 50.7 0.2 47.8 0.14 certification Indicators of social aspects 2.3 Staff for general activity 4.3 0.02 2.1 0.006 3.7 0.01 2.6 0.008 in the area of Environmental 2016 2017 2018 management Actual number of employees, people 90,267 84,061 78,933 2.4 Research and developments 376.1 1.7 263.1 0.76 839 2.6 548.5 1.6 Employees, detailed by gender, including: 2.5 Additional expenses 6.5 0.03 0.0 0.0 0 0 158.4 0.5 for introduction of cleaner women, % 21 19.2 18.8 technologies men, % 79 80.8 81.2 2.6 Additional expenses for “green 5.1 0.02 6.1 0.01 68.7 0.2 2.3 0.007 Employee turnover rate, % 13.8 14 14 purchases” Lost time injury rate (LTIR) 0.49 0.42 0.32 2.7 Other expenses related to 902.9 4.0 835.7 2.4 360 1.1 217.6 0.6 Fatality rate (FAR) 4.5 3.25 0.65 environmental management “ Disaggregated indicators may differ slightly from aggregate indicators due to rounding to decimal places 122 123 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Number of injured in industrial accidents by region, % Actual number of employees at the end of 2018 4% 2% Sustainability Report 6% men women Share of each under from 30 older under from 30 older category in to6% Mangistau 30 to 50 than 50 30 to 50 than 50 tal number of 68% Atyrau Indicators years years years years years years Total employees, % Turkistan KMG 14% Kyzylorda Pavlodar Total in organization, including: 11,013 36,801 16,280 2,189 9,199 3,451 78,933 100% North Kazakhstan managers of all levels 421 4,129 1,667 54 896 283 7,450 9% experts 2,062 6,021 2,086 1,371 4,108 1,051 16,699 21% workers 8,530 26,651 12,527 764 4,195 2,117 54,784 69% Indicators of economic aspects Actual number of KMG Group of companies’ employees in Kazakhstan by 2016 2017 2018 regions and city of republican significance (Almaty and Nur-Sultan) Profit, billion tenge 360,1 525.4 693.5 Mangistau 31,296 Purchases, billion tenge 1,871 2,553 2,428 Actual number of KMG Group of Social support expenses, billion tenge 19 18.9 22 Atyrau 12,990 Aktobe 3,330 companies’ employees by countries Expenses for personnel development, billion tenge 4.5 5.6 5.7 Pavlodar 2,381 Kazakhstan 71,972 Charity, billion tenge 1.5 1.2 1.7 Karaganda 1,426 Romaina 5,581 Turkistan 4,178 Georgia 1,253 Kyzylorda 1,919 United Kingdom 13 Zhambyl 1,356 China 39 West Kazakhstan 2,331 Russia 75 Kostanay 734 Total 78,933 East Kazakhstan 29 North Kazakhstan 131 Nur-Sultan city 6,294 Almaty city 3,577 Total 71,972 124 125 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Connection ANNEX 3 GRI CONTENT INDEX Connection with the UN With 17 Sustainable Sustainability Report For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content Page Global ComDevelopment index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals GRI 102-55 102-21 Consulting stakeholders 22 on economic, environmental, and social topics Connection Connection With 17 102-22 Composition of the highest 23 with the UN Sustainable governance body and its committees Page Global ComDevelopment GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals 102-23 Chair of the highest governance 23 body GRI 101 Foundation 2016 102-24 Nominating and selecting 24 General Disclosures the highest governance body GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organization 1, 10 102-25 Conflicts of interest 25 Disclosures 2016 102-26 Role of highest governance body 25 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 1, 10-13 in setting purpose, values, and strategy and services 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 26 102-3 Location of headquarters 137 governance body 102-4 Location of operations 10-11 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 26 body’s performance 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 27 7 102-6 Markets served 10-11 9 environmental, and social impacts 102-7 Scale of the organization 1, 10-11, 9 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 27, AR 51, 98 processes 102-8 Information on employees and other 1, 99 8 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, 27, AR workers and social topics 102-9 Supply chain 10-11, 54 12 102-32 Highest governance body’s role 4 102-10 Significant changes 6, 16-17 9, 12 in sustainability reporting to the organization and its supply chain 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 28, AR 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 71 7 14, 15 102-34 Nature and total number of critical 28, AR 102-12 External initiatives 42 17 concerns 102-13 Membership of associations 42-43 17 102-35 Remuneration policies 28, AR 102-14 Statement from senior 6, 44 102-36 Process for determining 28, AR decision-maker remuneration 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 28, 48, AR 9 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement 28, AR 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 14, 29, 1, 2, 4 5, 10, 16 in remuneration and norms of behavior 37-38 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 28, AR 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 39-40 2, 6, 10 5, 10, 16 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total 28, AR about ethics compensation ratio 102-18 Governance structure 20 16 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 30 17 102-19 Delegating authority 21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 102-103 3 17 102-20 Executive-level responsibility 21-22 102-42 Identifying and selecting 30 17 for economic, environmental, and social stakeholders topics 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 30-31 17 engagement 126 127 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Connection Connection Connection With 17 Connection With 17 with the UN Sustainable with the UN Sustainable Sustainability Report Page Global ComDevelopment Page Global ComDevelopment GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 6, 15, 44 GRI 202: Market 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage 107 8 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 116 Presence 2016 by gender compared to local minimum wage financial statements 202-2 Proportion of senior management 107-108 10 102-46 Defining report content and topic 4, 34, 116 hired from the local community Boundaries GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 48 102-47 List of material topics 34-37 Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 48 102-48 Restatements of information 116 components 102-49 Changes in reporting 116 103-3 Evaluation of the management 48 102-50 Reporting period 4 approach 102-51 Date of most recent report 137 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments 52, 53, 8 102-52 Reporting cycle 4 Economic and services supported 108 102-53 Contact point for questions 137 Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 52 8 regarding the report GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 54 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 4 Management and its Boundary with the GRI Standards Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 54 102-55 GRI content index 126 components 102-56 External assurance 114 103-3 Evaluation of the management 54 Material topics approach GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 48-51 GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local 54 8 Management and its Boundary Procurement suppliers Approach 2016 Practices 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 48-51 components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 55 Management and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management 48-51 Approach 2016 Boundary approach 103-2 The management approach and its 55 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated 51 8 components Economic and distributed Performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management 55 201-2 Financial implications and other risks 48 7, 13 approach 2016 and opportunities due to climate change GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed for risks related 55-56 10 16 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 51 8 Corruption 2016 to corruption and other retirement plans 205-2 Communication and training about 55-56 10 16 201-4 Financial assistance received from 51 anticorruption policies and procedures government 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 55-56 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 107 and actions taken Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 72 103-2 The management approach and its 107 Management and its Boundary components Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management 107 components approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management 72 approach 128 129 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Connection Connection Connection With 17 Connection With 17 with the UN Sustainable with the UN Sustainable Sustainability Report Page Global ComDevelopment Page Global ComDevelopment GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within 48, 72 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 84-91 2016 the organization Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 84-91 302-2 Energy consumption outside 73 emissions of the organization 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 84-91 302-3 Energy intensity 74 emissions 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 73 8 7 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 84-91 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 75 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 84-91 8 13 Management and its Boundary 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting 84-91 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 75 substances (ODS) components 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides 84-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management 75 (SOX), and other significant air emissions approach GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 91 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 75 6 Management and its Boundary 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected 75-77 6 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 91 by withdrawal of water components 303-3 Water recycled and reused 75-77 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management 91 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 78 approach Management and its Boundary GRI 306: Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by quality 75 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 78 and Waste 2016 and destination components 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 91-92 12 103-3 Evaluation of the management 78 306-3 Significant spills 70 approach 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 91 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, 78-79 14, 15 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 93 Biodiversity 2016 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Management and its Boundary and areas of high biodiversity value outside Approach 2016 protected areas 103-2 The management approach and its 93 components 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, 82 14, 15 products, and services on biodiversity 103-3 Evaluation of the management 93 approach 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 91 8 14, 15 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental 93 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national 78-79 8 14, 15 Environmental laws and regulations conservation list species with habitats Compliance 2016 in areas affected by operations GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 98-99 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 84 Management and its Boundary Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 98-99 103-2 The management approach and its 84 components components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 98-99 103-3 Evaluation of the management 84 approach approach 130 131 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Connection Connection Connection With 17 Connection With 17 with the UN Sustainable with the UN Sustainable Sustainability Report Page Global ComDevelopment Page Global ComDevelopment GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee 100 8 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 107 Employment turnover Management and its Boundary 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 100 8 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 107 employees that components are not provided to temporary or part-time 103-3 Evaluation of the management 107 employees approach 401-3 Parental leave 101 8 GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 107 10 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102 and Equal and employees Management and its Boundary Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary 108 10 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 102 and remuneration of women to men components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management 102 Management and its Boundary approach Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 55 GRI 402: Labor 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 101 components / Management operational changes 103-3 Evaluation of the management 55 relations 2016 approach GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 64-66 GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination 55-56, 10 16 Management and its Boundary Discrimination and corrective actions taken 102 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 64-66 2016 components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 102 103-3 Evaluation of the management 64-66 Management and its Boundary approach Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 102 GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 64-66 3 components Occupational occupational diseases, lost days, 103-3 Evaluation of the management 102 Health and Safety and absenteeism, and number of workapproach 2016 related fatalities GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which 102 3 16 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high 66-67 of Association the right to freedom of association risk of diseases related to their occupation and Collective and collective bargaining may be at risk 403-4 Health and safety topics covered 66-67 Bargaining 2016 in formal agreements with trade unions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 107 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 104 Management and its Boundary Management and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 107 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 104 components components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 107 103-3 Evaluation of the management 104 approach approach GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 107 5 16 GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 105 4 Labor 2016 risk for incidents of child labor and Education employee GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 55 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee 106 4 Management and its Boundary skills and transition assistance programs Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 55 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 107 4 components regular performance and career 103-3 Evaluation of the management 55 development reviews approach 132 133 About the Report About the Company Corporate Governance and Sustainability Contribution to Economic Development Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes Annexes Connection Connection with the UN With 17 Sustainable ANNEX 4 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS Sustainability Report Page Global ComDevelopment GRI Standard Disclosures number(s) Omission pact Principles Goals BOE Barrel of oil equivalent GRI 409: Forced 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 55, 102 4 16 or Compulsory risk for incidents of forced or compulsory NGVRS NGV refill station Labor 2016 labor EMBA Executive master of business administration GRI G4 Sector OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved 1 ERP-system Specific software package that implements a strategy for the integration of production and operations, Disclosures: Oil reserves and production labor and asset management, financial management through an integrated application software package and Gas OG3 Total amount of renewable energy 50 9 7 that provides a common data and process model generated by source FFS Fuel filling station OG4 Number and percentage of significant 78, 82 8 14, 15 AR Annual Report operating sites in which biodiversity risk has AtR Atyrau Refinery been assessed and monitored ANS Aktaunefteservis Limited liability partnership OG5 Volume and disposal of formation 75 JSC Joint-stock company or produced water HEI Higher education institution OG6 Volume of flred and vented 90 hydrocarbon GMI The Global Methane Initiative OG7 Amount of drilling waste and strategies 93 SDE Subsidiary dependent entities for treatment and disposal RVA Road vehicle accident OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content 13 ENU Gumilyov Eurasian National University in fuels ICA “Intergas Central Asia” JSC OG13 Number of process safety events, 68 3 KazGPZ “Kazakh gas refining plant” LPP by business activity CAPEX Capital expenses KMG JSC NC “KazMynayGas“ KMG EP JSC “KazMunayGas Exploration Production“ JSC KMT Limited liability partnership Marine oil company “KazMunayTeniz” KOA Joint-stock company “Kazakhoil Aktobe” CNG Compressed natural gas KPI Key performance indicators KTO Joint-stock company “KazTransOil” OSR Oil spill response mln Million MMG Joint-stock company “Mangistaumunaygas” IFRS International financial reporting standards NC National company EIA Environmental Impact Assessment OMG “Ozenmunaygas” JSC UN United Nations LPE Labor protection and environment, industrial and fire safety, environmental protection, emergency prevention SBO Safety behavioral observations SDR Sustainable development report 134 135 Environmental Responsibility and Safety in the Workplace Social Responsibility Annexes SPR Single personnel reserve REPORTING TEAM: SMCh Systematic and methodological changes Sustainability Report PJSC Public joint-stock company Project coordinators: PKOP “PetroKazakhstan Oil Products“ JSC (Shymkent Refinery) APG Associated Petroleum Gas Duman Mussin Gulkhanum Tokusheva PPCP Pavlodar Refinery Zhanel Bessembayeva RoK The Republic of Kazakhstan RME Regular medical examinations Participants: IAS Internal Audit Service Urpekova Zhannat Sultanov Erkin BD Board of directors Tegisbaev Anatoly Shimanskyi Maksim MM Mass media Sharipov Damir Ilyasov Bauyrzhan Uaissov Ualikhan Ayazbekova Horlan LLP Limited liability partnership Beknazarova Raushan Kuttykova Kulshat FER Fuel and energy resources Seidualiev Nurmukhan Sarsenova Arzygul RWC Raw hydrocarbons Zhakenova Erkesh Akhmetova Aigul Omarova Aliya Sadykov Damir WF Wage fund Zhunusova Anel Khasenov Gabidulla ES Emergency situation Amanzholova Dinara Sarsenov Tanat EMG “Embamunaygas” JSC Boltekov Baurzhan Nygmet Rustem Kuanbayeva Yelena Nurgaziev Timur FAR Fatality Accident Rate Bakytkyzy Gulvira Izbasarov Bolat GRI Global Reporting Initiative Yessenbekova Karina Nigmatullin Ramir IAOT International Association Oil Transportation Yurkavets Xeniya Bakirov Darkhan Kazhibekova Maigul Ostapenko Victoria JCCP Japan Cooperation Center, Petroleum Amanzholova Dinara Zubareva Yulia JOGMEC Japan Oil, Gas and Metal National Corporation Technology and Research Center Aliev Kamilzhan Zhumagalieva Akmaral LTIR Lost-time Injury Rate Karibzhanov Nurzhan Baktanov Nazymbek Amirkhanov Abzal OSRL Oil Spill Response Limited SPE Society of Petroleum Engineers CONTACT INFORMATION GRI 102-3, 102-53, 102-51, 102-52 “KazMunayGas” National Company” Joint Stock Company Address: 010000, Nur-Sultan, 8 Kunayev St. Phone: +7/7172/ 78 61 01 Fax: +7/7172/ 78 60 00 Web site: www.kmg.kz Email on sustainable development: sustainability@kmg.kz Date of the report publishing: November, 2019 The previous Sustainability Report was published in August 2018. 136 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018
