mybetterfuture Sustainability Report 2017/2018 Sustainability at MAM CSR Management CSR Communication mambaby Economy Products Environment Society #newhorizons #happybaby #livingplanet #fairsociety Austrian family owned business since 1976 Awards 2017/2018 with TRIGOS 2017: Environmental ~1,000 Most Sustainable Company in Award of the City of Vienna 2017 employees Austria Develops, What is more sustainable produces and sells Great Place to Work baby items such 2018: Best Employer than to work for the future for babies? This mission is as soothers and ASRA 2017: expressed in all pillars of bottles in Austrian 60 Sustainability CSR at MAM and has been Reporting Award Work and Family Audit 2017 sweepingly proven through numerous awards. www.mambaby.com countries Austrian Living Standards Award 2018 Various product Most Familyawards in 2017 Friendly Workplace and 2018 such as happybaby Region Vas (HUN) the Mother & Baby 2018 Award All MAM products 400,000 free of product tests BPA, BPS and with 68 different phthalates testing methods in over 12,000 working hours for bottles and soothers livingplanet fairsociety High resource Up to 85 % efficiency due to sprueless production of 75 % soothers and bottles less CO2 and energy of employees are with the MAM women sterilising methods for our products 41% of management are women, nearly 100 % parental leave return rate newhorizons +240 % sales growth in the last 10 years Shared findings from Development of the 10,225 Chinese market during the reporting period scientific studies in the field of infant health with ~520,000 MAM Club members, ~1,950,000 Facebook fans, ~250,000 Instagram followers The four most important Sustainable Development Goals for MAM #mambaby happybaby livingplanet 16 The material 28 Emissions matters CO2 and energy saving for Safe raw materials, parents made easy selected suppliers 32 Waste reduction 18 Standards Using resources wisely compliance No compromise in 35 R&D product quality A new home for innovation 21 Product news Five new developments for babies and parents 22 Service oriented Comprehensive advice for mums and dads 25 Found out Breastfeeding and soothers 4 Foreword are not mutually exclusive What to expect in this report 6 MAM at a glance Company facts and figures 8 SDGs The MAM Mission and its contribution to Contents the UN Sustainable Development Goals 12 Value chain Stakeholders from A to Z 2 fairsociety newhorizons 38 Social Audit 50 Impact in Hungary For fair working conditions Create regional value at all locations 54 Active in China 40 Benefits Armed with know-how and MAM employees have a information, MAM enters clear advantage the market 42 Compatibility 56 CSR workshops Creative ideas for more Learning and copying family friendliness sustainability from one another 44 Team spirit Maintaining a great ‘we’ feeling 58 Summary and goals MAM’s contribution to the SDGs 46 Corporate giving 60 Materiality matrix Acting-as-one to do good for others The most important sustainability topics at a glance 6  1 Code of Conduct How we deal with one another and others 62 Tables and conclusions Statistics of special interest 72 CSR­programme ID-No. 1982302 What’s next Mini-Label: Legal notice: Published by: MAM Babyartikel GmbH, Lorenz-Mandl-Gasse 50, 1160 Vienna, 74 GRI Standards Content Index www.mambaby.com, Tel.: +43 1 49 141 0, Fax: +43 1 49 141 404 ∙ Editorial and Layout: www.egger-lerch.at ∙ Expert advice: www.csr-and-communication.com ∙ The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Photos: MAM Babyartikel unless otherwise noted ∙ Printing: www.janetschek.at Standards disclosures in this report 3 #mambaby Shaping the 12·6 future for the babies of today Dear readers, For more than 40 years now, we have especially important since the babies of transparent and comparable. We have been working at MAM* in the areas of today will be living in it. defined the topics covered in this report health and product safety, alongside together with our most important holder our mission to improve the health and Take responsibility groups with whom we are constantly well-being of babies and parents around At the end of 2015, the 193 member in contact throughout the development of the world. We develop products for states of the United Nations agreed on a our products. You can read what they have babies and their parents and work for good, common future for all: 17 goals for to say in the following chapters and find their future with great attention to detail. sustainable global development should answers to the most common questions be achieved by 2030. In order to make from parents as well. In 2017, it was our great pleasure to this possible, companies are also being receive the Austrian Sustainability Award. called upon to make relevant contribuImportant forums for exchange are interThe TRIGOS is presented annually by a tions. It was clear for us at MAM that we national specialist and expert committees jury of civil society representatives and wanted to bring our existing sustainability as well as corporate platforms in which honours our commitment as the most strategy into line with these goals in the we actively participate. One such example sustainable company of the year. We see short, medium and long term. is the UN Global Compact: As a member awards like these as confirmation that we of the Austrian network, we regularly are on the right track – although knowing We took a close look at the 17 global exchange ideas with other companies and that there is still a long way to go. goals – also known as SDGs – during experts on topics, challenges, opportunithe reporting period, reviewed our own ties and trends of taking responsibility and This report will let you know about our sustainability goals and, where possible, the Global Goals. As a signatory, we are activities in 2017/18 and their contribution brought them in line. This report provides committed to upholding the ten principles to sustainability. We report on goals an overview of our existing activities of environmental protection, labour pracwe set for ourselves in the last report, which contribute to achieving the SDGs as tices, human rights and anti-corruption along with if and how we achieved them well as our work to integrate these goals, measures, as well as contributing to the page 68–69. Together with our stakesuch as with our processes for innovation. SDGs. holders, we would like to look ahead in our new report. The shape of the future is Parents ask – MAM answers For happy babies As in previous years, we have prepared As an innovation-based company the report according to the internationally we want to stay fit for the future and recognised GRI Standards. In doing contribute to preserving and improving so, we meet the criteria of modern the health and welfare of parents and sustainability reporting and make our babies through our work in research and * For easier reading, “the Bamed MAM Group Ltd” has been shortened to MAM. contributions to increased sustainability development – which is demonstrated 4 GRI 102-1, 102-12, 102-14 by our project with the IMC University of As a responsible part of the local comFeedback welcomed Applied Sciences Krems pages 8–11. munity, we will discuss insights into our As always, we look forward to your This also includes new service offerings work in Thailand from our last two reports suggestions and comments on our report. such as our all-round packages pages and this year we will be giving a very Our CSR team welcomes your feedback 22–23. In the chapter #happybaby detailed account of MAM’s role in Hunon csr-team@mambaby.com. you will find answers to questions from gary for the first time. Our production site parents about the safety, quality and in Vaskeresztes contributes significantly We would like to thank all our talented characteristics of our products which to the development of the region. The and dedicated employees, without whose for our stakeholders are by far the most chapter #newhorizons from page 48 dedication the success of MAM would not important aspects of the work we do deals with our own long-term economic be possible. We are looking forward to pages 18–21. considerations as well as the associated the coming years together. Because only challenges and opportunities such as our those who set the tone for sustainability At present, with the issue of climate entry into the market in China. today can succeed tomorrow. protection, SDG 13 is strongly in the public focus which, in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, calls for measures from all stakeholders to stop global warming. At MAM, we have already implemented existing energy efficiency measures in all of our production facilities and provide environmentally conscious parents with a CO2 calculator for climate-friendly use of our products. There is more information about our activities in the field of ecology as well as the carbon footprint of our products in the chapter #livingplanet from page 28. Healthy evolution As a dynamic, expanding company, MAM will continue to grow in a healthy and responsible manner over the coming years, while taking into account internaPeter Röhrig, Niklaus Schertenleib, tional standards for responsible business MAM Founder Director Bamed MAM Group Ltd practices. We will continue to be there for parents and their babies as well as for our employees, and in the chapter #fairsociety we talk about some of our activities in the areas of social and working conditions from page 36.  GRI 102-12, 102-14, 102-53 5 #mambaby founded in 1976 by Peter Röhrig ) d n rla at a A W M o In l l e t. ra S u al ( S es w it ze M glance M lo A ca t m io B e n U s ra ri s S ca zi A l A M Distribution in 60 countries 140 * * >30 ITEMS medical experts MARKET LEADER * FOR SOOTHERS IN 11 COUNTRIES AND 6 COUNTRIES FOR work intensively within BOTTLES the scope of product 8 PRODUCT GROUPS development 6 GRI 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-45, 102-6, 102-7 Figures from 2018 M A D M e In s V i g t. ie n M are sold n C a n e rk a n ( A te et i M u r ng st A ri & M a) per minute D e Re EMPLOYEES products 150 ve s S l o ea ie p r g m ch e 964 n en a d M o t nd A rf V M (A a P u SALES DISTRIBUTION s st M K M ke ro d ri a A a) in the last 10 years A re u b M s c H M in zt io t a P t b Pr u e n ri o d s Y ro d a (H +240 % REST USA i u ( T uc h ti M u ( T ct a o A n EUROPE h io M g turnover growth a n i la n a 7% i la n G ry n d lo ) ) 27 % re ca d ) 66 % ti S at o w B e ri ns F r d ta a en i n Eu PRODUCT TESTS ro G n ce p e e r G m re n a I t ec y a e ly S p M a A S in DIFFERENT WORK-HOURS INHOUSE TESTS OF w C M i of our product parts h Cy t ze in loc p rl a a ru a ti ›68 TEST METHODS WITH o s nd PRODUCT ITEMS n A si a GRI 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-45, 102-6, 102-7 ›12.000 › 400.000 are from Austria 7 >90 % #mambaby Babies have a right to a clean and fair world On the path to a sustainable future In order to get all interests moving Sustainable Development Goals. in one direction, the 193 UN Member It’s not just since children around the States have committed themselves to reach 17 goals at regional, national world have been skipping school on and international levels by 2030. These Fridays to express their concern for a Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) livable future that economic, social and from the United Nations serve countries, businesses, educational institutions and ecological development issues have been civil society as a compass for a fair and debated internationally. MAM has taken an important clean world for all. step by anchoring the SDGs in its own innovation work. 17 Global Goals The SDGs were defined in a three-year process, involving all Member States and experts. Countries, citizens and businesses must participate equally. As states issue policies and laws to make the necessary changes, educational institutions are called upon to provide students with content for sustainable development. 8 GRI 102-12, 102-16 MAM is also committed to the goals for sustainable development. We will show with this report where MAM is contributing. CSR Management The international community has planned ety, is much more than just “doing good”. quite a lot: eliminating poverty and It means addressing the expectations of CSR Communication hunger, improving health and gender special interest groups and understandequality, access to education, clean water ing the consequences along the entire Environment and affordable renewable energy. The value chain. Economy economy should ensure decent work and Products Society growth, with production and consumption Intergenerational justice both being sustainable. Inequalities Our children, grandchildren and should be reduced and infrastructure great-grandchildren are entitled to a made sustainable and livable. Climate clean environment, peace and justice. protection measures are just as necesThat is why we must take care with the Sustainability sary as strong and just institutions. planet‘s finite resources and protect and at MAM in a preserve habitats – their future depends nutshell. The Role of the Economy on that. Since the founding of MAM, the Companies play an essential role in well-being of the generations to come achieving the SDGs. They not only influhas been at the heart of our activities. sustainability – products, ecology, society ence how resources are used, but also While the steps may seem small in the and the economy. Still, much effort, new people‘s working conditions and buying face of the challenges, each one is an approaches and ideas are needed to habits. Making decisions responsibly important step in the right direction. develop sustainable solutions to existing requires experience. Those who already CSR management, which is to say, challenges, such as health and environhave a structured approach to responsiproceeding in a structured fashion, mental issues. bility management have an advantage is the means of reaching this goal. from the start. “Corporate Social ResponFor several years now, we have been Innovation and sustainability sibility” (CSR), which the accountability of working comprehensively to set strategic As an open-minded visionary, MAM companies for the environment and sociand operational priorities in all areas of CEO Peter Röhrig has founded our GRI 102-12, 102-16 9 #mambaby What contribution does MAM make toward the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN? company on a deeply rooted quest for process to strengthen the cooperation of are closely linked at the IMC University improvement and innovation. At MAM, our departments for innovation manage­ of Applied Sciences Krems. we have therefore decided to incorporate ment and CSR with external partners. The project, funded by the Austrian our CSR strategy and the associated It started by participating in the research Research Promotion Agency FFG, was objectives into innovation processes project “CSR and Innovation“ from the especially beneficial to SMEs and family in the best way possible. This is also IMC University of Applied Sciences Krems businesses (with 50 to 250 employees). crucial to remaining competitive. Röhrig ­(­www.­csrundinnovation.at). The aim Over two years, MAM employees from is convinced that only those who set the was to develop tools to better integrate departments involved in innovation tone for sustainability today can succeed sustainability into innovation processes. processes (Innovation, CSR, Production tomorrow. In 2017 we began an internal Teaching, research and economics Plants, Product Design & Development, Technical PM, Packaging Development, Medical Science Cooperation, Market Research and Product Management), MAM-MISSION together with scientific experts from IMC Krems, have developed a model for a CSR-driven innovation process. They were What guides guided by the SDGs. our daily activities Since then, the cooperative structure •O  ur passion is to understand and answer has enabled us to align product babies’ and parents’ needs so they can focus innovations with the SDGs right from the on the joy of being a family. The babies of today start – innovation, CSR and sustainability are the generation of the future. Thus, there is are now even more closely linked at no greater responsibility than working for their MAM. The project teams in product health and safety. development use working documents for the SDGs to address the issues and •W  e take this task very seriously and, based on include ideas. We can now ensure that more than 40 years of experience, we develop every new product is put through its premium baby products that are 100 percent paces to see if it makes a contribution to safe, functional and easy to use. Their achievement of the SDGs, or perhaps innovative, carefully reflected designs function counteracts it. perfectly, are scientifically tested and support the development of babies. We also provide Peter Röhrig has shown that he is quite service and expert information for parents and satisfied with the cooperation with IMC healthcare professionals. Krems. The project was able to show that for MAM’s innovation work the SDGs •A  ll MAM products are developed in an ongoing were a good guide to show where we dialogue with parents and international could apply leverage to improve our medical experts. We act globally and think products. They confirm that the plastics about the needs of future generations as well as we use – deliberately and sparingly – are individual countries. We make a profit because currently the safest and most sustainable of our excellent products and services and not materials for babies and parents (see at the expense of people and nature. We take responsibility for our employees as well as for our also the articles on materials, standards impact on the environment and society. and CO2 on pages 16, 18 and 28). 10 GRI 102-12, 102-16 “MAM was an ideal candidate.” Roman Mesicek, Programme Director Environmental and Sustainability Mr Mesicek, what led you the concept of innovation is at MAM. Management at and Professor Altenburger to The aim was clear: The areas of the IMC University launch the “CSR and Innovation” sustainability and innovation should of Applied Sciences Krems, heads the project in 2015? be brought even closer together. project “CSR and We had observed for some time that But the door was already open. This Innovation” with Prof. CSR was thought of operationally at type of open-ended cooperation with Reinhard Altenburger. most companies but the strategic a university allows for design freedom potential was far from being seen. as well as new research concepts. After a work-up of the science involved, It differs from standard, clearly defined we recognised the need to combine consulting processes in which the innovation management with sustainresult is clearly specified right from ability perspectives and stakeholder the start. management. The SDGs were added during the project. What role did the experts of IMC Krems play in the process? The close connection between CSR and How did the collaboration The design of the study, scientific prinstakeholder management presents with MAM come about? ciples and concepts were presented itself as a success factor – we were We drew up case studies of companies by us. Our role was a mix between able to clearly identify the involvement in which we suspected a link between impulse driver and mediator. However, of the stakeholders as an important pilCSR and innovation. It turned out that the ownership, that being the initiative lar for successful innovation processes. in many cases there was no systematic and leadership, clearly belonged to Finally, the newly created process approach. As part of the project, two MAM. During the two-year developdiagram for innovation was presented, companies were selected to provide ment process, the MAM team increasin which sustainability and the SDGs them with scientific support in linking ingly took over the process mediation. were firmly entrenched. An “idea funtheir sustainability management with The number of people began to grow nel” ensures early consideration of the innovation management. MAM was an – more and more internal participants developments required by the SDGs. ideal candidate because the company in MAM innovation processes became stands for sustainability as well as for involved. Sustainability management In your opinion, what are the innovation. proved to be decisive, it was able to success factors for sustainably “charge up” the innovation specialists linking CSR and innovation at Were there any surprises and achieve an actual process anchorMAM? during the project? ing of the SDGs. In my view, they are clearly the high The biggest and most positive surprise quality of sustainability management was certainly the openness with which What conclusions did you and the strategic anchoring of CSR MAM set out on this resource-intensive come to in the study? in the company. Taken together, they process. This is rather unusual and CSR is, without a doubt, able to support are drivers for corporate culture as speaks to how deeply embedded the design of innovation processes. well as for innovation.  GRI 102-12, 102-16 11 #mambaby Sustainable Step by Step Supply chain. Our products go through a number of stages before they can be used by babies and parents. What all of the process steps have in common is that we always incorporate the know-how from suppliers, experts, parents and others into our product development. So in this report we have stakeholders sharing their views on our collaboration. External Stakeholders Medical Experts Local Residents Suppliers External experts (quality, environment, plastics, society) Raw Production Subsidiaries Materials and and and Parts Assembly Sales Companies INPUT MAM BUSINESS ACTIVITIES MAM value chain 12 GRI 102-9 All MAM products are developed in close consultation with our stake­holders. Parents Distribution Partners Medical Experts Suppliers Distributions Babies, Parents Recycling and and and Retail partners Society Disposal OUTPUT GRI 102-9 13 #happybaby What are MAM products made of – what is my baby putting in his mouth? Page 16 I want to buy high-quality items for my baby. Which quality standards apply to MAM products? Page 18 I am pregnant and looking for medically up-to-date information. Can MAM help I breastfeed me with this? my baby. Can I Page 22 still give him a soother or bottle from time to time? Page 25 14 #happybaby Products Since its founding, we at MAM have been committed to the health, safety and well-being of babies. Health plays a central role in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SDG 3 sets goals to ensure a healthy life In what way do MAM for all people. We want to contribute to products promote the the well-being of babies and parents, health of babies and because not all babies and children are toddlers? doing equally well today. Worldwide, Page 21 16,000 young children still die every day, many of them from preventable diseases. Access to information is crucial to improving their health. With our products and services, we want to educate parents about risks and thereby promote the well-being of babies and parents. Likewise, we are aware that we need a responsible method of manufacturing. However, the shift to more sustainability can only succeed with the help of equally responsible consumers. At MAM, that is why we promote sustainable products and services and examine existing items for aspects of sustainability. 15 #happybaby All MAM products are are free of BPA, BPS und phthalates. What MAM products 12·4 are made of What’s inside counts. When it comes to choosing materials for our products, safety is our number one priority. We work only with the best suppliers, who care about sustainability and quality as much as we do. Polymeres are part of everyday life materials. Wolfgang Kern, Professor of with SDG 12.4, which calls for the environ­ in our society and are now found in Chemistry of Polymeric Materials at the mentally sound handling of chemicals countless applications – from bottles University ­Leoben, has examined the and waste. And that’s not all. to toothpaste tubes to numerous material groups PP (polypropylene) and medical products. But not all plastics silicone used by MAM and came to this Yes to PP, latex and silicone are the same: There are some that conclusion: There is currently nothing Our products are made from materials can be ­hazardous to health and harm safer and more environmentally friendly that are completely safe and harmless the environ­ment. But there are also for the production of baby products than for babies. Since bioplastics made from others that are harmless and, if properly the special plastics already used by MAM. renewable raw materials often degrade produced, used and disposed of, do Our materials and the way they are proin boiling water and it is not technically less damage to the planet than other cessed, used and disposed of are in line possible to identify all of the materials in 16 GRI 301-1, 301-2 Page 63 Tables and conclusions What are MAM products made of – what is my baby putting in its mouth? MAM has gained legal protection for 29 inventions in 2 74 patents A question of properties product always comes from MAM,” says and Parents have a choice between latex Reinhard Töpfl, Sales Manager at ALPLA 4 and silicone soothers. Both materials are in Waidhofen/Thaya. For the ­soothers, harmless and have their advantages and ALPLA first purchases high-­quality utility disadvantages. Synthetic silicone can be polypropylene from European plastics patents boiled out, is temperature-resistant and manufacturers. “We are very proud to as well as the crystal-clear, while natural rubber is very be a supplier to MAM because they appearance of bite-resistant and soft but slightly darker place very high-quality demands on their 55 in colour and becomes porous over time own products and therefore also on the – which is not the case with silicone. individual components – just like us,” says product Besides the polymer varieties, there is Reinhard Töpfl. designs also a bottle made of glass. Glass is temperature-resistant, durable, easy to clean in over and does not absorb odours. Like plastic, 25 2 it is recyclable and reusable although plastic has the advantages of being much registered lighter and shatter-proof. Producing and designs. transporting plastic also generates less CO2 (more about this on page 28). “There is currently And where do the nothing safer materials come from? and more recycled plastic, we presently mainly work At MAM, we work exclusively with supwith three substances as new materials: pliers who give sustainability the same environmentally PP, latex and silicone. priority as we do. More than 90 percent of our product components come from friendly for the No to BPA, BPS and softeners Austrian suppliers. It is very important to production of baby None of our materials contain us to be able to trust our partners so as heavy metals or chlorine comto build long-term relationships – such as products than the pounds, bisphenol-A (BPA), which was with ALPLA, an Austrian family business, banned by law because of its potentially which, like us, operates worldwide and special plastics harmful effect on the human hormonal system or bisphenol-S (BPS), which is with whom we have been working for 25 years. Using energy, water and mater­ already used by found in printing inks. “There are also no ials as sparingly as possible is part of MAM.” softeners such as phthalates, for example ALPA’s DNA, an example of which is the – technically this would also make no sprueless production of screw tops. Prof. Wolfgang Kern, sense. There is a widespread misconcepUniversity of Leoben tion that most plastics contain softeners,” MAM is happy to involve partners like Kern explains. For the designs printed on ALPA when developing new products. the soother caps and bottles, only “When it comes to the technical details of high-quality, food grade, pigment-based execution and the proper plastic design of colours that will not peel off are considthe individual components we are in high ered. demand – although the basic idea for the GRI 301-1, 301-2 17 #happybaby I want to buy highquality items for my baby. Which quality standards apply to MAM products? Good is not 3·2 good enough In the company’s own laboratory, MAM employees such as Klotild (pictured right) carry out various product durability tests for Quality management. Product safety is bottles & Co. our top priority at MAM. That is not only our principle, it is something we can attest to. We don’t just meet the high standards for ago by experts from the European Combaby products, we exceed them – and have mittee for Standardisation (CEN – “Comité been actively involved in shaping them at the Européen de Normalisation”), whose working groups of researchers, consumEuropean level for many years. ers, manufacturers and standardisation staff work together to ensure the safety of baby products. MAM was already helping to lead the way. EN 12586 is one of the milestones in baby products. The name might sound Pioneering achievements in the 1980s unspectacular, though what’s behind it That Peter Röhrig was one of the experts is anything but. Thanks to this European in the corresponding CEN working standard there have been no more group (“Feeding, drinking, sucking and reported deaths from having too long of similar functions”), and, by the way, has a strap attached to the soother whereas been its chairman from the outset is no strangulation deaths had occurred prior coincidence. As early as the 1980s, MAM to its introduction. It calls for straps not worked to create soother standards for longer than 220 millimetres; a safe, and Austria, which at that time, only existed at the same time, practical length. The in the USA, England and Sweden. This standard was developed nearly 20 years safety standard was introduced in Austria thanks to Peter Röhrig’s initiative. At the European level, more have been added for soothers, baby bottles and other baby products (see info box) over the years and MAM has been involved in all of them. Doris Fiala, Andreas Lausch and Hortenzia Outstanding commitment Csiszar (left to right) accept the Living In 2018, MAM was honoured with the Standards Award. Living Standards Award from Austrian 18 GRI 416-1 INFO Baby product standards at a glance MAM helped develop all of these standards and often voluntarily goes beyond when it comes to quality assurance: • E N 14350: Standard for baby bottles, Standards, an independent platform drinking teats, drinking cups, etc. committed to a transparent process • E N 1400: Standard for soothers for developing product standards, “for for babies and small children the exemplary use, development and • E N 12586: Standard for soother holder strategic embedding of standards”. We • E N 12868: Standard for stricter nitrosamine also made the shortlist of the European limits in baby products Product Safety Award, the citation from • E N 14372: Standard for cutlery the European Commission (whether MAM and feeding utensils for babies won or not was not known at the time of this writing). Win-win-win The fact that we help to shape standards has many advantages; it benefits more than babies and their parents. We profit safety of our own products, but also standards alphabet and always be from this as a company as well because those of the entire industry. We are up to date. This is quite a challenge, our constant involvement with the latest particularly proud of this, this is our big because Brazil has different rules research projects and statistics keeps contribution to a sustainable world. Our from the United States or Europe. For us up to date. Our technicians are very work is in line with SDG 3.2: to put an example, the resulting MAM standards knowledgeable about trends, materials, end to preventable deaths of newborns look like this: The soother standard potential risks and hazards when develand children under the age of five by (EN 1400) sets a minimum value of 120 oping products. All this saves time and 2030. The most important thing for us is newtons for tensile strength, whereas therefore costs which allows us to sell the health of babies and the safe use of MAM’s internal limit is 130 newtons. our bottles, soothers & Co. at reasonable our products. That’s why we voluntarily Or: the standard for drinking equipprices – a point which, incidentally, go beyond the existing standards – by ment (EN 14350) does not include a impressed the jury of the Living Standards defining our own. ­mandatory fall test, while MAM requires Award. a fall test with 10 drops from a height of At home in the standards jungle 138 cm. When we design and produce And: by participating in the development To be able to create our own standards, our products, we rigorously adhere to of standards, we increase not only the our experts have to master the entire all of these – and much more.  GRI 416-1 19 #happybaby 3 questions for Dr. Karl Grün, Director Standards Passing the endurance test Development at Our quality managers are there to Austrian Standards check whether our soothers and bottles meet the prescribed standards. In a multi-stage “boot camp”, things really Why did MAM win the get down to business. Soothers are Living Standards Award squeezed, stretched and frozen as specthis year? ified in the standards. Bottles are thrown MAM takes on a pioneeron the floor dozens of times, cooked for ing role when it comes to hours on the highest flame, and washed standards for baby prodhundreds of times in the dishwasher. ucts. Mr. Röhrig’s strategic There is a checklist for every product vision has significantly and any that fail even one point, do not advanced the development pass. This way we can be certain that of European standards in only the best of the best make it to the the area of product safety. shelf. When it comes to the little ones, we refuse to compromise. In general, what are the challenges when developing standards? One challenge is to create a dialogue with the various stakeholder groups. Standards development is a multi-­ stakeholder process in which both companies and the public should participate. ­Consumers and end-users are represented throughout Europe by the consumer protection organisation IN MEMORIAM ANEC and can thus play a direct role in DR. PETER WEISS standardisation. Sadly, and with our thanks, we bid farewell to Peter Weiss, who passed What would you like to see away on December 17th, 2018 at the for MAM in the future? age of 76. With his profound knowledge, Mr Röhrig has been active in this area intuition and experience, the British for a very long time and I am sure that scientist performed valuable work in his role as Country Director of MAM UK (from 1989 to 1998), and more. He was considered he will continue on this path as boldly one of the leading researchers in the field of soothers and, until as he has begun. CSR is an integral part his retirement, was the owner of a consulting company and of their business philosophy so I would vice-president of the research department of the International wish MAM a wonderful and sustainable Children Medical Research Association (ICMRA). He also headed the secretariat of the European Committee for Baby Products future! Standardisation (CEN) and acted as a consultant for the UK Department of Health. We would like to express our heartfelt condolences to his wife, three children and seven grandchildren. 20 GRI 416-1 In what way do MAM products promote the health of babies and toddlers? 3·2 New for Babies MAM Oral Care Product Line With the new Oral Care series and With everything in mind. The healthy development of its child-friendly babies is the top priority at MAM, both in the current product bear design, parents can get babies used to line and in new developments. The products are designed regular oral hygiene accordingly and some help to prevent misaligned teeth. MAM in a playful manner. has the support of experts – from doctors to midwives. The Oral Care Rabbit helps clean baby’s mouth from the first few weeks and the Massaging Brush can relieve MAM Teat 0 MAM Perfect Start teething pain. The Training The unique, flat The teat neck is extra thin and Brush can be used from the shape of the flexible, making it ideal for first tooth. Thanks to the extra smallest teat new-borns. The Perfect Start long grip, brushing can be mimics the soother was developed in practiced together. Baby’s shape of the cooperation with dentists to Brush is ideal for the first mother’s nipple, easing the prevent the risk of malocattempts at brushing alone. transition from breastfeeding clusions – an important Support comes from the speto bottles. The innovative MAM contribution to baby health. cially designed Brushy Bear SkinSoft™ Silicone lies ever The tongue remains in its character. His toothbrush story so softly on the lips. The slow natural position on the and app help parents make drinking flow is good for even palate. the brushing routine fun and the smallest baby, making it exciting. ideal for feeding with breast milk and baby formula. MAM 6in1 Sterilizer & Express Bottle Warmer Warming and sterilising bottles MAM 2in1 electric and has never been easier. The manual breast pump compact unit combines Eileen Olderog-­ Breast milk is best for babies and six functions including Hermiston, feeding should be comfortable in electrical sterilisation dental Hygienist and Research Associate every situation. That’s why MAM with steam, or in the at the College of developed the 2in1 electric microwave, which Dentistry of the and manual breast makes it a flexible and University of Iowa: pump. Whether at work, convenient solution for “Parents should establish an oral at home or on the go, the young family. In care routine long milk can be discreetly addition, the innovative before baby’s first expressed so mum product integrates tooth. MAM oral care or dad can feed the different ways to quickly products can help with this.“ baby later. heat breast milk and baby formula. 21 #happybaby Valuable 4·7 advice for parents-to-be Know-how. In various ways, MAM provides society and professionals with medical knowledge related to pregnancy, childbirth and infant health. Here are some highlights. Which foods should I avoid during its own training courses and accom“The oral hygiene pregnancy? How do I prepare for the panying information materials. The birth? What do you have to pay attentraining sessions are aimed at midwives course provides a lot tion to when bottle-feeding? And what and other professionals who deal with about optimal dental care for small this topic in their professional life. For of practical tips and children? example, the participants learn about interesting background MAM gathers the latest mediimportant functions of primary teeth or cal knowledge on topics such how to prevent early childhood caries information that I as pregnancy or baby health and from the very beginning. In addition, ­distributes this valuable information they receive practical tips and tricks for pass on to expecting through a wide range of channels. optimal oral hygiene. mums.” ­Midwives, ­doctors and expecting ­parents all ­benefit from the information MAM Austria has adopted this successprovided. More than 10,200 studies ful concept. “There is far too little inforTanja Fussthaler, can be found in the company’s own mation for pregnant women,” says Tanja Midwife, Vienna and Burgenland database alone. Fussthaler, welcoming the training offer. She attended the oral hygiene course Cleaning little teeth in Austria and took a lot from it for her Oral hygiene for infants is an important daily work as a midwife. “We were given issue, but counselling of expectant many practical tips on how to brush right mothers is often neglected. To change from the start. And interesting backthis, MAM Germany developed a new ground information, such as the acidity oral hygiene training programme with of saliva, were part of the training. “ 22 I am pregnant and looking for medically up-todate information. Can MAM help me with this? Heart for parents and babies: MAM uses many channels to support the mums and dads of tomorrow. What is important for dental hygiene with babies and toddlers? Dental hygienist Sabrina Dogan has been passShe passes on what she has learned ing on what she knows when speaking with expectant mums: in the MAM continuing “The input comes from me since the education course for mother’s to be aren’t thinking about years. This allows her to create awareness this topic.” for early dental and oral care in various “Ask the Doc” in Italy institutions. With monthly live chats on Facebook, MAM Italy creates a direct line to experts in the health sector. In the previous year, for example, (expecting) mothers could take part in Q&A sessions with dentists Big Heart, started by MAM headquarters, A nest in the middle of Paris and a midwife in four “Ask the Doc” is particularly concerned with family planWorking with other partners, events. Between 45 and 145 questions ning and birth preparation, but also with MAM France created “Le Nid” (The were asked, depending on the topic. the health and development of babies Nest) in Paris in the summer of 2018. In Each expert’s answer reached about and toddlers, as well as parenting issues. 30 workshops over two weeks, hundreds 200,000 users. It offers tricks on things like dealing with of young or expectant mums were able the summer heat during pregnancy, how to exchange ideas for two weeks with Tips from the network to calm babies during a thunderstorm or midwives, health experts, psychologists, “Little Big Heart” (www.littlebigheart.com), which maternity clothing is currently in speech therapists and even a super-dad MAM’s online magazine, is dedicated fashion. It’s a comprehensive consultant expert. For this purpose, a cosy room for to all aspects of becoming and being a for many of life’s situations with loads of talking was set up in a quiet courtyard parent with well-researched articles. Little practical tips. of a typical Parisian house – babies 23 #happybaby A cosy nest in the middle of Paris: “Le Nid” offered many exciting workshops for (expectant) mums. were also welcome, of course! The most Ap­ remiere that was crowned with by the opinion research institute popular workshop was that of a lactation success! The interest was so great that ­www.­marketagent.com to find out. consultant, who had plenty of tips on how the space originally reserved was not How do mum and dad divide up the to breastfeed. It was in such high demand large enough. The Swiss team had childcare tasks, how do they educate their that it had to be repeated four times. The to look around for a larger meeting children? What are their main sources MAM France team collaborated on this room on short notice in order to accept of information when they are looking for initiative with “My Little Paris”, a popular more registrations. The feedback from advice and knowledge? What concerns online women’s’ magazine, which participants on the content of the con­ and fears do they have and how do they banged the drum for the project. ference was also generally positive. feel about paternity leave? These and many other questions were asked. It was In the know in Zurich Becoming a parent, being a parent interesting that the ideas of today’s young A conference for around 150 midwives How mothers and fathers understand mums differ significantly from those of and health workers was organised by themselves? MAM Austria wanted their mothers and grandmothers. The MAM Switzerland in 2018 in Zurich. to know and commissioned a study desire for a fair sharing of roles was often mentioned, but reality is usually different. It was noted that 77 per cent of fathers felt that they were equally involved in child-rearing as their partner. However, this was countered by the perception of women, of whom only 44 percent spoke of equal involvement. A total of 150 participants attended the MAM Switzerland gathering in Zurich. 24 I breastfeed my baby. Can I still give him a soother or bottle from time to time? Well combined 1 The TEN S HOSPITAL POL ICIES TEPS Hospitals support moth ers to breastfeed by... to Successfu l Not promoti 4·7 ng infant formula, Breastfeedin bottles or teats g Making breastfeeding care standard practice Keeping track of support for breastfeeding 2 STAFF COMPET ENCY Hospitals support moth ers to breastf 3 ANTENATAL CARE 4 Training staff eed by... on supporting mothers Hospitals support moth CARE RIGHT to breastfeed Assessing health workers’ knowled ers to breastf eed by... AFTER BIRTH and skills ge Hospitals support moth IMPORTANCE OF BREASTFEEDING ers to breastf eed by... Breastmilk is the best nutrition for babies. The World Discussing importancethe breastfeedingof Encoura for babies and skin-to-skin ging between mothercontact mothers baby soon after and birth Preparing Health Organisation (WHO) strongly recommends women in how Helping to feed their mothers to put their baby baby to the breast right away breastfeeding for new-borns. Their goal is to achieve high 5 Hospitals SUPPORT MOTH WITH BREASTFEE ERS support moth DING ers to breastfeed 6 SUPPLEMEN TING 7 by... Hospitals support moth ROOMING-IN breastfeeding rates, especially during the first months ers to breastf eed by... Checking positioning, Hospitals support moth attachment suckling and Giving only ers to breastf eed by... unless there breast milk are medical Letting mothers reasons and babies stay together Making day and night mothers of sure sick that Giving practica can stay near babies Prioritizing their breastfeeding l human milk donor baby of life. However, a new guideline no longer categorically support supplement when a is needed Helping mothers Helping mothers with who want to common feed to do soformula breastfeeding safely problems excludes bottles and soothers. 8 RESPONSIVE FEEDING Hospitals support moth ers to breastf 9 BOTTLES, TEATS AND PACIFIERS 10 eed by... Hospitals support moth ers to breastf DISCHARGE eed by... Hospitals support moth Helping mothers ers to breastf eed by... know when their baby is hungry Counsel Referring mothers on mothers to use and risksthe community feeding bottles,of resources for teats, and breastfeeding Not limiting pacifiers support breastfeeding times Working with communities to improve breastfeeding support services For MAM, it goes without saying that mothers who breastfeed should be given as much support as possible. With the comfortable hand pump, the valuable milk can be easily expressed Breastfeeding made easy: Prof. Reinhold Kerbl when necessary. MAM has developed The WHO has changed welcomes the changes its recommendations – the Easy Start Anti-Colic especially for in the WHO Guide to soothers are okay, too. very small babies with which even breastfeeding mothers. new-borns can relax and drink at their own pace. And, if the baby can’t calm down, an anatomically correct soother can be a real blessing for parents and their child. its recommendations for breastfeeding What breastfeeding mothers in 2018. In their “Ten Steps to mothers should consider Studies show: soothers are OK Successful Breastfeeding”, they advise In order to establish breastfeeding, But wait! Breastfeeding and soothers or medical staff to inform young parents skin contact immediately after birth bottles – do they even go together? New about the use of bottles and soothers. and the initial latching on within the first findings clearly say yes. Until recently, few hours are important. Frequent latchthe WHO advised against soothers and “The new version of the guideline also ing ensures that sufficient milk is probottles to ensure that breastfeeding takes into account the possible medical duced in the following days and weeks. worked well from the outset. Howneeds of new-borns and the individual However, soothers and also bottles with ever, there was never any scientific decision-making ability of young expressed breast milk can be given justification for this. On the contrary: parents,” explains Professor Reinhold early on, as long as the mother recogA meta-analysis published in 20161 Kerbl, head of paediatrics at the Leoben nizes the different signs for when her concluded that whether or not babies Regional Hospital. “The earlier, nearly baby is hungry and when it needs to be also receive soothers and bottles makes militant opinions have been put into calmed. One exception is premature no difference to the success of breastperspective on the basis of scientific babies, who should not receive bottles feeding. As a result, the WHO amended evidence.” during the first few weeks. 1 Pérez-Escamilla R, Martinez JL, Segura-Pérez S. Impact of the Baby-friendly Hospital Initiative on breastfeeding and child health outcomes: a systematic review. Matern Child Nutr. 2016;12(3):402–17. doi:10.1111/mcn.12294. 25 #livingplanet What contribution does MAM make to climate protection? And what role do we play as parents? Page 28 How do I properly dispose of MAM products and what happens to them? Page 32 26 #livingplanet Environment Forests, mountains, rivers, lakes and seas play a hugely important role in maintaining a good, stable climate. The climate crisis does not stop at national borders and is not limited to individual politics, economic sectors Where are MAM or social groups. The related SDGs 13, 14 and 15 must therefore be taken into products developed? account for economic decisions. For the Do you think about future, we need concepts that reconcile sustainability there? positive economic development with Page 35 the sustainable use of resources, while keeping emissions as low as possible. At MAM, we determine the ecological footprint of our products so we can continue to make improvements. Measures must be taken to combat climate change in production as well as for use and disposal. We therefore want to work against the climate crisis with our products, services and raising awareness about environmentally friendly use. 27 #livingplanet Wake up call 13·2 for the world Northeast of Bangkok, the MAM Plant in Fewer emissions. When it comes to climate protection, Kabinburi is stateof-the-art with the it is high time we all pull together, consistently. What smallest possible does MAM do for the environment when producing our carbon footprint. bottles and soothers? And what can parents themselves do to keep their carbon footprint as small as possible when using MAM products? “I only speak when I have to,” said the front of the Swedish Parliament instead MAM and the 1.5 degree goal young climate activist Greta Thunberg in of going to school. The name of the initiWhat started with one girl’s anxiety has her first big talk. That has been often lately ative is “Fridays for Future” and students turned into a pulsing, world movement. because Greta is worried about the world. around the world have followed suit and She has also found an ally in the UN She fears that it won’t last long if we conare striking for the climate. The young sustainable development goals: SDG 13 is tinue to use resources so carelessly and activist, who has Asperger’s Syndrome, dedicated to “combating climate change.” pretend there is no climate crisis. For a has received numerous awards for her One specific objective is the 1.5-degree year now, the clever girl with the braided commitment – and was even nominated target. What does it mean? That we need hair has been striking every Friday out in for the Nobel Peace Prize. to drastically reduce CO2 production so 28 Pages 62 & 63 Tables and conclusions What does MAM contribute to climate protection? INFO And what role A short product do we play as responsibility parents? glossary Christian Plas, Life Cycle Analysis, also denkstatt CEO environmental assessment or Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) ... systematic analysis of the environmental impact of products throughout their that the Earth will warm by “only” 1.5 to after, how people use their products, lifetime – “from cradle to grave.” 2 degrees over the next few decades. were things they could not influence”, That it will continue to get warmer cannot explains Christian Plas, the CEO of denkbe prevented. But how fast and intense statt. The environmental consultant sees CO 2-footprint, also the warming is – with global conseit as his mission to “open the minds of ecological footprint or quences such as heat waves, droughts, companies so that they see their area of carbon footprint (PCF) and disappearing glaciers – comes responsibility as something larger.” The ... an ecological measure down to us and how we act. MAM is also technical term for this is called Product indicating the amount of contributing, with the greatest potential Stewardship: the comprehensive respongreenhouse gases emitted reduction in CO2 coming from how its sibility of a company for all aspects of during the life cycle of a products are used every day. the product life cycle – from planning, product. The smaller it is, through use and up to disposal. the lower the burden on the Be active environment. Every one of us can do a lot about Turning parents into energy-saving pros Product Stewardship, climate protection, such as by flying less, For MAM, this raised the question: also comprehensive eating less meat and using less energy. How can we help our consumers use product responsibility In development, production and logistics, our products as energy-efficiently as ... a business concept in which companies can pay heed to being as possible? One of the answers, besides companies take responsibility energy-efficient as possible. measures to raise awareness and for the entire life span of their Sustainable, resource-conserving well-prepared information, is the MAM products. production has long been standard CO2 calculator. It is available online at MAM. Parents who use our bottles and (www.mambaby.com/int/co2-calculator) soothers can contribute quite a lot to in 18 languages and makes the abstract ­environmental protection. How? Only two topic of energy efficiency easier to see. percent of CO2 emissions are generated With just a few clicks, parents can figure during the production phase, the decisive out how much CO2 and energy they 98 percent is generated during warming, can save by properly using bottles and cleaning and sterilisation, i.e. in the soothers – which ultimately not only usage phase of the bottle. The figure for benefits the environment, but their bank soothers is 78 percent since they are not account too. If they are cleaned in the dishwasher and warmed. sterilised using the sterilising and carry For our self-sterilising bottles: Use a box in the microwave, it can result in up to Denkstatt, a renowned environmental bottle warmer instead of a stove top, a 77 percent savings in greenhouse gases consulting company, came to these clean in the dishwasher and not by hand, and energy. conclusions when it measured the CO2 sterilise in the microwave, not on a stove footprint of the MAM Easy Start Anti-Colic top. This produces up to 85 percent less Christian Plas sees the fact that young bottle and that of our soothers. “Until CO2. Extrapolated to one year, this results people speak up and take to the streets as now, most companies have only been in a potential savings of 80 kilograms a positive development. This creates enorconcerned with what happens inside of CO2, which corresponds to about mous momentum for awareness-raising their factories. What comes before, 600 kilometres driven by car. measures such as sterilising baby prodmeaning the entire supply chain, and The same applies to our soothers: ucts in the microwave. Just as important GRI 305-3 29 #livingplanet are facts and figures, and not just for the The production site in Hungary has demand! An additional solar thermal consumers: “Investors are increasingly undergone continuous expansion: Today, system supplies the plant with hot water looking to see if the companies they want our plant is 40 times larger than it was for shower cabinets and such. It also to invest in are sustainable.” Among 30 years ago. The latest major renovation has a compressor that recycles the other things, sustainability means that took place in 2015 – more about this on excess heat which can then be used for preference is given to those who produce page 50. The new buildings have large heating. Apart from that, the production as environmentally friendly as possible windows, so that the rooms are flooded area is heated by means of a modern, and use alternative energy sources. with natural light and there is usually no energy-saving heat pump – and air conneed to flip the light switch. When pushed, ditioning systems and heat exchangers Resource-conserving production energy-saving LED lights come on. Motion To produce as energy-efficiently as posdetectors ensure that no more power than sible has long been a matter of course necessary is used for lighting. One of the for MAM. At the two production sites in most effective environmental protection Vaskeresztes, Hungary, and Kabinburi, measures in the last two years has been Thailand, a number of measures have the rooftop photovoltaic system: The been implemented to reduce emissions energy generated by the 460 solar panels and to use energy wisely. covers about five percent of our total Saving energy? Easy StartTM Yes to the microwave Anti-Colic and dishwasher! Bottle (self-sterilising) Soother STERILISING (sterilising Microwave CO2-savings in the transport box) Stove top 85 % STERILISING Microwave CO2-savings 77 % CLEANING Stove top Dishwasher CO2-savings Handwash 28 % CLEANING Dishwasher CO2-savings 28 % WARMING Handwash Bottle warmer CO2-savings Stove top 94 % Calculate your energy savings now at www.mambaby.com/int-co2-calculator 30 GRI 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Mamas and papas can reduce CO2 and Total CO2 savings save energy with MAM products, too. at the MAM Kabinburi plant in tonnes per year: 1,070 When the sun shines, the photoensure that the temperature is optimally voltaic system in controlled. Speaking of temperature: Kabinburi more than covers the entire Ceiling fans in the warehouse, where electrical demand our employees use extra energy-efficient THAT IS EQUAL TO DRIVING 209 TIMES – the surplus power forklifts, force the warm air back down AROUND THE EQUATOR BY CAR goes to the public in winter. This also reduces the need for power grid. heating. In order to further optimize existing measures, we have external energy experts perform regular energy efficiency checks. condensing dry cooler for the production showpiece of energy efficiency: Thanks Thailand: shade instead area and a separate chill water system to all the measures taken, we can save of windows, solar energy & Co. combined with state-of-the-art ventilamore than 1,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. In Kabinburi, our location in Asia since tion systems for climate control. Motion 2016, things look very different. Because detectors and temperature sensors As a manufacturer of baby products, of the climate, and at the request of our ensure that cooling is only used where it what others see as best practice is the Thai employees, there are no windows is needed – at a constant room tempernorm for us. Why? Because we too in the production area as this would ature of 25 degrees and 50 percent relawant to make our contribution – just needlessly heat things up. Instead, LED tive humidity. This means employees do like Greta, who once stated so aptly: lamps have been installed for a pleasant not need to wear jackets while at work “Some people say that I should study daylight style atmosphere. The ten-cenbecause it is too cold, which is often the to become an environmental scientist timetre air space between the wall and case in Thailand. The humidity, by the so that I can ‘solve the climate crisis.’ the outer facade is quite clever because way, comes from the heat generated But the climate crisis has already been it keeps the wall pleasantly cool. By during production. There is no energy solved. We already have all the facts and Asian standards it actually is cool, also lost here. And not with the photovoltaic solutions. All we have to do is wake up because of the greenery planted around system either. On particularly sunny and change.” the site lowers the temperature by days, the panels manage to cover more 0.75 to 1.5 degrees through evapotranthan the entire electrical demand. The spiration. surplus energy is fed into the public Heat management in tropical Kabinburi electric grid – free of charge. The solar is a major concern for which there panels also provide shade. Even by are two independent systems: a heat European standards, Kabinburi is a  GRI 302-1, 305-1, 305-2 31 #livingplanet How do I properly dispose of MAM products and what happens to them? More brainpower, 12·5 less plastic Waste reduction. MAM is producing a waste-free soother for the first time. The new process requires less energy and reduces plastic consumption. Plastic waste has become a major burshould in turn be used as sensibly as Using resources wisely den on the oceans: Every year, ten million possible. This is in line with Sub-Goal Recycling has made great strides in tonnes of plastic land in the oceans 12.5 of the United Nations Sustainable recent years. Plastic waste is processed with animals becoming entangled or Development Goals (SDGs). According into granules, which in turn is used confusing it with food.1 MAM is aware of to this, the amount of waste is to be for making new products. Across the this problem and has been making sure significantly reduced by 2030 – for EU, the amount of recycled plastic has for years that its products lead to as little example through prevention, recycling increased by 79 percent over the last waste as possible. The resulting waste and reuse. decade.2 Thermal recycling has also increased sharply. Waste is used specifically to generate the necessary energy for industrial or household use. This also makes ecological sense, as it reduces the use Soother production, preferably with no waste: the new production method will save up to ten tonnes of plastic per year. Before After 32 GRI 306-2 Page 64 Tables and conclusions INFO How parents can reduce waste and save energy Upcycling instead of recycling For years, MAM has been committed to the idea of reusing old products in a meaningful way by means of upcycling. Successful projects include a competition for students of the Vienna University of Applied Arts and an international “MAM Office Upcycling Competition.” The MAM Brazil staff made an impression on the jury, especially with their Gerhard Ponez, upcycled MAM soother night light. For those who enjoy arts Managing Director of the plastics company and crafts: there are lots of tips at mambaby.com! Ponez, is pleased that all MAM soothers will soon be produced Creative Great Britain waste-free. In the UK, MAM launched the “MAM Loves the World” campaign in 2017 to promote sustainability on social media – most notably, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Bloggers were asked to show their friends and acquaintances photos showing how MAM products can be creatively reused. The results were as impressive as they were sometimes of brown coal, oil or natural gas. The surprising: Parts of baby bottles were found being reused as positive effect: Less plastic is ending up flower vases, egg cups or for watering indoor plants. in landfills, at least in the EU. Long-term use There is, however, still a shortcoming: One focus of MAM is to help customers with tips on how to So far, mainly plastic packaging has properly clean soothers and bottles while reducing CO 2 and been collected separately, but not saving energy – more on pages 29–30. The durable carry household items. However, proper and sterilisation box can be used, for example, as a storage waste segregation is the cornerstone box for paper clips, iron-on beads and so on once the baby of a functioning circular economy that no longer needs the soother. recycles as much waste as possible. A few countries, such as Switzerland, Sweden and the United ­Kingdom, are working to set up segregation systems for plastic consumer goods. In some Swiss cantons, for example, there is a plastic collection bag in which MAM products may also be disposed of. Much of the plastic collected this way is recycled. In Austria, Sustainability in production to make something out of plastic, it must MAM products must be disposed of as What many don’t know: Waste reduction first be liquefied and then injected into residual waste which is then used for actually begins much earlier, namely a mould at high pressure.” It sounds energy production. Only one percent of in the design and production of our simple, but in practice it is quite a chaldomestic plastic waste ends up in products. MAM has taken a bold, lenge, especially for complex products ­landfills.3 pioneering step in this regard. Together with numerous intricate parts. When with a supplier, we have developed a the plastic is injected into the mould it new tooling concept to produce a wastequickly solidifies on the way because 1A  ccording to “Plastic Atlas 2019: Facts and figures about a world full of plastics” from Heinrich-Böllfree soother for the first time. Gerhard the pipe is cold. This excess material Stiftung and Friends of the Earth Germany (BUND) 2A ccording to “Plastics – the Facts 2018” Ponez, Managing Director of the plastics can no longer be used. This can indeed from lasticsEurope technology company Ponez, explains make up a significant proportion of the 3P lastic Waste in Austria: Emergence and Treatment, Environment Agency Austria, 2017 the technology behind this: “If you want total material used. “The solution was GRI 306-2 33 #livingplanet Sustainable to the end a hot runner nozzle, through which MAM founder Peter Röhrig explains why waste the plastic is continuously heated and separation is so important and what is still kept in a liquid state,” says Ponez. In principle, this procedure is nothing missing when it comes to recycling in Austria. new. “But we first applied it to MAM soothers with their special design and What role does waste play in your thoughts high demands. Due to the complexity on sustainability? of the tooling, development took quite At MAM, we look to protect the environment throughout the some time.” product lifecycle – right up to the end. That means we also think about what happens to our products when they are no longer The results are impressive: The new needed. All of our soothers, bottles and teethers are recyclable concept is now used on some soothand the materials are completely harmless, for both the baby ers, saving up to ten tonnes of plastic and the environment. per year. In the near future, all MAM soothers will be produced wasteWaste reduction has become a major issue for free. The concept has to be adapted the media in recent years. Has that affected your though, since each soother type has perception of the problem? a slightly different structure: “It’s not a I am happy about the increasing public awareness. I myself cake ­recipe,” says Ponez. Even greater started looking into the optimal use of plastics early on. In the ­savings are foreseeable. There is early 1990s, I was involved in the founding of Altstoff Recycling another advantage of this innovation: Austria, or ARA for short. ARA has helped make Austria an “If a few tons less plastic needs to be international leader in recycling. In my home country up heated, then you also need less electo 99 percent of all plastic is recycled, either as material or tricity. Because of this we were able thermally.4 I also helped set up the Austrian Plastics Cycle, or to reduce both material and energy ÖKK for short. This association has also helped to ensure that consumption enormously. “ almost no plastic pollutes the environment in Austria. How can we contribute to clean oceans? What is currently lacking in most countries is the separate collection of plastic waste that does not count as packaging. What we need here is collaboration between politics, business, waste management companies and consumers. Not just in Europe and the Americas but above all on the Asian and African continents where a large amount of plastic still reaches the oceans via rivers. Why doesn’t MAM set up its own return points? We already thought about that and had the calculations done. As it turns out, however, individual soother recycling does not pay off ecologically as we don’t have enough of them. In the end, it would generate more CO2. This is why we need common, nationwide solutions for all plastic waste. 4 According to “Plastic Waste in Austria. Generation & Handling” Environment Agency Austria (2017) 34 GRI 306-2 Where are MAM products developed? Do you think about sustainability there? A green house 9·5 for innovation Room for creativity. The R&D location in Siegendorf, Austria, will soon be history. MAM is building a new centre in Großhöflein, about 15 minutes away by car, with sustainability playing a major role. will work there from the very beginning,” says Caroline Schleiss of the management consultancy M.O.O.CON. She will be involved in the process until completion. In a series of workshops, an identity-creating, Spacious, well sustainable usage concept was worked out thought-out work areas with plenty to precisely define the requirements for the of light: Starting in new location. April 2021, MAM product research All of the R&D team members also had will take place in a new setting and the opportunity to view and evaluate the the product line projects submitted during the architectural further developed. competition. In the end, the design from the architectural firm INNOCAD won out. Partner Oliver Kupfner explains: “Our goal MAM’s research and development heating and cooling especially environwas to connect the physical, virtual and department in Siegendorf still occupies mentally friendly since the use of fossil social worlds of work and create an envian old, rented building – and is practically fuels is completely avoided. The brine/ ronment that is inspiring and healthy, that bursting at the seams. Around 30 employwater heat pump draws the energy meaningfully integrates technology, and ees are at work fine-tuning ideas and two needed directly from the earth. puts people first.” focus teams are involved in producing prototypes. They will have a new environIn summer, the perforated exterior louvers ment to work in when the new R&D centre play a role in reducing cooling needs is ready in 2021. Not only will there be while creating a comfortable interior offices, labs and prototype areas set up, climate: They optimally align themselves there will also be multi-purpose spaces with the position of the sun. In winter, for focus groups. In addition to the design the triple-glazed windows keep heat of spacious areas bathed in light that proinside, which reduces heating demand. mote creativity and teamwork, sustainable The building has green roofs, which also parameters were the clear target. improves thermal efficiency. Some can even be used for work, like having meetCaroline Schleiss, Oliver Kupfner, From nature ings in the rooftop garden. M.O.O.CON: INNOCAD: For our R&D colleagues, a very-­ “In order to develop “The goal was to the optimal building, create an inspiring low-­energy building with an efficient Participation desired! you have to involve environment that geothermal system is being built in “In order to develop the optimal building, everyone who works integrates technology Großhöflein, Burgenland. This makes it is important to involve the people who there.” in a meaningful way.” 35 #fairsociety Can MAM guarantee fair working conditions even in remote locations such as Thailand? Page 38 MAM has How does MAM locations address the issue worldwide. of reconciling work Are working and family life? conditions Page 42 everywhere on the same level as in Europe? Page 40 What is the corporate culture at MAM? Page 44 36 #fairsociety Society Decent employment is desirable worldwide. To be compliant with social standards is just as relevant as the selfempowerment of women and young girls. Diversity, equal opportunities and continuing education, as set out in SDG 5, are the cornerstones of responsible companies. MAM sees itself in this responsibility as a good employer. Of course, promoting basic rights and the strict avoidance of child, forced, and compulsory labour as laid out in SDG 8 is part of this. They form the basis for sustainable social development, which we support Is help for internationally through education and research in the fields of health disadvantaged and materials. At MAM, we promote people just a drop equality, diversity, development and selfin the bucket? determination – regardless of heritage, Page 46 race, religion, gender or age. We aim for a cheerful, respectful coexistence and support socially disadvantaged families through worldwide Corporate Giving Programmes. 37 #fairsociety The Thai plant produces “Max the Frog,” one of our developmental toys made of 100 percent natural rubber. 8·5 Verified fairness Social Audit. Whether in Europe or Thailand – MAM ensures that all employees work under fair conditions. In this reporting period we have, for the first time, had the high ethical standards in production verified by external experts. “We work together like a family here. MAM operates a total of three production human rights is a matter of course; It feels like I’m looking after my own sites. The largest and oldest is located in child, forced and compulsory labour children,” says Praveena Kotcharut. At the Vaskeresztes, Hungary. Two more recent are strictly prohibited – see more on MAM location in Hat Yai, the Thai woman factories were built in Thailand to better page 61. looks after the employees’ children while serve the Asian market and to process they work in the factory during the day. the milk from the rubber trees needed Trust is good, audit is better Mothers can take a break at any time for soother and bottle teats directly on During the reporting period, MAM during working hours to breastfeed their site. MAM ensures that all employees decided to have the working conditions baby. “Our company is different than other find fair working conditions in these at its production facilities checked and companies,” she says. countries, too. The strict observance of confirmed independently. This type 38 GRI 102-16, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1 Can MAM guarantee fair working conditions even in remote locations such as Thailand? of review is called a “Social Audit.” It is mainly the employees – and not the Playing, reading management – who are asked about stories and their actual experiences. It is based going for walks: on the SMETA Guide, which stands for Praveena Kotcharut takes “Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit” care of the MAM and is one of the most widely used employees’ audit concepts in the world. Exactly children in Hat Yai. defined criteria such as working hours, wages and supplements, child labour, occupational safety, hygienic conditions as well as topics like environmental management and business ethics were looked at. Through our social audit we can be sure that our high ethical standards napping, playing and changing diapers The audit in Thai Hat Yai also took place are actually put into practice. But not – until 5 pm, when the working day at in 2017. It was multi-phased and lasted only that – our business partners, such the plant comes to an end. “Caring for a total of eight months. After an initial as retailers, can also rely on the fact that the children keeps me fit – and it makes review, management was made aware the manufacturing of our products meets me smile every day,” says the Thai of some issues where there was room the highest standards of fairness. More woman. for improvement. For example, the and more retailers are requiring a social auditors learned from a subcontractor audit as a condition to include products Top marks and important feedback that their employees had to pay for the in their stock. The audit of the plant in Vaskeresztes, uniforms themselves. All suggestions for Hungary was carried out in 2017. The improvement were subsequently impleFairness beyond MAM process took three months to complete mented and a new audit by external The high standards not only apply to – and concluded with highly satisfying experts also resulted in an impeccable MAM employees, but also subcontractor results: MAM achieved top marks in rating for the Hat Yai plant. An audit will employees. This includes, for example, all areas. The final report also contains be completed at the end of 2019 at our security service staff. And Praveena some specific positive examples. These second plant in Kabinburi, Thailand. Kotcharut from day-care as well. Her include the plant’s own fitness room and workday starts at 7:30 in the morning the quiet room, which is available to all “When people feel comfortable in a when she receives the children from employees as a balance for physical company, they are more committed to their parents. Then she plays and makes work at the plant. The massages offered their work,” says Praveena Kotcharut. music with them or reads them a story. on every shift directly in the production “In any case, I love working here.” The parents spend their lunch break hall were also mentioned, as well as together with their children, and in the the water dispensers and a system for afternoon it’s time for another round: waste segregation. GRI 102-16, 408-1, 409-1, 410-1, 412-1 39 #fairsociety MAM has locations worldwide. Are working conditions everywhere on the same level as in Europe? 8·8 Clear advantage Benefits. Those working at MAM are well taken care of. Our employees benefit from a variety of services and activities – from holiday care for their children to continuing education. In doing so, MAM contributes to SDG 8.8, which aims to protect labour rights and create a safe working environment for all employees. Our employees are important to us, employer. We also promote togetherness employed for an indefinite period, so we offer them more than the law with a number of activities. In MAM counalthough the proportion of full and partrequires. At MAM locations around the tries, our teams celebrate special miletime employees has remained stable since world, much is being done to meet the stones, attend team-building seminars then. Team members in all countries have needs of our team members – both and partake in company outings. the option of switching to part-time work, those in the office and in production. for example because their family situation Various monetary and financial beneA big family has changed. Additional services are still fits, such as subsidised savings plans The number of employees at MAM available to employees, regardless of how for our workforce at the Kabinburi site is ­constantly on the rise. Almost all – many hours they work. Concrete figures in Thailand, make MAM an attractive more than 98 percent as of 2017 – are for the workforce can be found in the GRI tables from page 65 onwards. For togetherness and the working environment: The Swiss team celebrates Easter. The colleagues of MAM Switzerland organize a Employees at the group lunch every MAM Austria plant in Kabinburi month. There was organised Kids can contribute a team breakfast Camp 2018 for up to 15 percent for Easter with child care during of their pay to bunnies made the summer a pension fund from pastries, holidays. Half of with a 3 percent eggs and the costs were subsidy from chocolate. paid by MAM. MAM. 40 GRI 401-2 Page 66 Tables and conclusions Benefits and EXAMPLES On Family Day at MAM Brazil, the team activities children were able to experience their worldwide – in mother’s or father’s workplace up the office and in close. production Selected examples: The employees of MAM … … China receive five holidays more than legally required. … Germany participate in numerous activities organised by their “MAM Impulse Team,” such as dart tournaments and team picnics. … Greece attend continuing training courses according to their personal interests. … Italy benefit from a pension fund. … Sweden have private health insurance and pension plans. … Switzerland receive accident insurance through MAM and travel at half price on the railway. … Spain organize two team-building events every year. … Thailand receive various Well cared for in Brazil grants through an extensive “Compensations & Benefits” The same high workplace package, such as for their own standards apply in all MAM wedding or for the medical care countries. For example, we go • Loans for education such as of their parents, and can take out beyond the legal requirements for continuing training or to complete interest-free loans for the education our employees in Brazil and provide a degree of their children. On-site day-care them with a comprehensive • An extra day of holiday in their is also on offer. package of benefits: birthday month and bridge days … Hungary are financially supported for certain occasions, such as by a foundation in cases of • Health, dental and life insurance Carneval or New Year’s hardship. is 100 percent funded by MAM • Public transport vouchers for … USA have weekly team lunches • Discounted nursery for the first getting to work and two outings per year. twelve months • Discounts for the fitness centre … Cyprus benefit from private • Meal coupons for employees • Diverse team activities health insurance for themselves and their children. GRI 401-2 41 #fairsociety At MAM Hungary, 81 percent of our employees are women – a lot of whom are mothers and therefore benefit from the familyfriendly policies. Mothers 5·5 at MAM: We can Work it out! Compatibility. Three fourths of our workforce are female – and nearly 50 percent of MAM’s Perhaps our reputation of being a famemployees have children. MAM offers flexible ily-friendly company precedes us. Maybe solutions for returning after parental leave and it’s the appeal of our products. The fact is: Around three quarters creative models for balancing work and family life. of our employees are women. In ­Hungary, it is actually 81 percent. And that is no accident. MAM offers many things that make it easier for young mums The examples of Adél and Eszter, two ­ rigitta and Adél Krancz – are mother B to return to work. A buddy system for employees at the production site in and daughter. The two share the care of returnees, flexible part-time models and Hungary, show how reconciling work and Adél’s two-year-old daughter, Sára. regular check-ups ensure that almost family life can succeed: 100 percent of our employees return after Adél has been working at MAM since parental leave. Our approach is to work Example 1: graduating from school in 2010. At that together to find an individual solution for mother-daughter work sharing time, she started in the shipping departevery family situation. The MAM plant in Vaskeresztes now ment, moved to logistics, then on to the employs 529 people. Two of them – accounting department, and finally went into controlling. When she became a mother, she took a year off. Because there is no day-care centre for young children under the age of three in her village and Sára’s father works during the day, Adél and MAM developed a flexible part-time model in which she “I think it’s great and her mother took turns caring for her that I can coorchild: Upon returning, she first worked four, and then six hours a day. She has dinate working recently returned to work full-time. hours with my mother!” Adél Krancz 42 GRI 401-3 Page 67 Tables and conclusions How does MAM address the issue of reconciling work and family life? Example 2: To have the choice colleague provides them with information, the ­family’s home, and later, Laurenz’s Eszter Szép has been working as a and the roadmap for maternity care, in day care were just minutes away from production assistant at the Hungarian which all opportunities and a variety of each other. She enjoys spending time with site in Vaskeresztes since 2014. Before helpful checklists can be found to prepare her family on afternoons and weekends. the birth of her daughter Emma, whom for leaving and re-entering their job. And “I imagined it would be much harder to be she raised alone, she worked a two-shift we have already reported on the holiday a working mother”, says Siegmund today. rotation. Now she is not as flexible. MAM care in Kids Camp on page 40. “MAM supported me by making it possible was happy to let her choose which shift for me to be flexible with my work hours.” was best for her. She is currently working Relaxed boss, relaxed team the morning shift and enjoys having afterAnd yes, the proportion of women at the noons and evenings to spend time with international level of MAM management Emma. is also comparatively high at 41 percent, and the trend is increasing (see page 67). “Being well organised Award for most Our operations implement what the family-friendly company United Nations require in SDG 5.5: When is everything.” Wages at the Hungarian plant are good it comes to leadership roles, women Stefanie Siegmund, by national standards. Nevertheless, should have the same opportunities Marketing Director, MAM Germany should an employee and her family find as men. How do we do that? Another themselves in need, the “MAM Family” example from Germany illustrates: fund will provide assistance. Other benefits at MAM Hungary include a health Example 3: quick return programme with regular check-ups, Stefanie Siegmund, Marketing Director at on-site fitness centre and free massages. MAM Germany, took just twelve weeks The team celebrates Christmas with kith off following the birth of little Laurenz in and kin. In 2018, the Hungarian plant in 2015, after which she returned to work Vaskeresztes was awarded as the most full-time – at her own request. Because family-friendly operation in the region – she enjoys her work it is a form of self-fulan honour that has also been awarded to filment for her, and so is working with her MAM Austria since 2014. Austrian MAM team. With the support of friends, family employees returning from maternity leave and a day nanny, both could be easily particularly appreciate two measures: reconciled. She found it rather convenient the buddy system, in which an active that her work at MAM, her husband’s job,  GRI 401-3 43 #fairsociety What is the corporate culture at MAM? For the 8·8 common good The award ceremony proved: MAM is a Great Place to Work. Team spirit … this is a central part of MAM’s corporate culture. Several measures were taken in the past year to raise awareness of how to work together. “What about another upcycling challenge?” asks Sandra Lepur in her post, smiling as she holds up a giant soother made of hundreds of MAM soothers in dazzling colours. Sandra is Senior Brand Manager at MAM Switzerland, and like the other MAM employees, she uses Workplace, Facebook’s social media platform for companies, to share information with colleagues in 13 locations around the world. What’s informing or fun is always allowed. Sandra’s case is a nod to MAM’s intensive efforts in recycling (see article on page 33). Or they might be success time in 2018. For 30 years, the likestories (e.g., about the award won for the named organisation has been working sustainability report) or current news on with leading companies from all sectors trade fairs and conferences. What’s comchampions act as tutors. They guide less around the world to identify, build and mon to all posts is that they reinforce a experienced colleagues and support make trust-based, efficient workplaces sense of togetherness, because the more them with advice and assistance. visible. Our aim was to find out more each individual employee knows about about MAM as an employer from the activities of others, the more they feel MAM is a Great Place to Work® the employees’ point of view and to they are part of MAM’s global corporate MAM also participated in the “Great show where there is potential room for culture. Forty so-called workplace Place to Work®” evaluation for the first improvement. 44 GRI 401-2 Pages 65 & 66 Tables and conclusions Common IDENTITY values In order to build commitment to our valued and proven corporate culture and make it tangible and visible as a basis for common During the evaluation, the employees “Sustainability goals and guidance, over one and the management are interviewed in an external, anonymous survey on the at MAM means hundred MAM employees, in four half-day workshops in 2017, perceived quality and attractiveness of the corporate culture and an overview putting people first put down on hundreds of drawings and thousands of Post-it’s of the existing measures in human – whether as a what they value and want to resources work is compiled. In an independent comparison, the best employers customer or as an promote together. The result; the “MAM Identity” was defined as: are then identified in the course of a benchmark study. In 2018, MAM Austria employee.” • C ourage for personal and placed an outstanding sixth place in its professional development and Doris Palz, size category (50–100 employees), entisetting clear priorities. Managing Director tling it to hold the “Great Place to Work®” Great Place to Work® • P assion for growth, success quality certificate from October, 2018 to and uniqueness of the MAM October, 2019. brand. In particular, the employee survey • The quest for innovation provided valuable insights into the • C ommunication, understood company’s strengths and weaknesses, as respectful, open and honest the effectiveness of measures taken with one another and – last but not least – advice for innovation potential. In that sense, it was an but also in the person. This is particu­larly • L oyalty of the MAM community informative assessment of the workplace pleasing as it reflects exactly the philo­ and the global MAM brand culture. We are especially pleased that sophy of the culture of trust cultivated by • C ommitment, to further the survey results on the topics of pride MAM, which leaves employees free strengthen values and corporate and identification with the company and space, promotes diversity and is characculture its products have been very positive. And terised by mutual respect and team spirit. how does the status quo look? A strong Doris Palz, Managing Director of Great •P  ersonal responsibility of each sense of trust in MAM as an employer Place to Work® also confirms this: individual was shown by the unusually high 97 per“Sustainability at MAM means putting • A ppreciation through respect cent participation rate. 95 percent of people first – whether as a customer for others and their contribution respondents agreed with the statement or as an employee.” This is reflected in and the targeted promotion “All in all, I can say that this is a very good the feedback from people who not only of diversity as a multiplier for job.” The Trust Index, which is sector and enjoy working with MAM, but are also innovation size-independent, and reflects the overall proud of what they mutually contribute approval of employees in the survey, and how everyday life is shaped together. was a very good 81 percent. In summary, A great place to work that is true to its MAM is characterised by a positive conown values.“ structive and appreciative culture. MAM Austria got the ball rolling – in the Workers are encouraged to mainlong term, it is our desire to increase tain a healthy work-life balance. participation in the programme and thus Overall, one senses that the company the ongoing evaluation of the corporate has an interest not only in the worker, culture in our locations across the globe. GRI 401-2 45 #fairsociety 1·1 We volunteer! Social engagement. MAM supports disadvantaged people around the world through a variety of initiatives. Our employees do a lot to help out. We would now like to present a few of these projects and activities. We support many charities around the Corporate giving actions can only world with donations in kind, financial ease a small part of the need. Lara Eberle and the entire team from resources and sustainable partnerships For the people who benefit from this, MAM Switzerland helped out at the – with total conviction. Our employees it’s much more than just a drop in the Association for Children With Rare Diseases family day. are an important pillar of our social bucket. MAM supports them through commitment: As a part of corporate their individual crises and tends to them volunteering, they roll up their sleeves with sustainable projects which support MAM Switzerland: for the sick, refugees, and the disadvanthe health and safety of babies and And Action! taged, bringing the MAM global family ­toddlers. This is at the heart of MAM’s MAM Switzerland was looking for an closer together. philosophy. active partnership with a small charity for children. They found what they were MAM France: looking for with the Association for ChilTime off for aiding refugees dren With Rare Diseases, and have been Ludovic Maugère, product manager for collaborating since April 2017. Since MAM France, worked for four months on then, Santa’s little helpers from MAM the Greek Isle of Lesbos for the refugee have been delighting families there with organisation “One Happy Family.” a Christmas show every year. In 2017 He provided meals for people, worked alone, they wrapped over 100 Christmas in a sports programme for refugees and gifts. Those affected are also supported collected donations. MAM France was financially. For example, MAM used also among the donors, providing its proceeds from a consumer fair to help employee for this relief operation – with two families. continuing health insurance. MAM Sweden: Smile Please! In 2017/2018, a second campaign was launched to support Operation Smile, an organisation that helps children with cleft One Happy Family: lip and cleft palate worldwide. Annika MAM employee Ludovic Billing, Secretary-General of Operation Maugère was involved in helping refugees Smile Sweden, sent us the following on Lesbos. thank-you message: 46 GRI 413-1 Is help for disadvantaged people just a drop in the bucket? EXAMPLES How MAM “All children have the right to the best medical care. Our network of physicians helps around dedicates hundreds of thousands of the world Aiding children hours to this every year. Without partners with cleft lip and like MAM, this would not be possible. cleft palate – MAM • M AM Brazil supports the organisation MAM produced an “Operation Smile” Sweden Managing “Amparo Maternal”, which offers pregnant Director Ingrid soother collection from which a part of the women in distress a safe place to stay. Grönfeldt on her proceeds from each sale was donated volunteer excursion There they have a place of refuge until six to us. A great way to raise awareness in India. months after the baby’s birth. of the issue in Northern Europe and • Together with Lebenshilfe Rotenburghelp affected children around the world. Verden, MAM Germany is committed We look forward to continuing to work to helping people with disabilities live as with MAM.” independently as possible, and assigning them simple jobs. MAM Thailand: Neighbourhood assistance • M AM Greece donates aid packages Located near our plant in Kabinburi is the with baby products to families in need “Prachinburi Special Education Center,” and social institutions. which cares for children with physical and mental disabilities. They were lacking • M AM UK, along with the organisation funds, especially for urgent construction CLAPA, has developed a special soft bottle needs. Thanks to contributions from MAM for babies with cleft palate and is a partner and the active support of the MAM staff, of Tommy’s Charity, which researches several improvements could be made. the causes of miscarriage and supports For example, fans and new lamps were affected women. installed. The Buddha shrine outside the Good neighbours: • With financial support, medical know-how MAM employees building was also renovated. and free products, MAM Cyprus supports helping out the “Prachinburi Special Cypriot Premature Babies Association. Education Center”. • M AM USA donates to the Blythedale ­Children’s Hospital and MAM staff come by to look after the children and play games. • M AM Austria helps to keep an SOS Children’s Village in good shape. MAM employees have already collected leaves and trash, dismantled an ageing playground and co-financed the construction of a new climbing tower. Products, donations and financial support also go to the facility. GRI 413-1 47 #newhorizons Is MAM responsibly handling its role as a major employer at its Hungarian site? Page 50 Are the MAM products sold in China of the same high quality? Page 54 48 #newhorizons Economy Efficient use of resources, environmentally sound technologies and processes are constantly being improved by research. At the same time, supply chains now span the entire world and enable the integration and development of rural regions. The use of sustainable practices and compliance with social standards is equally important as Does reporting on sustainable performance sustainability and the impact made by companies. stop once MAM As a regional employer, MAM is products are on responsible for creating value and the market? participates in local social development. Page 56 One should, as envisioned in SDG 9, support economic development and human welfare, with a focus on equal access for all. Regardless of strategic considerations, we at MAM always attach great importance to complying with high labour, environmental and social standards. The health, safety and well-being of babies and parents form the basis for our daily activities – all around the world. 49 #newhorizons  reating C 9·1 regional value At the plant. In the early 90’s, MAM Hungary started operations in a small 376 square metre production hall. Since then, the site has grown by 38 times and is an important employer for the country and the people in the region. In order to reach our production facility local cooperative. Potential risks and Investing in the future in Hungary from MAM Int. ­Marketing & opportunities, including economic, In the early 90’s, when jobs in the village Design Center in Vienna in a climate-­ environmental and social impacts, had had been cut and employment problems friendly manner, you can take the train been examined before each decision became apparent, company founder via Sopron to Szombathely. Once there and carefully weighed with community Röhrig decided to expand MAMs’ involveyou can board the bus, which takes you representatives. In March 1991, after ment in the village by purchasing a buildthrough green meadows and small vila rapid conversion, production began ing plot in 1994. At that time, 40 ­million lages to the quiet village of ­Vaskeresztes. with eight employees. The geographical schillings were invested in the construcThe translation to “Big Village” aptly location and the business-friendly policy tion of a modern production plant in describes the town: It is a somewhat large of the community leadership were benaccordance with the latest technological village with 343 inhabitants, a stone’s eficial, but the decisive factor in bringing standards. At the inauguration in June throw from the border with Austria, nesproduction to Hungary was German 1995, international guests were invited to tled in a gentle hilly landscape dominated language proficiency in the region. Vaskeresztes and a million forints were by agriculture and vineyards. A common language at the village and handed over to the town’s volunteer fire regional level was an important factor department, which many residents still When MAM company founder Peter from an operative point of view and remember today. Röhrig established MAM Hungaria to this day enhances opportunities for Kft. in Vaskeresztes after the fall of cooperation with Austrian locations and Vaskeresztes has always played a sigthe Iron Curtain in 1990, the company suppliers. An excellent basis for securnificant role in the history of MAM, which acquired the former warehouse of the ing local jobs. today, with 529 employees, is the largest 50 GRI 102-10, 202-2, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2 Is MAM responsibly handling its role as a major employer at its Hungarian site? At the MAM production site Vaskeresztes, about 90 million soothers and bottles are produced every year. From 376 square metres in 1991 (picture above) the location was extended to 14,350 square metres. employer in the region. Since then, the production area has increased 38 times from 376 square metres to 14,350 square metres. Job satisfaction is high, and turnover is low – the length of stay in the stock in order to maintain jobs. Nearly all ronment – which MAM is actively involved company is over ten years on average. the production workers, from entry-level in preserving. Although the production This is mainly due to the excellent working to top positions, come from Vaskeresztes volume, the size of the plant, the number conditions. A large number of additional and places that are at most 50 kilometres of employees and the amount of autoemployee benefits that go beyond the away, such as Horvátlövó´, Pornóapáti, mation have increased significantly since legal requirements are one of the main Nárai, Ják, Szentpéterfa, Felsó´csatár, we started, and our impact has therefore reasons for employees to work at the Narda, Dozmat, Bucsu, Torony, Sé or increased, this has not led to a significant MAM production site. Szombathely. increase in production emissions during the 2017/18 period. Secure jobs Our production has always had a low Every employee is important to us. Thereimpact on the environment, which is very A further increase in automation will fore, if the order quantity is below the important to us. One of the main criteria enable us to work even more efficiently planned quantity for an extended period for choosing this location was, and and to deal with the constantly increasing of time, MAM will keep overproduction continues to be, the intact and clean envicapacity utilisation in Vaskeresztes. GRI 102-10, 202-2, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2 51 #newhorizons 90 million baby products were manuAir emissions are regularly monitored factured here last year – and demand and measured. The concentration of the is increasing. At the end of 2018, with components emitted is far below the the involvement of future partners who limit values, which are regulated by strict are experts in the field, we decided to laws in Hungary. To avoid contamination, Kati Kiss has been increase the level of automation at the we store our hazardous substances head of the MAM plant while relieving the burden on proand wastes only in secure and specproduction site in duction staff. Automated solutions should ified areas, in accordance with strict Hungary since 1997. help to avoid monotonous or stressful ­standards. movements and shift the workforce to this remains the case, we are investing in areas where creativity is required, where Work on an equal footing the construction of a kindergarten and a there are more interesting tasks or more It is with great pleasure that we can point community centre in the village in order complex challenges and everyday work to many positive effects on the region and to create a positive work-life balance for is more enjoyable. With the introduction the village of Vaskeresztes, for example, women (see also contribution on page of mechanisation such as Scara robots, in terms of the social position of women. 42). With the nine-member top manage6-axis robots, or Delta robots (spiders), we With their own income, women gain indement team of four women and five men, offer our employees new opportunities to pendence and contribute significantly to all from the region around Szombately, grow and gain experience with modern family finances. At 81 percent, the proporthe situation is well-balanced. And Katalin technology – a unique perspective in the tion of women at MAM is high. To ensure Kiss, the manager, is also a woman. region. On board the shuttle bus The supply chain was built from the start to take environmental protection into account. Our suppliers and service partners come exclusively from the surrounding area in Austria and Hungary. The greater volume of traffic due to our plant in the village is the largest, and according to Imre Krancz, mayor of Vaskeresztes, only negative impact on the inhabitants. To keep this as low as possible while getting employees on three shifts safely to and from work, company shuttle buses were organised to bring groups of employees to work. Private transport, shuttle buses and trucks not only contribute to more traffic emissions, but also to higher noise levels. All transportation is therefore carefully planned. Balázs Takács (left) and Márk Teket are part of the automation project team. 52 GRI 102-10, 202-2, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2 MAM is an important employer for the The establishment of the MAM plant region in this town of 343 people near resulted in new infrastructure in the town the border to Austria. – and for the volunteer fire department. In the eyes of the local representatives of crumbling buildings and green spaces decision-­makers as positive and hopes Vaskeresztes, MAM’s presence strengthwould be wild and unkempt. for this good cooperation for his political ens financial stability. In the town as well successors. Still, the wish list of the as in the region, MAM is considered a Vaskereztes and the region have develcommunity for MAM is still long: It ranges good employer, also because of our oped strongly over the past 25 years, from road work to the construction of a investments completed in 2017 and 2018. which has also been reflected in the new cultural centre and a bridge over In September 2018, we completed the opening of kindergartens, the establishthe river Pinka to green electricity for the new production hall and warehouse. ment of local volunteer fire stations, parks, community. As mayor, his main goal is At the same time, the new office wing hotels, dental and medical services, as to make ­Vaskeresztes a pleasant and and conference rooms were built. The well as other programs and events in the liveable place for the people. production offices and laboratory facilities region. MAM also spontaneously supwere renovated and the conversion of ports Vaskeresztes and the community in A good future together is important to the central building was completed. The solving problems and optimisations, for us. MAM sees itself as part of the local total investment for the expansion, which example after a fire in the kindergarten community which we can draw from and began in 2015 due to strong international in the nearby village of Pornóapáti. We participate in. It is important for us that we demand, was in the high double-digit helped rebuild with toys and tools, and continue to express this in our decisions million Euro range and directly funded volunteer work by MAM employees. The and local activities. by MAM. The economic success of MAM roof of the fire station in Horvátlövó´ was very often leads to re-investment in the repaired, the firefighters in Vaskeresztes company. and Felsó´csatár were supported and gifts were provided for children’s day, MAM’s establishment also has a positive Christmas parties and the carnival in the impact on the community’s tax revenues. Vaskeresztes kindergarten. Help and According to Mayor Krancz, one hundred participation in events and programmes percent of the business tax collected is organised in Vaskeresztes are business used for the infrastructure and beautificaas usual for MAM. tion of Vaskeresztes. Without this source of income, up to half of the projects On the wish list for MAM realised so far, like municipal vehicles and Imre Krancz is pleased with the develequipment might not have been possible. opment of his community. Overall, In his opinion, the current MAM company he sees the communication between premises would still be lined with old, management, residents and local GRI 102-10, 202-2, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2 53 #newhorizons Are the MAM products sold in China of the same high quality? At the world’s largest expo for baby products Pioneering in Shanghai, mothers-to-be had a lot of questions about MAM soothers. Quality is with knowledge especially important to them. 3·d and quality China. Good bye junk! Quality awareness in the world’s most populous country is growing rapidly. While national standards for health and product safety are rising steadily, MAM is there with its high-quality products. For the past three years, Dr. Duan Tao our subsidiary has been opening up this giant market – who built China’s accompanied by an educational and awareness campaign. largest maternity clinic, shares his knowledge with mothers together with MAM. With 15 million births annually, China potential cannot be ignored. Other baby consumers. “When we present our is a huge market for baby products. product suppliers are also trying to gain products made from extra soft MAM Disposable income is rising steadily, a foothold in China.” SkinSoft™ Silicone, Chinese mothers and confidence in goods imported from want to know what materials they Europe is high. Conditions for MAM Sceptical target group contain,” Wu reports. There is a mix of could hardly be better, one might say. While China has stood for cheap mass misconceptions and lack of knowledge As William Wu, General Manager of production in the past, quality awareon the topic of product safety, however. MAM China, confirms: “The market ness is now very strong, namely among “Soothers are not yet common in China,” cites Wu as an example. “A lot of parents are worried by what they INFO hear about malocclusions. We want to and have to do a lot of educational MAM Italy is born work here.” Since our long-standing distributor terminated their contract at the end of Professor Duan explains 2015, MAM has established its own Italian subsidiary. Our quality products are sold through pharmacies, baby shops and online. Currently, the team is MAM has been working together with working with great success to pass MAM knowledge of infant health on to Dr. Duan Tao since 2018 to spread Italian mums and dads (see “Ask the Doc“ on page 23) – one reason why scientifically sound information. The MAM is already the second strongest brand in Italy.* professor of obstetrics and gynaecology set up China’s largest maternity clinic *Source: IQVIA Data, April 2019, Pharmacy Channel, Soothers & Bottles, Market Share in Shanghai, where more than 33,000 babies are born each year, setting new standards in quality and safety. Now, 54 GRI 102-10 “A rapid change is taking place here.” 3 questions for William Wu, General Manager of MAM China What exactly does MAM do in China? We focus on building the MAM brand and communicating the benefits of our products through local social media – these are the information channels for Chinese mothers and fathers. We also make sure that MAM products are available to young parents, for instance on the leading online shopping platform Tmall. In Europe, China is often associated with cheap labour and inferior quality. Is this perception correct? No, things are changing rapidly here. China has enacted a number of laws and regin cooperation with MAM, he shares his ulations to improve product knowledge with women and medical quality. And skilled workers William Wu is staff throughout China. In this way, working to build are well paid because they are in MAM also contributes to the achievean important high demand. ment of SDG 3.d, which strengthens future market. early warnings for health risks. Does MAM also participate in “For example, we create professional medical conferences in China? knowledge platforms and maintain Yes, we were represented at a social networks with expecting mothers symposium in Yantai, for example. and young families,” reports Duan Tao. The lectures by Professor Reinhold “It’s about getting the right message Kerbl from the Upper Styria Regional across in the right way through the right No compromise on safety Hospital and Professor Hans-Peter channel.” This includes social media Today, the industry standards Bantleon from the University Clinic such as the messenger service WeChat and regulations for baby products of Dentistry Vienna each attracted and Weibo, the Chinese equivalent to in China are as strict as they are in a large audience. All of the handouts Twitter. In China, MAM is considered a Europe, Wu reports: “Of course, all for Prof. Kerbl’s talk on SIDS were high-end brand that offers high-quality, our products comply with local regulaimmediately snatched up. This topic medically sound products,” Duan contintions.” At the same time, they are is still practically unknown in China ues. “My team and I are happy to work ­oriented on European standards, which and is something we want to conwith responsible companies like MAM. go beyond the Chinese. All products tinue to shed light on in the future. It lends an international perspective to that come into contact with food must our work.” also pass a test from the Shanghai Quality Testing Institute. GRI 102-10 55 #newhorizons Does sustainability stop once MAM products are on the market? 12·6 Spread the word Imitation welcome. MAM acts sustainably wherever possible. But the story doesn’t end there. In CSR workshops, this consciousness is also conveyed to the employees of MAM subsidiaries – they develop their own approaches and initiatives. As for distribution partners, companies that make sustainability a priority are considered particularly. Since MAM was founded over ise CSR workshops in which we jointly MAM Germany: four wins 40 years ago, the company has grown consider how our locations can become “Our team really liked the workshop. Since steadily. In the meantime, we now even more responsible. This applies to then, a CSR team of four people from employ people around the world: from many areas, such as saving energy, different departments has come together. Austria to Sweden to Thailand and the waste segregation, social commitment We meet every four weeks and discuss USA. Our subsidiaries think sustainably, and promoting the health of our which sustainable initiatives we would too. In order to leverage this, we organemployees. like to implement at our location,” says ”The breakout sessions A serious workshop – in the best sense: After the CSR meeting a were great and gave number of sustainable activities were launched at MAM Germany. everyone time to do some creative thinking. We have a ­ lready made changes to our office.” Jennifer Mitchell, CEO MAM USA and Canada 56 Three MAM trading partners from three countries • E ngland: Initiatives against plastic at Boots In 2018, Boots, a major health and beauty retailer, signed the UK Plastics Pact, committed to reducing plastic Waste segregation and recycling are waste and eliminating the use of very important for the certain types of plastic in production. team at MAM USA. Since 2015, they no longer stock grooming products containing plastic particles, and by 2020 all plastic bags are to be replaced by paper bags – a saving potential of 900 tonnes. Britta Schornstein, Head of Buying at our trading partners are contributing to MAM Germany. Measures such as the SDG 12.6 by implementing and reporting possibility of working from home, comon sustainable initiatives. • U SA: Massive CO 2 pany health care, a photovoltaic system reduction at Walmart and the use of environmentally friendly One of Walmart’s largest sustainability cleaning agents have already been initiatives at the moment is known as implemented by the German team. “Project Gigaton.” The goal is to avoid one billion tonnes of greenhouse MAM USA: be creative “The principle of gases from the global value chain by and segregate waste sustainability is 2030. Additionally, in 2018, 80 percent The team members in the USA also liked of the products were sourced from anchored in the culture the workshop: “The breakout sessions suppliers, which were well rated were great and gave everyone time and strategy of Migros according to a sustainability index to do some creative thinking. We have developed with universities and NGOs. and is implemented already made changes to our office,” Waste reduction and the promotion of says Jennifer Mitchell, CEO of MAM USA along the entire value public environmental policy are also and Canada. Specifically, she means chain. A sustainable major topics at Walmart. things like introducing recyclable stainless steel bottles for coffee or tea and orientation in our •S  witzerland: Free-range eggs, consciously saving paper. Waste segsuppliers is also sustainable milk and regation is also practised – the waste is more at Migros taken directly to the recycling centre, as important to us. In this The Migros Group’s sustainability the public waste does not collect there. regard, MAM is a programme covers many areas: from energy, environmentally-friendly and pioneer in the baby Beyond the borders of MAM water-conserving production, to workAn important issue dealt with in the sector. Their highing conditions and social commitment. sustainability workshops concerns quality and sustainably The eggs sold are exclusively free­collaborating with partners. range, the milk comes from sustainA good foundation is particularly produced products able agriculture and the packaging relevant with retailers, as MAM fit perfectly into our is constantly being optimised so that products are sold in about 60 countries less waste is produced. on all five continents – in thousands of assortment. “ stores. That’s why we prefer to work with Biljana Ignjatic, trading partners who act sustainably Category Field Manager Babycare themselves. In doing so, we at MAM and Migros 57 #mambaby MAM’s contribution to the Contents 2030 Agenda In addition to the articles, this section provides a large amount of detailed information and tables – a requirement Be active. This page is intended to give for reports according to the internationally recognised GRI an overview of the contribution that small standard. Cross-references and medium-sized family businesses such in the tables lead to the as MAM can make to fulfilling the UN’s corresponding articles. Sustainable Development Goals. We are implementing measures in all 17 main 60 Materiality matrix target areas, but we would like to present The most important an overview of the areas where our impact sustainability topics is greatest. The following achievements are at a glance an excerpt of our sustainability efforts and 61 Code of Conduct provide a summary of this report in relation How we deal with one to MAM’s close ties to the SDGs. another and others 62 Tables and conclusions Statistics for special interest Target 1.1: Eradicate extreme poverty 72 CSR­programme CSR aspect: MAM Corporate Giving What’s next Programmes (pages 46–47) M ain success: Money, time, product and 74 GRI Standards in-kind donations for disadvantaged families as content index 1·1 part of our Corporate Giving Programme The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards disclosures Target 3.2: End preventable deaths of in this report newborns and children under five years of age CSR aspect: Product quality and standards (pages 18–21) M ain success: Very low complaint 3·2 rate of 30 ppm in 2018 58 Target 3.d: Strengthen the capacity of all Target 9.5: Enhance scientific research, countries, in particular developing countries, for encourage innovation and increase the number early warning, risk reduction and management of research and development workers of national and global health risks CSR aspect: Research & Development (page 35) C SR aspect: Baby health in China M ain success: Construction of a new state3·d 9·5 (pages 54–55) of-the-art research and development centre in M ain success: SIDS awareness work Austria, according to environmental criteria and progressing in China for more employees Target 4.7: Ensure that all learners Target 12.4: Environmentally sound acquire the knowledge and skills needed management of chemicals and all wastes to promote sustainable development throughout their life cycle in order to minimise C SR aspect: Educational work on their adverse impacts on human health and the breastfeeding, oral hygiene, sudden infant environment 4·7 12·4 death syndrome and Co. (pages 22–25) C SR aspect: Substances & raw materials Main success: Sharing our know-how M ain success: >90 % product part suppliers in baby health with parents from Austria, cooperation with more than 30 medical experts in the reporting period Target: 5.5: Ensure equal opportunities within the scope of product development, for leadership roles 56 market research studies with 17,095 parents CSR aspect: Compatibility of work from 11 countries and family (pages 42–43) Main success: 41 % female management Target 12.5: Substantially reduce waste 5·5 staff, nearly 100 % parental leave return rate generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Target 8.7: Take measures to eradicate CSR aspect: Waste (pages 32–34) forced labour and child labour M ain success: First ever sprueless production 12·5 CSR aspect: Working conditions of soothers during the reporting period and human rights (pages 38–39) M ain success: Social Audit confirms excellent Target 12.6: Adopt sustainable 8·7 working conditions, of course without human practices and integrate sustainability rights violations of any kind. information into reporting CSR aspect: Foreword (pages 4–5) and Target 8.8: Protect labour rights and CSR Workshops (pages 56–57) 12·6 promote safe and secure working M ain success: Multi-award winning environments for all workers sustainability reports, transparency through CSR aspect: Benefits for MAM disclosure of non-financial data employees (pages 40–41 & 44–45) 8·8 M ain success: Many additional benefits Target 13, 13.2: Take urgent action to beyond the legal provisions at all MAM combat climate change and its impacts locations, high employee satisfaction CSR aspect: Product carbon footprint and CO2 emissions (pages 28–31) Target 9.1: Develop quality, reliable, Main success: Up to 85 % energy and CO2 13·2 sustainable and resilient infrastructure reduction when sterilising MAM products to support economic development and human well-being Target 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption C SR aspect: Regional added value and bribery in all its forms 9·1 in Vaskeresztes (pages 50–53) CSR aspect: Compliance (page 61) M ain success: Established for 20 years, low environmental M ain success: No corruption during the impact, all managers from the region, 81 % women, reporting period 16·5 support for regional infrastructure 59 #mambaby S c tric as co h i l d t a a n te r a m , f vo d ed o f n d p u o rc i d a e ha uc nc nd tio h u ot h l s a e d n c ia high m er r y or e o pl lin n m W g an a la f Co rig spe bou ht c t r s s e Relevance from the stakeholder’s viewpoint ls pr r h er ia od ea oy at er uc lth m ts a af nd pl em & om et D s y e q i ve d ce st o u rs oo ur an ppo al it y, G so Cu ed d r t Re u c co u n se d a t nt i i t i e an nc io nu s m n in re s tp an e g ca s t ke fo a rb ain on a rs g ar H e fo b l e M an up m y lit ot p dl bi W pl en p r ro bi na od a ie t in du in Su t ct t ai st g iv er rs co er & Su si ta s m h e cc u pr on ty al pa ot ec pl th ti o tio si an n n is ai Re gi d al sa em nt on al fe ty pr & s Da oc ur gy em en co F i g er t rr h En cr e gR ea io up tin O Va tion na tio g s k a l va e r ro l u n es un e zt d low es low Environmental and social impact from MAM high • #happybaby In order of importance • #livingplanet • # fairsociety • #newhorizons •less relevant topics Materiality matrix. We make safe products for babies and parents and, together with our stakeholders, treat sustainability issues as a priority. This analysis helps us to do this. In dialogue with key stakeholders, we sustainability, for example. Over the last moved up and to the right on the Y and X observe whether and how the expectatwo years, our location in Hungary has axes and has been renamed “Regional tions of MAM change. Every two years, been brought to the fore by increases in value creation around Vaskeresztes.“ In our business activities and their impact production and related investments. As a mid-2018, the EU General Data Protection on interest groups are evaluated. One result, our stakeholders in the region are Regulation (GDPR) made “data protection” thing remains constant: There is nothing increasingly involved in the report. a legal compliance issue that has criminal more important to them than the health of consequences for breaches – CSR relebabies and the safety of our products. And Eleven topics in four chapters vance has therefore decreased from both that goes for us, too. Based on the weighting of the stakeholdcompany and stakeholder perspectives. ers, eleven topics were identified, which The issues highlighted in gray were Our stakeholders are described in four chapters in this considered to be less significant and are Parents, medical experts, distribution report. Compared to the CSR Report for therefore only peripheral items in the partners, suppliers and our employees are 2015/2016, there were two changes in report. our most important stakeholder groups. 2017/2018: Due to the economic, social We ask them what they care most about, and environmental impacts around like product development and aspects of Vaskeresztes, regional value added has 60 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 103-1 Reputable 16·5 success worldwide Compliance. Correctness and integrity in our decisions and activities are inseparable from our business. As an international family business, we express this mindset by committing ourselves to the fundamental principles of the A clear line for all locations worldwide: United Nations Global Compact. Together The MAM Code of with some 16,000 companies worldwide, Conduct contains MAM is committed to being part of a uniform rules. globalised world through responsible MAM Code of business practices. We are thus conConduct tributing to a business community that actively advocates combating corruption and bribery by respecting the ten basic principles in the fields of environment, working conditions and human rights, as envisioned in SDG 16. the indigenous people is enshrined in our the previous reporting periods, there It’s a matter of principle Code of Conduct. There have been no have been no such cases during this Our Code of Conduct, in connection such incidents since the founding of MAM period. Nonetheless, MAM has set itself with anti-corruption measures, applies in Thailand. There are no legal collective the goal of launching an anti-corruption at all MAM locations worldwide. In bargaining agreements in Thailand but programme by the time the next report is Thailand, where two of our three plants we pay above average wages and offer issued to train employees and define the are located, there is a general risk of numerous benefits (pages 40–41). roles and processes of ethics officers. human rights violations, so we pay close attention there: Forced and compulsory Our Code of Conduct also includes rules In addition, the Human Rights Review work are out of the question. Overtime on gifts, travel expenses, dealing with was part of Sedex / SMETA Social Audits, is completely voluntary and there are no authorities and other important aspects which we have carried out in our plants, penalties or intimidation. Our strict policy that contribute significantly to strengthwith the finding that we are doing things against child labour and for the rights of ening our anti-corruption culture. As in right here (pages 38–39). GRI 102-16, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 410-1, 411-1, 412-1 61 #mambaby #livingplanet Environment. The ecological figures relate only to our production sites in Hungary and Thailand, as these plants naturally have the greatest impact. We did not identify any significant environmental impacts at our office locations. Nonetheless, we conduct CSR workshops with the employees of our subsidiaries and implement environmental measures in the areas of procurement, mobility, energy, waste, water and awareness-raising through the environmental teams at each location (see article on page 56). Energy consumption within the organisation in MWh GRI 302-1 2016 2017 2018 Hungary 3,507 3,848 4,301 The increase in energy consumption in Natural Gas 1,664 1,601 2,043 Hungary is mainly due to the expansion Electricity 1,843 2,247 2,258 of the plant (warehouse, production Thaimed Baby 1,652 1,480 1,189 hall and office space). In addition, new production equipment was purchased Heating oil 1,088 942 773 in 2018, which is responsible for Electricity 564 538 416 the increase in natural gas usage. Thaimed HT 0 402 581 There has been a decrease in energy Gasoline Oil 0 68 53 consumption at our plant in Hat Yai. Diesel Oil 0 7 33 This can be attributed to moving Liquefied petroleum gas 0 0 2 production to our new site in Kabinburi. Electricity 0 327 493 The energy use there has increased Total 5,159 5,730 6,071 since 2017. “Wake-up call for the world” (page 28) 62 GRI 102-10, 302-1 Greenhouse gas emissions at production sites in tons of CO 2 GRI 305-1, 305-2 The direct emissions (scope 1) result from 2016 2017 2018 the use of natural gas for heating and for Total 1,727 1,929 1,983 the operation of production machinery in Hungary. In Hat Yai, direct emissions direct GHG emissions 621 595 641 come mainly from the energy-intensive Explanation: The amount indirect GHG emissions 1,106 1,334 1,342 production process for natural rubber. of CO2e emissions has Hungary total 1,124 1,284 1,377 In Kabinburi, liquified natural gas for the been determined. This company kitchen and diesel and petrol calculation is based on direct GHG emissions 332 319 407 emission factors from indirect GHG emissions 792 965 970 for transport are solely responsible for the GEMIS database, in direct emissions. The indirect emissions which upstream greenThaimed Baby total 603 550 437 house gas emissions (scope 2) results are derived from (i. e., extraction and direct GHG emissions 289 250 205 electricity consumption, primarily by processing of primary indirect GHG emissions 314 300 232 energy sources or production equipment, and have been power plant production) Thaimed HT total 0 95 169 calculated using the respective country are proportionately direct GHG emissions 0 26 29 determined. To calculate power mixes. Since a large part of the greenhouse gas emisindirect GHG emissions 0 70 140 electricity required in Kabinburi was sions that are emitted by electrical use, the produced by our photovoltaic system, respective country power we were able to significantly reduce our mix or data for the PV systems was used. scope 2 emissions there. “Wake-up It was not possible to call for the world” (page 28) collect specific data. Materials used at the production sites in tons GRI 301-1 The use of materials in Hungary has dropped from 2017 to 2018 and is now 2016 2017 2018 on par with 2016 levels. In contrast, the Total 3,474 3,787 3,238 use of materials in Hat Yai has dropped renewable1 1,254 1,257 1,083 significantly, again due to relocating production to Kabinburi, where material non-renewable 2 2,220 2,529 2,155 use has nearly tripled. In Hat Yai, the Hungary 3,319 3,573 3,027 1 Renewable: 100 % of use of energy has not decreased to renewable1 1,197 1,199 1,020 the natural rubber, 80 % of the paper and the same extent as the consumption non-renewable2 2,122 2,374 2,007 cardboard of materials. This is because the less Thaimed Baby 155 164 67 2 Non-renewable: 100 % energy-intensive operations have been renewable 1 57 50 35 of the plastic, 100 % of relocated to Kabinburi and natural rubber non-renewable2 98 114 32 the chemicals, 20 % of the paper and is still processed in Hat Yai, as we source Thaimed HT 0 50 144 cardboard, materials natural rubber directly from the local made from nonrenewable1 0 8 28 renewable chemicals farmers. “What MAM products non-renewable2 0 41 116 and fillers are made of” (page 16) GRI 102-10, 301-1, 305-1, 305-2 63 #mambaby Waste at the manufacturing facilities by method of disposal, in tons GRI 306-2 2016 2017 2018 The principle of “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” goes for us, too. Reduce: We look very Total 413.0 445.5 433.9 carefully at our use of materials for our Non-hazardous 1 384.6 413.5 404.4 products. We use all the materials, where Hazardous2 28.4 32.0 29.5 it makes sense, again and again. We Recycling 87 % 85 % 83 % hand over the rest to recycling companies Incineration 7% 7% 7% or to the public waste management Landfill 6% 8% 10 % system. Here are the details for the Hungary 387.5 409.9 400.1 production plants: There was a decrease Non-hazardous1 359.1 377.9 371.0 in waste volume at the plant in Hungary. Hazardous 2 28.4 32.0 29.1 Although construction waste increased during the reporting period as a result Recycling 86 % 85 % 84 % of the site expansion, paper waste was Incineration 7% 8% 7% reduced by 42 percent from 2017 to 2018 Landfill 7% 7% 9% since, for example, cardboard boxes and Thaimed Baby 25.5 17.6 11.6 packaging from suppliers could more Non-hazardous1 25.5 17.6 11.6 easily be reused. For hazardous waste Recycling 100 % 100 % 100 % (such as when using food-safe inks), Thaimed HT 0.0 18.1 22.2 there is a direct correlation to production Non-hazardous 1 0.0 18.1 21.9 volume. The inks used for printing are Hazardous2 0.0 0.0 0.4 pigment-based, harmless and subject Recycling 0% 83 % 56 % to the strictest safety requirements for Incineration 0% 0% 2% contact with food (EC No 1935/2004). Naturally, this waste is properly stored Landfill 0% 17 % 42 % and then safely transferred to a processing company. At Thaimed Baby in Hat Yai, some of the waste is 100 1 Non-hazardous percent recycled. Natural rubber waste, waste is disposed of through conventional for example, is used in road construction. waste segregation In Kabinburi, plastic, paper and steel (i.e., residual waste, paper, plastic). waste is sold to recycling companies. The high landfill share in 2018 is still the 2 Hazardous waste is a substance that result of the remaining building materials presents a potential at the plant, which were returned hazard to health and/ or the environment to waste management companies. and is therefore “More brainpower, less plastic” disposed of separately (i.e., cleaning agents in (Page 32) production). 64 GRI 306-2 #fairsociety Socially acceptable. Our success depends on the people who work for us and with us. We are convinced that employees who enjoy coming to work perform their jobs with more love and passion. This is directly reflected in our products. Key employee figures were collected at all MAM locations worldwide, both in the plants and in the offices. On pages 36–47, we want to show where MAM stands on the topics of human rights, diversity, equal opportunity, compatibility of work and family, employee benefits and social responsibility. The detailed data is shown in the following tables. Organisational profile GRI 102-8 2016 2017 2018 The number of employees at MAM is constantly on the rise. The proportion Headcounts 871 953 964 of women has remained constant at Europe 693 (80 %) 746 (78 %) 778 (81 %) 75 percent since 2017. The employment Asia 109 (12 %) 140 (15 %) 119 (12 %) relationship is also developing positively. North America 16 (2 %) 15 (2 %) 17 (2 %) Since 2017, 98 percent of employees have South America 53 (6 %) 52 (5 %) 50 (5 %) been employed for an indefinite period. permanent 788 (90 %) 932 (98 %) 948 (98 %) The proportion of full and part-time temporary 83 (10 %) 21 (2 %) 16 (2 %) workers remains unchanged since 2017. full-time 807 (93 %) 897 (94 %) 907 (94 %) Part-time employment is possible in all part-time 64 (7 %) 56 (6 %) 57 (6 %) MAM countries. In addition, our employee benefits are the same for everyone, female 670 (77 %) 711 (75 %) 719 (75 %) whether temporary or permanent, fullpermanent 608 (91 %) 698 (98 %) 710 (99 %) time or part-time. “For the common temporary 62 (9 %) 13 (2 %) 9 (1 %) good” (page 44) full-time 612 (91 %) 667 (94 %) 670 (93 %) part-time 58 (9 %) 48 (6 %) 48 (7 %) male 201 (23 %) 242 (25 %) 245 (25 %) permanent 180 (90 %) 234 (97 %) 238 (97 %) temporary 21 (10 %) 8 (3 %) 7 (3 %) full-time 195 (97 %) 230 (95 %) 237 (97 %) part-time 6 (3 %) 8 (5 %) 9 (3 %) GRI 102-8, 401-2 65 #mambaby The share of new employees in Asia Total number and rates increased significantly in 2017. This change of new employee hires can be explained by the opening of the and employee turnover plant in Kabinburi. The increased turnover by age group, gender is also due to the partial transfer of and region production from Hat Yai to Kabinburi. GRI 401-1 “Clear advantage” (page 40) Percentage of employees 2016 2017 2018 who received a regular performance and career New employees (total) 324 356 268 development review Percentage of head37 % 37 % 28 % GRI 404-3 counts (total) Europe 253 (78 %) 221 (62.1 %) 203 (76 %) Asia 50 (15 %) 124 (34.8 %) 49 (18 %) 2016 2017 2018 North America 2 (1 %) 1 (0.3 %) 4 (2 %) Percentage of employees South America 19 (6 %) 10 (2.8 %) 12 (4 %) who received a regular performance and career 70 % 82 % 86 % female 253 (78 %) 239 (67 %) 206 (77 %) development review in male 71 (22 %) 117 (33 %) 62 (23 %) total <30 years 144 (44 %) 128 (36 %) 107 (40 %) Percentage of female employees who received 30–50 years 157 (49 %) 218 (61 %) 139 (52 %) a regular performance 77 % 84 % 89 % >50 years 23 (7 %) 10 (3 %) 22 (8 %) and career development Employees that have review 157 290 257 left the company (total) Percentage of male Turnover rate 18 % 30 % 27 % employees who received a regular performance 46 % 77 % 77 % Europe 125 (80 %) 164 (56.6 %) 171 (67 %) and career development Asia 13 (8 %) 113 (39 %) 70 (27 %) review North America 1 (1 %) 1 (0.4 %) 2 (1 %) South America 18 (11 %) 12 (4.1 %) 14 (5 %) The proportion of workers who regularly hold employee interviews increased female 120 (76 %) 209 (72 %) 193 (75 %) significantly between 2016 and 2018. male 37 (24 %) 81 (28 %) 64 (25 %) “For the common good” (page 44) <30 years 60 (38 %) 131 (45 %) 97 (38 %) 30–50 years 74 (47 %) 138 (48 %) 118 (46 %) >50 years 23 (15 %) 21 (7 %) 42 (16 %) Diversity of governance bodies and employees by gender and age GRI 405-1 2016 2017 2018 Governance body (total) 54 58 58 female 22 (41 %) 24 (41 %) 24 (41 %) male 32 (59 %) 34 (59 %) 34 (59 %) With over 40 percent of management being female, <30 years 1 (2 %) 0 (0 %) 0 (0 %) we are already doing quite well, and have been for 30–50 years 32 (59 %) 36 (62 %) 37 (64 %) some time. In half of our subsidiaries, women have >50 years 21 (39 %) 22 (38 %) 21 (36 %) the ultimate responsibility and run the companies. Employees (total) Our largest production plant is also run by a <30 years 219 (25 %) 157 (17 %) 210 (22 %) woman. The goal is clear: 50 percent women in 30–50 years 527 (61 %) 706 (74 %) 611 (63 %) management in the coming years. It’s not far off. >50 years 125 (14 %) 90 (9 %) 143 (15 %) “For the common good” (page 44) 66 GRI 401-1, 404-3, 405-1 Gender equality GRI 404-1, 405-1 About 75 percent of our employees are 2016 2017 2018 women. The percentage of women Total employees 871 953 964 in management remains constant at Women 77 % 75 % 75 % 41 percent. Average training hours for Female members of staff members are rising steadily, and the 41 % 41 % 41 % governance body gender gap is decreasing annually, to only Women in office 67 % 66 % 68 % 3.5 hours per year. “Mothers at MAM: Women in production 82 % 78 % 78 % We can work It out!” (page 42) Labour turnover rate 18 % 29 % 27 % women Labour turnover rate 18 % 33 % 26 % men Women part-time 9% 7% 7% Men part-time 3% 3% 4% Average hours of training per year 10.8 15.4 16.9 in total Average hours of training per year 10 14.3 16 women Average hours of Family-friendly 13.6 18.5 19.5 workplace training per year men GRI 401-3, 405-1 2016 2017 2018 Total number of employees 40 51 41 on parental leave Female employees 39 50 39 Male employees 1 1 2 Family-friendliness is very important Total number of at MAM and this is also reflected in employees the numbers. Nearly 50 percent of our 17 16 19 due to return to work employees have children. The return rate after parental leave after parental leave is nearly 100 percent. Female employees 15 12 17 In all MAM countries, women have the Male employees 2 4 2 opportunity to go on parental leave, for Total number of men this is the case in 86 percent of the employees who have returned to 16 14 18 countries. “Mothers at MAM: We can work work It out!” (page 42) after parental leave Female employees 14 10 16 Male employees 2 4 2 Return rate women 93 % 83 % 94 % Return rate men 100 % 100 % 100 % Employees with 450 (52 %) 388 (41 %) 439 (45 %) children Employees without 421 (48 %) 565 (59 %) 525 (55 %) children GRI 401-3 ,404-1, 405-1 67 #mambaby Fit for future The MAM CSR Programme. We have achieved quite a lot in recent years, but we won’t be bored in the future, either. Some very exciting and sustainable new goals and their plans achieved continue for implementation are already on the table. partially achieved not achieved new target 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021+ 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021+ CSR Management Product-specific sustainability #mambaby #happybaby Improve management of Ensure safe products through key figures by the next CSR report quality testing and compliance with all (ongoing) standards (ongoing) Roll-out of our sustainability Intensive engagement with the management with product parts Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) suppliers by 2020 and their integration into our innovation process (ongoing) Conduct CSR workshops at our subsidiaries and prepare/implement Close collaboration with scientific an on-site plan incl. MAM CSR guide/ institutions. To build up know-how e-training platform by 2020 in the field of the components and the processing of bio-based plastics Evaluate the application for an with the highest safety and quality internationally recognised standards (ongoing) sustainability label by 2021 Code of Conduct roll-out to Economic sustainability our top 10 suppliers and #newhorizons inclusion in contracts with new Long-term and stable suppliers by 2020 corporate strategy with the goal Introduction of ISO 13485:2016 of sustainable corporate for medical devices at the development (ongoing) Hungarian plant by 2019 Farsighted self-financing Environmental sustainability of company growth and #livingplanet maintaining a high percentage of reinvestment (ongoing) Expansion of the MAM CO2 calculator for parents resulting Strong focus on research & from the findings of the study development to act as a driver on the carbon footprint of MAM of innovation (ongoing) soothers by 2017 68 GRI 103-3 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021+ About the report CO2 neutral production: Evaluation This report has been prepared in accordance of the “CO2 Neutral Production” with the GRI Standards: Core option. It is project for Europe by 2025 written biennially for our stakeholders such as parents, medical experts, trading partners and Introduction of ISO 14001:2015 MAM employees to show our sustainability environmental management system management and our ecological, social and used in the Hungarian plant at our economic corporate responsibility and to make production facility in Kabinburi by 2019 it transparent. We pay attention to resource and energy efficiency in the development and Implementation of energy management manufacture of our products and invest in the system according to ISO 50001:2011 for our satisfaction of our workforce. In doing so we two plants in Hungary and Thailand by 2021 follow the precautionary principle. For example, we carry out regular carbon footprint analyses Construction of a new research of our products and pass this knowledge on to and development centre in parents (see page 28) and have our working Austria according to energy-efficient conditions and observation of human rights guidelines by 2021 monitored externally (see page 38). 100 % of our packaging recyclable by 2020 All locations in our sights Social sustainability For the collection of quantitative data, the scope #fairsociety of consolidation, as portrayed on pages 6 and 7, was defined as the reporting boundaries. There Continuous networking with at least are only two variations: As environmental aspects 10,000 medical experts such as midwives, primarily concern the production sites, we have orthodontists, dentists and paediatricians by only compiled the relevant indicators for them. 2020 (was 8,000 in 2018) Regarding the subject of human rights, we have restricted ourselves to our sites in Thailand since Educational work and knowledge sharing that is where (with our two production sites) an on Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), increased danger of threats lie. especially in China, where the SIDS rate is significantly higher than in other countries Where is CSR found at MAM? (ongoing) The CSR team reports directly to MAM management and they jointly define the Conduct a social audit for our production strategic orientation of CSR. In doing so, we sites according to Sedex/SMETA incl. a ensure that all sustainability issues are closely human rights review by 2018, repeat every linked to our core business. three years (ongoing) Do you have more questions? Worldwide roll-out of an anti-corruption Our CSR department, headed by Hannes Thaler, programme including training for employees will be pleased to provide you with information by 2020 on the content of the report as well as the dialogue with our stakeholders: Certification by “Great Place to Work” csr-team@mambaby.com in Austria by 2018 incl. top ranking and evaluation of an international roll-out Sustainable on the net, too We use paper from sustainable forestry for Work and family: Intensify measures to our printed products that was produced in reconcile work and family life including a a CO2-neutral manner. The circulation of our re-audit “Work & Family” (ongoing) sustainability report is very limited. Of course, Implement our annual corporate-giving it is available for download on our website. initiatives around the world through Furthermore, there is an online version, which is even more extensive than the printed edition; financial, time, material and product with numerous infographics and slideshows that donations (ongoing) make our approach to sustainability even clearer: www.mambaby.com. GRI 102-11, 102-20, 102-45, 102-46, 102-50, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 69 #mambaby GRI Content Index GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016* Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation pages 4 and footnote 1) 102-2 Primary brands, products and services pages 6–7 102-3 Location of the organisations’ headquarters pages 6–7 and footnote 1) 102-4 Number of countries, where the organisation operates pages 6–7 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form footnote 1) pages 6–7: The sales locations support the markets supplied. Direct customers 102-6 Markets served of MAM are primarily trading companies, distribution partners and pharmacies. 102-7 Scale of the organisation pages 6–7 und footnote 2) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers page 65 102-9 The organisation’s supply chain pages 12–13 pages 50–53 (extension of production plant Hungary) 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain pages 54–55 (new subsidiary in China) pages 62–63 (partial relocation of production from Hat Yai to Kabinburi) 102-11 Precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organisation page 69 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or pages 4–5 (UN Global Compact) 102-12 other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses pages 8–11 (SDGs) Membership of associations (such as industry associations) and Excerpt: respACT, Austrian Plastics Cycle, Altstoff Recycling Austria, Austrian Society for 102-13 national or international advocacy organisations Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Association of Austrian Orthodontists, SIDS Austria Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about 102-14 the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s pages 4–5 strategy for addressing sustainability Ethics and integrity Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 102-16 pages 8–11, pages 38–39, page 61 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Governance Governance structure of the organisation including committees 102-18 footnote 1) of the highest governance body 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics page 69 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body for CSR CFO Stakeholder-Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation page 60 MAM pays to all employees (100 %) wages and salaries that are determined 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements by local relevant competitive markets. Such wages and salaries are always above local collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage page 60 The organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 102-43 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and indication of whether any of the page 60 engagement was undertaken specifi cally as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 102-44 page 60 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns Report profile List of all entities included in the organisation's consolidated 102-45 pages 6–7, page 69 financial statements or equivalent documents 102-46 Process for defining the report content and the topic boundaries page 60, page 69 102-47 List of all the material topics identified in the process for defining the report content page 60 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 102-48 page 60 and the reasons for such restatements 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries page 60 102-50 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided page 69 102-51 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2017 (for the reporting period of 2015 and 2016) 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) biennially, page 69 page 5, page 69, 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr-team@mambaby.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards page 69 102-55 GRI content index pages 70–71 The organisation's policy and current practice with regard The report has not been assessed externally. 102-56 to seeking external assurance for the report consultation by csr and communication e.U. 1  wnership and legal form: Like BAMED AG, MAM Babyartikel GmbH O 2 S ize of the organisation incl. balance sheet figures * For a better overview of the general disclosures, is a subsidiary of Bamed MAM Group Ltd. based in Cyprus. The such as turnover, sales: The Bamed / MAM Group the texts of the key figures are shown in a supreme body of the Group is the Tamlino Import & Advisory LP, based is not listed on the stock exchange, so there is no condensed form, but the total content of the key in Cyprus and is the economic property of the Röhrig family (Peter and obligation to publish. We live by the sale of a limited figures is discussed in the report. Klaus Röhrig). Major strategic decisions require the approval of the range of products under a single brand In a low-growth supreme body of the Group. Operationally, the Group is represented market. In the global market, we are the only remaining For the Materiality Disclosures Service, by BAMED AG, Switzerland, headed by the Chairman of the Board medium-sized company. All major competitors are part GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content Niklaus Schertenleib, whereby BAMED AG is responsible for production, of larger, financially strong and diversified business index is clearly presented and the references marketing and sales. The two Austrian companies Bamed GmbH structures. Under these conditions, we consider the risk for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with and MAM Babyartikel GmbH, represented by the managing director as a given that a sales publication allows far-reaching appropriate sections in the body of the report. Ing. Peter Röhrig, are, in consolidation with BAMED AG, responsible for conclusions for our competitors, which can be used to This service was performed on the German research and development as well as for brand management. our disadvantage.” version of the report. 70 GRI 102-55 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 page 60 (for all disclosures under GRI 200 Economic Standards, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary GRI 300 Environmental Standards and GRI 400 Social Standards) pages 68–69, excerpt: ISO 9001, all worldwide standards for our product categories, 103-2 The management approach and its components: GRI 200: Economic Standards SDGs (for all disclosures under GRI 200 Economic Standards) pages 68–69, excerpt: ISO 14001, ISO 50001 framework, energy audit, 103-2 The management approach and its components: GRI 200: Environmental Standards SDGs (for all disclosures under GRI 300 Environmental Standards) pages 68–69, excerpt: Sedex/SMETA, Great Place to Work, Work and Family Audit, 103-2 The management approach and its components: GRI 200: Social Standards SDGs (for all disclosures under GRI 400 Social Standards) pages 68–69 (for all disclosures under GRI 200 Economic Standards, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 300 Environmental Standards and GRI 400 Social Standards) GRI 200: Economic Standards GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community pages 50–53 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported pages 50–53 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts pages 50–53 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption page 61 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures page 61 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken page 61 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices no legal disputes in the reporting period GRI 300: Environmental Standards GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume pages 16–17, page 63 301-2 Recycled input materials used pages 16–17 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation pages 30–31, page 62 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) pages 30–31, page 63 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) pages 30–31, page 63 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) pages 29–30 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method pages 32–34, page 64 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Environmental laws and regulations are in compliance with by ISO 14001. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No incidents of non-compliance with environmental legislation during the reporting period GRI 400: Social Standards GRI 401: Employment 2016 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 401-1 page 66 turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 401-2 pages 40–41, pages 44–45 page 65 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operations pages 42–43, page 67 (return rates) 401-3 Return to work rates and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Retention rates: no valid data; will be evaluated in the next report GRI 402: Labour/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Timely communication for significant changes is standard at MAM. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee page 67 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews page 66 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pages 66–67 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There were no incidents of discrimination in the reporting period GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Freedom of association and collective bargaining page 61; based on the respective legal framework GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour pages 38–39, page 61 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour pages 38–39, page 61 GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies and procedures page 39, page 61 GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Rights of indigenous peoples page 61 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 pages 38–39, page 61; 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments There was no violation of human rights during the reporting period GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement and development programs pages 46–47, pages 50–53 Operations with significant actual and potential 413-2 pages 50–53 negative impacts on local communities GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories pages 18–20 (100 %) Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 416-2 There were no incidents in the reporting period safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling There were no incidents in the reporting period GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Customer Privacy: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 418-1 covered by the EU General Data Protection Regulation of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 419-1 no fines in the reporting period regulations concerning the provision and use ofproducts and services GRI 102-55 71 I want to buy high-quality items for my baby. Which quality standards apply to MAM products? Page 18 happybaby What does MAM contribute to climate protection? And what role do we play as parents? Page 28 livingplanet How does MAM address the issue of reconciling Does sustainability stop work and family once MAM products are on life? the market? Page 42 Page 56 fairsociety newhorizons
