January – December 2018 Qalaa Holdings Communication on Progress for 2018 tal en Ec o m Env alaa Holdings c iro Q mi n no Pio rowth nal A Regio lu siv eG ne ler nc pm cia in S dI en So ustainability an t Ed lo uc atio eve D n & Human Capital This Cop is available to all our stakeholders on our website: qalaaholdings.com Contents Statement of Continued Support by the Chairman and Founder of Qalaa Holdings...........................................................3 Introduction ..........................................................................................4 • Aligning our Portfolio with the SDGs....................................................................5 Education & Human Capital Development ........................................6 Environmental Initiatives ....................................................................7 Description of Facts..............................................................................8 • Human Rights.......................................................................................................................8 • Labor.........................................................................................................................................8 • Environment........................................................................................................................8 • Investing in Clean and Affordable Energy .........................................................10 • Anti-Corruption..................................................................................................................11 • Social Investment...............................................................................................................12 • A Focus on ERC....................................................................................................................13 Integrated Education Support Program ............................................14 Qalaa Holdings’ Partnerships for the Goals.......................................15 The Way Forward ..................................................................................16 Statement of Continued Support by the Chairman and Founder of Qalaa Holdings To our stakeholders: I am pleased to reaffirm that Qalaa Holdings supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In the 2018 Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ahmed Heikal, Chairman and Founder, Qalaa Holdings qalaaholdings.com • 3 Introduction Qalaa Holdings Communication TAQA Arabia uses solar panels in an effort to invest in cleaner fuels and lower emissions of harmful on Progress greenhouse gases in line with our commitment to SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy. for 2018 Qalaa Holdings is proud to mark another year of steady yet significant SDGs, their indicators, and key goals and priorities. To maximize our impact, progress on all fronts in our effort to become more sustainable and we have chosen to focus on achieving the following 6 goals that align with promote sustainability in Egypt. Responsible investing and operational Qalaa Holdings role as a regional leader in energy and infrastructure: practices have been at the core of the company’s approach since we • Quality Education (SDG 4) by way of the Qalaa Holdings Finanbegan operating in 2004. We have always selected investments that cial Services Center, scholarships offered through subsidiaries and generate positive returns both in terms of shareholder profits and corporate foundations, skill development programs, financial aid to community benefits, such as job creation, knowledge transfer, and underprivileged students, and other programs. initiatives targeted to meet community needs. • Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7) by way of investments in cleaner fuel and actively working to lower harmful emissions. As a holding company with subsidiaries in numerous critical sectors of • Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) by way of devotion the economy, Qalaa Holding has also played a key role in the region’s to the health, safety, and welfare of employees and job creation development story. Whether it’s the completion of our USD 4.3 billion through our investments. refinery (Egyptian Refining Company), which will curb Egypt’s • Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) by way of conpresent-day diesel imports by c. 30%-40%, the growth of our energy siderable investments in renewable energy. distribution subsidiary TAQA Arabia and solid waste management • Responsible Consumption and Protection (SDG 12) by way of company Tawazon, or our focus on increasing export capacity at ASCOM compliance, productive energy, and waste management policies. Carbonate and Chemicals Manufacturing and GlassRock Insulation, we • Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17) by way of aligning investremained committed to our sustainability and socially-driven practices. ments with Egypt’s economic goals and engaging in partnerships to promote the goals. Moving beyond our prioritization of both profit and impact in our investments, Qalaa Holdings is a vocal advocate for sustainable and ethical This year’s COP, in addition to providing information and KPIs based on business practices in Egypt’s private sector companies. In our effort to lead UNGC requirements, highlights how our investments and ESG programs by example, we have adopted the United Nations Sustainable Developdirectly link to the SDGs. We hope the clear, concrete progress that has ment Goals (SDGs) in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and been made by Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries is the starting point Anti-Corruption. Through an intensive multi-year process, we have been of a journey where public and private interests can converge to create a working to align our core business portfolio and ESG practices with the stable, prosperous society and inclusive economies. qalaaholdings.com • 4 Our subsidiary Tawazon transforms solid waste into biomass and RDF, alternative fuels that can be used in heavy industries. Aligning our portfolio with the SDGs The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our USD 4.3 billion Tawazon, our subsidiary for investment in the solid waste managesecond-stage oil refinery in Greater Cairo, will be filling the supply ment industry, has been providing biomass and RDF as alternative gap for high-value Euro V diesel (the cleanest fuel of its type in the fuels to heavy energy consumers such as cement factories for the world). ERC’s feedstock is fuel oil, which is currently consumed as past five years. As of the end of November 2018, the company profuel. The refining process to produce lighter products such as diesel vided 393,298 tons of RDF, 1.1 million tons of biomass, and 1.2 million removes sulfur. ERC will thus prevent the release of 96,000 tons of tons of organic compost. sulfur currently emitted, which represents a reduction of 186,000 tons in annual SO2 emissions. This equates to a 29.1% reduction in the total amount of SO2 currently emitted in Egypt from the burning of sulfur-containing fuels such as fuel oil and diesel. We invested in Nile Logistics in 2006 to capitalize on the potential of fuel-efficient, environmentally friendly river transportation. One river barge has the same capacity as 20-40 truckloads but requires a fraction of the fuel and money to operate. Nile Logistics operates three TAQA Arabia, our energy subsidiary, has also recently taken solid steps subsidiaries that offer stevedoring and river transportation services in to invest in alternative energy, including wind and solar power projects, Egypt and South Sudan. In Egypt, Nile Logistics’ subsidiaries operate to help meet Egypt’s growing energy needs after the government a stevedoring on anchor service in various Egyptian ports as well as announced the introduction of new feed-in tariffs for renewable a container feeder service across the Suez Canal. Nile Logistics has a energy. In 2017, the company completed financing of an EGP 1.35 billion strong fleet that allows it to transport cargo along the Nile River. investment in a 50 MW solar power plant in Aswan, Egypt. qalaaholdings.com • 5 Education & Human Capital Development 184 scholarships awarded by 2,738 graduates of the Qalaa USD 60mn spent to date on community USD 5.6mn spent per year on education and QHSF Financial Service Center initiatives environmental initiatives Energy Cement Agrifood ERC ASEC Engineering Dina Farms • Mostakbaly Scholarship Program: • 60+ participants in ASEC Engineering teachers 30, undergraduates 28 Cement Professional Diploma • School upgrade/refurbishment: 40+, • 15,300 thousand workers have been benefiting 185 K students trained ASEC Academy’s training program • 3,633 students in vision program • Vocational training 146+ • 120+ SME projects for entrepreneurs • Capacity building training 254+ trainees • Economic empowerment for women through 72 projects funded TAQA ASEC Cement ICDP • Master’s Degree Scholarship annaully Tawazon ASEC Holding Mining Transportation & Logistics Printing & Packaging ASCOM Nile Logistics National Printing Company qalaaholdings.com • 6 Environmental Initiatives Energy Cement Agrifood ERC ASEC Engineering Dina Farms • Reduction of sulfur emissions by 96,000 • Dina Farms is using the world’s most tons technologically advanced and efficient • 30% reduction in total amount of SO2 irrigation systems on its 9,500 feddans emissions of land in Egypt TAQA ASEC Cement ICDP • Delivers gas to almost 1 million customers • Investing in solar and wind power • EGP 1.35 bn invested in Benban Solar Park Tawazon ASEC Holding • 2.5 mn tons of biomass, RDF and organic compost collected • 385 K tons of RDF • 1 mn tons of biomass • 1.1 mn tons of organic compost collected Mining Transportation & Logistics Printing & Packaging ASCOM Nile Logistics National Printing Company • GlassRock subsidiary produces • Offers a variety of environmentally• Since 2016, Uniboard has produced environmentally friendly and energy friendly transportation and logistical around 10k tons/month of duplex efficient building materials. services using the Nile River as a paper out of paper and cartoon waste, backbone for transport and linking reducing Egypt’s imports by 50% • Invested USD 70 mn to increase producers, exporters and importers to production capacity global and local markets • 80,000 tons of recycled paper are used • 30,000 metric tons/year of rockwool • 20,000 metric tons /year of glasswool qalaaholdings.com • 7 Description of Actions Human Rights At Qalaa Holdings, we have pioneered a commitment to providing a higher motivation and retention levels among our talented employees. minimum living wage for all our employees, and one that goes beyond The Talent Management Platform covers four main areas: 1) maintaining local regulatory frameworks. We continue to be committed to ensuring an active database for key talents across the group, 2) setting and our workers receive dignified wages and our zero-tolerance policies for monitoring periodical management targets and objectives, 3) processing child and forced labor. We provide our employees with life and health the performance appraisal cycle, and 4) managing the exit process for insurance, maternity leave, and disability/inability coverage. One hundred talented employees should they seek to leave the organization. percent of women who were on maternity leave to date returned to work in the company. To ensure our workforce’s health and safety, we share To ensure continuous growth and development, we have developed circulars and awareness emails about any emerging serious diseases when comprehensive and world-class training schemes that are specific to they occur. our industry’s needs and priorities. In 2018, we provided approximately 130 hours of training to our employees. Moreover, close to 100% of our Labor workforce participate in regular performance and career development Qalaa Holdings is an equal opportunity employer, which means reviews. individuals are hired, trained, promoted, and transferred in all job classifications regardless of their race, religion, sex, nationality, age, and Environment family/social status. Qalaa Holdings continued to provide life and health Established as a model for doing business in a strictly compliant manner, insurance, maternity leave and disability/inability coverage. while focusing on sectors that in principle can represent an environmental Our Employment Guide provides guidelines for the board and general hazard, Qalaa Holdings identified environmental compliance as one employment policies. In cases where company policies or guidelines of its core imperatives since inception. Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental contradict those of national labor laws in any country/region where Qalaa Compliance Strategy is based on the strict compliance of all our subsidiarHoldings operates, precedence is given to the application of local law. ies to all the national environmental laws and regulations featured in each Qalaa Holdings’ policies and procedures might subject the violator to of the countries we operate. In addition, Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental various forms of reprimands. Compliance Strategy ensures the adoption of various global guidelines, management systems and standards at both the holding and subsidiaries With regards to data on our workforce, Qalaa Holdings has 86 full-time levels when relevant. As a member of the UNGC, we are committed to inemployees, with the following gender breakdown: approximately 77 corporating the principles and systems into the company’s environmental percent of full-time employees are male, with the remaining 23 percent strategy. This includes our focus on: being female. It is notable that 40 percent of full-time female employees 1. Adopting a preventive approach in our investment strategy by are in middle management, 15 percent are in senior management, and 5 ensuring a very thorough study for our environmental impact prior percent are at entry level. In terms of age group breakdown, the largest to initiating any investment on the ground; proportion of staff are between the ages of 31 and 40 (39 percent), with 2. Focusing on the efficient use of resources across all sectors to approximately 14 percent between the ages of 25 and 30, 28 percent minimize waste and the depletion of natural resources; between the ages of 41 and 50, and 15 percent between the ages of 51 3. Moving our industries, as well as our communities, toward the use of and 60. In terms of staff turnover, 5 employees left the company in 2018 in cleaner energy in an economically viable manner; contrast to 8 new hires. 4. Introducing sustainable transport services to minimize carbon footprints for both our industries as well as for the communities we operQalaa Holdings’ newly launched SAP SuccessFactors Talent ate in; Management System has opened the door to information-centric, target5. Adhering to and investing in the latest technology for waste driven performance at Qalaa Holdings and our platform companies. It management as a key solution for both global resources and the helps us achieve enhanced target-setting and progress review techniques, energy dilemma; support and encourage efficient reward strategies, and eventually reach 6. Improving the environmental performance of our business through qalaaholdings.com • 8 the research and development of new technologies, preventing and Egypt’s growing energy needs after the government announced the reducing our emissions, and minimizing our waste; introduction of new feed-in tariffs for renewable energy. In 2017, the 7. Investing in compliance with health, safety, and environmental company finalized an EGP 1.35 billion investment in a 50 MW solar power measures; and plant in Aswan, Egypt, which will become operational in 1Q2019. 8. Reporting on performance on at least an annual basis and ensuring that any violation is immediately discussed at the board level for each Our subsidiary GlassRock Insulation produces mineral wools used for of the subsidiary companies and among Qalaa Holdings’ board if insulation in a variety of products, with a total production capacity of the violation is not resolved immediately. 30,000 metric tons of rockwool and 20,000 metric tons of glasswool per annum as of 2018. Rockwool is a key component of greener buildings In this regard, being a member of the UNGC entails selecting and applying with lower environmental footprints. Buildings account for some 40% of performance metrics, including metrics commonly used to assess the world’s greenhouse gas emissions due to the energy they consume. performance in our core industries. Our adherence to this membership Insulation materials produced by GlassRock Insulation are also the best opens a channel to ensure international standards are applied throughout way to reduce the impact of CO2 emissions. our subsidiaries. In addition, Qalaa Holdings works closely with our developmental funding institution (DFI) partners to enhance the company’s Nile Logistics capitalizes on the potential of fuel-efficient, environmentally compliance and reporting frameworks. This includes, among others, the friendly river transportation. Nubareya, our river port in Alexandria, is a adherence to IFC’s standards for environmental and social performance. fully owned, 70,000 m2 plot located 3 km south of Alexandria Port and A significant number of our subsidiaries report their environmental is connected with the berthing areas of the port via Nubareya Canal. performance quarterly to our DFI partners to ensure transparency and As it stands today, the services we use Nubareya and our barges for in ongoing dialog as we work toward improved environmental performance. Alexandria are mainly logistics-related, such as stevedoring and storing. The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our USD 4.3 billion secondstage oil refinery in the Greater Cairo Area, will be filling the supply gap for high-value Euro V diesel (the cleanest fuel of its type in the world), producing 2.3 million tons of Euro 5 diesel per year and reducing Egypt’s diesel imports by around 30%-40%. ERC’s feedstock is fuel oil, which is currently consumed as fuel. The refining process to produce lighter products such as diesel removes sulfur from the fuel oil. ERC will thus reduce Egypt’s SO2 emissions by 96,000 tons every year. This equates to a 29.1% reduction in the total amount of SO2 currently emitted in Egypt from the burning of sulfur-containing fuels such as fuel oil and diesel. The project is currently 98.9% complete and in the final stages of technical testing, with production set to start in the first half of 2019. Tawazon, our subsidiary for investment in the solid waste management industry, has been providing biomass and RDF as alternative fuels to heavy energy consumers such as cement factories as well as exporting agri-pellets for residential and industrial heating. Our energy subsidiary TAQA Arabia has also invested in several alternative In addition to providing biomass and RDF as alternative fuels for heavy industries, Tawazon exports agri-pellets for residential and energy projects, including wind and solar power projects to help meet industrial heating. qalaaholdings.com • 9 Investing in Clean & Affordable Energy 40 % reduction in Egypt’s imports of 4.7mn tons of refined 1mn* clients connected to natural gas 1.35 bn EGP investments in solar Park diesel products/year grid through TAQA in Benban, Aswan 2.3mn tons of Euro V diesel/year 4.3bn USD investment 50 mw of photovoltaic power 12 months to complete Benban solar plant *As of Nov 2018 2.5mn tons of biomass, RDF and 1.1mn tons of organic 50 K metric tons/year, total 30 K metric tons/year of rockwool organic compost compost production capacity production capacity 385 K 1mn 20 K metric tons/year 70 mn tons of RDF tons of biomass of glasswool production USD investment capacity As of 30/9/2018 qalaaholdings.com • 10 Anti-Corruption Qalaa Holdings believes high-quality governance is a fundamental Qalaa Holdings’ governance structure has evolved significantly over the enabler of superior corporate performance. The components of effective past 13 years as the company transitioned from a two-founder startup to governance reduce risk, identify internal and external threats, and assist Africa’s leading private equity firm with 19 platform companies and finally in capturing profitable business opportunities. Qalaa Holdings’ to its current structure as an investment holding company with a narrower governance principles align the interests of management, shareholders, focus and a smaller portfolio of strategic subsidiaries. the Board of Directors, and subsidiaries, facilitating well-informed decisions. Qalaa Holdings has completed a process of institutionalization Throughout Qalaa Holdings’ 13-year journey, maintaining good that began in 2013 at both the Qalaa Holdings and subsidiary levels. The governance has been critical in seeing us through the volatility of our comprehensive program included the refinement and improvement of markets and helping us build sustainable businesses in multiple countries all systems, policies, and procedures that management needs to support throughout the region. We pride ourselves on a long-standing tradition and grow the business. New policy documents were developed in parallel of having a board of directors dominated by a majority of non-executives. with the refinement of existing charters such as the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee. Developed policies that are now being In 2018, Qalaa Holdings remained committed to strengthening the implemented include the risk assessment framework, in addition to the governance function to support sustainable growth, enhance risk anti-fraud and insider trading policies. In addition, audit committees management, and maximize efficiency at Qalaa Holdings and across all modeled on the Qalaa Holdings Audit Committee Charter have subsidiary companies. Having joined the Integrity Network Initiative (INI) been established for all major subsidiary companies. Qalaa Holdings’ the previous year, the company’s determined approach to governance Internal Audit team represents a key element in its corporate governance has progressively regulated a wide range of practices at Qalaa Holdings framework, with a mission to add value and improve Qalaa Holdings’ and its subsidiary companies, ranging from a risk assessment framework, overall operations by providing relevant, timely, independent, and anti-fraud, and financial reporting policies to the manner in which objective assurance and advisory activities. The Internal Audit team assists management interacts with shareholders, and the creation of shareholder the organization in accomplishing its objectives by using a systematic and value across our subsidiaries. Institutionalizing the corporate governance disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk processes is an ongoing, long-term objective across all our platform management, control, and governance process, which provides Qalaa companies. Equally important are the principles of fairness, openness, Holdings’ stakeholders with reasonable assurance over the group’s and transparency, which we have worked diligently to instill as part operations and strengthens the firm’s ability to maximize stakeholder of our corporate culture. An interdisciplinary approach to governance value. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit function is an independent incorporates Qalaa Holdings’ management, industry platform teams, function with functional reporting lines to the Audit Committee and and the senior management of subsidiary companies by way of formal administrative reporting lines to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. quarterly meetings through the management boards. With a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, the Internal Audit function These management boards also convene on an as-needed basis. This has implemented an Anti-Fraud Policy to promote consistent corporate quarterly cycle of meetings and reviews, culminating in the meeting of integrity, honesty, and ethical behavior within Qalaa Holdings and Qalaa Holdings’ Audit Committee and Board of Directors, ensures a its subsidiaries. This approach helps protect the organization’s assets, rigorous process of participation by a wide cross section of executives from reputation, and employees. The Anti-Fraud Policy was reinforced by setting Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiary companies. Qalaa Holdings engages up an anonymous whistle-blowing channel to receive information from the services of only the most reputable audit firms for both ongoing inside and outside the company on the Qalaa Holdings website. Qalaa statutory audits and due diligence for all subsidiaries. Strict internal controls Holdings believes in continuously promoting and empowering the and reporting standards are a cornerstone of the governance principles at company’s control environment. Accordingly, the Internal Audit function Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Financial and operational reports are has developed a Risk Assessment Framework to be followed throughout transparent to all parties with a vested interest — from management and the organization. Risk Assessment contributes to the effective and efficient board members to shareholders. demonstrable achievement of objectives and the improvement of qalaaholdings.com • 11 performance on multiple fronts. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit strives to ensure the presence of the Internal Audit function across all platforms, in its capacity to oversee, monitor, guide, advise, and administer its platform. In addition, our Management Committee is a monthly forum that engages a wider management team of Qalaa Holdings to review market developments and progress on corporate initiatives at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Social Investment To improve the impact of our social contributions, we have chosen to focus on projects and initiatives that aim to achieve the fourth SDG of Quality Education, an area that has always been a priority for our founders. As of December 2018, over 32,000 people have benefitted from the human capital development initiatives of Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Recognizing the importance of education and human capital development in fostering economic growth and social transformation, in 2006 we donated USD 250,000 to establish the Qalaa Holdings Financial Services Center (QHFSC) at the American University in Cairo 60 public school teachers were offered the opportunity to enhance (AUC) – the first institution in the MENA region dedicated to helptheir skills this year through the Mostakbaly Teachers Program in cooperation with AUC. ing students develop the skills and qualifications required to pursue careers in securities trading, risk management, and asset allocation. It the chance to pursue graduate studies abroad at leading global unifosters sustainability in funding through endowment, sound manageversities in the U.S. and Europe – on the condition that they return to ment through its fully independent board, social impact through its work in Egypt after the completion of their studies. By providing youth expansive geographic reach across Egypt, and diversity through its from cities in 14 governorates throughout Egypt with opportunities, focus on gender equality. we are enabling them to make a positive impact on the economic and social well-being of the country. We are also proud that 45% of QHSF Since that time, we have donated USD 30,000 annually to ensure the scholars to date have been women. During their time abroad, scholarcenter continues to provide students with the training they require to ship recipients gain critical thinking skills, professional qualifications, enter the workforce. To date, QHFSC has benefited 2,738 graduates, and international connections that enable them to make a pivotal researchers, and faculty members. impact when they return to Egypt. A year later in 2007, we launched the Qalaa Holdings Scholarship In 2018, we celebrated 13 years of successful, uninterrupted operations Foundation (QHSF) with an endowment to ensure the program’s susat QHSF. During this time, we have provided students with the opportainability. QHSF is guided by an independent board of trustees and is tunity to pursue masters and doctoral degrees at top universities across managed by a full time Executive Director. the world including Harvard, Stanford, Oxford, Cambridge, Columbia, and Wharton, to name a few. Recognizing the crucial link between Today, QHSF has grown to become the largest private sector funded diversity and innovation, we have sought out talented young men scholarship program in Egypt and has provided 184 scholarships to and women from across the country. Past scholarship recipients have date. Despite economic and political challenges, every year since its come from Cairo, Giza, Alexandria, Menoufia, Ismalia, Assiut, Minya, inception QHSF has been giving 15-20 of Egypt’s brightest students Qalyubiya, Dakahlia, and Aswan. Our students also have a diverse array qalaaholdings.com • 12 of passions and have pursued degrees in fields ranging from filmmaking, anthropology, and art to law, business, engineering, architecture, development, and medicine. A large number of our scholars have returned to Egypt and started their own businesses in various fields from sustainable development to education. Our subsidiaries are also championing education with their own programs that mirror Qalaa Holdings’ goal to provide educational opportunities to those who otherwise have no access. Qalaa offers training programs and on-the-job learning opportunities TAQA Arabia, Qalaa Holdings’ energy distribution subsidiary, offers for local employees of subsidiaries such as TAQA Power and ASEC Holding. the TAQA International Scholarship, which goes toward funding the studies of one master’s student per year in the field of renewable energy, covering both tuition fees and living expenses. TAQA Arabia also sponsored 60 scholarships for teachers attending the Graduate School endows an additional annual scholarship for students working in the of Education at the American University in Cairo. Two students pursualternative energy sector to pursue graduate studies abroad in alternaing master’s degrees at the universities of Sheffield and Ingrid in the tive energy or related disciplines. United Kingdom have also been sponsored by the program. ERC has also sponsored undergraduate education at top Egyptian universities for 53 Seeking to add value to our employees’ experience, we strive to create honors students graduating from local secondary schools. environments where knowledge exchange is built into the workday and facilitate vocational training opportunities. At subsidiaries like 2. Generating Income and Jobs TAQA Power and ASEC Holding, local employees learn from specialists Through its Mashrouy and Tamkin initiatives, ERC has sponsored the and engineers working on site. Construction workers hired to build launch of 254 small projects to encourage youth and women’s participaERC have also gained experience that will qualify them to work on simition in the jobs market. Besides launching four employment centers to link lar projects going forward. At ASEC Holding, our team partnered with 30,000 local youths to the jobs market, ERC has sought to provide locals AUC to develop the ASEC Engineering Professional Diploma for the with tangible opportunities: 3,200 local residents were involved in the cement industry from which 60+ ASEC employees have benefitted. construction of ERC’s facilities. 2,489 young men and women have received training to increase their chances of success in the job market, and ASEC Holding also created the ASEC Academy Program, which protwo special production units have been opened to employ local women. vides training in engineering management, from which more than 15,300 people have benefitted. 3. Youth Volunteering and Capacity Building Youth from the local community represent the best chance for spurA Focus on ERC ring a sustainable development process in ERC’s neighborhood. ERC’s Since the construction of ERC commenced, the refinery has been Reyada program aims to develop local youths’ human capital and executing a variety of initiatives designed to benefit its surrounding propel them to full participation in the community. To date, over 100 communities, with a focus on the neighborhood of Mostorod. Based local youths have volunteered to receive training in the areas of social on comprehensive environmental and social impact assessment studwork and management. 30 young community members already hold ies, ERC has focused its community development program on 4 pillars: leadership positions at ERC’s youth initiatives, managing existing volunteer teams and recruiting new volunteers. 1. Supporting Education Through its Mostakbaly Scholarship Program, ERC has refurbished 40 4. Special Needs Support schools for the benefit of 100,000 students from the local community. ERC has launched the Takaful program to more fully integrate stakeERC has also launched two centers to train 3,000 teachers. Mostakbaly has holders with special needs into the wider community. To achieve this provided 5,092 students with in-kind aid and donated 5,662 prescription goal, ERC is working in partnership with government institutions and eyeglasses to disadvantaged students under the Nadarty Program. 887 local community development associations. teachers have also received training under the program. Mostakbaly has qalaaholdings.com • 13 Integrated Education Support Program Scholarships c. 32k beneficiaries from Qalaa 184+ scholarships awarded and its subsidiaries’ human capital development initiatives* *As of 31 December 2018 qalaaholdings.com • 14 Qalaa Holdings’ Partnerships for the Goals Partnering with like-minded organizations in pursuit of our sustainability targets allows Qalaa Holdings to learn from our peers and amplify our impact through collaborations. International partnerships challenge us to link our own sustainability efforts with global movements and adopt international standards for sustainable business practices. At the local level, connecting with our private sector peers and civil society organizations has provided us with support in developing projects from ASEC Academy to the Mostakbaly program. By establishing relationships with various government organizations, Qalaa Holdings has aligned its independent efforts to promote sustainability with Egypt’s Vision 2030 goals. At the local level, Qalaa Holdings acts as a leader in sustainable business practices, encouraging other companies and organizations to reevaluate their business practices and prioritize people and the environment as well as profits. Civil Society Academia International Sustainability Government Organizations and Ratings Agencies qalaaholdings.com • 15 The Way Forward Measurement of Outcome Stakeholder consultations take the form of an open dialog, allowing stakeholders to interact and give their feedback about an organization’s sustainability framework. Engaging and involving stakeholders is increasingly seen as a social responsibility of businesses and one that is also clearly aligned with long-term commercial interests. Stakeholder engagement is a continuous dialog between an organization and the constituents that impact and are impacted by its operations. It also enables the organization and its related stakeholders to better manage risks, impacts, and opportunities, in addition to implementing mitigation measures in a specific environment. Moreover, stakeholder engagement is In partnership with the IFC, TAQA Arabia will finance a 50 MW power plant that will be part of Egypt’s largest and first-of-its-kind grida central component of international best practices with regards connected solar power park. to sustainable business as determined by the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Looking Ahead During the previous year, the company conducted a stakeholder As a responsible investor committed to looking to our long-term consultation to assess and explore Qalaa Holdings’ sustainability impact, we plan to strengthen our approach to support the compractices’ impacts and management. The consultation’s results munities in which we engage. identified several recommendations on how to improve Qalaa Holdings’ social, governance, economic, and environmental perEnvironment: We are exploring ways to raise awareness and commuformance. The recommendations included further aligning Qalaa nicate our environmental efforts both internally and externally, and Holdings’ core businesses with the UN SDGs on an operational looking to our subsidiary Tawazon to transfer knowledge through and communications level, raising stakeholders’ and investors’ its engineering and consultancy arms. Our Marketing Communicaawareness regarding its sustainable development impact and tions team will further improve our environmental communication reputation. With an overall positive sentiment from employees, tactics and involve employees and media to raise awareness. recommendations for Qalaa Holdings’ included more efficient employee management and addressing staff concerns. Society: We will work with our subsidiaries to identify initiatives related to their core business activity. We are also exploring possible The consultation was conducted in the form of a roundtable atpartnerships with academic institutions to transfer our knowledge tended by a variety of Qalaa Holdings’ stakeholders including its and experience. Partnerships with other private sector players to adBoard of Directors, employees, subsidiaries, suppliers, investors, as dress societal change are key to Qalaa Holdings’ 2019 plan. well as representatives from academia, government, civil society, and blue-collar workers. The consultation covered a number of topEconomy: Qalaa Holdings is currently working with the Egyptian ics, but mainly the social, governance, economic, and environmengovernment and a number of other private and public institutions to tal performance of Qalaa Holdings, and was attended by Qalaa improve Egypt’s energy efficiency through its subsidiaries ERC and Holdings’ management who fully supported the exercise, listened TAQA Arabia. ERC is expected to go online in 2019. TAQA Arabia signed to stakeholders’ recommendations, and actively participated in the an EGP 1.35 billion contract with IFC to finance a 50 MW power plant discussion. In doing so, Qalaa Holdings became the first company that will be part of Egypt’s largest and first-of-its-kind grid-connected in Egypt to use a comprehensive stakeholder consultation to genersolar power park. The plant will be part of a large national complex of 13 ate a sustainable action plan and goals. solar power plants in Egypt; operations are planned to start in 1Q2019. qalaaholdings.com • 16
