1500 Airport Road North Bay, ON CANADA P1B 8G2 Tel: +1 705 476 1750 Fax: +1 705 476 6773 www.voyav.com Voyageur Aviation Corp – Communication on Progress For the Period: January 2018 – January 2019 Voyageur became signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on January 20, 2015. This marked the beginning of Voyageur’s formalized journey along the path of Sustainability and reported Corporate Social Responsibility. Whether formalized or not, Voyageur has always operated in a sustainable manner. Voyageur’s success is predicated on being efficient, responsible and sustainable. Having been signatory for over 2 years now, Voyageur has gone through many changes that have improved Voyageur’s operation and commitment to the UNGC. As discussed in the previous Communication on Progress (COP), Voyageur Airways was purchased by Chorus Aviation Inc. on May 1, 2015. On January 1, 2016, Voyageur established 2 new companies, Voyageur Aerotech Inc. and Voyageur Aviation Corp. This strategic move allowed Voyageur to separate the Maintenance Repair and Overhaul, and Design Engineering portion of the company from the Air Operations portion that is Voyageur Airways. To support both companies with Administrative services, Marketing, Safety and Risk Management and Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility, parent company Voyageur Aviation Corp was established. Under Voyageur Aviation Corp, Airways, Aerotech, and Avparts can combine their expertise to offer an unparalleled one-stop-shop for aviation related clients across the globe. In addition to this, Voyageur is able to actively promote the UNGC and its 10 fundamental principles across more business areas than ever. ~2~ Voyageur’s Implementation of the Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals / Implementation Voyageur is a company with a global reach and an understanding that businesses have a very important role to play in respecting and upholding human rights. As a Canadian employer, Voyageur must be compliant with the Canadian Human Rights Commission and follow the rules set out by both the Canadian Human Rights Act as well as the Employment Equity Act. Between these two laws, employer obligations regarding equality, duty to accommodate, and equal employment opportunities are defined. Voyageur has long standing Overriding Policies in place for: • Discrimination and Harassment • Employment Equity • Sexual Harassment These policies are continually reinforced and accessible by every employee through Voyageur’s company-wide online document sharing portal. Copies of these policies are also on display at common areas throughout Voyageur facilities. If any employee feels that their Human Rights are being infringed upon or violated, they are able to submit a report through Voyageur’s Confidential Reporting system. Access to these reports is restricted to only necessary individuals who have the requisite training and knowledge needed to properly handle these types situations. Voyageur’s parent company Chorus Aviation, introduced the Chorus’ Female Leaders Advisory Group (FLAG) last year in 2017. FLAG was developed to advise on and support initiatives to increase gender diversity among the leadership at Chorus including .../3 ~3~ Voyageur Aviation Corp. The FLAG team first put out a survey to all employees to better understand the current situation in the workplace. The information garnered from this survey would allow FLAG to better focus efforts and resources. Voyageur is committed to diversity and fostering an inclusive workplace. We recognize that a diverse employee group makes us stronger. One component of our diversity and inclusion initiatives is gender diversity. As part of the Chorus group of companies, Voyageur had three female employees take part in multiple days of training facilitated by the FLAG program. Voyageur is excited to provide more female employees with this training in the coming year(s). In addition to the gender diversity initiatives mentioned previously, Voyageur also began providing mandatory “Respect in the Workplace” training for all employees in 2018. This training is in the process of being provided to all current employees and is also provided to new employees as part of their company indoctrination training. Although the “Me Too Movement” began in late 2017, the year 2018 saw a drastic growth in awareness and support for this important movement against sexual harassment and sexual assault. Voyageur supports the Me-Too Movement wholly and will do our part in ending these egregious acts in workplace. In 2018, Voyageur executives received education and training on working in a post Me Too environment. A brand-new initiative that was established at the end of 2018 and will begin the implementation phase in 2019 is the establishment of the Diversity Council within Voyageur. The Diversity Council will be responsible for promoting diversity throughout the organization. The Diversity council will have the support of an Executive Champion who will ensure that the council receives the support and resources to meet and achieve their goals. Measurement of Outcomes Voyageur has had no Human Rights violations in its operating history. Voyageur will also continue to remain vigilant and attentive to any potential Human Rights violations in our operations. Voyageur’s confidential reporting system also continues to be used by employees for various circumstances. This further indicates the need of such a system. .../4 ~4~ All of Voyageur’s established and newly formed councils and programs will track specific metrics to actively monitor their effectiveness and engagement. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals / Implementation In Canada, labour laws stem directly from human rights laws and regulations. Canada is a member of the International Labour Organization and therefore must apply the 4 labour principles from the UNGC in its own labour laws. Voyageur has multiple Overriding Policies and Directives regarding labour laws and regulations. The following Overriding Directives are currently enforced at Voyageur: • Employment Equity • Discrimination and Harassment • Sexual Harassment • Confidential Information • Safety & Risk Management • Non-Punitive • Intellectual Property Building upon these policies/directives, Voyageur also has policies/programs in place to specifically protect employees during performance of their duties. The following policies are currently in place: • Work Refusal Policy • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Training Program .../5 ~5~ • Working at Heights Training Program • Confined Space Training Program Measurement of Outcomes Voyageur stands behind its Work Refusal Policy and ensures that all employees are aware of their right to refuse dangerous work. Voyageur also places large amounts of emphasis on our training programs for both newly hired employees and recurring training. Monthly inspections are carried out for compliance to safety regulations. Voyageur continues to reduce the number of incidents/non-compliances that occur or are found in large part due to the effectiveness of the training programs in place. Voyageur has never been involved in any forms of compulsory labour or child labour. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development of diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals / Implementation Voyageur undertook multiple environmental initiatives in 2018. These initiatives took place and were implemented at Voyageur’s head office in North Bay, Ontario and at Voyageur’s Line Maintenance Bases around the globe. Many of these initiatives will continue to be implemented in the coming years. • Recycling Program: At Voyageur’s head office in North Bay, an expanded recycling program was implemented. This program will reduce the amount of waste generated and provide a positive impact through increased recycling. The first two months of operation with the expanded recycle program resulted in 1200 lbs. of recyclable paper being diverted from landfill. .../6 ~6~ • Increased use of electronic manuals: An initiative created by Voyageur’s Document Group, in coordination with document owners, resulted in a 37% reduction in paper copies of CPP manuals. Initiatives continue to reduce the amount of paper usage, and direct waste paper to the recycle bins. • Aircraft end of Life Program: In 2018, Voyageur successfully and sustainably disposed of multiple aircraft through our aircraft end of life program. This program includes part reuse and hull recycling. • LED Lighting: Voyageur successfully incorporated LED and sensor lighting at our facilities in North Bay. • Waste Water Filtration: New waste water filtration systems were installed at Voyageur’s head office as part of the ongoing renovations. • Asbestos Removal: As part of the ongoing renovations at Voyageur’s Head Office, asbestos insulation removal continues to be completed by an approved vendor and in accordance with applicable environmental and safety regulations. • Reducing Fuel Consumption during Taxi and APU operation: As part of Voyageur’s Fuel Management Policy, Voyageur is developing procedures to reduce the amount of fuel consumed during aircraft taxiing as well as reduce the APU usage when able. Measurement of Outcomes Through the renovations, the removal of the asbestos provides a positive impact to the environment. Additional facility upgrades including the LED lighting will provide energy savings. The renovations also make the buildings more energy efficient further reducing the environmental footprint. As mentioned above, the paper recycling program successfully diverted 1,200 lbs of paper from the landfill. Additionally, Voyageur’s Documentation Group was able to reduce the number of paper manuals distributed by 37%. Increase in the use of electronic manuals drastically helped lead to these results. Voyageur will continue to monitor and track the results of these initiatives where able and applicable. Anti-Corruption .../7 ~7~ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals / Implementation Voyageur Airways fully supports the United Nations in its fight against all forms of corruption. In many of the countries of operation for Voyageur, the ugly head and face of corruption is widespread. Knowing this, Voyageur provides training to all of our Site Managers and other employees who deal with third parties at overseas locations. This training and emphasis on eliminating corrupt practices in Voyageur operations help to combat corruption in these areas of operation. Voyageur would handle any instances of corrupt practices with the sternest authority. Voyageur’s parent company Chorus Aviation Inc. has two established policies in the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. They are; 1. Chorus Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Policy 2. Chorus Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy These policies have been created to further assist our compliance efforts by providing more information about the different types of prohibited conduct and the procedural steps we can take to minimize the risk of violations. To further support these policies, training was provided to all Voyageur employees who hold positions of influence within the organization. Before any Aircraft Operating Agreement signed, Voyageur has the client complete a Know Your Customer (KYC) form completed. Additionally, the client must also complete and duly sign a Due Diligence Questionnaire and Compliance Certificate as part of the Aircraft Operating Agreement. These documents have the client declare that they have not engaged in money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and/or corruption. Tying the Code to the Anti-Corruption principle of the UNGC, Voyageur will undertake all business dealings in a candid and straightforward manner that preserves our integrity and reputation. .../8 ~8~ Measurement of Outcomes Voyageur is also subject to many audits by various organizations. These are both financial and operational in scope and nature. These audits have not discovered any evidence of corrupt practices.
