Lenovo Group Limited | 2018/19 Annual Report Stock Code 992 Leading and enabling intelligent transformation About Lenovo Lenovo (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY) is a $50bn Fortune Global 500 company, with 57,000 employees and operating in 180 markets around the world. Focused on a bold vision to deliver smarter technology for all, we are developing world-changing technologies that create a more inclusive, trustworthy and sustainable digital society. By designing, engineering and building the world’s most complete portfolio of smart devices and infrastructure, we are also leading an Intelligent Transformation – to create better experiences and opportunities for millions of customers around the world. To ﬁnd out more visit https://www.lenovo.com, follow us on LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram, Weibo and read about the latest news via our StoryHub. Contents Financial Highlights 4 Chairman And CEO Statement 8 Lenovo Management Team 12 Management’s Discussion And Analysis 16 Corporate Governance Report 52 Audit Committee Report 109 Compensation Committee Report 116 Sustainability Overview 127 Directors’ Report 142 Independent Auditor’s Report 173 Consolidated Income Statement 179 Consolidated Statement Of Comprehensive Income 180 Consolidated Balance Sheet 181 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 183 Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity 185 Notes To The Financial Statements 187 Five-Year Financial Summary 291 Corporate Information 292 Transform without compromise ThinkPad X1 Yoga Financial Highlights 2019 2018 Year-on-year For the year ended March 31 uS$ million US$ million Change Group Results Revenue 51,038 45,350 13% Gross profit 7,371 6,272 18% Gross profit margin (%) 14.4 13.8 0.6 pts Operating expenses (6,193) (5,885) 5% Expense-to-revenue ratio (%) 12.1 13.0 (0.9) pts EBITDA1 2,191 1,325 65% Pre-tax income 856 153 459% Pre-tax income margin (%) 1.7 0.3 1.4 pts Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company 597 (189) N/A EPS – basic (US cents) 5.01 (1.67) N/A EPS – diluted (US cents) 4.96 (1.67) N/A Interim dividend per share (HK cents) 6.0 6.0 Nil Final dividend per share (HK cents) 2 21.8 20.5 1.3 Total dividend per share (HK cents) 27.8 26.5 1.3 Cash and Working Capital Bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents 2,733 1,932 41% Total borrowings (4,380) (3,815) 15% Net debt (1,647) (1,883) 13% Cash conversion cycle (days) (11) (16) 5 Notes: 1 Excluding “other income net”. 2 Subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting. 4 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Revenue Analysis by Business Group Revenue Analysis by Geography for the year ended March 31 (US$ million) for the year ended March 31 (US$ million) 45,350 51,038 45,350 51,038 25% 24% 75% 16% 19% 74% 28% 25% 16% 13% 31% 32% 10% 12% 2018 2019 2018 2019 IDG-PCSD IDG-MBG DCG China AP EMEA AG EBiTDA1 Profit/(Loss) Attributable to for the year ended March 31 (US$ million) Equity Holders of the Company for the year ended March 31 (US$ million) 2,191 1,715 829 1,581 1,325 597 535 838 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (128) (189) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Note: 1 Excluding “other income net”. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 5 Transform the way we connect moto z3 with 5G moto mod Chairman & CEO Statement Without question fiscal year 18/19 has been Lenovo’s best yet. Record revenue fueled by strong execution and unfaltering tenacity – and our ambition to repeat this success continues unabated. 8 As I look back over the past year I am extremely proud of Lenovo’s progress and achievements and incredibly positive about our future. Yoga C930 I say this knowing that we are in a time of great global transformation – economically, socially and environmentally, and that for businesses to thrive in today’s fast paced, uncertain and changing world they too have to transform. In fact our history has been – and continues to be – one of transformation. From opening up China to PCs in the early 1990s, to how we have driven device transformation with new form factors. From the multiple acquisitions we’ve made to fuel our global us stand out. Challenging the status quo, depth and breadth, to how our data center changing what’s possible and rethinking technology is powering work that is designed form factors that change what we do, how to solve some of humanity’s biggest we do it and most importantly why. We challenges. Transformation is our new normal. have created dual screens that can literally be written on (our Yoga Book C930) and Which is why with the world as it is today a hinge that incorporates the world’s first we are focusing on how we ‘intelligently rotating sound bar (our Yoga C930). We have transform’ ourselves as well as how we enable continued to supercharge the evolution of the our customers around the world to do the iconic ThinkPad line, recently previewing the same. industry’s first foldable PC screen technology and debuted ThinkReality and ThinkIoT This year Lenovo led the way across every solutions for smarter businesses of the future. part of the business. Great innovation might wow and win awards but we push the boundaries of innovation Our intelligent Devices Group continued for one reason only – so that we can create to lead the PC and Smart Devices industry. better, smarter tech experiences for all. For our fiscal year 18/19 we are the #1 PC company in the world (IDC), using our scale Our Mobile Business Group (MBG) has and innovation to redefine the category. We thrived too. We were first to market with 5G achieved record market share of 23.4% in our – launching the world’s first 5G upgradeable fiscal year and remain the fastest growing phone, the Moto Z3. In addition, fiscal year among the top five players. We lead in terms Q3 saw us post our first worldwide profit of size and scale, but more importantly since the Motorola acquisition in October profitability, delivering the industry’s highest 2014. These notable achievements came profitability in the PC sector. However, what from masterful execution of our strategy to stands out is our continued leadership in reduce expenses, create a more competitive customer-led innovation – something that product portfolio and focus on core markets. has always been at the heart of Lenovo. This business continues to innovate with the Not only do I believe we have a wider and year ahead set to bring even more exciting deeper portfolio than any other company, it products. Globally this business is now is our attitude about innovation that makes right-sized for future growth. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 9 Chairman & CEO Statement STRATEGiC FOCuS FY19/20 AnD BEYOnD As we look to the future, our vision is to bring smarter technology to all – through Smart ioT, Smart infrastructure and Smart verticals. This is the next chapter in the Lenovo story – where we see our greatest opportunity for future growth and industry leadership. Smart ioT – this is the touchpoint for the connected world we live in. Firstly, it is about making current devices smarter – always connected, easy to collaborate with other new devices, adaptive to a customer’s needs, seamlessly connecting to the cloud etc – like Lenovo’s Smart Clock, Smart Camera and Smart Lock. This always on/always connected view of the world has unlimited potential meaning ordering a pizza through a speaker or unlocking a door with “a look” is a reality. Beyond that it is about embedding smart computing power into hundreds of devices moto z3 that are not yet smart – in schools, homes, factories, hospitals and much more. Smart infrastructure – this foundation provides the computing, storage and In the last 12 months our Data Center networking power to support intelligence. Business Group (DCG) has truly transformed The number of smart devices worldwide will from a one dimensional traditional server reach 20 billion by 2020, more than double the business into a complete portfolio data number in 2017, which in turn means data is doubling in volume every two years. It is this center organization – while at the same infrastructure engine that powers public cloud time hitting record revenue of over $6BN. companies, high-performance computing for This evolution has included joint ventures scientific computing and AI companies and is such as the one in China with NetApp, new the backbone of every organization today. global strategic partnerships, technology breakthroughs and numerous industry Smart verticals – the combination of big accolades and recognition. We are the #1 data harnessed from smart devices and the computing power of smart infrastructure is provider of TOP500 supercomputer systems already seeing Lenovo create models that with installations tackling society’s toughest provide insights for customers that can computational challenges; we power 17 of the dramatically improve business processes, top 25 research universities in the world and decision-making and financial return – have been in the number one position in x86 ultimately solving tangible business problems. server reliability globally for the last six years As a result, we are transforming industries and number one in customer satisfaction for that have not yet been able to realize the benefits of what technology can bring. the last five. These major milestones have positioned us for even faster growth and A WiDER RESPOnSiBiLiTY make us encouraged about the opportunities But business results are just one measure we see from this business. of our success. As a company with 57,000 employees, doing business in 180 markets Our Lenovo Capital and incubator Group across the globe we have a critical role and underpins our business today by identifying responsibility in the world today and a belief, and investing in some of the most exciting in line with the World Economic Forum’s objectives, that in our shared digital future no and game-changing technologies of the future one should be left behind. that support our ongoing transformations across each of our business units. For Lenovo this means being diverse and inclusive in all that we do. It means being able to stretch and adapt to the values, policies, 10 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report ThinkAgile CP Series and culture of the countries where we do transparency, how sustainable we are, our business; to look like, sound like, and reflect security and supply chain, our leaders, the our entire customer base no matter where quality of our products and so much more. they are; and to understand the once-in-aMillions of customers small and large in every lifetime opportunity technology presents to us corner of the world put their trust in us every to create a greater and more inclusive society day and it is why I believe we are one of for us all. As a leader, we have a responsibility FORTUNE’s Most Admired Companies and to add our voice to this important discussion why Thomson Reuters ranked as one of the and is one of the reasons why in this past Top 100 Global Tech Leaders. fiscal year we took the opportunity to reflect on our progress with our first global diversity As I look ahead to the next decade for Lenovo and inclusion report. it will be our business success coupled with the responsibility we have as an industry Beyond that, we also have a duty to operate leader and global business that drives a globally sustainable business. From our mission. A mission to deliver smarter innovative packaging solutions using bamboo technology for all so that we can play our and sugar cane to releasing our first products part in building an inclusive, trustworthy and made from closed-loop post-consumer sustainable digital society for everyone, recycled content. Equally, we need to not only everywhere. inspire future generations about technology, but give them access and opportunity so they can thrive in a digital world – something we do through our Lenovo Foundation. Lastly it is about trust. The most important Yang Yuanqing measure of our success. Trust in who we Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are as a company, how we do business, our Smart Tab P10 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 11 Lenovo Management Team YAnG Gianfranco GAO George Yuanqing LAnCi Lan HE Chairman and Corporate Senior Vice Senior Vice Chief Executive President and President, Human President and Ofﬁcer Chief Operating Resources President of Ofﬁcer Lenovo Capital and Incubator Group 12 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Gina Yong Kirk WOnG Laura QiAO Rui SKAuGEn Wai Ming QuATELA Senior Vice Senior Vice Executive Vice Executive Vice Senior Vice President and President and Chief President and President and Chief President and Chief Chief Strategy Technology Ofﬁcer President of the Financial Ofﬁcer Legal Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer and Data Center Group Chief Marketing Ofﬁcer 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 13 Transform your daily routines Lenovo Smart Clock Management’s Discussion & Analysis Business Review FinAnCiAL PERFORMAnCE During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, Lenovo For the fiscal year, the Group’s total revenue (the Group) achieved a record-breaking revenue of grew by 12.5 percent year-on-year to US$51,038 US$51 billion and its pre-tax profit is 5.6 times of last million as both PC and Smart Device (PCSD) fiscal year through strong execution of its Intelligent business and Data Center Group (DCG) scored Transformation strategy. Lenovo has entered a new record revenue. The Group’s gross profit jumped phase of growth, as it successfully transformed by 18 percent year-on-year to US$7,371 million. from a single-business to a multi-business company. Gross margin advanced by 0.6 percentage points Product innovation remains critical to long-term year-on-year to 14.4 percent, largely attributable growth and the Group is forging a customer-centric to margin expansion of its PCSD business and business model to further accelerate growth. Mobile Business Group (MBG). The expense-torevenue ratio dropped 0.9 percentage points During the fiscal year, despite a more challenging to 12.1 percent on the back of disciplined cost macro environment, Lenovo succeeded in control across all business groups. many ways in creating significant values for its stakeholders on all fronts, including the return The Group’s pre-tax profit was US$856 million for of consistent dividends to its shareholders, and the fiscal year, a significant improvement from the more recent naming by Fortune as one of the US$153 million pre-tax profit in the previous “Most Admired Companies” in 2019. The Group fiscal year. Profit attributable to equity holders also made it to the 2019 Q1 “Carbon Clean 200” reached US$597 million, reversing a loss of list and “Working Mother 100 Best Companies” in US$189 million in the previous fiscal year, when a 2018 respectively for its efforts in clean energy and one-time non-cash write-off of US$400 million on promoting social equality to all its employees. deferred income tax assets weighed on earnings. Revenue by Business Group (%) 12% (10%) 13% (16%) 75% (74%) IDG PCSD IDG MBG DCG 16 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Smart Tab M10 All of the three business groups achieved stellar results during the fiscal year. In the PCSD business, Lenovo regained the world’s number one spot in PC in the fiscal year with record revenue and maintained its industry-leading profitability. The MBG business staged a successful turnaround and became profitable on pre-tax profit level in the second half of the fiscal year while revenue growth resumed in the fourth fiscal quarter. In DCG, the On January 24, 2019, the Group issued US$675 strategy in place to win in high-growth segments million 3.375% convertible bonds due 2024, listed on enabled DCG to grow 37 percent in revenue The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, which year-on-year. The greater economy of scale and were mainly used for the repayment of the Group’s improvement in in-house design/manufacturing and 4.700% Senior Unsecured Note due in May 2019. For efficiency resulted in a significant loss reduction in details of the convertible bond, please refer to Note the fiscal year. 26 to the Financial Statements. The enhanced operational performances in the three business groups, along with better working capital management, led to a US$2.2 billion yearon-year improvement in operating cash flow during the fiscal year. The Group ended the fiscal year with US$1.5 billion operating cash flow and net debt was down to US$1.6 billion, representing a 13 percent year-on-year reduction. ThinkSystem DM Series DM7000F 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 17 Management’s Discussion & Analysis intelligent Devices Group – PC and Smart Device (PCSD) Business Lenovo regained the world’s number one spot in PC during the fiscal year while maintaining its industry-leading margin, with record revenue and pre-tax profit. Despite an industry-wide processor supply shortage in the second half of the fiscal year, the PCSD business was up 14 percent year-on-year to a record revenue of US$38,475 million for the fiscal year, representing approximately 75 percent of the Group’s total revenue. Performances even exclude the Fujitsu contribution, which became operational in May 2018, outperformed the market both in revenue and shipment. Pre-tax profit of the PCSD business also reached a record of US$1,982 million, up 34 percent year-on-year, owing to a well-executed strategy in driving product mix improvement. Pre-tax profit margin edged up 0.8 percentage points year-on-year to 5.2 percent in the fiscal year. With record market share of 23.4%, Lenovo was motorola one the fastest growing PC player among the global top-5 OEMs, according to industry data. The stellar market share gain was a testament to the well-orchestrated strategy to drive growth in PERFORMAnCE BY PRODuCT BuSinESS the premium and high-growth segments. With GROuPS the success in shifting the product segment mix, intelligent Devices Group (iDG) Lenovo has been able to expand its average selling IDG, consisting of PCSD and MBG businesses, has price to outpace industry growth not only in unit reaped much benefit from operational synergies shipment but also in revenue. Lenovo took the top including the shared use of common global supply spot in the US$800 and above price segments in chain and services. IDG’s revenue grew 10 percent commercial notebook for the fiscal year. year-on-year to US$45,013 million and its pre-tax profit more than doubled the year before to reach The Group also achieved premium-to-market US$1,843 million. The key growth driver for IDG’s revenue growth in each of the following market top-line is the strong performance of PCSD, with segments: Workstation, Thin & Light, Visuals, and the highest growth seen among the global top-5 Gaming PC. The market share gain was consistent vendors. The growth strategy of PCSD focusing on across all major geographical markets, a strong commercial, high-growth and premium segments evidence of the Group’s strength in global sales has paid off in delivering record revenue for the channel, supply chain management and product fiscal year. Meanwhile, IDG’s solid expansion innovation. of pre-tax profit was supported by enhanced profitability of PCSD and MBG’s success in turning From the geographic perspective, the stellar profitable in the second half of the fiscal year. market share gain and revenue growth were mainly driven by Asia Pacific (AP) and North America (NA). China and Europe-Middle East-Africa (EMEA) both grew premium to market in revenue but the Group was more focused in margin protection in these regions. 18 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report ThinkSystem SE350 intelligent Devices Group – Mobile Business Group One Franchise, are now more than enough to offset (MBG) the negative impact from the readjusted business At the start of the fiscal year, MBG initiated a set model. of strategic shifts to reduce expenses, simplify its product portfolio, and focus on core markets in The Group also took actions to simplify its product Latin and North America. The annual expense for portfolio and improve scale on per model basis MBG was reduced from roughly US$1.5 billion to by more than 60%. All of these initiatives led US$1 billion, resetting the baseline of the business to an improved expense-to-revenue ratio while group to pursue a sustainable growth path. In the maintaining efficiency and competitiveness in second half of the fiscal year, the Mobile business marketing, research and development spending. delivered pre-tax profit for the first time since MBG registered US$139 million loss before taxation the Group’s acquisition of Motorola Mobility. In in the fiscal year, a significant improvement from the fourth quarter of the fiscal year, MBG saw its a loss of US$603 million in the previous fiscal year. top-line advancing annually, as it entered the next The lower expense structure, coupled with reviving growth phase. revenue growth, has established an important milestone for MBG to realize profitable long-term The strategic focus on core markets required a shift growth. in resource allocation of the business unit’s global operation to selected regions and countries where In MBG’s core markets, the business in Latin the Mobile business has substantial competitive America has been profitable with continued advantages to capture market share. The change share gains in the fiscal year. Shipments in North in strategy temporarily caused the business’s America also saw remarkable growth of 48 percent revenue – accounting for approximately 13 percent year-on-year in the fiscal year, thanks to successful of the Group’s total revenue – to skid by 11 percent channel expansion and launch of new products. year-on-year to US$6,460 million in the fiscal year. The Mobile business in North America turned Nevertheless, in the fourth quarter, MBG delivered profitable on pre-tax profit level in the second 15 percent year-on-year growth in revenue, a clear half of the fiscal year. In China, the Group further evidence that the market share gain in its core capitalized on its established brand equity and new markets, together with the successful launch of 7th model launches, resulting in revenue and bottom Gen Moto G and strong momentum of its Motorola line improvements. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 19 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Data Center Group (DCG) OuTLOOK DCG further strengthened its business model, Some of the global economies are starting to product leadership, and sales and marketing, and see the negative impact arising from geopolitical concluded the fiscal year with a record revenue of uncertainties. Operating in this complex global US$6,025 million, representing approximately 12 environment, management of Lenovo will leverage percent of the Group’s total revenue. The annual its extensive experience in managing a multitude of revenue growth of 37.1 percent was the highest macro risks including policy changes and exercise in last three years, driven by strong momentum sound judgement in evaluating options to further in hyperscale, software-defined infrastructure and improve its worldwide manufacturing capabilities high performance computing. Loss from DCG also and supply chain flexibility. The Group also strives considerably narrowed year-on-year to US$231 to be the industry leader in cost competitiveness million in the fiscal year, compared to US$425 leveraging its strength in in-house manufacturing million loss in the previous fiscal year, as the Group and outsourcing. The Group is well poised to aims to build a more sustainable and profitable navigate the turbulence in the geopolitical and business model. macro-economic environment. Market share gain in the high-growth segments is The Group targets to secure its premium-to-market a key driver to DCG’s fast growth. The hyperscale revenue growth with industry-leading profitability business yielded triple-digit growth in revenue in its PCSD business, while channeling investments and margin improvement. DCG’s investments to build capabilities in smart devices and drive continued to bear fruit with improvements seen in software & service revenue. Lenovo will promptly in-house design, manufacturing capabilities and act on industry consolidation opportunities, customer mix. Software-defined infrastructure particularly in the premium and high-growth business almost doubled its revenue and margin segments. For its Mobile business, the Group will improved in the fiscal year. The Group also further continue to strengthen its competitiveness in its solidified its global leading position on the High target markets to sustain profitable growth. Performance Computing Top 500 List. Together, these high-growth segments now contributed In fiscal quarter four, despite customers await for nearly half of DCG’s top-line. the new x86 server platform, DCG revenue still managed to grow moderately in fiscal quarter DCG ratcheted up its efforts to expand in other four and margin improved year-on-year. Lenovo growing segments. In storage, Lenovo’s global will continue to drive premium-to-market growth, strategic partnership with NetApp, including a especially in high-growth segments. In hyperscale, new joint venture in China that operationalized in the Group will continue to strengthen its in-house the fourth fiscal quarter, has enabled the Group to design and manufacturing capabilities, bring address demand of nearly the entire storage and superior solutions to global hyperscalers, and build data management market. The Group now boasts a profitable business model for this segment. In the most compelling ThinkSystem and ThinkAgile storage and networking, its strategic partnerships, product line along with its largest storage portfolio including that with NetApp, are paving the road in history. towards building a global franchise. Lenovo will also further enhance capabilities in professional The strong revenue growth was evident across services and solution-based expertise. all geographies, especially in NA and EMEA in the high-growth segments, including hyperscale, software-defined infrastructure and high performance computing. 20 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report STRATEGiC HiGHLiGHTS Smart infrastructure provides the computing, The Group strives to be the leader and the storage and networking power to support smart enabler of the global trend towards intelligent devices, which will more than double in number in transformation. During the fiscal year, Lenovo 2020 from 2017 creating enormous amount of data. accelerated its strategic transformation and further It is the development of smart infrastructure that sharpened its investment focus in five key areas: powers public cloud companies, high-performance smart internet of things (IoT), edge computing, computing for scientific computation and AI cloud, big data and artificial intelligence (AI) companies. Smart Infrastructure is gradually in vertical industries. These investments aim to becoming the backbone of every organization strengthen Lenovo’s capability as a competitive today. Lenovo has been investing to become end-to-end solution provider in the era of a world-class, next-generation data center Intelligent Transformation. This strategic direction, solutions provider, specifically in the area of coupled with its customer-centric strategy, software-defined infrastructure, hyperscale, storage contributed to a higher software & services attach and high-performance computing. rate. During the fiscal year, the software & services revenue grew double-digit year-on-year to make up Smart verticals combines big data harnessed from almost 5 percent of total Group revenue. smart devices and the computing power of smart infrastructure to provide more insights and improve Looking forward, Lenovo has a vision to bring processes for customers. Lenovo is creating vertical smarter technology to all – through Smart IoT, solutions that equip customers with unparalleled Smart Infrastructure and Smart Verticals – where insights, ones that can dramatically improve the Group sees greatest opportunity for future business processes, facilitate decision-making, growth and industry leadership. enhance financial return, and ultimately solve tangible business problems. Lenovo’s big data Smart ioT is the network of touchpoints for the solutions are already helping its customers make a connected world we live in. Under its Smart IoT difference in business processes in manufacturing, strategy, Lenovo will build intelligence in its PC and healthcare, and retail industries. During the fiscal smart devices offerings, especially for commercial year, the Group saw big data & vertical solution use. As such, the Group is investing substantially business triple year-on-year. to make its existing devices including PC and tablet smarter, more adaptive to customer’s needs, The Group will continue to leverage LCIG (Lenovo and with seamless connection to the cloud and Capital and Incubator Group) to enhance our other devices. The Group has also embraced corporate investments to drive innovation. LCIG new technologies to create award-winning smart in the fiscal year has been actively building solutions, including Lenovo’s Smart Clock, Smart capabilities in five key areas of the Smart Internet Camera and Smart Lock, which together brought value chain, including IoT (Internet of Things), home 75 awards at the Consumer Electronics Show edge computing, cloud, big data and artificial (CES) in January 2019. intelligence. It is our corporate strategy to integrate these investments to facilitate our vertical solutions and ecosystem. The collaboration of LCIG investments went deeper with Lenovo in terms of strategy, business and human resources. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 21 Management’s Discussion & Analysis HuMAn RESOuRCES At March 31, 2019, the Group had a headcount of more than 57,000 worldwide. The Group implements remuneration policy, bonus, employee share purchase plan and long-term incentive scheme with reference to the performance of the Group and individual employees. The Group also provides benefits such as insurance, medical and retirement funds to employees to sustain competitiveness of the Group. MATERiAL RiSKS OF THE GROuP The following are key risks that the Group considers to be of great significance to the Group as it stands today. They have the potential to affect the Group’s business adversely and materially. For each risk there is a description of the possible impact of the risk on the Group should it occur, and the mitigation plan to manage the risk. The Group also faces risk and uncertainties in common with other businesses. These have not been set out as key risks below. This list is likely to change over time as different risks take on larger or smaller significance. The size, complexity and spread of the business and the continually changing environment in which the Group operates also mean that the list cannot be an exhaustive list of all significant risks that could affect the Group. Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations Business Risk The Group operates in a highly competitive Continual reviews of competition and market industry which faces rapid changes in trends. market trends, consumer preferences and constantly evolving technological advances Maintain a competitive position through in hardware performance, software features commitments to innovate and build a broad and functionality. It faces aggressive product product portfolio, grow brand name and and price competition from new entrants and drive customer-experience transformations to existing competitors. differentiate the Group and gain market share and recognition. Execution of clear strategy to In this competitive environment, brand protect and drive profitability in the core PC recognition and awareness and good business, while continuing to attack the faster customer experiences are important success growing Mobile and Data Center businesses. factors to the Group. Failure to engage and resonate with the customers, including the Millennials, may adversely affect the Group’s results with the loss of customer loyalty or damaged brand reputation from bad publicity. 22 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations The industry continues to experience The Group’s strategic planning process consolidation. Failure to respond effectively incorporates prioritization and focus on to changes in market trends or consumer strategic objectives to guide effective preferences through timely launches of new allocation of resources required to execute products, or through competitive prices plans. against the backdrop of global slowdown in the traditional PC market could harm its competitive position. The Group faces risks associated with implementing its strategic initiatives as the scale and breadth of its business and operations expand. It may not invest as much financial, technical, marketing and other resources in certain areas of its business as compared to the corresponding competitors, and as a result, may not be able to gain the competitive advantage in those areas. The Group operates globally and as such The Group has diversified its geographic its results could be impacted by global sources of revenue and profit to reduce its and regional changes in macro-economic, dependency on any single country or region. geopolitical and social conditions and regulatory environments. It vigilantly tracks and monitors the developments of the political conditions and Adverse economic conditions may result in legal and regulatory changes, and maintains postponements or decreased spending amid compliance programs. concern over weak economic conditions. In addition, they may contribute to potential supply chain volatility, causing potential product shortages. Increase uncertainty driven by growing concerns over political conditions and changes in regulatory or legal regulations in one or several countries may increase the cost of operations and expose the Group to potential liability. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 23 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations The Group offers products that are complex. The Group adopts a proactive quality Failure to maintain an effective quality management approach, which includes management system, including at the Group’s identifying risks throughout all aspects development and manufacturing facilities of the business. The Group has a robust and its supply chain, may have a material internal Quality Management System, (QMS) adverse effect on its business and operations, integrated within its business management brand image and customers’ loyalty. system. The Group is ISO 9001 certified by Addressing quality issues can be expensive Bureau Veritas (BVC) and in China by the and may result in product recalls, production Electronics Standardization Institute, (CESI). interruption, additional warranty, repair, It is committed to maintaining a QMS to replacement and other costs and adversely ensure it meets customer, social, legal and affecting the Group’s financial results. The environmental responsibilities. Group may also face product liability claims from its customers or distributors in the event that the use of its products results in bodily injury, property damage or other loss, regardless of whether it is at fault. It may have to spend significant resources and time to defend itself if legal proceedings for product liability are instituted against it. Successful assertion of product liability claims may require it to pay significant monetary damages. Merger & Acquisition Risk As part of the Group’s expansion plan, we Drive a rigorous due diligence and financial acquire companies or businesses, enter into forecasting process to ensure assets are strategic alliances and joint ventures and appropriately valued. make investments. The Group faces risk such as economy, political and regulatory uncertainty, market volatility, and other challenges associated with our acquisitions. Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues, resulting in an overly optimistic valuation forecasts. We may not fully realise all of the anticipated synergies/ benefits, and may result in significant cost and expenses and charges to earnings. 24 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations Cyber Attack and Security Risk The Group may be impacted negatively if The Group will continue to invest in the it sustains cyber-attacks and other data following: security breaches that disrupt its operations or damage its reputation. a) Continue to develop and maintain a robust cyber security culture by developing The Group manages and stores various sound policies and processes and by proprietary information and sensitive or training our employees to follow vital data confidential data relating to its operations. protection practices. In addition, the Group’s cloud computing business routinely processes, stores and b) Enhanced cyber security controls and transmits large amounts of data for its information security, product security and customers, including sensitive and personally privacy awareness. identifiable information. The Group may be subject to attack from hackers and other c) Compliance with mandatory privacy and malicious software programs that attempt security standards and protocols imposed to penetrate its networks and exploit any by law, regulation, industry standards, or security vulnerability in its system and contractual obligations. products. d) Policies and processes to ensure hardware, Hardware, operating system software, operating system software, product product software and applications that software and applications that the Group the Group produces or procures from produces or procures from third parties third parties may contain “bugs” that may protects and responsibly uses customer unexpectedly interfere with the operation data. of the system or may present unidentified security risk. Breaches of the Group’s security measures and misappropriation of proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data about the Group and its customers may lead the Group to loss of reputation, disruption in business operations, exposure to potential litigation and liability and result in a loss of revenue and increased cost. The Group is subject to law and regulation in countries where it operates relating to the collection, use, and security of customer, consumer and employee data. The Group needs to conduct normal business activities which includes the collection, use and retention of personal data pursuant to these activities. The Group is required to notify individuals or regulators of a data security breach. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 25 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations Financial Risk As the Group operates globally, significant The Group Treasury department has put in or prolonged economic instability or financial place a financial risk management programme market deterioration may materially and that focuses on the unpredictability of financial adversely impact the Group’s financial markets and seeks to minimize the potential condition. adverse impact on the Group’s financial performance. The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks, such as foreign currency risk, cash flow For more analysis, see “Notes To The Financial risk, credit risk and liquidity risks. Statements” (pages 214 to 223) Due to the international nature of its The Group Tax department carefully monitors business and continuous changes in local developments in our business and in the global and international tax rules and regulations, tax environment in order to make sure rules the application of such rules and regulations and regulations are applied appropriately and to its operations and transactions involves risks are mitigated where possible. inherent uncertainty and may affect its tax position and the value of tax assets and liabilities carried in the balance sheet. 26 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations intellectual property risk (iP risk) The Group could suffer if it does not develop Take appropriate legal measures to protect and protect its own intellectual property know-how and trade secrets, apply for and or its suppliers are not able to develop or enforce patents, and register and protect protect desirable technology or obtain any trademarks and copyrights. necessary technology licenses. Licensed IP as appropriate and monitor its The risks include: continued validity and value to the Group. • higher business cost as a result of Obtain IP indemnification from, or otherwise increased licensing demands from patent transfer responsibility for IP coverage to holders; suppliers. • loss or diminished value of intellectual Monitor, develop and execute IP litigation property as an asset, as a result of defense strategy. legal findings of unenforceability and challenges to title or ownership; Use Lenovo patent portfolio if appropriate to decrease potential damages. • higher legal costs to defend against claims of intellectual property infringement and potential settlement or damages; • product design-around costs and negative impacts to customer or supplier relationships; • risk of interruption of Lenovo’s ability to ship products due to injunctions or exclusion orders in particular countries resulting from adverse judgments in IP infringement cases filed against Lenovo; • Lenovo reputational harm if found to infringe a third party’s valid patents. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 27 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations Supply Risk The Group has a broad base of suppliers Utilise cost and operational analysis to globally. Given its wide range of products, understand potential impacts. Ensure broad some products may be reliant on a few supplier sourcing (i.e. avoidance of sole/single component suppliers. The disruption of the sources), financial/business stability tracking supply of any of its products, component and disaster recovery planning to minimize parts, systems or services may affect product impact of regional catastrophes and ensure availability. adaptation plans in place. The disruption may be due to many To focus on the Group’s ongoing efforts to factors, among which, financial failure optimise the efficiency of its supply chain. of a supplier, the damage of its own or its suppliers’ manufacturing activities or logistics hubs arising from catastrophic events, unfavourable business, political or economic factors, etc. Substantial recovery expenditure or prolonged recovery time may result. If it is unable to source for alternative supplies during the period of shortage at a favourable pricing, its revenues, profitability and competitive position may be adversely affected. 28 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations Human Capital Risk The Group faces intense competition of Build up employer brand that is aligned with skilled and experienced workers due to intelligent transformation to attract talent with fast-changing market dynamics and an new skills and experience. increasingly diversified business landscape. For ongoing success, the Group must Continuously implement newly refreshed continue to attract, develop, retain and compensation strategies and evolve motivate key talent across the enterprise compensation and benefits programs to be while ensuring smooth transitions throughout performance driven, competitive, and flexible the ongoing business transformation. to support an increasingly diverse business landscape and employee population. Further invest in talent and leadership development programs to build talent capability, accelerate the internal movement of top talent, and ensure strength of the leadership pipeline. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 29 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Risk Description Key Risk Mitigations Operational Risk Due to rapidly changing market conditions Establish cross-functional engagement and and customer demands, the Group must integrate activities across functions to support continually introduce new products, services the strategy execution. and technologies, and successfully manage the transition to the new and upgraded To focus on the Group’s ongoing efforts to products. The competitive environment optimise the effectiveness and efficiency of its demands high level of speed and efficiency. operations. If the Group’s cross functional support and team collaboration processes are dysfunctional, the Group’s strategy execution may be compromised. The Group’s ongoing success is dependent on the smooth running of all aspects of its operations, including but not limited to demand forecasting, manufacturing resources planning, order fulfillment, inventory management. This includes the usage of an effective and reliable IT infrastructure to facilitate operations. Disruptions in operations may impede the manufacturing and shipping of products and adversely impact the Group’s ability to fulfill orders, delivery of online services, respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes such as transactions processing and financial reporting in a timely manner. These in turn may damage its reputation. 30 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report EnviROnMEnT operations for personal computers, workstations, Lenovo believes in responsible environmental servers, storage, mobile device hardware, and stewardship and is committed to complying with smart devices including monitors and accessories. all applicable laws and regulations wherever we do business. Lenovo’s Environmental Affairs Policy The Global Environmental Affairs (GEA) focuses on compliance across all global operations, organization drives compliance, supported by a employees, and contractors performing work on global network of Lenovo Environmental Affairs behalf of Lenovo. This policy forms the foundation Focal Points (EAFPs), Environmentally Conscious for Lenovo’s ISO 14001-certified Environmental Products Focal Points (ECP FPs), and external Management System (EMS), which includes partners. We use reliable, established processes processes for evaluating legal and voluntary with defined roles to ensure that Lenovo continues requirements and ensuring compliance across to remain in compliance. Below details the process Lenovo’s global development and manufacturing for ensuring environmental compliance for Lenovo products and locations. Process for Establishing, Monitoring & Maintaining Compliance Inputs Inputs Inputs Regional, country and Business Unit Industry/trade seminars & publications, Contracted consultancies FP monitor their areas of responsibility regulatory tracking services, etc. and provide input to GEA Location Environmental FP monitors GEA and network of Geo Focal Points emerging issues monitor emerging issues Location Product FP updates documents & communicates GEA updates global specifications & identified requirements to impacted communicates identified requirements to organizations impacted organizations Organizations integrate requirements Organizations integrate requirements into into operational procedures. FP assures product specifications, new product designs permitting requirements met and Business Unit operational requirements Inputs Standards, specs, & procedures reviewed and FPs communicate changes and Information on changes to updated as required by change &/or annually at provide training where needed activities, products & requirements a minimum from Environmental FP 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 31 Management’s Discussion & Analysis As part of Lenovo’s ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, all Lenovo manufacturing and development sites are audited to these standards internally every year and by our external certification body at least once every three years. Lenovo’s Robust EMS Ensures Environmental Compliance FY2018/19 FY2017/18 FY2016/17 FY2015/16 FY2014/15 Total monetary value of significant environmental fines 0 0 0 0 0 Number of environmental fines paid 0 0 0 0 0 Total number of non-monetary environmental performancerelated sanctions 0 0 0 0 0 Lenovo’s official Enterprise Risk Management In addition, Lenovo conducts a Significant (ERM) process details climate, environmental, and Environmental Aspect evaluation at least annually sustainability risks and includes environmental, as part of Lenovo’s ISO 14001 EMS. This process social, governance, and other risk categories. We evaluates Lenovo’s significant or material require each business unit annually to identify environmental aspects and includes a consideration risks, assess their impacts on executing Lenovo’s of risks and opportunities. Under the EMS, after strategy, and develop risk mitigation plans. The we identify the significant environmental aspects, results of this assessment are included in our we establish objectives and targets with Key Sustainability Reporting Materiality Assessment. Performance Indicators addressing site operations, product, and global supply chain. We then monitor and measure progress on objectives and targets. We will publish details on our FY18/19 objectives and targets in our 2018/19 Sustainability Report. 32 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report STAKEHOLDERS TALEnT AnD CuLTuRE Lenovo actively manages its relationships with We are Lenovo customers, employees, suppliers, investors, The “We Are Lenovo” cultural principles regulators, members of the communities in which of Customer Focus, Teamwork and Trust, it operates, and other stakeholders whose actions Entrepreneurship, and Innovation are the heart of can affect the Company’s performance and value. Lenovo’s talent management practices. We engage our stakeholders in several ways, including: “...As we aim higher, ownership and entrepreneurship within the context of • Customer focus groups, surveys, and direct One Company are now much needed – in fact, customer interaction more than ever.” – Yuanqing Yang • Employee surveys and Lenovo-organized Employee Performance and Compensation community service events Lenovo continues to leverage its performance management and compensation programs to • Supplier audits, conferences, and quarterly reinforce a strong commitment and customer business reviews culture. This approach includes annual goal setting and review, calibration of individual ratings across • Phone conferences and meetings with industry organizations to ensure a fair assessment, and trade groups on regulatory issues recognition of individual and team performance. • Ongoing interactions with local communities The integration of customer experience metrics into the individual goal setting process and the • Responding to investor, analyst, and nonannual incentive programs helps accelerate the governmental organization (NGO) surveys and transformation of Lenovo from a product to a inquiries customer centric organization. In addition to these and other formal stakeholder The Lenovo Compensation Philosophy emphasizes interactions, we talk with individual stakeholder our focus on pay for performance and supports groups on an ad-hoc basis as needed. flexibility in the design of business specific programs within a consistent One Lenovo Find more information about Lenovo’s Compensation framework as part of our multisustainability programs in the Sustainability business operating model. Overview on pages 127 to 140 of this Annual Report. A review of our targeted market position for critical roles allows us to more aggressively pursue the skills we need for the transformation of our organization and ensures that top talent is paid competitively in light of contributions and relevant market practices. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 33 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Talent Management and Succession Planning Lenovo’s long-term talent acquisition strategy remains steadily focused on building the employer “...We have been driving two transformations – brand and investing in the attraction of next from single business to multiple, and from generation talent for intelligent transformation and product centricity to customer centricity. Both future growth. delivered positive initial results, and the new foundation of the company is starting to take Training and Development shape.” – Yuanqing Yang At Lenovo our commitment to developing employees begins with New Employee Orientation Lenovo’s transformation from a single to multipleand continues throughout their career with line business was at the forefront of the company’s the Company. Every employee is responsible Organizational and Human Resource Planning for creating and maintaining an Individual (OHRP) process in 2018. Step by step, the company Development Plan (IDP), which includes an has taken shape to align with its overall strategic assessment of strengths and skill gaps, and prioritization and position in the global market. In actions needed for future development and career the Spring of 2018, the Intelligent Devices Group growth. We have enhanced our management (IDG) was created through a combination of the and leadership development program to provide PC & Smart Devices Group (PCSD) and Mobile support for managers during their leadership Business Group (MBG). As a result of this change, progression at Lenovo by offering specific training the intelligent Devices Group (iDG), Data Center experiences, for example Executive Director Group (DCG) and Lenovo Capital and incubator Accelerator Program (EDAP), Director Accelerator Group (LCiG) now comprise the company’s three Program (DAP), Manager Accelerator Program major business units. In the coming months, (MAP), Leading Innovative Teams (LIT), Women leadership from across the enterprise will continue Leadership Development Program (WLDP) etc to focus on refining the structure, building the right at key points in their careers. Instructor-led mix of organizational capabilities, and securing the professional development courses and forums are best talent to drive Lenovo’s success now and into made available throughout the year, in addition the future. to rich online learning resources provided on demand via our global learning management Talent Acquisition system. Besides formal training, Lenovo’s 70-2010 approach to employee development recognizes “Integrity, Learning Ability, Persistence and that employees learn through three distinct Ambition are not only the fundamental for types of experiences: on-the-job training and success in career development, but also the assignments (70%), developmental coaching and compulsory talent requirement in Lenovo. mentoring relationships (20%), and coursework and Only if you have these four elements you can training (10%). Lenovo also places a high priority grow up into big tree!” – Yuanqing Yang on executive development, bringing senior leaders together once a year to share best practices, learn Lenovo uses Tree model to vividly describe our from external experts and drive strategic alignment talent concept. The growing big tree symbolizes across the enterprise through Global Leadership lofty ambitions; the Leaves represent learning Meeting (GLT) and Lenovo Executive Accelerator ability, continuously acquiring new knowledge Program (LEAP). and mastering new skills; the Trunk represents persistence, tenacity and perseverance; the Root represents fundamental of human being – integrity. 34 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report BRAnD BuiLDinG Lenovo continued to demonstrate its technological Lenovo once again ranked as a top brand on leadership to customers and partners through major indexes, including BrandZ China Top 50 world class events such as Tech World, where more and Fortune’s Most Admired Companies. Users’ than 18 million online viewers watched us unveil experiences with our products continue to drive our our latest technology and key partnerships. Lenovo reputation as an innovative technology provider, will continue to tell its intelligent transformation and now we’re building on these accomplishments story at this year’s Tech World, as well as through with significant investments to further strengthen a major presence at events such as the Consumer our digital marketing, PR capabilities, events and Electronics Show and Mobile World Congress. corporate marketing to promote Lenovo’s advances in intelligent transformation. Lenovo will extend the reach and effectiveness of its message through enhanced digital capabilities This year, Lenovo made a significant investment in in platforms, tools, and strategy, which represent brand building with the expansion of its in-house further strengthening of channels to connect brand creative and strategy function. This in-house with audiences more effectively and personally team pairs deep company insights with world-class through the customer journey. These investments creative to drive clarity, consistency, and resonance will inspire customers to have a deeper connection for customers. A strengthened brand governance to our brand while helping us provide an even function will drive internal alignment on these better customer experience. When combined with messages. investments in PR to increase worldwide share of voice and in corporate marketing to increase brand The group saw early indicators of its potential, with awareness, Lenovo is committed to building a a prestigious Graphis design award for ThinkPad leading global brand that enhances our intelligent communications, and the successful “Love on” transformation journey. campaign. Using an acronym of ‘Lenovo’, “Love on” launched the Lenovo Foundation, giving us The combined strengths of a focused brand an occasion to talk about the heart behind our message, world-class design, and expanded digital community engagement and rally employees capability will be brought together this year in around the world to become active volunteers. significant multi-region investment to promote brand awareness and engagement in key countries, The “Love on” campaign represents the closely further solidifying our position as a leader in overlapping roles of corporate citizenship and intelligent transformation. brand reputation. This focus on citizenship joins our twin brand objective to drive Lenovo’s reputation for innovation and establish greater global awareness for our intelligent transformation mission. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 35 Management’s Discussion & Analysis FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS RESuLTS 2019 2018 For the year ended March 31 uS$’000 US$’000 Revenue 51,037,943 45,349,943 Gross profit 7,370,644 6,272,131 Gross profit margin 14.4% 13.8% Operating expenses (6,192,827) (5,885,408) Operating profit 1,177,817 386,723 Other non-operating expenses net (321,153) (233,521) Profit before taxation 856,664 153,202 Profit/(loss) for the year 657,204 (126,775) Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company 596,343 (189,323) Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to equity holders of the Company (US cents) Basic 5.01 (1.67) Diluted 4.96 (1.67) EBITDA* 2,191,259 1,324,723 Dividend per ordinary share (HK cents) Interim dividend 6.0 6.0 Proposed final dividend 21.8 20.5 * Excluding “other income – net” 36 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report For the year ended March 31, 2019, the Group achieved total sales of approximately US$51,038 million. Profit attributable to equity holders for the year was approximately US$597 million, as compared with loss attributable to equity holders of US$189 million reported last year. The loss attributable to equity holders reported last year was mainly attributable to the write off of deferred income tax assets of US$400 million, pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted by the government of the United States (“US”) on December 22, 2017, with the US corporate tax rate reduced for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Gross profit margin for the year was 0.6 points up from 13.8 percent reported last year. Basic and diluted earnings per share were US5.01 cents and US4.96 cents respectively, as compared with basic and diluted loss per share of US1.67 cents reported last year. Further analyses of sales by segment are set out in Business Review and Outlook. Operating expenses analyzed by function for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 2018 For the year ended March 31 uS$’000 US$’000 Other income net 301 Selling and distribution expenses (2,657,965) (2,833,253) Administrative expenses (2,209,340) (1,757,319) Research and development expenses (1,266,341) (1,273,729) Other operating expenses net (59,181) (21,408) (6,192,827) (5,885,408) Operating expenses for the year increased by 5 percent as compared with last year, of which US$151 million was related to Fujitsu PC across all functions since the completion of the acquisition on May 2, 2018. During the year, employee benefit costs increased by US$239 million mainly due to the higher bonus accrual as a result of the outperformance this year as opposed to the less satisfactory results under the challenging market conditions last year. The Group has reduced the advertising and promotional expenses by US$135 million by simplifying portfolio and focusing on core markets of the mobile business, and recorded gains on fair valuation of certain financial assets of US$126 million. The impact of currency fluctuations during the year presented a challenge, and the Group recorded a net exchange loss of US$112 million (2018: US$56 million). In last year, the Group announced resource actions and incurred US$101 million severance costs to further enhance efficiency and competitiveness in view of industrial challenges; and recorded gain of US$61 million on monetizing the Wuhan R&D property. Key expenses by nature comprise: 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 37 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 2019 2018 For the year ended March 31 uS$’000 US$’000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of prepaid lease payments (171,961) (148,177) Amortization of intangible assets (479,118) (443,809) Employee benefit costs, including (3,460,520) (3,222,012) long-term incentive awards (214,822) (199,779) severance and related costs (100,775) Rental expenses under operating leases (114,538) (131,858) Net foreign exchange loss (111,529) (55,735) Advertising and promotional expenses (707,706) (842,365) Impairment of property, plant and equipment (4,608) (Loss)/gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments and construction-in-progress (4,970) 50,937 Fair value gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 125,550 Dilution gain on interest in associates and a joint venture 24,189 2,499 Gain on deemed disposal of a subsidiary 22,811 Others (1,315,035) (1,090,280) (6,192,827) (5,885,408) 38 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Other non-operating expenses (net) for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 comprise: 2019 2018 For the year ended March 31 uS$’000 US$’000 Finance income 27,399 32,145 Finance costs (337,027) (263,160) Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (11,525) (2,506) (321,153) (233,521) Finance income mainly represents interest on bank deposits. Finance costs for the year increased by 28 percent as compared with last year. The change is a combined effect of the increase in interest expense on bank loans of US$48 million, factoring costs of US$25 million and interest on contingent considerations and written put option liabilities of US$14 million, partly offset by the decrease in interest on the promissory note issued to Google Inc. of US$12 million that was fully repaid last year. Share of losses of associates and joint ventures represents operating losses arising from principal business activities of respective associates and joint ventures. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 39 Management’s Discussion & Analysis The Group adopts segments by business group as the reporting format. Segments by business group comprise Intelligent Devices Group (“IDG”) and Data Center Group (“DCG”). Please refer to Note 5 to the Financial Statements for the measurement basis of segment information. Segment revenue and pre-tax income/(loss) for reportable segments are as follows: 2019 2018 Revenue Revenue from external Pre-tax from external Pre-tax customers income/(loss) customers income/(loss) uS$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 IDG 45,013,362 1,842,840 40,955,583 880,406 DCG 6,024,581 (230,600) 4,394,360 (424,866) Segment total 51,037,943 1,612,240 45,349,943 455,540 Unallocated: Headquarters and corporate (expenses)/income – net (640,312) (204,540) Depreciation and amortization (136,263) (100,654) Finance income 4,121 5,349 Finance costs (142,496) (65,236) Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (11,525) (2,506) (Loss)/gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments and construction-in-progress (1,651) 62,750 Fair value gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 125,550 – Dilution gain on interest in associates and a joint venture 24,189 2,499 Gain on deemed disposal of a subsidiary 22,811 – Consolidated profit before taxation 856,664 153,202 40 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Headquarters and corporate (expenses)/income for the year comprise various expenses, after appropriate allocation to business groups, attributable to headquarters and corporate of US$527 million (2018: US$208 million) such as employee benefit costs, legal and professional fees, and research and technology expenses. Employee benefit costs increased by US$90 million which is mainly due to higher bonus accrual of US$110 million (comprising breakthrough bonus accrual in anticipation of outperformance) made as a result of the outperformance this year as opposed to the less satisfactory results under the challenging market conditions last year. The Group also recorded a net exchange loss of US$86 million (2018: US$53 million) as a result of balance sheet hedges, and central research and technology expenses of US$68 million which were not allocated to a business group (2018: nil). Moreover, the Group recognized fair value loss on bonus warrants of US$19 million during the year (2018: fair value gain of US$3 million), and certain additional one-time charges, in connection with the execution of the resource actions announced in last year, at the corporate level including the disposal of certain inventories as a result of product portfolio simplification of US$67 million, and onerous lease contracts and claims of US$27 million. FinAnCiAL POSiTiOn The Group’s major balance sheet items are set out below: 2019 2018 Non-current assets uS$’000 US$’000 Property, plant and equipment 1,430,817 1,304,751 Prepaid lease payments 463,996 507,628 Construction-in-progress 232,097 382,845 Intangible assets 8,324,575 8,514,504 Interests in associates and joint ventures 79,061 35,666 Deferred income tax assets 1,862,902 1,530,623 Available-for-sale financial assets – 373,077 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 449,363 – Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 71,486 – Other non-current assets 187,985 181,759 13,102,282 12,830,853 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 41 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise mainly the Group’s freehold land and buildings, leasehold improvements, plant and machinery and office equipment. Increase of 10 percent is mainly attributable to the Group’s further investments in headquarters in China, plant and machinery and office equipment. Prepaid lease payments Prepaid lease payments represent the land use rights in respect of the manufacturing sites and headquarters in China. Decrease of 9 percent is mainly due to the exchange adjustment. Construction-in-progress Construction-in-progress comprises mainly the Group’s investments in headquarters in China, internal use software and research and development laboratories. Decrease of 39 percent is mainly attributable to the transfer of completed assets to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets including trademarks and trade names, customer relationships, patent and technology and internal use software. Decrease of 2 percent is mainly attributable to current year amortization and exchange adjustment, partly offset by goodwill, customer relationships and an exclusive right acquired through business combinations. interests in associates and joint ventures Interests in associates and joint ventures increased by 122 percent, which is mainly due to the dilution gain on interest in associates and the reclassification of a subsidiary to an associate resulting from loss of control. Deferred income tax assets Deferred income tax assets amounted to US$1,863 million as at current year end, representing an increase of 22 percent over last year, which is mainly attributable to tax losses and temporary differences in relation to provisions and accruals arising in the normal course of business. Available-for-sale financial assets Upon the adoption of the new accounting standard that is effective at the beginning of the year, available-for-sale financial assets have been reclassified to either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss have been reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets. Increment during the year is mainly attributable to net fair value gain and additional investments, partly offset by exchange adjustment. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income have been reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets. Decrement during the year is mainly attributable to net fair value loss, partly offset by additional investments through acquisition of subsidiaries. 42 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Other non-current assets Other non-current assets amounted to US$188 million as at current year end, representing an increase of 3 percent over last year. 2019 2018 Current assets uS$’000 US$’000 Inventories 3,434,660 3,791,691 Trade receivables 6,661,484 4,972,722 Notes receivable 46,454 11,154 Derivative financial assets 70,972 24,890 Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 3,753,926 4,703,335 Income tax recoverable 185,643 227,203 Bank deposits 70,210 84,306 Cash and cash equivalents 2,662,854 1,848,017 16,886,203 15,663,318 inventories Inventories decreased by 9 percent which is mainly due to the improvement in inventory management. Trade receivables and notes receivable Trade receivables and notes receivable increased by 35 percent, which is in line with increase in business activities during the fourth quarter of the current year and attributable to the amount brought in from Fujitsu PC. Derivative financial assets/liabilities Derivatives relate to foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges for the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or a firm commitment, or of highly probable forecast transactions. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair values. Deposits, prepayments and other receivables Majority of other receivables of the Group are amounts due from subcontractors for parts and components sold in the ordinary course of business. Decrease is mainly due to the increment of factoring volume during the fourth quarter of the current year and receipt of indirect tax refund. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 43 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Total equity Total equity decreased from US$4,546 million to US$4,097 million during the year. The decrease is mainly due to dividends paid and put option written on non-controlling interests, partly offset by profit for the year. 2019 2018 Non-current liabilities uS$’000 US$’000 Borrowings 2,426,770 2,648,725 Warranty provision 254,601 278,908 Deferred revenue 678,137 583,405 Retirement benefit obligations 434,246 413,482 Deferred income tax liabilities 359,679 230,609 Other non-current liabilities 1,247,646 333,332 5,401,079 4,488,461 Borrowings Borrowings (classified as non-current) decreased by US$222 million mainly attributable to the reclassification of a note from non-current to current as it will be due within the next 12 months after the year end date, offset by the issuance of convertible bonds during the year. Warranty provision The Group records warranty liabilities at the time of sale for the estimated costs that will be incurred under its basic limited warranty. The specific warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product and the country in which it was sold, but generally includes technical support, repair parts and labour associated with warranty repair and service actions. The period ranges from one to three years. The Group revaluates its estimates on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts as necessary. Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates various pension schemes. The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 44 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Deferred income tax liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities comprise withholding tax on undistributed earnings, tax liabilities on upward valuation of intangibles arising from business combination and accelerated tax depreciation. Increase of 56% over last year is mainly attributable to accelerated tax depreciation arising from the normal course of business and acquisition of subsidiaries during the year. Other non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities mainly comprise liabilities arise from written put options granted, contingent consideration, deferred rent for offices and government incentives and grants received in advance. The increase of 274 percent is mainly due to the recognition of liabilities arising from written put options granted to non-controlling interests and contingent consideration. 2019 2018 Current liabilities uS$’000 US$’000 Trade payables 6,429,835 6,450,792 Notes payable 1,272,840 801,974 Derivative financial liabilities 74,426 62,694 Other payables and accruals 8,942,336 9,217,764 Provisions 738,688 858,475 Deferred revenue 780,951 732,552 Income tax payable 298,224 168,779 Borrowings 1,953,043 1,166,692 20,490,343 19,459,722 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 45 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Trade payables and notes payable Increase in trade payables and notes payable is due to more purchases during the fourth quarter of the current year and attributable to the amount brought in from Fujitsu PC. Other payables and accruals Other payables and accruals comprise the allowance for billing adjustments relating primarily to allowance for future volume discounts, price protection, rebates, and customer sales returns. Majority of other payables are obligations to pay for finished goods that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from subcontractors. The balances decreased is mainly due to the termination of written put option with Compal during the year. Provisions Provisions comprise warranty liabilities (due within one year), environmental restorations and restructuring provision. The decrease of 14 percent over last year is due to the utilization of the warranty provision, settlement of severance costs and exchange adjustment during the year. Borrowings Borrowings (classified as current) increased by 67 percent, which is mainly due to the reclassification of a note from non-current to current as it will be due within the next 12 months after the year end date. Capital Expenditure The Group incurred capital expenditure of US$701 million (2018: US$671 million) during the year ended March 31, 2019, mainly for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments, additions in construction-in-progress and intangible assets. Liquidity and Financial Resources At March 31, 2019, total assets of the Group amounted to US$29,988 million (2018: US$28,494 million), which were financed by equity attributable to owners of the Company of US$3,396 million (2018: US$3,519 million), perpetual securities of US$994 million (2018: US$994 million) and negative balance of other non-controlling interests (net of put option written on non-controlling interests) of US$293 million (2018: positive balance of US$33 million), and total liabilities of US$25,891 million (2018: US$23,948 million). At March 31, 2019, the current ratio of the Group was 0.82 (2018: 0.80). 46 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report At March 31, 2019, bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents totaled US$2,733 million (2018: US$1,932 million) analyzed by major currency as follows: 2019 2018 % % US dollar 41.1 28.8 Renminbi 32.0 45.6 Japanese Yen 6.8 7.4 Euro 5.4 6.1 Other currencies 14.7 12.1 Total 100.0 100.0 The Group adopts a conservative policy to invest the surplus cash generated from operations. At March 31, 2019, 78.6 (2018: 99.6) percent of cash are bank deposits, and 21.4 (2018: 0.4) percent are investments in liquid money market funds of investment grade. Although the Group has consistently maintained a very liquid position, banking facilities have nevertheless been put in place to meet inter-quarter funding requirements and the Group has entered into factoring arrangements in the ordinary course of business. The Group has the following banking facilities: utilization amount at March 31, Principal Date of amount 2019 2018 Type agreement uS$ million Term uS$ million US$ million Loan facility May 26, 2015 300 5 years 300 300 Revolving loan facility March 28, 2018 1,500 5 years 825 – 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 47 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Notes, perpetual securities and convertible bonds issued by the Group and outstanding as at March 31, 2019 are as follows: interest rate/ dividend issue date Principal amount Term per annum Due date use of proceeds 2019 Note May 8, 2014 US$786 million 5 years 4.70% May 2019 For general corporate purposes 2020 Note June 10, 2015 RMB4 billion 5 years 4.95% June 2020 including working capital and acquisition activities 2022 Note March 16, 2017 US$500 million 5 years 3.875% March 2022 For repayment of the outstanding Perpetual securities March 16, 2017 US$850 million N/A 5.375% N/A amount under the April 6, 2017 US$150 million N/A 5.375% N/A promissory note issued to Google Inc. and for general corporate purposes including working capital 2023 Note March 29, 2018 US$750 million 5 years 4.75% March 2023 For repayment of the principal amount of US$714 million of the 2019 Note, and for general corporate purpose including working capital Convertible bonds January 24, 2019 US$675 million 5 years 3.375% January For repayment of 2024 the 2019 Note and general corporate purposes 48 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report The Group has also arranged other short-term credit facilities as follows: Available amount Drawn down amount at March 31 at March 31 2019 2018 2019 2018 Credit facilities uS$ million US$ million uS$ million US$ million Trade lines 2,195 1,730 1,637 1,090 Short-term and revolving money market facilities 701 796 56 70 Forward foreign exchange contracts 9,525 8,706 9,525 8,645 Net debt position and gearing ratio of the Group as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$ million US$ million Bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents 2,733 1,932 Borrowings – Short-term bank loans 1,167 1,166 – Notes 2,622 2,649 – Convertible bonds 591 – Net debt position (1,647) (1,883) Total equity 4,097 4,546 Gearing ratio (Borrowings divided by Total equity) 1.07 0.84 The Group is confident that all the facilities on hand can meet the funding requirements of the Group’s operations and business development. The Group adopts a consistent hedging policy for business transactions to reduce the risk of currency fluctuation arising from daily operations. At March 31, 2019, the Group had commitments in respect of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts amounting to US$9,525 million (2018: US$8,645 million). The Group’s forward foreign exchange contracts are either used to hedge a percentage of future transactions which are highly probable, or used as fair value hedges for identified assets and liabilities. Contingent Liabilities The Group, in the ordinary course of its business, is involved in various claims, suits, investigations, and legal proceedings that arise from time to time. Although the Group does not expect that the outcome in any of these legal proceedings, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations, litigation is inherently unpredictable. Therefore, the Group could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect its operating results or cash flows in a particular period. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 49 Transform infrastructure solutions ThinkSystem SE350 Corporate Governance Report 01 Corporate Governance • Compliance with Corporate Principles and Governance Code Structure • Governance Structure 02 Leadership • Board Roles How the Board leads • Board Composition from the front • Appointment and Election • Directors’ Securities Transactions • Induction and Continuous Professional Development • Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management • Company Secretary 03 Effectiveness How the Board operates • Board’s Responsibilities and Delegation • Board Process • Board Activities • Board Committees • Board and Board Committees’ Effectiveness Review 04 Accountability • Financial Reporting and Audit • Risk Management and Internal How the Board fulfils its Control oversight responsibilities • External Auditor 05 investor Relations • Communications with Investors How we maintain relations • Market Recognitions with our investors • Index Recognition 06 Shareholders • Communications with Shareholders How we communicate with our • Shareholders’ Rights shareholders and their rights • Shareholding Structure 07 Key Shareholders information 52 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE PRinCiPLES AnD STRuCTuRE The board of directors (the “Board”) and the continue to hold both the positions as it would help management of Lenovo Group Limited (the to maintain the continuity of the strategy execution “Company”, together with its subsidiaries, the and stability of the operations of the Company. The “Group”) strive to attain and uphold a high Board comprising a vast majority of independent standard of corporate governance and to maintain non-executive directors meets regularly on a sound and well-established corporate governance quarterly basis to review the operations of the practices for the interest sake of shareholders Company led by Mr. Yang. and other stakeholders including customers, suppliers, employees and the general public. The The Board also appointed Mr. William O. Grabe Company abides strictly by the governing laws and (“Mr. Grabe”) as the lead independent director (the regulations of the jurisdictions where it operates “Lead independent Director”) with broad authority and observes the applicable guidelines and rules and responsibility. Among other responsibilities, the issued by regulatory authorities. It regularly Lead Independent Director chairs the Nomination undertakes review of its corporate governance and Governance Committee meeting and/or the system to ensure it is in line with international and Board meeting when considering (i) the combined local best practices. roles of Chairman and CEO; and (ii) assessment of the performance of Chairman and/or CEO. The Compliance with Corporate Governance Code Lead Independent Director also calls and chairs Throughout the year ended March 31, 2019, the meeting(s) with all independent non-executive Company has complied with the code provisions directors without management and executive of the Corporate Governance Code and Corporate director present at least once a year on such Governance Report (the “CG Code”) set out in matters as are deemed appropriate. Accordingly, Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing the Board believes that the current Board structure of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong with combined roles of Chairman and CEO, the Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) (the appointment of Lead Independent Director and “Listing Rules”), and where appropriate, met the a vast majority of independent non-executive recommended best practices in the CG Code, with directors provide an effective balance on power the exception that the roles of the chairman of the and authorizations between the Board and the Board (the “Chairman”) and the chief executive management of the Company. officer of the Company (the “CEO”) have not been segregated as required by code provision A.2.1 of Apart from the foregoing, the Company met the the CG Code. recommended best practices in the CG Code as disclosed in the respective sections of this report. Since November 3, 2011, Mr. Yang Yuanqing Particularly, the Company published quarterly (“Mr. Yang”) has been performing both the roles as financial results and business reviews in addition the Chairman and the CEO. The Board has recently to interim and annual results. Quarterly financial reviewed the organization human resources results enhanced the shareholders’ ability to assess planning of the Company and is of the opinion the performance, financial position and prospects that it is appropriate and in the best interests of of the Company. The quarterly financial results the Company at the present stage for Mr. Yang to were also prepared using the accounting standards consistent with the policies applied to the interim and annual financial statements. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 53 Corporate Governance Report The Board has established a clear governance structure and the overall approach has been designed to support and work within our organizational structure to meet the challenges of the future. Governance Structure SHAREHOLDERS AnD OTHER STAKEHOLDERS More details, Pages 101 to 106 BOARD OF DiRECTORS More details, Pages 56 to 75 nomination and Audit Committee Compensation Governance Chief Executive More details, Committee Committee Oﬃcer Pages 109 to 115 More details, More details, More details, Page 55 Pages 116 to 126 Pages 77 to 79 internal Audit Lenovo Executive Senior Committee* Management * a management committee comprising the CEO and certain members of the senior management KEY MATTERS RESERvED TO CEO, LEnOvO EXECuTivE THE BOARD DECiSiOn COMMiTTEE AnD The Board has adopted a schedule of key matters DELEGATED AuTHORiTiES relating to the strategy, finance and governance CEO who manages the business in which are for decision by the Board. The table on line with the strategy agreed by the page 69 sets out these key matters reserved by the Board and is accountable to it. Details Board for decision. of the responsibilities of CEO are set out on page 55. BOARD COMMiTTEES The CEO is supported by the Lenovo STRuCTuRE Executive Committee which helps to implement strategy and manage The Board has delegated authority for operational performance. The CEO its key governance functions to three has also established authority main committees with the responsibilities framework adopted by the Group outlined on page 76. Details of the through which he delegates certain activities and decisions taken by these management decisions to specific committees during the year are shown in individuals and management. the relevant committees reports. 54 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report LEADERSHiP Board Roles As of the date of this annual report, there are twelve Board members consisting of one executive director, two non-executive directors and nine independent non-executive directors. The Board has a coherent framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder values and provide a robust platform to realise the strategy of the Group. A summary of responsibilities of leadership of the Company and those of the Lead Independent Director is given in the diagram below. CHAiRMAn nOn-EXECuTivE LEAD inDEPEnDEnT CHiEF EXECuTivE Mr. Yang Yuanqing DiRECTORS DiRECTOR OFFiCER Independent Mr. William O. Grabe Mr. Yang Yuanqing non-executive directors: Dr. Tian Suning Mr. nicholas C. Allen • leads the Board in the Mr. nobuyuki idei determination of its Mr. William O. Grabe • chairs the Nomination and • formulates and strategy and in the Mr. William Tudor Brown Governance Committee recommends the strategy achievement of its Ms. Ma Xuezheng meeting and/or the Board of the Group to the Board objectives Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry meeting when considering (i) the combined roles of • executes the strategy • provides leadership and Mr. Gordon Robert agreed by the Board Halyburton Orr Chairman and CEO; and manages the Board to (ii) assessment of the ensure that all directors Mr. Woo Chin Wan • makes and implements Raymond performance of Chairman operational decisions and are properly briefed on and/or CEO issues arising at Board Non-executive directors: manages the business meetings and receive Mr. Zhu Linan • calls and chairs day-to-day adequate, complete and Mr. Zhao John Huan meeting(s) with all • leads the business and reliable information in a independent nonthe management team timely manner executive directors at least once a year on such • approves the Board’s • participate in Board matters as are deemed agenda, taking full meetings to bring an independent judgement to appropriate and provides account of the issues feedbacks to Chairman bear on issues of strategy, and concerns of Board policy, performance, and/or CEO members. Board agendas accountability, resources, are structured to allow key appointments and standards of conduct • serves a key role in the adequate and sufficient Board evaluation process time for the discussion of • take the lead where potential conflicts of • responds directly to the items on the agenda, interests arise in particular, strategic shareholders and other • scrutinise the Group’s stakeholders’ questions matters performance in achieving agreed corporate goals and comments that are • facilitates and encourages and objectives, and directed to the Lead active engagement monitor performance Independent Director or reporting of Board members, to the independent nonparticularly on matters • make a positive executive directors as a contribution to the of the Group’s strategy development of the group, when appropriate or other major proposals, Group’s strategy by drawing on directors’ and policies through • if requested by major independent, constructive shareholders, ensures skills, experience and and informed comments knowledge that he is available, • engage with senior when appropriate, for • ensures good corporate management and other relevant parties, such as consultation and direct governance practices the external or internal communication and procedures are auditors as well as the Company’s legal • performs other duties as established and effective department, to ensure communication with that the various concerns the Board may designate shareholders and other and issues relevant to the management and stakeholders oversight of the business and operations of the Company and the Group are properly addressed 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 55 Corporate Governance Report Board Composition The structure, size and composition (including, for example, gender, age, and length of service) of the Board will be reviewed from time to time by the Nomination and Governance Committee to ensure that the Board has a balance of skills and expertise for providing effective leadership to the Company and meeting the needs of the Group. The Board diversity mix is shown below while the detailed biographies and snapshot of the Board’s experience are set out on pages 147 to 151 of this annual report. Designation 75% 17% 8% Executive director Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Gender 92% 8% Male Female Age Group 25% 50% 25% 45-55 56-65 over 65 Areas Of Experience 100% 75% 50% 33% Global operations Accounting/Internal controls IT industry Equity investment/Financial 56 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Key Features of the Board Composition Diversity The Board adopted a Board diversity policy (the “Board Diversity Policy”) which relates to the selection of candidates for the Board. A summary of the Board Diversity Policy including the views and measurable objectives is set out on page 58 of this report. independence The current composition of the Board exceeds the requirements under rule 3.10A of the Listing Rules, as more than half of its members are independent non-executive directors, thus exhibiting a strong independent element which enhances independent judgement. Mr. Grabe, an independent non-executive director of the Company was appointed as Lead Independent Director for enhancing corporate governance of the Company. The roles and responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director are set out on page 55 of this report. The Company has maintained on its website and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited’s website (the “HKEx’s website”) an updated list of its directors identifying their roles and functions and whether they are independent non-executive directors. Independent non-executive directors are also identified as such in all corporate communications that disclose the names of directors of the Company. Professional qualification Mr. Nicholas C. Allen and Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond, both independent non-executive directors of the Company, have the appropriate professional qualifications, or accounting or related financial management expertise, as required under the Listing Rules. Relationship among Mr. Zhu Linan and Mr. Zhao John Huan, non-executive directors directors of the Company, also serve on the board of directors of Legend Holdings Corporation, which company held approximately 29.102% of the total number of shares in issue of the Company as of March 31, 2019 according to the interest as recorded in the register maintained under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Chapter 571 of the Laws of Hong Kong) (the “SFO”). The details are set out on page 106 of this report. To the best knowledge of the Board members, there is no other relationship among the members of the Board as of the date of this annual report except for the relationships (including financial, business, family, and other material and relevant relationships) as mentioned in this report and in the biographies of directors set out on pages 147 to 151 of this annual report. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 57 Corporate Governance Report Appointment and Election Nomination Policy and balance of skills, experience, knowledge and During the year, the Board adopted a Nomination independence, with individuals that work as a Policy which guides the Nomination and team. The Board Diversity Policy which relates Governance Committee and the Board on to the selection of candidates for the Board was nomination of candidates for the Board. This adopted to ensure that diversity in its broadest Policy sets out the selection criteria, the tenure, sense continues to remain a feature of the Board. the election/re-election requirements and the All Board appointments are made on merit, in the nomination procedure, details of which are set out context of the skills and experience the Board as a below. whole requires being effective. The details of the appointment process can be found on page 59 of Diversity this report. The Board values diversity as a factor in selecting candidates to serve on the Board, and believes The Nomination and Governance Committee that the diversity which exists in its composition has been delegated with the responsibilities for provides significant benefits to the Board and the review of the Board Diversity Policy on an the Company and forms an important part of the annual basis. During the fiscal year 2018/19, the Nomination Policy. Nomination and Governance Committee reviewed the below measurable objectives and the progress The Board believes that a key success factor of in achieving these objectives: an effective Board is that it comprises a range Measurable Objectives Progress for Achieving Objectives Objective 1 Consider candidates for appointment • On-going search for appropriate as independent non-executive candidates to be appointed as directors from a wide pool of independent non-executive directors backgrounds, skills, experience and • In the ordinary course of the Board perspectives that would complement succession process the existing Board Objective 2 Report annually against the • The Board evaluation process includes objectives and other initiatives taking an assessment of the Board’s diversity place within the Company which helping to objectively consider the Board promote diversity composition and effectiveness • FY2019/20 and ongoing Objective 3 Report annually on the outcome of • Make use of the Board evaluation the composition and structure of process as an important means of the Board as well as any issues and monitoring the progress challenges the Board is facing when • Remain committed to getting the right considering the diverse make-up of balance of the composition of the Board the Company and work towards understanding and managing some of the challenges we face in the global information technology sector, particularly in internet, mobile, software, data center, artificial intelligence and clouds areas • FY2019/20 and ongoing 58 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Appointment process The Board recognises the need to ensure the Board and senior management are always well resourced, Recommendation to the Board with the suitable people in terms of skills and for approval experience to deliver the Group’s strategy. There is a formal and transparent procedure for Final deliberation by the appointment of new directors to the Board, the Nomination and Governance primary responsibility of which has been delegated Committee to the Nomination and Governance Committee. The Nomination and Governance Committee is composed of the Chairman and three independent non-executive directors. This composition ensures Meeting with candidates that any decisions made are impartial and are in the best interest of the Company. The Nomination and Governance Committee’s assessment of the candidates includes, but is not Evaluation of suitability of candidates limited to, consideration of the relevant knowledge and diversity of backgrounds, skills, experience and perspectives that would complement the existing Board. Identification of candidates The Nomination and Governance Committee also ensures that candidates satisfy the requisite skills and core competencies to be deemed fit and proper, and to be appointed as director. The nomination process involves the following six Evaluation of the Board composition stages: and establishment of desired criteria for prospective directors 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 59 Corporate Governance Report Succession All non-executive directors (including independent The Nomination and Governance Committee non-executive directors) have entered into letters regularly reviews the structure, size and of appointment with the Company for a term composition (including the skills, knowledge and of three years. Their terms of appointment shall experience) required of the Board and makes be subject to retirement from office by rotation recommendations to the Board as appropriate. and re-election at the annual general meeting in The Board has satisfied itself that the appropriate accordance with the Articles of Association. plan has been in place for orderly succession to the Board as well as procedures to ensure an The Company agreed that the independence appropriate balance of skills on the Board and its of directors is an important principle of the committees. The Board and the Nomination and Company. In line with the best practices on Governance Committee have regularly discussed corporate governance, the Board adopted the and reviewed Board composition and succession principle that each term of an independent nonplanning during the year and this will continue in executive director of the Company shall not be the fiscal year 2019/20. more than three years and shall, subject to reelection by shareholders at any subsequent annual Tenure general meeting of the Company, be renewable for In accordance with the articles of association of additional three-year terms up to a total of nine the Company (the “Articles of Association”), all years. At the recommendation of the Nomination directors are subject to retirement by rotation. and Governance Committee, the Board may invite At each annual general meeting, one-third of an independent non-executive director to serve the directors for the time being shall retire from for an additional three-year term extending up office. The retiring directors shall be eligible for reto a total of twelve years subject to re-election election. New appointments either to fill a casual at any subsequent annual general meeting of the vacancy or as an addition to the Board are subject Company. to re-election by shareholders of the Company at the next following annual general meeting of the Company. The chart below this paragraph shows the tenure of the Board members as of March 31, 2019. Board Tenure 16% 42% 42% below 5 years 5-10 years over 10 years 60 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Independence The independent non-executive directors do not participate in the day-to-day management of independence Assessment the Company and do not engage in any business dealing or other relationships with the Group (other Before and on appointment than in situations permitted by the applicable regulations) in order to ensure that they remain • Nomination and Governance Committee truly capable of exercising independent judgement will evaluate the suitability of the and act in the best interests of the Company and candidates, including an assessment of their independence its shareholders. • Upon his/her appointment, he/she is Each of the independent non-executive directors required to confirm with the Stock Exchange has made a confirmation of independence pursuant his/her independence having regard to the to rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules. On May 22, 2019, criteria under rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules the Nomination and Governance Committee Ongoing process conducted an annual review of the independence of all independent non-executive directors of the • Each of the independent non-executive Company for the year ended March 31, 2019. Having directors is required to inform the Stock taken into account the factors as set out in rule 3.13 Exchange and the Company as soon as practicable if there is any change in his/her of the Listing Rules in assessing the independence own personal particulars that may affect of independent non-executive directors, the his/her independence Nomination and Governance Committee (with the relevant committee member abstaining • The independent non-executive directors from voting on the resolutions concerning his are required to confirm with the Company whether he/she has any financial, business, own independence) concluded that all of the family or other material/relevant relationship independent non-executive directors satisfied the with each other on a semi-annual basis criteria of independence as set out in the Listing Rules. • All directors have continuing duty to update the Company on any changes to their other In addition, the Nomination and Governance appointments which will be reviewed by the Company Committee affirmed that all independent nonexecutive directors of the Company provided a Annual assessment strong independent element on the Board, were • Each of the independent non-executive free from any business or other relationship which directors is required to confirm with the could materially interfere with the exercise of their Company his/her independence having judgement, and remained independent for the year regard to the criteria under rule 3.13 of the ended March 31, 2019. Listing Rules • Nomination and Governance Committee assesses and reviews the independence of independent non-executive directors annually 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 61 Corporate Governance Report Conflicts of interest Commitments Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations All directors are committed to devote sufficient in which they have or may have interests that time and attention to the affairs of the Company. conflict with those of the Company. The Board Directors are given guidelines on their time has a set procedure and guidance to deal with the commitments to the affairs of the Company and actual or potential conflicts of interest of directors corresponding confirmations were received from as follows: the directors in their letters of appointment. Directors have also disclosed to the Company the • The Board deals with each appointment on its number and nature of offices held in Hong Kong or individual merit and takes into consideration all overseas listed public companies or organisations the circumstances. and other significant commitments, with the identity of the public companies or organisations. • Prior to taking additional responsibilities or Directors are reminded to notify the Company in external appointments, directors are obliged to a timely manner and bi-annually confirm to the ensure that they will be able to meet the time Company of any changes of such information. The commitment expected of them in their role at chart below shows the number of directorship of the Company and do not have any potential the directors with other listed public companies as conflicts that may arise when taking up a at March 31, 2019. position with another company. • Decisions regarding transactions with directors Directorship with other listed public and their related parties are always dealt with companies by other directors, such as matter regarding 8% the remuneration of executive director is handled by the Compensation Committee. 17% • Under the Articles of Association, directors are also required to declare their direct or indirect interests, if any, in any proposal, transaction, arrangement or contract that is significant in relation to the Company’s business and the director’s interest or his/her associate’s interest or the interest of the entity connected with the 75% director is material. All potential conflicts of interest will be recorded, 0-2 3-5 6-10 which are reviewed on an annual basis by the Nomination and Governance Committee to ensure that the procedures are working effectively. 62 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report With respect to those directors who stand for Directors’ Securities Transactions election or re-election at the forthcoming annual The Company has adopted the Model Code for general meeting, all of their directorships held in Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed listed public companies in the past three years are Issuers (the “Model Code”) set out in Appendix also set out in the document accompanying the 10 to the Listing Rules from time to time and notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting. devised based on the principles of the Model Code a comprehensive and operative company policy Share ownership to govern securities transactions by directors and The Board has adopted stock ownership guidelines designated senior management of the Company. for non-employee directors. The Board believes All directors of the Company have confirmed, after that share ownership aligns the interests of its specific enquiry, their compliance with the required directors with the long-term interests of the standard during the year ended March 31, 2019. shareholders and further promotes the Company’s commitment to sound corporate governance. In The Company has also adopted its own trading in general, these guidelines require non-employee securities policy applicable to designated senior directors to maintain a certain level of equity management of the Company which is on terms no awards granted to them for so long as he/she is a less exacting than the required standard as set out director of the Company. in the Model Code. induction and Continuous Professional Development The Company is aware of the requirement to regularly review and agree with each director their training needs. Keeping up-to-date with key business developments is essential for directors to maintain and enhance their effectiveness. Continuous DIRECTOR’S Induction professional program + development ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES program 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 63 Corporate Governance Report Induction program For new director For new Board committee members Upon joining the Company, directors are provided Directors to be appointed to the Board committee with a bespoke induction program to further their are provided with an induction handbook which is understanding of the nature of the Company, its designed to provide Board committee members business and the markets in which it operates, and with information regarding the roles of a committee also enhance their knowledge of the Group, its member, making the most of their time on the operation and staff. Induction program is tailored committee, meeting annual agendas, and general to each new director, depending on the experience information about the respective Board committee and background of the director. Normally, a of the Company. comprehensive, formal and tailored induction program covering amongst other things: MEETinG WiTH CHAiRMAn, ATTEnDinG ATTEnDinG DiRECTORS BRiEFinG AnD ATTEnDinG RECEivinG BRiEFinG/ AnD A WiDE PRESEnTATiOn COnTinuOuS DiRECTOR’S TRAininG BY RAnGE OF SEniOR FROM SEniOR PROFESSiOnAL inDuCTiOn EXTERnAL MAnAGEMEnT EXECuTivES AnD DEvELOPMEnT HAnDBOOK FROM ACROSS LAWYER viSiT TO BuSinESS PROGRAM THE OPERATiOnS BuSinESS to ensure that the to ensure the director to ensure that the to ensure the to ensure that the director has a proper is fully aware of the director has a proper director has a proper director keeps abreast understanding of the responsibilities as a understanding of the understanding of the of new laws, regulations operations, business director under statute culture of the Board and operations of the Group or developments and governance policies and common law, the the operations of the and its development in business that are of the Company Listing Rules, applicable Group relevant to the roles as a legal requirements director of the Company and other regulatory requirements On Appointment Following Appointment 64 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Continuous professional development program covering the Group’s operations, the industry and As part of the continuous professional development governance matters for directors to facilitate their program, the Board members from time to time understanding of the Group’s businesses and have receive presentations from senior executives in the a better awareness of the risks associated with the business on matters of significance. Financial plans, Group’s operations. including budgets and forecasts, are regularly discussed at Board meetings. The Company During the year ended March 31, 2019, the trainings would arrange appropriate visits and seminars and activities for the Board were set out below: Site visit In order to enhance greater interaction between Board members and senior management, the Company arranged directors to attend the Global Leadership Team (“GLT”) annual meeting in Vancouver, Canada. The GLT meeting presented an excellent opportunity for Lenovo’s leaders on the one hand to work together, share ideas, identify challenges and, most importantly, develop solutions; and on the other hand, to build cross-functional networking. On November 8, 2018, taking the opportunity of meeting in Lenovo Beijing new campus, directors visited Lenovo Enterprise Innovation Center in which directors were presented with the latest technologies of the enterprise business including Internet of Things (IoT), Cloud, Data Center and High-Performance Computing (HPC). Directors also visited Lenovo Innovation Technology Experience Center, a hub showcasing the various concepts of and the use of technologies in Big Data and Smart Vertical including Smart Manufacturing, Smart Building, Smart Home, Smart Health, Commercial AR and Unmanned Store. The visit provided the Board insights into the new businesses of the Company and the technologies development of the market. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 65 Corporate Governance Report Site visit During the third quarter Board meeting in Raleigh, Lenovo key operating center in US, directors visited the Data Center Executive Briefing Center in which directors were given presentations and live demonstration on the business challenges, the evolving industry trends, Lenovo technology strategy and data center offerings. A tour was also arranged for directors to visit the thermal lab and the performance lab to see the demonstrations of the latest technologies of the enterprise business. Before closing the visit, directors visited the customers’ call-center and the award-winning green building and smart workplace in the center. industry Congress Lenovo operates in an industry which is rapidly changing in terms of market trends, consumer preferences and technologies. In order to keep directors updated with the latest technologies and products development in the industry, the Company invited directors to attend Consumer Electronics Show (“CES”) and Mobile World Congress (the “MWC”) in Las Vegas and Barcelona respectively. During the year, directors who visited the MWC were given the best product reviews, product demos and displays that showcased the technologies of the Company and also those of other players in the market. These events provided excellent opportunities for directors not only to acquire the most advanced technological knowledge in the market, but also to meet with the senior management of the Company and other innovators, builders, technologists and customers there. 66 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Experts Briefing and Seminar The Company has arranged in-house seminars During the year, the Company arranged experts for directors to keep them abreast of the affairs briefing and in-house seminar for directors on relating to the Company. The directors are topics relating to Blockchain, China and US also encouraged to attend relevant external Relations and SAS -Business Intelligence. professional programs at the Company’s expense to keep abreast of issues facing the changing business environment within which the Group operates. Dr. Jim Goodnight, a Co-Founder and the CEO of Dr. Elizabeth Economy, the C. V. Starr senior fellow SAS Institute, the world’s leading business analytics and director for Asia studies at the Council on Foreign software vendor, gave directors a presentation on SAS Relations was invited to be a guest speaker to give and its intelligence. directors an update of US and China relations. Regulatory updates Directors are updated on a continuing basis by and the continuing legal updates provided to the the Company Secretary on any new regulations directors, as adequate to enhance the directors’ and guidelines, as well as any amendments skills and knowledge to carry out their duties as thereto issued by the Stock Exchange and other directors. regulatory authorities, particularly the effects of such new or amended regulations and guidelines All directors are required to provide the on directors specifically, and the Company and Company with their training records on an the Group. annual basis and such records are maintained by the Company Secretary for regular review by In addition, director’s induction handbook which the Nomination and Governance Committee. The contains organization structure, Board policies, Nomination and Governance Committee will, on corporate rules and policies, and other legal a continuing basis, evaluate and determine the reference information will be updated regularly training and development needs of the directors, and made available on internal electronic particularly on relevant new laws and regulations platform of the Company for directors’ review. and essential practices for effective corporate governance, to enable the directors to sustain The Board considers the aforementioned training their active participation in Board deliberations attended and/or participated in by the directors, and effectively discharge their duties. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 67 Corporate Governance Report In addition to directors’ attendance at meetings and review of relevant materials provided by senior management during the year, the professional trainings attended by the directors are set out as follows: Type of training visiting Attending the place of experts briefing/ operations, seminar/ Reading Company’s conference regulatory facilities relevant to updates/ and meeting the Company’s Company with local business or name of directors policies management director’s duties Executive director Mr. Yang Yuanqing √ √ √ non-executive directors Mr. Zhu Linan √ – √ Mr. Zhao John Huan √ √ √ independent non-executive directors Dr. Tian Suning √ √ √ Mr. Nicholas C. Allen √ √ √ Mr. Nobuyuki Idei √ √ √ Mr. William O. Grabe √ √ √ Mr. William Tudor Brown √ √ √ Ms. Ma Xuezheng √ √ √ Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry √ √ √ Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr √ √ √ Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond √ √ √ (appointed on February 22, 2019) Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management Company Secretary A formal and transparent procedure for fixing the The Company Secretary, Mr. Mok Chung Fu, Eric is remuneration packages of directors and senior responsible for facilitating the Board process, as management is in place. Details of remuneration well as communications among Board members policies, remuneration payable to senior with shareholders and management. During management and other relevant information are set the year, the Company Secretary undertook out in the Compensation Committee Report of this appropriate professional training to update his annual report on pages 116 to 126. skills and knowledge. 68 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report EFFECTivEnESS Board’s Responsibilities and Delegation leadership of the CEO. The Board has given clear The Group is controlled through the Board who is directions to management as to the matters that responsible for steering the success of the Group must be approved by the Board before decisions by overseeing the overall strategy and directing are made on behalf of the Company or entering and supervising its affairs in a responsible and into any commitments on behalf of the Group. The effective manner. The Board also sets the Group’s types of decisions to be delegated by the Board core values and adopts proper standards to ensure to management include implementation of the that the Company operates with integrity and strategy and direction determined by the Board, complies with the relevant rules and regulations. operation of the Group’s businesses, preparation of financial statements and operating budgets, and The Company has a formal schedule of matters compliance with applicable laws and regulations. specifically reserved to the Board and those These arrangements will be reviewed periodically delegated to management. The management to ensure that they remain appropriate to the is responsible for the daily operations and Company’s needs. A list of senior management and administration function of the Group under the their biographies are set out on pages 151 to 153 of this annual report. Key Matters Reserved for Board Approval Group strategy and management Financial • formulation of the Group’s strategy and long • approval of the Group’s financial statements term objectives and results announcements • approval of changes to capital structure • recommendation on appointment or • approval of major capital and equity reappointment of external auditor transactions • recommendation or declaration of dividend • approval of major disposals and acquisitions • monitoring the Group’s businesses against plan and budget Board membership and committees Corporate governance and sustainability • appointment to the Board • review the performance of Board and its • setting of terms of reference of Board committees committees • approval of shareholder communications, circular and notices of meetings • review sustainability practices and approval of sustainability report of the Group • review and approval of certain Group’s policies, for example, Nomination Policy, Board Diversity Policy, Dividend Policy, Continuous Disclosures Policy and Shareholders Communication Policy 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 69 Corporate Governance Report Board Process The Board recognises the importance of providing timely and appropriate information to directors so as to enable them to make informed decisions and to perform their duties and responsibilities effectively. Regular Board Meeting Meeting dates are set 2 years in advance Other Board Meeting • To facilitate maximum attendance • To consider ad hoc matters Minutes of Board meeting recorded in The Board meets at least 4 times suﬃcient detail the a year at approximately quarterly matters considered by intervals the Board and decisions • To review ﬁnancial performance, reached, including any strategy and operations concerns raised by directors or dissenting Convene Board Meeting views expressed. • Notice of not less than 7 days (or other reasonable period) be given Meeting agenda and notice Minutes of Board • Finalized by the Chairman in meeting were circulated consultation with Board members to the respective Board members for comment • Notice of not less than 30 days be where appropriate and given duly kept in minute Dispatch Board papers to book for inspection by directors any director. Dispatch Board papers to • Generally, not less than 3 days (or directors other reasonable period) before the meeting • Agenda and supporting documents 7 days, with updated ﬁnancial • If appropriate, one-on-one brieﬁng ﬁgures 3 days (or other reasonable oﬀered to each director prior to period) prior to the meeting the meeting BOARD MEETinG 70 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Other Key Features of Board Process Timely updates and The directors are supplied in a timely manner with all relevant discussion documentation and financial information to assist them in the discharge of their duties. Monthly updates of the financial performance of the Company are furnished to the Board between regular Board Meetings. In addition to standing agenda items, there may be discussions on “deep-dive” topics. During the year “deep-dive” presentations included the Group’s specific strategy, business unit and function. In addition to the quarterly regular Board meetings (earnings), Board meetings focusing on the Group’s strategy will be held on the day before each regular Board meeting (earnings) starting from the fiscal year 2017/18. During the year, four Board meetings on strategy were held. Senior management are invited to attend Board meetings, where appropriate, to report on matters relating to their areas of responsibility, and also to brief and present details to the directors on recommendations submitted for the Board’s consideration. Additional information or clarification may be required to be furnished, particularly with respect to complex and technical issues tabled to the Board. The Company has established continuous disclosure policy (the “Continuous Disclosure Policy”) and its implementation guideline on monitoring, reporting and disseminating inside information. The critical concerns of the Group’s operations and developments are communicated and addressed to the Board in a timely manner. Executive sessions As a good corporate governance practice, separate executive sessions were arranged for (i) the Chairman to meet with nonexecutive directors in the absence of management; and (ii) the Lead Independent Director to meet with other independent non-executive directors in the absence of executive director and management to discuss matters relating to any issue or other matters such persons would like to raise. To enhance communication with and contribution from all the directors, the Chairman meets with each non-executive director on a one-on-one basis at least once a year. As a follow up action item from FY2017/18 Board evaluation, the Company has started to arrange one-on-one meeting at least once a year for (1) the Lead Independent Director to meet with each independent non-executive director; and (2) the Committee Chairman to meet with each Committee member. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 71 Corporate Governance Report Other Key Features of Board Process Professional advices All directors have direct access to the Chief Legal Officer and the Company Secretary of the Company who are responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance and compliance issues. Written procedures are in place for directors to seek, at the Company’s expense, independent professional advice in performing directors’ duties. No request was made by any director for such advice during the year. Access to information All directors were provided with a tablet and a notebook to gain access to meeting materials of the Board and Board committees meetings through an electronic platform. Communication with senior To enhance the communication between directors and senior management management and have an understanding of management planning, directors are invited to attend Lenovo’s GLT event and participate in small group discussions with relevant senior management. indemnification and As permitted by the Articles of Association, a director or a former insurance director of the Company may be indemnified out of the Company’s assets against any liability incurred by the director to a person other than the Company or an associated company of the Company that attaches to such director in his or her capacity as a director of the Company, to the extent permitted by law. The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to cover the liabilities of the directors arising from corporate activities. The insurance coverage is reviewed on an annual basis. 72 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Board Activities Board activities are structured to assist the of focus for the Board, which appear as items on Board in achieving its goal to support and the Board’s agenda at relevant times throughout advise senior management on the delivery of the the financial year. Concentrated discussion of Group’s strategy within a transparent governance these items assists the Board in making the most framework. The diagram below shows the key areas appropriate decision based on the long-term opportunities for the business. FinAnCiAL AnD STRATEGY OPERATiOnAL PERFORMAnCE AnD RiSKS • CEO and Chief Financial Oﬃcer reports • Discussion of main strategic issues relating to commercial, geographic and structural areas • Financial and operational updates • Annual budget • Review of processes and controls for strategic and operational risks • Treasury items • Customer experience GOvERnAnCE AnD OTHERS SuSTAinABiLiTY • Review and discussion of the practices of • Employee engagement survey governance and sustainability matters • Ad hoc projects • Board and Board Committees’ eﬀectiveness review • Board diversity and succession planning • Board Committees’ reports 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 73 Corporate Governance Report Main activities during FY2018/19 During the fiscal year 2018/19, a total of eight Company held meetings in Hong Kong, New York, Board meetings were held, of which four Board Beijing and Raleigh during the year. Offsite Board meetings were primarily to review quarterly meetings give the Board further insights into the business performance and strategy execution and businesses of the Group. The below chart shows four Board meetings were for reviewing strategy how the Board allocated its agenda time during the in the business or other relevant areas. Given the year. geographical spread of the Group’s businesses, the THE BOARD Allocation of agenda time 4% FY2018/19 FY2017/18 Financial and operational 16% 19% performance 35% Strategic matters 45% 29% 45% Governance, sustainability, training 35% 29% and Board Committee’s reports Others matters (including Ad hoc projects and human 4% 23% resources matters) 16% Directors are expected to attend all meetings of in their areas of the businesses for which they the Board and the Committees on which they serve are directly responsible and of which the Board and to devote sufficient time to the Company to should be aware. Chairpersons of the respective perform their duties. Where directors are unable Board committees would also report on matters to attend a meeting they receive papers for that discussed and/or approved at the relevant Board meeting giving them the opportunity to raise committees’ meetings held prior to the Board any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meetings. Meetings are structured so as to allow meeting. for consideration and debate of all matters. At each scheduled meeting the Board receives The main matters and areas that the Board updates from the CEO and Chief Financial Officer reviewed and considered at its eight meetings on the financial and operational performance (including four specific meetings focusing on of the Group and any specific developments strategy) during the year were as follows: 74 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report FY1819/ Financial and Strategic Governance and HR/Ad hoc Matters Operational items Sustainability projects considered Performance by the Board April / May • CEO and CFO Reports • Corporate • Sustainability update • Organization strategy human • Annual results update • Executive session resources announcement and for Board Chairman planning annual report • Investor to meet with all Relations Directors without • Hefei joint • Final dividend management venture • Treasury • Reports from • Fujitsu Committee Chairs of continuing Audit, Compensation connected and Nomination & transactions Governance • Lenovo new • Re-appointment of launched external auditor products and technology • Board composition, diversity and other follow-up actions of Board evaluation August • CEO and CFO Reports • Mobile • Sustainability report • Government business relations • Quarterly results • Executive sessions announcement • Data Center (a) for Board • Hefei joint Group Chairman to meet venture • Reports from strategy with all Directors Committee Chairs of without management Audit and Nomination & (b) for Lead Governance Independent Director to meet with all NonExecutive Directors without management • External speaker presentations – (1) Blockchain (2) Government relations november • CEO and CFO Reports • Data Center • Executive session • Findings Group for Board Chairman on Lenovo• Interim results strategy to meet with all Listen Survey, announcement and Directors without an employee interim report • Mobile management engagement business survey • Interim dividend • Corporate policies: • Intelligent delegation policy, • Funding • Reports from Device Group nomination policy activities Committee Chairs of – China and dividend policy Audit, Compensation • Lenovo new and Nomination & • Government • Audit committee launched Governance relations terms of reference products and technology February • CEO and CFO Reports • Data Center • Executive session • Lenovo new Group for Board Chairman launched • Quarterly results strategy to meet with all products and announcement Directors without technology • Corporate management • FY1920 budget strategy FY1920 • Business intelligence • Reports from – external speaker Committee Chairs presentation of Audit and Compensation 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 75 Corporate Governance Report Board Committees As at the date of this annual report, the Company has preserved three Board committees (the “Board Committees”) with defined terms of reference (which are posted on the Company’s website and HKEx’s website) – Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nomination and Governance Committee. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nomination and Governance Committee reference those set out in the CG Code prevailing from time to time. AuDiT COMMiTTEE Key responsibilities • Assist the Board in carrying out its oversight responsibilities in relation to ﬁnancial reporting, risk management and internal control, and in maintaining a relationship with external auditors BOARD OF DiRECTORS Key Responsibilities COMPEnSATiOn COMMiTTEE • Set strategy, mission and values Key responsibilities • Provide leadership of the Company and • Assist the Board to assess and making recommendation direction for management on the compensation policy; and to determine the compensation level and package for the Chairman of the • Collective responsibility and accountability to Board, CEO, other directors and senior management shareholders for the long term success of the Group • Review the performance of management and nOMinATiOn AnD the operating and ﬁnancial performance of the Group GOvERnAnCE COMMiTTEE Key responsibilities • Assist the Board in overseeing Board organization, succession planning, and developing the corporate governance principles and policy and responsible for the assessment of the performance of the Chairman of the Board and/or the CEO and the independence of independent non-executive directors The Board may also establish committees on an ad All Board Committees follow the same principles hoc basis to approve specific projects as deemed and procedures as those of the Board and are necessary. Should the need arise, the Board provided with sufficient resources to perform their will authorize an independent board committee duties. The Board Committees will report to the comprising the independent non-executive Board on a regular basis, including their decisions directors to review, approve and monitor connected or recommendations to the Board, unless there are transactions (including continuing connected legal or regulatory restrictions on their ability to transactions) that should be approved by the do so. The member list of the Board Committees is Board. During the year, an independent board also posted on the Company’s website and HKEx’s committee was formed to review and approve the website. continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu. 76 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Audit Committee The Audit Committee is delegated by the Board to perform its duties within its terms of reference. Details of the Audit Committee, including its membership, responsibilities and main activities during the fiscal year 2018/19, are summarized in the Audit Committee Report as stated on pages 109 to 115 of this annual report. Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee is delegated by the Board to perform its duties within its terms of reference. Details of the Compensation Committee, including its membership, responsibilities and work done during the fiscal year 2018/19, are summarized in the Compensation Committee Report as stated on pages 116 to 126 of this annual report. nomination and Governance Committee Membership The Nomination and Governance Committee (defined as “Committee” in this section) of the Board of the Company as at the date of this annual report is comprised of four members, a majority of whom are independent non-executive directors of the Company. The members who held office during the year and up to the date of this annual report are: Chairman Mr. Yang Yuanqing Chairman, CEO and executive director Member Mr. Nobuyuki Idei Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director and Member Mr. William O. Grabe Lead Independent Director Member Dr. Tian Suning Independent non-executive director More information on the skills and experience of the members of the Committee may be found in the directors’ biographies set out on pages 147 to 151 of this annual report. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 77 Corporate Governance Report Responsibilities Key Features The Committee is delegated by the Board with • The Committee’s terms of reference which responsibility to review the composition of the clearly deal with its membership, authority, Board and Board Committees to ensure they are duties and frequency of meetings are properly constituted and balanced in terms of published on the Company’s website and skills, experience and diversity. In addition to this, it HKEx’s website. is also responsible for: • The Committee is provided with sufficient • making recommendation to the Board on resources to perform its duties. succession planning for directors and CEO; • The Committee is authorised to obtain outside • assessment of the performance of the legal or other independent professional advice Chairman and/or CEO and making proposals in performing its duties at the Company’s to the Compensation Committee; expense. No request was made by any member for such advice during the year. • monitoring corporate governance issues and developments to ensure that the Company is • Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary in line with the international best practices; are invited to attend the Committee meetings in order to provide insight and enhance • reviewing and determining the director the Committee’s awareness of corporate induction and continuous professional governance issues and developments. development programs; and • The chairman of the Committee being also • reviewing and monitoring the annual Board the Chairman and CEO, is required to excuse and Board Committees’ evaluation and the himself from the agenda items relating to progress of the implementation actions. succession planning of the Chairman and/or CEO and the assessment of performance of the Chairman and/or CEO. Main Activities During FY2018/19 In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Committee held three meetings. The attendance record of the Committee’s members is set out on page 80 in this report and the chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time during the fiscal year 2018/19. nOMinATiOn AnD GOvERnAnCE COMMiTTEE Allocation of agenda time 8% 1% FY2018/19 FY2017/18 35% Board and Board Committees’ 35% 5% compositions Assessment of the performance 32% of the Chairman and CEO 24% 20% Corporate Governance 32% 53% Board and Board Committees’ 8% 15% evaluation Others 1% 7% 24% 78 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report The main matters and areas that the Committee reviewed and considered during the year were as follows: Board and Board • Reviewed and recommended to the Board on the structure, size and Committees’ compositions composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the directors. • Considered and recommended the appointment of Professor Zhang Shoucheng and Mr. Woo Chin Wan, Raymond as independent nonexecutive directors. • Reviewed and discussed the progress against Board diversity targets. Assessment of the • Assessed the performance of the Chairman and CEO for the fiscal performance of the year 2017/18 and provided recommendation to the Compensation Chairman and CEO Committee. • Reviewed the arrangement of same person acting as Chairman and CEO. Corporate Governance • Reviewed corporate governance disclosures in 2017/18 annual report and 2018/19 interim report. • Reviewed and assessed the independence of independent nonexecutive directors and affirmed the Committee’s view over their independence. • Reviewed and discussed the continuous professional development programs for the directors of the Company. • Reviewed the policies and practices on corporate governance, and the compliance with legal and regulatory requirements of the Group. Board and Board • Discussed the progress of the follow-up actions of the Board Committees’ evaluation evaluation. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 79 Corporate Governance Report Board and Board Committees Meetings During the year ended March 31, 2019, the overall attendance rate of directors at Board and Board Committees meetings was 93% (2017/18: 94%). The individual attendance records of each director at the meetings of the annual general meeting, Board, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee during the year ended March 31, 2019 are set out below: Meetings attended/held nomination and Annual Audit Compensation Governance General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting name of directors (Notes 1 & 2) (Notes 1 & 4) (Note 1) (Notes 1 & 5) (Notes 3 & 4) Executive director Mr. Yang Yuanqing 8/8 – – 3/3 1/1 (Chairman & CEO) non-executive directors Mr. Zhu Linan 7/8 – – – 0/1 Mr. Zhao John Huan 8/8 – 3/3 – 0/1 independent non-executive directors Dr. Tian Suning 6/8 – – 3/3 1/1 Mr. Nicholas C. Allen 8/8 4/4 – – 1/1 Mr. Nobuyuki Idei 8/8 – – 3/3 0/1 Mr. William O. Grabe 8/8 – 3/3 3/3 1/1 (Lead Independent Director) Mr. William Tudor Brown 7/8 3/4 2/3 – 0/1 Ms. Ma Xuezheng 8/8 4/4 3/3 – 1/1 Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry 8/8 – – – 0/1 Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr 7/8 4/4 3/3 – 0/1 Professor Shoucheng Zhang 1/3 – – – – Mr. Woo Chin Wan, Raymond 1/1 – – – – Notes: (1) The attendance figure represents actual attendance/the number of meetings a director is entitled to attend. (2) The Board held four regular meetings and four strategic meetings during the year. (3) The Company held the annual general meeting on July 5, 2018. (4) Representatives of the external auditor participated in every Audit Committee meeting and the annual general meeting held during the year. (5) For corporate governance reasons, Mr. Yang Yuanqing was required to excuse himself from the agenda item relating to assessment of the performance of the Chairman and CEO of the Nomination and Governance Committee meeting to avoid conflict of interest. (6) Professor Shoucheng Zhang was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company on August 17, 2018. Professor Zhang passed away on December 1, 2018 and ceased to be a director of the Company from the same day. (7) Mr. Woo Chin Wan, Raymond was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company and a member of the Audit Committee on February 22, 2019. 80 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Board and Board Committees' Effectiveness Review The Board is aware of the importance of continually assessing its own performance in support of the leadership of the Group. The Board has a formal process, led by the Nomination and Governance Committee, for the evaluation of the performance of the Board and Board Committees, to ensure that they continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfill their respective duties. The process involves the following ways: Succession Re-election by Planning Shareholders Evaluation Succession Planning The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles. During the year, the Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee have discussed and reviewed Board composition and succession planning to ensure that the successors for key roles are identified and their performance are also assessed. Evaluation The Board believes that the evaluation is helpful and provides a valuable opportunity for continuous improvement. The objectives of the evaluation were to build on the improvements made since the last evaluation, thereby improving the collective contribution of the Board as a whole and also the competence and effectiveness of each individual director. Mr. Grabe, the Lead Independent Director, is delegated with authority to take a key role in the Board evaluation process. Mr. Grabe, in consultation with the Chairman and supported by the Chief Legal Officer and the Company Secretary, will compile and circulate a comprehensive electronic questionnaire for completion by all directors, the aim of which is to evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the Board and its committees. The evaluation covered: • Board processes and their effectiveness • Time management of Board meetings • Board composition and dynamics • Strategic and operational oversight • Succession planning • Board support • Communications with shareholders and stakeholders 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 81 Corporate Governance Report Evaluation process The evaluation process involves the following three stages: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 DETERMinE DiSCuSS AnD REviEW ACTiOn PLAn THE SCOPE THE RESuLTS AGREED • Board and its Committees • Preparing the draft results report • Following review of the results, the Board drew conclusions and • Discussing the draft results report between the Lead Independent agreed proposed implementation or action plan Director and the chairpersons of Audit Committee and Compensation Committee MOniTOR AnD DETERMinE • Review of the results report by FOLLOW-uP THE APPROACH the Nomination and Governance Committee MEETinGS • Monitoring the progress of the • Conducted by completing a • Finalizing the results report implementation or action taken comprehensive questionnaire • Reporting to the Board in a semi-annually manner that did not identify individuals’ speciﬁc responses, • Reporting back to the Board on ensuring that these responses the progress by Nomination and could be as open, frank and Governance Committee informative as possible Evaluation results A consolidated report of the outputs from the evaluation will be prepared by Nomination and Governance Committee for review and consideration by the Board. The results of the evaluation and the implementation or action plan will be thoroughly discussed at a Board meeting. Re-election by Shareholders Pursuant to the Articles of Association, one-third of the directors for the time being shall retire from office at each annual general meeting. The retiring directors shall be eligible for re-election. New appointments either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the Board are also subject to reelection by shareholders at the next following annual general meeting of the Company. The Nomination and Governance Committee has conducted a review of each director seeking re-election. The sufficient biographical and other information on those directors seeking re-election are provided in the annual report and the circular to enable shareholders to make an informed decision. 82 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report ACCOunTABiLiTY AnD AuDiT Financial Reporting basis while the external auditor’s responsibilities The Board acknowledges its responsibility for to shareholders are set out in the Independent presenting a balanced, clear and comprehensive Auditor’s Report on pages 173 to 178 of this annual assessment of the Group’s performance, position report. and prospects. The Board is also responsible for the preparation of financial statements for each The practices of the Company on the timeline financial year which gives a true and fair view of for publication of financial results and the related the state of affairs of the Group on going concern reports are set out below: Annual Results • Announced within 2 months • Published the annual report within 14 days following the annual results announcement interim Results • Announced within 1.5 months • Published the interim report within 14 days following the interim results announcement Quarterly Results • Announced within 8 weeks following quarter end Risk Management and internal Control In line with the commitment to deliver sustainable At Lenovo, risk is defined as a potential action, value, Lenovo adopts a holistic risk management event or circumstance that could impact the and internal controls framework to proactively Company’s ability, favorably or unfavorably, to manage risks. This framework is put into effect meet its strategic goals. Risk is an inherent part by Lenovo’s Board of Directors and the Audit of the Company and needs to be understood and Committee to support the Board in monitoring risk managed properly to provide a foundation for the exposures, the design and operating effectiveness Company’s sustained growth. of the underlying risk management and internal controls systems. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 83 Corporate Governance Report Board • Has overall responsibility for the Lenovo’s risk management and internal control system. • Oversees and monitors the overall effectiveness of the risk management system and internal audit function through the Audit Committee. Audit Committee • Supports the Board in reviewing and monitoring the performance of the risk management system and key risks and internal control systems. • Reviews the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control issues of the Company. • Reviews the adequacy and efficiency of the Company’s internal audit function. • Reviews the enterprise risk management approach. • Reviews risks raised during annual risk registration exercise, and other risks and concerns. • Approves Company’s risk tolerance. internal Audit (iA) • Supports the Audit Committee in reviewing effectiveness of internal controls system. • Capitalizes on the audit processes to independently assess the effectiveness of established system of controls. • Independent investigations regarding certain allegations of fraud and violations of Lenovo’s Code of Conduct (“the Code”) and other company policies. Senior Management • Provide leadership and guidance for the balance of risk and return. • Designs, implements and reviews Lenovo’s risk management framework. • Ensures that salient risks are highlighted to the Audit Committee, along with the status of actions taken to manage these risks. Enterprise Risk Management • Responsible to design, implement, review and update (ERM) Lenovo ERM framework. • Coordinates the risk identification and assessment process, highlights identified risks to the Audit Committee, along with the status of actions taken to manage these risks. • Risk projects. Business Functions • ERM Risk Champions are appointed in each functions where risk ownership is established. • Identify risk, assess and initiate control and mitigation measures in their areas of responsibility. • Establish group-wide policies and guidelines where appropriate. • Quarterly management disclosure and certification process trigger reporting of unusual items, occurring in of the ordinary course of our business, which raise significant financial or business risks. This risk management and internal control framework is in place to improve communication of identified risks with management, measure the impact of the identified risk and facilitate implementation of coordinated mitigating measure. 84 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report internal Control For many years, the Company has had an integrated approach for internal control which is consistent with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) internal control framework. Monitoring: Control Environment: The internal control process The internal organizational is continually monitored. environment driven by the Modiﬁcations are made to management operating improve internal control philosophy, risk appetite, activities as a result of the integrity, and ethical values. monitoring process. information and Control Activities: Risk Assessment: Communication: Policies and procedures Risks are identiﬁed and Relevant information is are implemented to ensure the likely impact on the communicated in an acceptable organizational objectives and organization is assessed. format and timely fashion to risk-mitigation activities are enable the organization to meet eﬀectively implemented. its objectives. Within this framework, management is responsible Management of internal control for setting the appropriate tone from the top, Essential to this internal control system are well performing risk assessments, and owning the defined policies and procedures that are properly design, implementation and maintenance of documented and communicated to employees. internal control. Other teams such as Finance, The corporate policies form the basis of all the Legal, and Human Resources provide assistance Company’s major guidelines and procedures and and expertise to management to assist it in set forth the control standards required for the undertaking its responsibilities. The Board and functioning of the Company’s business entities. its Audit Committee oversee the actions of management and monitor the effectiveness of the established controls, assisted by assurance provided by the external and internal auditors. Lenovo’s internal control framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and as such, provides reasonable (rather than absolute) assurance against material misstatement or loss. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 85 Corporate Governance Report Additionally, Lenovo has a strong corporate culture for reporting an issue or raising a concern he based on ethical business conduct. Lenovo’s Code or she believes to be true, cooperating with an of Conduct (the “Code”), is the cornerstone of investigation or audit, or refusing to participate in our commitment to conducting business legally, activities that violate the Code, laws or company ethically, and with integrity. The Code, by its policies. terms, applies to all employees (including fulltime, part-time, and supplemental or temporary), Another feature of Lenovo’s internal control consultants and contractors working for Lenovo. system is the execution of key control selfAs the Code is not intended to describe every law, testing by management to reasonably assure policy, procedure or business process that applies that internal controls are working as intended to Lenovo, the Code also provides employees and that necessary actions have been taken to guidance on when and how to seek additional address control weaknesses. Specific employees guidance or report potential concerns. with controls knowledge and expertise have been identified within the business to further assist All Lenovo employees are required to comply with management with designing, executing, and the Code, which is available in multiple languages monitoring controls. The Group Controller oversees on the Company’s publicly-facing website and controls related activities of these individuals our internal intranet. Regular training on the across organizations and process owners. Code and related policies is provided to reinforce the Company’s commitment to compliance and This comprehensive internal control framework conducting business with integrity. Lenovo is established by the Company covers all activities committed to investigating all reported concerns. and transactions. Management performs periodic Lenovo regards any violation of the Code as enterprise wide risk assessments and continuously a serious matter. Failure to follow the code, or monitors and reports progress of action plans violation of the policies described in the Code, can to address these key risks. Management also result in disciplinary action, including termination assesses business risks when formulating of employment or relationship. corporate strategies, and tracks and reports on the implementation of strategic initiatives, business In keeping with best practices, Lenovo has also plans, budgets and financial results regularly developed and implemented numerous policies to the Board. Additionally, as part of Lenovo’s to provide more detailed guidance to employees commitment to financial integrity, all relevant regarding compliance with rules and laws related senior executives regularly verify the accuracy and to the prevention and detection of bribery and completeness of the quarterly financial statements corruption. Additional policies include an Antiand confirm compliance with key internal controls. Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, a Conflict of Interest Policy, and a Gift, Entertainment, Corporate To assist the Audit Committee in its oversight and Hospitality and Travel Policy. monitoring activities, the Company maintains an independent, worldwide Internal Audit function. Lenovo recognizes that an environment where Internal Audit provides objective assurance to employees feel empowered to bring concerns to the Audit Committee that the system of internal management is required to make the Company’s controls is effective and operating as intended. The internal control system successful. Lenovo provides mission of Internal Audit is to provide the Board employees with confidential and anonymous and Lenovo management with: methods for raising concerns or reporting suspected misconduct, as permitted by applicable • Independent and objective assessment of law. Lenovo’s commitment to maintaining the Lenovo’s system of internal controls; confidentiality of reports, investigating all alleged misconduct and non-retaliation is incorporated • Guidance to Lenovo stakeholders for improving in our Code. Lenovo does not tolerate retaliation risk management; against any employee, consultant or contractor 86 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report • Proactive support to improve Lenovo’s control year, Internal Audit issued multiple reports covering posture; and all significant operational and financial units worldwide. In keeping with best practices, Internal • Independent investigations regarding certain Audit regularly monitors the status of management allegations of fraud and violations of the Code action plans resulting from audit findings to ensure and other company policies. completion and reports progress each quarter to the Audit Committee. To enable it to fulfill its mission, Internal Audit has unrestricted access to all corporate operations, Audit Committee reporting also includes identified records, data files, computer programs, property, key control issues to provide the Audit Committee and personnel. To preserve the independence of full visibility to the status of Lenovo’s control the Internal Audit function, the Head of Internal environment. Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee on all audit matters and to the Chief Financial Officer Furthermore, Internal Audit is responsible for on administrative matters. The Head of Internal investigating certain allegations of potential Audit is authorized to communicate directly with violations of the Code, or any other company the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the policies as appropriate. Internal Audit partners with Audit Committee and other Board members as Legal, Ethics and Compliance, Human Resources, deemed necessary. To help ensure the quality of and other subject matter experts where necessary the Internal Audit function and provide assurance to ensure the appropriate expertise when that the Internal Audit function is in conformity performing these investigations. Management and with the standards of the Institute of the Audit Committee are informed of the results of Internal Auditors, Internal Audit has implemented these investigations, any resulting required actions, a comprehensive and continuous quality assurance and status updates on actions. program covering all Internal Audit activities. In addition, the Audit Committee periodically Inside information commissions an independent, external quality Regarding procedures and internal controls for the assurance review of the Internal Audit function. handling and dissemination of inside information, the Company: In selecting the audits to perform each year, Internal Audit performs a risk assessment using (i) is aware of its obligations under the SFO and information collected from process owners, the Listing Rules and the overriding principle the enterprise risk management team, senior that inside information should be announced executives, the external auditor and the Board immediately if it is the subject to the along with an analysis of prior audit issues and requirements and the safe harbors as provided other data. Internal Audit develops an audit plan in SFO; that prioritizes areas with significant risks or deemed to be strategic in nature to the business. (ii) conducts its affairs with close regard to the The audit plan is reviewed by the Audit Committee, applicable laws and regulations prevailing in which is also given quarterly updates on the Hong Kong; performance of the plan and key findings. As necessary throughout the year, the audit plan will (iii) has included in the Code a strict prohibition on be modified to reflect emerging risks or changes the unauthorized use of non-public or inside to business plans. Ad hoc reviews of areas of information; concern identified by management or the Audit Committee may also be performed. During the last 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 87 Corporate Governance Report (iv) has established a Continuous Disclosures Enterprise Risk Management Policy along with its guidance notes for Lenovo’s ERM framework is effected by Lenovo’s monitoring, reporting and disseminating Board of Directors and management team, and inside information to our shareholders, is applied in strategy setting and across all major investors, analysts and media. These policy functions of the Company. It involves:– and guidance notes also identify who are the Company’s authorized spokespersons and • The ERM team, who is responsible to design, their responsibilities for communications with implement, review, and update Lenovo ERM stakeholders; and framework. (v) has communicated to all relevant staff • All Lenovo major functions, where risk regarding the implementation of the ownership is established via the appointment Continuous Disclosures Policy and the relevant of ERM Champions in each function. trainings are also provided. Lenovo recognizes that risk management is the Control effectiveness responsibility of everyone within Lenovo, and that The Board, through the Audit Committee of risk is best managed when business functions take the Company, conducts a continuous review of responsibility and are accountable for risks. Rather the effectiveness of the internal control system than being a separate and standalone process, risk operating in the Company and considers it to management is therefore incorporated as part of be adequate and effective. The review covers all Lenovo annual strategic planning process across all material controls, including financial, operational, major functions of the Company. During strategy information technology, and compliance controls, planning, all business functions are required and risk management functions. The Board is not to identify material risks that may impact their aware of any significant areas of concern which strategy objectives. They also identify, assess and may affect the shareholders. The Board is satisfied evaluate operational risks. Many aspects of risks are that the Company has fully complied with the code considered, including but not limited to these listed provisions on internal controls as set forth in the below. CG Code. industry Trend Competition Financial External Geopolitical Reputation Supply Chain Regulations Business Social Safety & Health Continuity Responsibility Plans to mitigate the identified risks are, at the same time, developed for implementation, to continuously deliver sustainable value. 88 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report With this practical and effective framework, risk management features are integrated into each function. Critical and major risks of the business functions, especially in view of the changing business environment, are identified and assessed based on risk assessment matrix that helps to rank the risks and prioritize risk management effort to determine the appropriate risk mitigation plans. Risk Rating Matrix 4 Extreme H H VH VH iMPACT 3 High M M H H 2 Moderate L L M M 1 Low L L L L Risk Rating Remote Unlikely Possible Almost Certain VH Very High 1 2 3 4 H High LiKELiHOOD M Moderate L Low The risks are monitored and reviewed by each business function as well as at the group level. And at least annually, the ERM team coordinates the risk identification and assessment process and the identified risks are highlighted to the Audit Committee, along with the status of actions taken to manage these risks. Risk ERM Team Audit Board of Champions Committee Directors • Risk registration • Identify risks • Report risks to Audit • Review risks • Assess Committee • Raise concerns • Manage • Risk projects • Approve risk tolerance • Monitor • Engage actuarial work • Review • Recommend risk tolerance Details of some of these risks may be found engages actuarial studies to quantify risks, and under “Material Risks of the Group” on Page 22. the Company’s risk tolerance is adjusted when This framework will continue to be strengthened appropriate. The risk tolerance represents the to create a robust and holistic risk management amount of risk the Company is willing to undertake culture to safeguard the value of the Company. in the pursuit of its strategic and business objectives. Where necessary, ERM employs risk At the enterprise level, Lenovo’s risk tolerance transfer strategies through insurance management. is also reviewed periodically, and changes are ERM also initiates risk projects to improve risk approved by the Audit Committee. The ERM team awareness. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 89 Corporate Governance Report External Auditor engagement of the external auditor for permitted Independence of external auditor and approved non-audit services shall be approved The Group’s external auditor is by the Audit Committee if the value of such PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), who is non-audit services is equal to or above US$320,000. remunerated mainly for its audit services provided to the Group. The Company has During the year, PwC provided audit and non-audit adopted a policy on engagement of the external services to the Group. auditor for non-audit services, under which the external auditor is required to comply with the Remuneration of external auditor independence requirements under the Code The fees paid or payable to PwC for audit and of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued non-audit services for the financial year ended by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public March 31, 2019 and the comparative figures for the Accountants. The external auditor may provide financial year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows: certain non-audit services to the Group given that these do not involve any management or decision making functions for and on behalf of the Group; do not perform any self-assessments; and do not act in an advocacy role for the Group. The 2019 2018 nature of services uS$ million US$ million Audit services 9.2 8.4 Non-audit services – Tax 0.9 1.4 – IT 2.8 1.9 – Advisory 0.3 0.1 – Other services 0.7 0.5 Total 13.9 12.3 90 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report invESTOR RELATiOnS Lenovo is devoted to develop an effective two-way communication with shareholders, investors and equity analysts to enhance the transparency of the Company. The investor relations team is committed to maintain interactive communications with the capital market to facilitate better understanding by investment community regarding Lenovo’s Intelligent Transformation strategy, business operations, investments in responding to market opportunities and our initiatives in improving corporate governance. The team also proactively reaches out to the market and engages with investors to ensure timely, clear and reliable updates. Communications with investors During the fiscal year 2018/19, the Company continued to facilitate effective communications with its shareholders, investors and analysts through multiple channels including investor day, lab tour, investor conferences, roadshows, one-on-one and group meetings, teleconferences, company visits, Investor Relations website, social media, IR newsletters and IR alerts, etc. Lenovo Investor Day March 18, 2019 | Taipei City During the fiscal year 2018/19, the IR team successfully hosted the first large-scale Investor Day on March 18, 2019 to meet with investors from different parts of the world. During the breakouts sessions, the senior management team highlighted the progress in our Intelligent Transformation strategy, the sector trends and the innovations we are driving to take opportunity of the market changes. A lab tour with product demonstration was also conducted for investors to learn about the product development initiatives and some of our intelligent properties. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 91 Corporate Governance Report Lenovo Investor Meetings in the PRC January 15, 2019 | Shenzhen March 26, 2019 | Shanghai Lenovo respects investors from all over the world and has been proactively reaching out to investors at important capital markets including China. During the fiscal year 2018/19, the IR team hosted a number of investor meetings in major cities in China such as Shenzhen and Shanghai. The team met with buy-sell investors and analysts from large China fund houses and asset management companies to offer updates on Lenovo’s latest business development. Results Announcement The senior management team presented the annual and quarterly earnings results through webcast, conference calls, social media and face-to-face meetings to communicate with shareholders, investors and analysts. The frequent communication enhanced the understanding of the capital market on the business strategy, development tactics and competitive edges of the Company. 92 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Transform 2.0 September 13, 2018 | New York City Lenovo announced a series of new products, partnerships and solutions designed for business customers that demonstrate the company’s ongoing Intelligent Transformation strategy. The strategy reflects Lenovo’s unique business perspective on how to build end-to-end solutions with smart features that transform businesses and improve the user experience. Intelligent Transformation will reinvent and restructure the entire systems of production, management, and governance worldwide. The annual event brings together technology professionals, Lenovo’s latest products and insightful panels and presentations from major industry experts and influencers who are shaping the future of Artificial Intelligence and other transformative technologies. Lenovo Tech World September 26 – 27, 2018 | Beijing, China Lenovo organized its fourth Tech World event in Beijing in 2018 after the success of the events in Beijing, San Francisco and Shanghai in previous years. With the theme “Empowering Intelligent Transformation”, Lenovo demonstrated what Intelligent Transformation means for partners, customers and consumers today-and for the future. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 93 Corporate Governance Report A group of global investors and equity analysts were invited to join the Tech World event. Breakout sessions were arranged for the participants to have a face-to-face interaction with the Company’s C-suite management team and technology leaders, followed by a roundtable dinner with our top management. This event provides investors with a great opportunity to connect our innovations and new products with our long-term mission of becoming the Leader and Enabler in the age of Intelligent Transformation. Site Visits During the fiscal year 2018/19, the IR team continued to cooperate with different securities houses in organizing investor trips to our research labs around the world, including Lenovo’s experience center in Beijing and innovation lab in Germany. The opportunity to visit these advanced research facilities and speak with our research professionals help the investor community gaining more colors of Lenovo’s strategy and capability to grow the business through a different perspective. 94 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Investor Relations Website During the fiscal year, our Investor Relations website was redesigned to provide enriched information disclosure and user-friendly navigation experience for shareholders and investors. With a more innovative design and informative content, the IR website keeps our investors up-to-date with corporate initiatives in a timely manner. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 95 Corporate Governance Report IR Newsletter and IR News Alert During the fiscal year, the IR team issued a total of 9 regular newsletter and news alert to keep the capital market abreast of hot topics, key company events and major breakthroughs in business development of Lenovo. Social Media Lenovo is devoted in leveraging various social media platforms to keep our investors updated on results announcements and key company events, with an aim to have multi-point engagement via social media with the Company’s stakeholders. The team also proactively sent updates and key event news wrap up, e.g. Lenovo Tech World, CES, MWC and results announcements, to provide an one-stop snapshot to investors. During the fiscal year, the followers of and mentions to the Company’s social media platforms have continued to increase. Please follow Lenovo at: 96 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Investment Conferences To maintain active communications with institutional investors around the world, the senior management team proactively participated in investor conferences at global locations. We are also frequent participants to the panel discussions at these investor conferences to provide in-depth discussions on popular tech topics with our investors. Investor Conferences Attended FY2018/19 Date Conference Location May 2018 Citi Regional Tech Conference 2018 Taipei Jun 2018 Maybank Invest Asia Conference London Jun 2018 Citi 2018 Pan Asia Internet Investor Day New York Jun 2018 UBS Taiwan Conference Taipei Aug 2018 Citi Greater China TMT Corporate Day Hong Kong Sep 2018 Citi 2018 Global Technology Conference New York Sep 2018 Credit Suisse 19th Asian Technology Conference Taipei Sep 2018 25th CLSA Investor’s Forum Hong Kong Nov 2018 Daiwa Investment Conference (Hong Kong) 2018 Hong Kong Nov 2018 Citi China Investor Conference Macau Nov 2018 CGS-CIMB HK/China Smartphone & 5G Corporate Day Hong Kong Nov 2018 GF Securities Investor Conference Shenzhen Nov 2018 Morgan Stanley 17th Annual Asia Pacific Summit Singapore 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 97 Corporate Governance Report Date Conference Location Jan 2019 Morgan Stanley China New Economy Summit Beijing Jan 2019 Nomura CES Investor Conference Las Vegas Jan 2019 UBS Greater China Conference Shanghai Credit Suisse Greater China Technology & Internet Jan 2019 Conference Hong Kong Jan 2019 DB China Conference Shenzhen Feb 2019 Morgan Stanley TMT Conference San Francisco Mar 2019 Daiwa Investment Conference 2019 Tokyo Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2019 AP TMT Mar 2019 Conference Taipei Mar 2019 Morgan Stanley Annual Hong Kong Investor Summit Hong Kong Mar 2019 Credit Suisse Asian Investment Conference Hong Kong For example, Mr. Kirk Skaugen, President of the Data Center Group, was invited as the keynote speaker at Citigroup 2018 Global Technology Conference in September 2018 in New York City. Kirk presented the strong execution of Lenovo in intelligent transformation strategy and updated the investors with the latest development across the different business groups. He also highlighted the competitive edges of DCG business and the strategy going forward. 98 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Market Recognitions Lenovo has devoted continuous effort in investor relations and the Company was well-recognized by the investment community as well as the public. Forbes 2018 Global Top Regarded Companies 2000 Zhitong Finance 2018 Golden Hong Kong Equities Lenovo was named one of the “Global 2000 – Best Awards – Grand Award of Golden Hong Kong Regarded Companies” by the Forbes. The award is Equities & The Best Value TMT Company Award based on the results of an independent survey and Lenovo won the awards of “Grand Award of the companies receiving the highest total scores Golden Hong Kong Equities” and “Best Value are awarded as the Best Regarded Companies TMT Company” co-organized by the PRC leading within the Global 2000 list. The evaluation was financial media Zhitong Finance and Tonghuashun based on the dimensions “Trustworthiness/ Finance. The judging included results from online Honesty”, “Social Conduct”, “Company as an polling and a review by a judging panel made up of Employer” and “Performance of the Product/ renowned securities firms and economists. Services”. 2018 Golden Bauhinia Awards 2018 Golden Lion Awards Lenovo was entitled the “Best Investment Value Lenovo was entitled the “Best Investment Value Award for Listed Companies” in the 2018 Golden Award for Listed Companies” in the 2018 Golden Bauhinia Awards by Ta Kung Wen Wei Media Lion Awards by Sina Finance. Group. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 99 Corporate Governance Report HKMA Best Annual Reports Awards 2018 Galaxy Awards Lenovo’s fiscal year 2017/18 annual report with the Lenovo’s fiscal year 2017/18 annual report with the theme “Different is Better” has won the “Excellence theme “Different is Better” was entitled a Bronze Award for H Share & Red Chip Entries” and Winner in the 2018 Galaxy Awards in the category “Citation for Environmental, Social and Governance of printed annual reports. Disclosure” in the Best Annual Reports Awards by The Hong Kong Management Association (HKMA). Such award fully demonstrates our leading international best practices of our Annual Report. index Recognition Lenovo has always been well recognized by the capital market and the Company is currently a constituent stock of the following indexes: • Global Compact 100 • Hang Seng China (Hong Kong-listed) 100 Index • Hang Seng Composite Index • Hang Seng Composite Industry Index – Information Technology • Hang Seng Composite LargeCap Index • Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index • Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Benchmark Index 2018 Mercury Awards • Hang Seng (Mainland and HK) Corporate Lenovo’s fiscal year 2017/18 annual report was Sustainability Index also recognized as Sliver Winner in the 2018/19 • Hang Seng High Dividend Yield Index Mercury Excellence Awards in the regard of overall • Hang Seng Internet & Information Technology presentation. Such Award again is a strong prove Index of International recognition of our Annual Reports. • Hang Seng IT Hardware Index • Hang Seng Stock Connect Hong Kong Index • MSCI China Index • MSCI China Information Technology Index • MSCI Emerging Markets Value Index • MSCI Emerging Markets Information Tech Index 100 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report SHAREHOLDERS Communications with Shareholders “Shareholders Communication Policy”) setting The Company is committed to safeguard out various formal channels of communication shareholders’ interests and believes that effective with shareholders and other stakeholders for communication with shareholders and other ensuring fair disclosure and comprehensive stakeholders is essential for enhancing investor and transparent reporting of the Company’s relations and investor understanding of the performance and activities. The Nomination and business performance and strategies of the Group. Governance Committee of the Company reviews To achieve this, the Company has established the Shareholders Communication Policy on a the shareholders communication policy (the regular basis to ensure its effectiveness. COMMuniCATiOn CHAnnELS WiTH SHAREHOLDERS AnD OTHER STAKEHOLDERS Teleconferences Publication Shareholders’ investment Company’s and webcasts of financial meetings community website for analysts and reports, communications media briefings announcements, such as circulars and roadshow, press releases site visits and annual analyst roundtable Constructive use of the general meetings The annual general meeting and other general meeting. The information sent to shareholders meetings of the Company are the primary forum includes a summary of the business to be covered for communication by the Company with its at the annual general meeting, where a separate shareholders and for shareholders’ participation. resolution is prepared for each substantive matter. The Board encourages shareholders to participate in general meetings as it provides a valuable The Company arranges a question and answer opportunity to discuss the Company, its corporate session in the annual general meeting for governance and other important matters. Notice shareholders and media to communicate directly of the annual general meeting and related papers with Chairman and senior management. are sent to shareholders at least 20 clear business days prior to the date of the annual general 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 101 Corporate Governance Report 2018 Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting of the Company Nomination and Governance Committee or his/ held on July 5, 2018 (the “2018 Annual General her delegates, the Lead Independent Director and Meeting”) was attended by, among others, the representatives of the external auditor PwC to CEO, Chief Financial Officer, chairpersons of the answer questions raised by shareholders at the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and meeting. 102 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Separate resolutions were proposed on each issue, including the re-election of individual retiring directors. The matters resolved and the percentages of votes cast in favour of the resolutions are summarised below: Matters Being voted upon Percentage of Affirmative votes Received and considered the audited consolidated financial statements and the reports of the directors and 99.99% the independent auditor for the year ended March 31, 2018 Declaration of a final dividend for the issued shares of 99.99% the Company for the year ended March 31, 2018 89.83% to 99.99% Re-election of retiring directors and authorization of the with respect to each Board to fix directors’ fees individual resolution Re-appointment of PwC as auditor and authorization of 99.51% the Board to fix auditor’s remuneration Approval of granting the general mandate to the directors to allot, issue and deal with additional shares 75.88% not exceeding 20% of the aggregate number of shares in issue of the Company Approval of granting the general mandate to the directors to buy back shares not exceeding 10% of the 99.94% aggregate number of shares in issue of the Company Approval of extending the general mandate to the directors to issue new shares by adding the number of 75.67% shares bought back All of the resolutions proposed at the 2018 Annual Abacus Limited, the Company’s share registrar, General Meeting were decided by way of poll as scrutineer and the details of poll voting voting. Procedures for conducting the poll were results were posted on the Company’s website explained by the Chairman at the commencement (https://investor.lenovo.com/en/publications/news.php) of the meeting. The poll was conducted by Tricor and HKEx’s website (www.hkex.com.hk) on July 5, 2018. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 103 Corporate Governance Report 2019 Annual General Meeting the Company for the attention of the Company All shareholders are encouraged to attend and Secretary not less than six weeks before the annual participate in the Company’s 2019 annual general general meeting; or if later, the time at which notice meeting. Details of the proposed resolutions for is given of that annual general meeting. the 2019 annual general meeting are set out in the circular which will be dispatched to the Company’s The detailed procedures for shareholders to shareholders with this annual report. convene and put forward proposals at an annual general meeting or general meeting, including Shareholders’ Rights proposing a person other than a retiring director Procedures for convening a general meeting for election as a director are set out in the Shareholder(s) representing at least 5% of the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s total voting rights of the Company of all the website. Shareholders may send their enquiries shareholders having a right to vote at general requiring the Board’s attention to the Company at meetings may, in accordance with the requirements the registered address of the Company. and procedures set out in the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the Laws of Hong Constitutional documents Kong) (the “Companies Ordinance”), request the Rights of the shareholders are also provided under Board to convene a general meeting by requisition, the Articles of Association. During the year under by stating the general nature of the business to review, there are no changes in the Articles of be dealt at a general meeting and depositing Association. An up to date consolidated version the signed requisition at the registered office of of the Articles of Association is available on the the Company for the attention of the Company Company’s website and the HKEx’s website. Secretary in hard copy form. Dividend Policy Procedures for putting forward proposals at an The Company adopts a dividend policy of annual general meeting providing shareholders with sustainable dividends (a) Shareholder(s) representing at least 2.5% of on a semi-annual basis. The level of dividends the total voting rights of all the shareholders shall be determined in line with the growth in of the Company having a right to vote on the the Company’s consolidated profit attributable resolution at the annual general meeting; or (b) at to shareholders of the relevant financial period least 50 shareholders having a right to vote on the (after adjustments for restructuring or other oneresolution at the annual general meeting may, in off non-cash items, if any) after considering the accordance with the requirements and procedures factors including the Company’s operations, set out in the Companies Ordinance, requisition for business plans and strategies, cash flows, financial the circulation of resolutions to be moved at annual conditions, operating and capital requirements general meetings and circulation of statements and other contractual or regulatory restrictions. of not more than 1,000 words with respect to the Whilst the Company does not intend to set any matter referred to in the proposed resolution. pre-determined dividend distribution ratio in Such written request must (i) state the resolution order to allow for financial flexibility, the Company and be signed by all the requisitionists in one or endeavors to strike a proper balance between more documents in like form; and (ii) be deposited shareholders’ interests and prudent capital in hard copy form at the registered office of management. 104 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Shareholding Structure Shareholding as recorded in the register of registered addresses in Hong Kong. However, the members of the Company as of March 31, 2019 actual number of investors in the ordinary shares According to the register of members of the of the Company (the “Shares”) may be larger than Company as of March 31, 2019, there were 868 that as a substantial portion of the Shares are held registered shareholders of whom 98.27% had their through nominees, custodian houses and HKSCC Nominees Limited. (i) Details of registered shareholders by domicile as of March 31, 2019 are as follows: Percentage of the total number of Percentage of number of number of Domicile shareholders shareholders shares held shares in issue Canada 2 0.23% 50,000 0.00% China 7 0.81% 1,128,000 0.01% Hong Kong 853 98.27% 12,013,545,614 99.99% Macau 2 0.23% 40,000 0.00% Malaysia 1 0.12% 10,000 0.00% United Kingdom 3 0.35% 18,000 0.00% Total 868 100.00% 12,014,791,614 100.00% (ii) Details of registered shareholders by size of shareholding as of March 31, 2019 are as follows: Percentage of the total number of Percentage of number of number of Size of shareholding shareholders shareholders shares held shares in issue 1-2,000 247 28.46% 336,493 0.01% 2,001-10,000 394 45.39% 2,714,001 0.02% 10,001-100,000 199 22.93% 6,523,695 0.05% 100,001-1,000,000 22 2.53% 8,338,000 0.07% 1,000,001 and above 6 0.69% 11,996,879,425 99.85% Total 868 100.00% 12,014,791,614 100.00% Remarks: (i) A board lot size comprises 2,000 Shares. (ii) According to the addresses registered/shown on the register of members of the Company. (iii) 73.08% of all the issued Shares were held through HKSCC Nominees Limited. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 105 Corporate Governance Report Shareholding structure according to the interest disclosed under the Securities and Futures Ordinance as of March 31, 2019 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE AS OF MARCH 31, 2019 29.102% Legend Holdings Corporation Mr. Yang Yuanqing Other directors Public 5.886% 64.816% 0.196% Remarks: (i) The approximate percentage of shareholding is calculated based on the aggregate long positions held in the total number of shares in issue of the Company (other than the positions held in or pursuant to equity derivatives) by the relevant holder or group of holders as recorded in the registers maintained under the SFO. (ii) The approximate percentage of shareholding is calculated on the basis of 12,014,791,614 Shares of the Company in issue as of March 31, 2019. 106 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report KEY SHAREHOLDERS inFORMATiOn Listing information HK$84.82 billion, based on the total number of Lenovo Group Limited’s shares are listed on the 12,014,791,614 issued Shares of the Company and Stock of Exchange of Hong Kong. In addition, the closing price of HK$7.06 per share. shares are traded in the United States through an American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Level 1 The daily average number of traded Shares Programme. was approximately 55.41 million Shares over an approximate free float of 7,787 million Shares in Market Capitalization and Public Float the fiscal year 2018/19. The highest closing price As at March 31, 2019, the market capitalization of for the share was HK$7.26 per share on Mar 1, 2019 listed shares of the Company was approximately and the lowest was HK$3.60 per share on Apr 27, 2018 and May 7, 2018. Ordinary Shares (as at 31 March 2019) Listing Hong Kong Stock Exchange Stock code 992 Board lot size 2,000 shares Ordinary shares outstanding as of March 31, 2019 12,014,791,614 shares Free float approx. 7,787 million shares Market capitalization as of March 31, 2019 HK$84.82 billion (Approx. US$10.81 billion) Lenovo’s share price from Apr 1, 2018 to Mar 31, 2019 During the fiscal year, Lenovo’s share price outgrew the Hang Seng Index by 79.6 points, which showed the recognition of the capital market on the Company’s intelligent transformation. 200 180 +76.1% 160 140 79.6 points 120 100 -3.5% 80 60 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar (source: Nasdaq) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 107 Corporate Governance Report American Depositary Receipts Level i Program Ordinary share to ADR 20:1 Stock code LNVGY Basic Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share for the year ended March 31, 2019 5.01 U.S. cents Dividend per Share Dividend per ordinary share for the year ended March 31, 2019 – Interim 6.0 HK cents – Final1 21.8 HK cents Financial Calendar 2018/19 (Hong Kong Time) First Quarter Results Announcement August 16, 2018 Interim Results Announcement November 8, 2018 Third Quarter Results Announcement February 21, 2019 Annual Results Announcement May 23, 2019 Annual General Meeting July 9, 2019 The investor relations team values and is eager to hear suggestions and comments from shareholders and investors. For enquiries from institutional investors and equity analysts please contact ir@lenovo.com. Note: 1 Subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting. 108 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Audit Committee Report THE AuDiT COMMiTTEE The audit committee (the “Audit Committee”) of the board of directors (the “Board”) of Lenovo Group Limited (the “Company”) has been established since 1999 and as at the date of this annual report, is comprised of five members, all of whom including the Audit Committee chairman are independent nonexecutive directors. The members who held office during the year and up to the date of this annual report are: Chairman Mr. Nicholas C. Allen Independent non-executive director Member Ms. Ma Xuezheng Independent non-executive director Member Mr. William Tudor Brown Independent non-executive director Member Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr Independent non-executive director Member Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond Independent non-executive director (appointed as a member on February 22, 2019) Both Mr. Allen and Mr. Woo, being the chairman and a member of the Audit Committee respectively, have appropriate professional qualifications and experience in accounting or related financial management expertise as required under the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Listing Rules”). More information on the skills and experience of the members of Audit Committee may be found in the directors’ biographies set out on pages 147 to 151 of this annual report. RESPOnSiBiLiTiES The Audit Committee is delegated by the Board with responsibility to provide an independent review of the financial reporting, and assess the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems. It also reviews the adequacy of the Company’s internal audit function and manages the Company’s relationship with PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), the external auditor. The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee can be grouped into below different areas of competency: FinAnCiAL REPORTinG • The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices • The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with ﬁnancial reporting standards • Material areas in which signiﬁcant judgements have been applied RiSK MAnAGEMEnT AnD inTERnAL COnTROL • Eﬀectiveness of risk management and internal control systems • Internal audit plan and scope of the internal audit work • Analysis of main areas of risk AuDiT • Adequacy and eﬃciency of internal audit function COMMiTTEE Main areas of EXTERnAL AuDiT oversight • Appointment or re-appointment and their remuneration • Scope and status of the audit work • Areas of key audit focus • Independence and performance of external auditor OTHERS • Tax and treasury matters • Key litigation and legal exposures • Compliance with ethical rules and concerns 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 109 Audit Committee Report Key Features • The Audit Committee’s terms of reference which clearly deal with its membership, authority, duties and frequency of meetings are published on the websites of the Company and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. • The Audit Committee meets with external auditor, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Auditor and management of the accounting and financial reporting functions of the Company at least four times a year at quarterly intervals and is provided with sufficient resources to perform its duties. • The Audit Committee is authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice in performing its duties at the Company’s expense. No request was made by any member for such advice during the year. • Other management from the business is also invited to attend certain meetings from time to time in order to provide insight and enhance the Audit Committee’s awareness of key issues and developments. • Separate executive sessions were arranged for the Audit Committee to meet with external auditor, Chief Auditor and Chief Legal Officer in the absence of management to discuss matters relating to any issues arising from the audit and any other matters such persons would like to raise. • External auditor, Chief Auditor and Chief Legal Officer have direct access to the Audit Committee should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal meetings. • In addition to standing agenda items, the Audit Committee may also request to discuss on particular “deep-dive” topics. • The chairman will report back to the Board after each of the Audit Committee meeting on its decisions or recommendations. • The company secretary will circulate a list of follow-up actions together with the minutes of the last meeting to management and the Audit Committee within a reasonable time after such meeting is held. 110 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report MAin ACTiviTiES DuRinG FY2018/19 The work of the Audit Committee follows an agreed annual work plan and principally falls under three main areas: financial reporting; risk management and internal control; the oversight of external audit and the management of the Company’s relationship with PwC, the external auditor. The timetable of the Audit Committee for the fiscal year 2018/19 is set out in the below diagram. MAY AuGuST/FEBRuARY nOvEMBER • Annual results, including • Quarterly results, including • interim results, including review of: review of: review of: – reports to the Audit – reports to the Audit – reports to the Audit Committee from Chief Committee from Chief Committee from Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and external auditor Auditor and external auditor Auditor and external auditor – draft annual report – draft results announcement – draft interim report incorporating directors’ • Review of the Ethics and – draft results announcement report, corporate Compliance program of governance report and • Meeting with external the Group including the auditor in the absence of financial statements SPECiFiC iTEMS whistleblowing arrangements management – draft results announcement • Recommendations to the • Meeting with Chief Auditor • Review and assess of Board on the quarterly and Chief Legal Officer in the enterprise risk management results and related results absence of management • Review of the performance announcement • Recommendations to the and independence of external Board on the interim results, auditor interim report and related • Review of annual agenda of results announcement the Audit Committee • Meeting with external auditor in the absence of management • Meeting with Chief Auditor and Chief Legal Officer in the absence of management • Recommendations to the Board on: – the annual results, annual report and related results announcement – re-appointment of external auditor FinAnCiAL RiSK EXTERnAL AuDiT OTHERS REPORTinG MAnAGEMEnT AnD inTERnAL • Audit plan • Minutes of previous • Key accounting • Scope and status of meeting STAnDinG iTEMS COnTROL items the audit work • Reports on actions • Key assumptions, • Internal audit • Area of key audit taken or status of judgements and planning focus follow-up items estimates methodology/ arose from previous approach • Significant meetings • Key litigation and • Summary of accounting matters legal exposures • Discuss on internal audit and investigations particular “deep• Non-audit services dive” topics provided by the external auditor • Internal control of the Group including key control issues 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 111 Audit Committee Report In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Audit Committee held four meetings. The attendance record of the Audit Committee’s members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 80 and the chart below shows how the Audit Committee allocated its time during the fiscal year 2018/19. AuDiT COMMiTTEE Allocation of agenda time 29% FY2018/19 FY2017/18 Financial reporting 41% 32% 41% Risk management and internal 17% 23% control External audit 13% 13% Others (including compliance, 29% 32% tax and treasury matters) 13% 17% At each meeting, the Audit Committee received reports and presentations on key financial reporting, internal control and audit matters from management who attend the meetings to report on significant issues and respond to queries raised by the Audit Committee. The main matters and areas that the Audit Committee reviewed and considered at its four meetings during the year and how the Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities were as follows: Financial Reporting • Reviewed and recommended to the Board for With the support of the external auditor, the Audit approval the unaudited financial results of the Committee assessed whether suitable accounting Group for the three months ended June 30, policies had been adopted, whether management 2018 and for the nine months ended December had made appropriate estimates and judgements 31, 2018 together with its respective results and whether disclosures were in compliance announcements after discussion with the with the financial reporting standards. The Audit management and external auditor; Committee: • Received reports from and met with external • Reviewed and recommended to the Board for auditor and internal auditor to discuss the approval the audited financial results of the scope of their review and findings; Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Group”) for the year ended March • Reviewed the impairment assessment of 31, 2018 together with the related annual goodwill and other intangible assets with results announcement and the annual report indefinite useful lives; and incorporating the directors’ report and corporate governance report after discussion • Reviewed and discussed with management on with the management and external auditor; significant judgements and key assumptions together with presentational and disclosure • Reviewed and recommended to the Board issues associated with accounting standards for approval the unaudited interim financial and interpretive guidance affecting the Group’s results of the Group for the six months ended financial statements and financial results September 30, 2018 together with the related announcements; items reviewed and discussed interim results announcement and the interim included (a) net current liabilities position and report after discussion with the management deferred income tax assets; (b) the accounting and external auditor; treatment for business realignment plan; (c) the accounting treatment for disposals; (d) the accounting treatment on the Group’s goodwill; and (e) the accounting provisions and treatments for indirect tax receivables, inventories, and employees benefit plans. 112 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Risk Management and internal Control External Audit To discharge the responsibility of reviewing and To discharge the responsibility of overseeing the monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s risk Board’s relationship with the external auditor and management and internal control systems, the monitoring the external auditor’s performance, Audit Committee received regular reports from the objectivity and independence and also the Chief Auditor and if required from management effectiveness of the audit process, the Audit including legal and other business units. At each Committee: meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key • Reviewed and considered the external risks and control issues of the Group. The Audit auditor’s statutory audit scope and results for Committee: the fiscal year 2017/18, including their plan and the terms of engagement, and the letter • Discussed the yearly internal audit plan of the of representation to be given by the Board in Group to ensure adequate scope, coverage respect of the financial year ended March 31, over the activities of the Group and the 2018; resource requirements of internal audit to carry out its functions and also reviewed the results • Reviewed and considered the external auditor’s of the internal audit work quarterly; audit plan and scope for the fiscal year 2018/19; • Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system (including the adequacy of • Reviewed the results of the audit and the resources, staff qualification and experience, reports submitted by external auditor, which training programmes and budget of the summarised matters arising from their audit Group’s internal audit, accounting and financial on the Group during the year ended March 31, reporting function) operating in the Group 2019, together with management’s responses and reviewed the corrective actions taken by and/or comments to the findings; management; • Assessed the external auditor’s independence • Reviewed the enterprise risk management and objectivity including a review of the non(the “ERM”) of the Group including Group audit services provided by the external auditor; ERM approach, risk management status and and conclusion, risk registration results for fiscal year 2018/19, top 5 risks from 2010 to 2018 and • Evaluated the performance of PwC and risk management updates; recommended to the Board for approval of the re-appointment of PwC as the external auditor • Reviewed the management letter point status of the Group for the year ended March 31, of the Group and reviewed the actions/ 2019. processes undertaken by the Group; and • Reviewed the cyber security concerns and actions taken/to be taken by the Group. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 113 Audit Committee Report Others • after discussion with management and the During the fiscal year 2018/19, the Audit Committee external auditor, and having considered the also: Group’s financial position, the Audit Committee satisfied that the Group and the Company had • Reviewed the succession planning of the adequate resources to continue in operational finance organization of the Group; existence for the foreseeable future and confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate • Received and reviewed the reports from Chief for the consolidated financial statements of the Legal Officer regarding key litigation and other Group for the year ended March 31, 2019 to be legal matters of the Group; prepared on a going concern basis; and • Reviewed the Ethics and Compliance program • reviewed the consolidated financial statement including the whistleblowing procedure of the of the Group for the year ended March 31, Group for employees to raise concerns about 2019 in conjunction with the narrative sections possible improprieties in financial reporting, of this annual report. The Audit Committee internal control or other matters, and the satisfied that, taken as a whole, this annual enhancements to this program; report was present a balanced, clear and comprehensible assessment of the Group’s • Reviewed updates on treasury items, including performance, position and prospects. hedging, liquidity and cash forecasts; Based on the reviews and discussions referred to • Reviewed updates on tax model; above, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board the approval of the audited consolidated • Reviewed and approved the amendments to financial statements of the Group for the year the terms of reference of the Audit Committee ended March 31, 2019 together with the related for submitting to the Board for consideration annual results announcement and this annual report and approval; incorporating the directors’ report and corporate governance report. • Reviewed and approved the Audit Committee report for incorporating into the annual report REviEW OF RiSK MAnAGEMEnT AnD for the fiscal year 2017/18; and inTERnAL COnTROL SYSTEMS The Group’s internal control system covers every • Reviewed and approved the annual agenda activity and transaction. Within this framework, of the Audit Committee for the fiscal year management performs periodic enterprise wide 2018/19. risk assessments and continuously monitors and reports the progress of actions plans to address REviEW OF FinAnCiAL RESuLTS the key risks. Further information about the risk At the meeting held on May 22, 2019, the Audit management and internal control framework and Committee: control processes are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 83 to 89. • reviewed the key accounting judgements and policies adopted by the Group and Based on the information and confirmation confirmed that these are appropriate. The received from management, external auditor and significant areas of judgement identified internal auditor, the Audit Committee concluded by the Audit Committee, in conjunction that for the year ended March 31, 2019, the Group’s with management and the external auditor, risk management and internal control systems together with a number of other areas that were adequate and effective. The Audit Committee the Audit Committee deemed to be significant also confirmed that the Group had, in the fiscal in the context of the consolidated financial year 2018/19, satisfactorily complied with the code statements of the Group for the year ended provisions on risk management and internal control March 31, 2019 are set out in the Independent as set forth in the Corporate Governance Code and Auditor’s Report on pages 173 to 178; Corporate Governance Report in Appendix 14 to the Listing Rules. 114 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report RECOMMEnDATiOn FOR RE-APPOinTMEnT PRiORiTiES FOR FY2019/20 OF THE EXTERnAL AuDiTOR Looking ahead, the priorities of the Audit The Audit Committee recognizes the importance Committee for the fiscal year 2019/20 are: of maintaining the independence of the external auditor. Consistent with its terms of reference, • To stay focused on financial accounting and the Audit Committee has evaluated PwC’s reporting, audit quality, risk management and qualifications, performance, and independence, internal control. including that of the lead audit partner. The Company has established a policy pursuant to • To remain vigilant on the impacts of the which non-audit services, provided by the external economic conditions on the Group. auditor must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee. This policy is more fully described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 90. The Audit Committee has concluded that provision of the non-audit services described in that section was compatible with maintaining the independence of PwC. In addition, PwC has provided the Audit Committee an independence statement confirming that for the year ended March 31, 2019 and thereafter to the date of this annual report, they are independent of the Group in accordance with the independence requirements of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Based on the review and discussions referred to above, the Audit Committee was satisfied with the external auditor’s work, its independence and objectivity, and therefore recommended to the Board the re-appointment of PwC as the Group’s external auditor for the financial year ending March 31, 2020 for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting to be held on July 9, 2019. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 115 Compensation Committee Report THE COMPEnSATiOn COMMiTTEE The compensation committee (the “Committee”) of the board of directors (the “Board”) of Lenovo Group Limited (the “Company”) as of the date of this annual report is comprised of five members, all of whom are non-executive directors of the Company (the “non-executive Directors”) and majority of whom including the Committee chairman are independent non-executive directors of the Company (the “independent non-executive Directors”). The members who held office during the year and up to the date of this annual report are: Chairman Ms. Ma Xuezheng Independent Non-executive Director Member Mr. William O. Grabe Independent Non-executive Director and Lead Independent Director Member Mr. William Tudor Brown Independent Non-executive Director Member Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr Independent Non-executive Director Member Mr. Zhao John Huan Non-executive Director More information on the skills and experience of for the chairman of the Board (“Chairman”), chief the members of the Committee may be found in executive officer (“CEO”), other directors and the directors’ biographies set out on pages 147 to senior management; (ii) establish a formal and 151 of this annual report. transparent procedure for developing policy on compensation; (iii) determine the compensation RESPOnSiBiLiTiES level and package paid to the Chairman, CEO, other The Committee is delegated by the Board with the directors and senior management; and (iv) review responsibility to (i) review the Company’s structure the recommendation from independent consultant and aggregate value of compensation programs on the compensation of Non-executive Directors. Key Features The Committee’s terms of reference which clearly deal with its membership, authority, duties and frequency of meetings are published on the websites of the Company and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. The Committee meets with management and external independent professional adviser at least four times a year at quarterly intervals and is provided with sufficient resources to perform its duties. The Committee is authorised to obtain outside independent professional advice in performing its duties at the Company’s expense. The Committee shall ensure that no director is involved in deciding his or her own individual compensation. Separate executive session was arranged for the Committee to meet with its independent consultant in the absence of executive director and management to discuss matters relating to any issues and any other matters such persons would like to raise. The chairman will report back to the Board after each of the Committee meeting regarding decisions or recommendations. 116 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report SuMMARY OF WORK in 2018/19 Compensation Program In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the • Reviewed the CEO pay and performance Committee held three meetings. The attendance evaluation process; record of the Committee’s members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 80. • Reviewed and approved FY2017/18 bonus, long-term incentive (“LTi”) and FY2018/19 The main matters and areas that the Committee proposed target compensation for Chairman reviewed and considered at its three meetings and CEO; during the year were as follows: • Reviewed and approved FY2017/18 bonus, LTI Review of Company and Market information and FY2018/19 proposed target compensation • Reviewed overall compensation strategy; for senior management; • Reviewed and approved the peer group for the • Reviewed and approved the FY2019/20 bonus Chairman & CEO and Corporate President & and LTI plans; COO; • Reviewed and approved the FY2019/20 LTI • Reviewed the market positioning for the budget; compensation of CEO and senior management including pay levels and pay mix; • Reviewed the holding power and share ownership positions of both senior • Reviewed pay efficiency to support management and Non-executive Directors; understanding of pay affordability and sustainability for entire company; • Reviewed the analysis and recommendations from an independent consultant on the • Reviewed the compensation and remuneration FY2018/19 Non-executive Directors’ trends and regulatory developments in compensation package; technology industry; Others • Reviewed the Compensation Committee Report for incorporating into the annual report for the fiscal year 2017/18; and • Reviewed and approved the annual agenda of the Committee for the fiscal year 2018/19. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 117 Compensation Committee Report COMPEnSATiOn POLiCY Generally, Lenovo’s compensation serves to Overall Principles support the Company’s business strategy, assist in Lenovo recognizes the importance of attracting the attraction and retention of top talent, reinforce and retaining top-caliber talent and is strongly the Company’s pay-for-performance culture, as committed to effective corporate governance. well as reflecting market practices of other leading Consistent with this philosophy, the Company international IT enterprises, with particular focus on has a formal, transparent and performance-driven Lenovo’s closest competitors. compensation policy covering its directors, senior management and general employees. The Committee makes regular reviews of Lenovo’s compensation practices to ensure they reflect the five overall principles and objectives as presented below. Balance short and Pay competitiveness long-term focus, against peer companies, enabling ensuring alignment with Pay for Performance: the Company to recognize shareholder value creation Strong linkage between financial contribution of key talent success, individual performance Flexibility to adjust and employee reward Support eﬀective to diverse businesses and talent corporate governance markets practices non-executive Directors Committee considers a number of relevant factors The Committee regularly reviews the compensation in the determination of their compensation. Such of Non-executive Directors to ensure its factors include: salaries and total compensation appropriateness considering the Non-executive paid by peer companies, job responsibilities and Directors’ time commitment, workload, job scopes, the Company’s business performance and requirements and responsibilities versus Lenovo’s individual performance. peer companies and the broader market. Details of the current package and the review carried out The compensation structure of Lenovo’s Chairman/ in this fiscal year are set out in the section headed CEO and senior management consists of base “Remuneration Reviews” below. salaries, allowances, performance-based bonuses, LTI, retirement benefits, and benefits-in-kind. These Chairman/CEO and Senior Management components and their mix are described below. To ensure Lenovo’s compensation for the Chairman/CEO and senior management reflect The Chairman/CEO pay mix chart reflects the policy and principles described above, the FY2018/19 emoluments disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements. The senior management pay mix chart reflects average FY2018/19 emoluments including LTI that were awarded in June 2018. 118 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Chairman / CEO pay mix Senior management pay mix (Average) 13% 23% 10% 77% 60% 17% Fixed Compensation Performance Bonus LTI Fixed Compensation Performance Bonus LTI Fixed Compensation Under the LTI Program, the Company maintains Fixed compensation includes base salary, two types of equity-based compensation vehicles: allowances and benefits-in-kind (e.g. medical, (i) share appreciation rights, and (ii) restricted dental and life insurance, etc.). Base salary and share units. These vehicles are described in more allowances are set and reviewed annually for each detail below. position, reflecting competitive market positioning for comparable positions, market practices, as (i) Share Appreciation Rights (“SARs”) well as the Company’s performance and individual SARs entitle the holder to receive the contribution to the business. Allowances are appreciation in value of the Company’s share provided to facilitate temporary and permanent price above a predetermined level. SARs are staff relocations. Benefits-in-kind are reviewed typically subject to a vesting schedule of up to regularly taking into consideration relevant industry four years. and local market practices. (ii) Restricted Share Units (“RSUs”) Performance Bonus RSU is equivalent to the value of one ordinary The Chairman/CEO and senior management are share of the Company. Once vested, RSU is eligible to receive performance bonuses. The converted to an ordinary share, or its cash amounts paid under the plan are based on the equivalent. RSUs are typically subject to a performance of the Company, using selected vesting schedule of up to four years. Dividends financial and non-financial metrics, its subsidiaries, are typically not paid on RSUs. relevant performance groups and/or geographies as appropriate, as well as individual performance. The Company reserves the right to settle any awards under the LTI Program in cash or in Long-Term Incentive Program (“LTI Program”) ordinary shares at its discretion. The Company has The Company operates a LTI Program which was created and funded a trust to pay shares to eligible adopted by the Company in 2005 and amended recipients. In the case of SARs, shares are due in 2008 and 2016 respectively. The purpose of after exercise by the recipient. In the case of RSUs, the LTI Program is to attract, retain, reward shares are due after the employee satisfies any and motivate executive and Non-executive vesting conditions. Directors, senior management and selected topperforming employees of the Company and its The number of units awarded under the LTI subsidiaries, while reinforcing direct alignment with Program is set and reviewed annually, reflecting shareholders. competitive market positioning, market practices, 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 119 Compensation Committee Report especially those among Lenovo’s competitors, practices. Details of the retirement schemes are set as well as the Company’s performance and each out in the directors’ report on pages 157 to 160. individual’s actual and expected contribution to the business. In certain circumstances, awards under General Employees the LTI Program may be made to support the As at March 31, 2019, the Group had a headcount attraction of new hires. Award levels and mix may of more than 57,000 worldwide. vary by individual, role and level. Lenovo believes that employees are its most In fiscal year 2018/19, the Company did not issue important strategic resource and recognizes that any new shares under this program, and the each employee must be valued as an individual and program is currently operated through purchasing treated fairly and equitably. Lenovo’s compensation existing shares from the market. philosophy supports this value and targets compensation competitively within the relevant Retirement Benefits competitive market, with significant opportunity for The Company operates a number of retirement increased pay based on performance. Through the schemes for its employees, including executive compensation program, Lenovo seeks to identify directors and senior management. These schemes and reward exceptional performance in ways are reviewed regularly and are intended to deliver that sends clear messages about the Company’s benefit levels that are consistent with local market priorities and values. EMPLOYEE Long-Term Fixed Performance COMPEnSATiOn incentive Compensation Bonus PACKAGE Program Similar to senior management, employees at Lenovo are eligible for fixed compensation including base salary, allowances and benefits-in-kind. Eligible employees would also receive performance bonus based on individual and company performance. In addition, selected top-performing employees are eligible to participate in the LTI Program. REMunERATiOn REviEWS firm to conduct an analysis of the compensation The Committee regularly reviews the Company’s package of the Non-executive Directors to compensation programs to ensure alignment with ensure its appropriateness considering the Nonits stated objectives as well as competitiveness in executive Directors’ time commitment, workload, the talent market. Typically, reviews for base salary, job requirements and responsibilities versus performance bonus, and LTI award are conducted Lenovo’s peer companies and the broader market. on an annual basis. Non-executive Directors’ fees Overall, both cash retainer and annual LTI award are reviewed for alignment with market practice on remained constant at US$92,500 and US$200,000*, an annual basis as well. respectively. Final recommendations as subsequently approved by the Board (comprising Fiscal Year 2018/19 non-executive Directors executive director of the Company only) based on Review the delegation from shareholders of the Company In May 2018, the Committee engaged an are summarized in the table below: independent international compensation consulting Compensation Element 2018/19 2017/18 Cash Retainer $92,500 uSD $92,500 USD LTI Award $200,000 uSD $200,000 USD Total Remuneration $292,500 uSD $292,500 USD * The LTI award consists of SARs and RSUs, which can be settled in either Lenovo shares or cash equivalent upon exercise. SARs and RSUs are subject to a three-year vesting period and are otherwise subject to the same terms and conditions of the SAR and RSU schemes described above. 120 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Consistent with prior practice, the chairman of for the Chairman/CEO and senior management in the Audit Committee of the Company received May 2018, effective July 1, 2018. an additional cash payment equal to US$27,500 (approximately HK$214,500), while the chairman Base salary for the Chairman/CEO remained of the Compensation Committee of the Company constant at RMB8,808,815 (approximately received an additional cash payment equal to US$1,313,690 (Note: the translation of RMB into US$20,000 (approximately HK$156,000), and the USD is based on the exchange rate of RMB1.00 to Lead Independent Director received an additional USD0.149134 and is for information purposes only) cash payment equal to US$35,000 (approximately (actual pay delivered in local currency)). Base HK$273,000) per year. salaries for senior management were increased by an average of 1.3% to account for changes in role, Further details of the compensation of the Nonscope and market pay levels and in consideration executive Directors are included in note 10 to of individual performance and contributions. the financial statements. SAR and RSU awards outstanding for Non-executive Directors as of Performance Bonus March 31, 2019 under this scheme are presented in Chairman/CEO and senior management’s fiscal the “Long-Term Incentive Scheme” section of this year 2018/19 performance bonus payouts were report. approved in the May 2018 Committee meeting. Final bonus payouts for Chairman/CEO and senior Fiscal Year 2018/19 Chairman/CEO and Senior management were determined based on overall Management Review pre-tax income, total revenue, customer experience Fixed Compensation as well as individual performance. As a part of its annual review process, the Committee had reviewed and approved base pay Customer individual Overall PTi Total Revenue Experience Performance Approved performance bonus payments for the The purpose of the Plan is to facilitate and fiscal year 2018/19 will be delivered in June 2019. encourage Lenovo share ownership by the general employee population. Under the Plan, eligible LTI Program employees are awarded one matching restricted The most recent full cycle of LTI awards including share unit for every four ordinary shares of the both SARs and RSUs was made in June 2018. Company purchased through qualified employee Selected executives, including the Chairman/CEO contributions. The matching restricted share and senior management, received LTI awards based units are subject to a vesting schedule of up to on Company’s and individual’s performance during two years. Executive and Non-executive Director fiscal year 2017/18. The next cycle of LTI awards and senior management of the Company are not including SARs and RSUs is expected to be in June eligible to participate in the Plan. 2019. For fiscal year 2018/19, the Company did not issue Employee Share Purchase Plan (ESPP) any new shares under this plan, and the plan is The Company has launched an employee currently operated through purchasing existing share purchase plan (“Plan”) in October 2016. shares from the market. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 121 Compensation Committee Report Remuneration of Senior Management The remuneration of senior management fell within the following bands for the year ended March 31, 2019: number of senior Remuneration bands management US$1,657,735 to US$1,721,493 1 US$2,869,157 to US$2,932,915 1 US$3,124,193 to US$3,187,951 1 US$3,315,470 to US$3,379,228 1 US$3,825,542 to US$3,889,300 1 US$5,419,518 to US$5,483,276 1 US$8,862,506 to US$8,926,264 1 US$13,835,710 to US$13,899,468 1 Emoluments of Directors for FY2018/19 and Five Highest Paid individuals Details of the emoluments of directors and the five highest paid individuals are set out in note 10 to the financial statements. Fiscal Year 2018/19 Employees Review Fixed Compensation Each year, management conducts a market review to ensure fixed compensation changes are aligned and competitive with market trends. The review incorporates input from several external survey providers and formal assessments of individual performance. Any approved market-based merit increases were effective from July 1, 2018. Performance Bonus Performance bonus for general employees is based on individual performance and performance of their respective business unit or “Performance Groups”. For fiscal year 2018/19, there were a total of approximately 110 different Performance Groups within the Company each with its unique performance metrics and targets, which consist of a financial component and a customer experience component. For the fiscal year 2018/19 performance bonus, mid-year progress payment was made in December 2018, and full payment based on annual business outcomes will be trued-up in June 2019 based on approved final bonus funding. individual Bonus Target X Performance X Performance = Final Bonus Group Score Modifier Payout Performance Group scores may range from 0% to 320% based on final results against targets. Individual Performance Modifiers range from 0% to 150% and are linked to the employee Performance Ratings and progress against established Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). LTI Program For fiscal year 2018/19, 24.3% of eligible employees (excluding executive directors) received an award under the LTI Program. These awards were granted in June 2018. 122 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report LOnG-TERM inCEnTivE PROGRAM The Company implemented the LTI Program to attract, retain, reward and motivate executive and Nonexecutive Directors, senior management and selected top-performing employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. The movements in the share awards of the Executive and Non-executive Directors during the fiscal year are as follows: number of units Lapsed/ Total As at nullified As at outstanding Fiscal Effective April 1, Awarded vested Exercised during March 31, as at year of price 2018 during during during the period 2019 March 31, vesting period name Award type award (HK$) (unvested) the period the period the period (Note 1) (unvested) 2019 (mm.dd.yyyy) Mr. Yang Yuanqing SAR 11/12 6.80 – – – – 11,132,358 – – 02.13.2013 – 02.13.2016 SAR 12/13 8.22 – – – – – – 14,059,573 02.04.2014 – 02.04.2017 SAR 13/14 9.815 3,630,011 – 3,630,011 – – – 14,520,062 06.03.2015 – 06.03.2018 SAR 15/16 12.29 6,351,832 – 3,175,916 – – 3,175,916 12,703,664 06.01.2016 – 06.01.2019 SAR 16/17 4.90 63,486,235 – 31,743,118 – – 31,743,117 126,972,471 06.01.2017 – 06.01.2019 SAR 17/18 4.95 45,893,773 – 15,297,924 – – 30,595,849 45,893,773 06.01.2018 – 06.01.2020 SAR 18/19 4.00 – 39,305,643 – – – 39,305,643 39,305,643 06.01.2019 – 06.01.2021 RSU 13/14 9.815 1,332,396 – 1,332,396 – – – – 06.03.2015 – 06.03.2018 RSU 15/16 12.29 2,441,008 – 1,220,505 – – 1,220,503 1,220,503 06.01.2016 – 06.01.2019 RSU 17/18 4.95 11,895,664 – 3,965,221 – – 7,930,443 7,930,443 06.01.2018 – 06.01.2020 RSU 18/19 4.00 – 9,368,500 – – – 9,368,500 9,368,500 06.01.2019 – 06.01.2021 Mr. Zhu Linan SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – 91,438 80,658 – – 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 242,723 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,656 – 134,656 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 410,508 306,315 205,254 205,254 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 318,439 209,348 636,877 636,877 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,499 – 34,499 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Mr. Zhao John Huan SAR 11/12 5.78 – – – 103,913 103,645 – – 11.03.2012 – 11.03.2014 SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – 274,316 250,849 – – 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,656 – 134,656 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,499 – 34,499 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 123 Compensation Committee Report number of units Lapsed/ Total As at nullified As at outstanding Fiscal Effective April 1, Awarded vested Exercised during March 31, as at year of price 2018 during during during the period 2019 March 31, vesting period name Award type award (HK$) (unvested) the period the period the period (Note 1) (unvested) 2019 (mm.dd.yyyy) Dr. Tian Suning SAR 11/12 4.56 – – – 323,000 304,000 – – 08.19.2012 – 08.19.2014 SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – 274,316 253,952 – – 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,656 – 134,656 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,499 – 34,499 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Mr. Nicholas C. Allen SAR 11/12 4.56 – – – 323,000 304,000 – – 08.19.2012 – 08.19.2014 SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – – – – 274,316 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,657 – 134,657 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,500 – 34,500 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Mr. Nobuyuki Idei SAR 11/12 5.23 – – – 144,085 139,938 – – 09.28.2012 – 09.28.2014 SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – – – – 274,316 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,656 – 134,656 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,500 – 34,500 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Mr. William O. Grabe SAR 11/12 4.56 – – – 323,000 304,000 – – 08.19.2012 – 08.19.2014 SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – – – – 274,316 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,657 – 134,657 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,500 – 34,500 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU (Deferral) 17/18 3.84 – 65,104 65,104 – – – – Note 2 RSU (Deferral) 18/19 4.18 – 59,809 59,809 – – – – Note 2 RSU (Deferral) 18/19 5.40 – 46,260 46,260 – – – – Note 2 RSU (Deferral) 18/19 5.40 – 46,260 46,260 – – – – Note 2 124 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report number of units Lapsed/ Total As at nullified As at outstanding Fiscal Effective April 1, Awarded vested Exercised during March 31, as at year of price 2018 during during during the period 2019 March 31, vesting period name Award type award (HK$) (unvested) the period the period the period (Note 1) (unvested) 2019 (mm.dd.yyyy) Mr. William Tudor SAR 12/13 8.07 – – – – – – 53,476 01.31.2014 – 01.31.2016 Brown SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,657 – 134,657 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,500 – 34,500 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Ms. Ma Xuezheng SAR 11/12 4.56 – – – 107,666 101,333 – – 08.19.2012 – 08.19.2014 SAR 12/13 6.36 – – – – – – 182,877 07.03.2013 – 07.03.2015 SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 364,084 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 275,884 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,656 – 134,656 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,499 – 34,499 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan SAR 12/13 8.63 – – – – – – 24,593 02.20.2014 – 02.20.2016 Jerry SAR 13/14 7.88 – – – – – – 245,757 08.16.2014 – 08.16.2016 SAR 14/15 11.48 – – – – – – 186,221 08.15.2015 – 08.15.2017 SAR 14/15 11.07 – – – – – – 37,202 11.16.2015 – 11.16.2017 SAR 15/16 7.49 134,657 – 134,657 – – – 403,970 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.49 34,501 – 34,501 – – – – 08.14.2016 – 08.14.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Mr. Gordon Robert SAR 15/16 7.25 74,703 – 74,703 – – – 224,107 09.18.2016 – 09.18.2022 Halyburton Orr SAR 16/17 5.38 410,508 – 205,254 – – 205,254 615,761 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2023 SAR 17/18 4.74 955,316 – 318,439 – – 636,877 955,316 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 SAR 18/19 4.39 – 1,125,232 – – – 1,125,232 1,125,232 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 RSU 15/16 7.25 19,139 – 19,139 – – – – 09.18.2016 – 09.18.2018 RSU 16/17 5.38 96,059 – 48,029 – – 48,030 48,030 08.19.2017 – 08.19.2019 RSU 17/18 4.74 165,079 – 55,026 – – 110,053 110,053 08.21.2018 – 08.21.2020 RSU 18/19 4.39 – 178,799 – – – 178,799 178,799 08.17.2019 – 08.17.2021 Note 1: These units were nullified in accordance with the operation of the SAR plan rules. Note 2: Proceeds in respect of quarterly deferral grants to be paid only at point of termination from the board of directors or unforeseen emergency. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 125 Compensation Committee Report OTHER SHAREHOLDER ORiEnTED Claw Back Policy FEATuRES Lenovo maintains a claw back policy for selected Share Ownership Guidelines executives, including the Chairman/CEO and senior Lenovo maintains share ownership guidelines management. The policy states that in the event for selected executives, including the Chairman/ of a restatement of the Company’s previously CEO and senior management. The guidelines issued financial statements as a result of errors, help to align executives with shareholders and omission, fraud or non-compliance, the Board focus executives on the long-term performance may, in its discretion, attempt to recover all or a of Lenovo by requiring certain levels of share portion of compensation, with respect to any fiscal ownership. The guidelines (expressed as a year in which the Company’s financial results are multiple of base salary) vary by role and level negatively affected by such restatement. and are expected to be achieved within 5 years of becoming an eligible executive. If the guidelines are not achieved, executives are required to retain a minimum portion of vested shares delivered through Lenovo’s incentive plans until the guidelines are met. The guidelines are then expected to be maintained throughout the executives’ remaining employment. As of fiscal year end, 97% of executives covered by the guidelines have achieved the targeted level of ownership, and with the upcoming annual LTI grant in June 2019, 100% of executives covered by the guidelines will achieve the targeted level of ownership. Additionally, the Non-executive Directors are subject to similar guidelines and are in full compliance. 126 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Sustainability Overview SuSTAinABiLiTY In May and August 2018, the Lenovo Board We define sustainability as a system of core beliefs, of Directors reviewed updates on Lenovo’s and also as a management discipline – one with sustainability and corporate responsibility risks. increasingly sophisticated tools and processes for The updates included a review of Lenovo’s Annual measuring corporate performance. Report Environmental, Social, and Governance content, Sustainability Report, and the Company’s At Lenovo, we perpetuate the values of anti-slavery and human trafficking statement; the sustainability, and we’re proud to be recognized by Board approved all these updates. The Board also professionals worldwide as a sustainability leader. received an update on Lenovo’s Sustainability Prominent programs such as Bloomberg’s Gender Highlights, including customer expectations and Equality Index and CDP have recognized our requirements; a progress report on Lenovo’s achievements in workplace equality, greenhouse climate change commitments and a request gas emissions mitigation, resource use, corporate for continued support of Lenovo’s climate and social responsibility, and supply chain management. renewable energy investments; and an update on Our inclusion in the 2018 Hang Seng Corporate ESG Risks and Lenovo’s responses to them. Sustainability Index demonstrates Lenovo’s excellence in sustainability performance. Lenovo’s annual Sustainability Report provides a full accounting of the Company’s environmental Excellence in sustainability starts at the top, with and social responsibility performance for the the support and endorsement of the Chairman previous fiscal year. We determine the scope of the and CEO, Yuanqing Yang. Evidence of our report by a Sustainability Materiality Assessment, a commitment comes through our board-approved process where Lenovo evaluates and determines its Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework and significant, or material, sustainability topics. Sustainability Materiality Assessment, which guides our sustainability reporting. Every year, we provide Lenovo has continued its role as a signatory to a full accounting of the company’s environmental the United Nations Global Compact, a publicand social responsibility performance in our annual private strategic policy initiative for businesses Sustainability Report. committed to aligning operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the As one of the largest advanced-manufacturing areas of human rights, labor, environment, and companies globally, our focus on sustainability anti-corruption. In addition, many of Lenovo’s helps make a significant impact in markets around initiatives align with the United Nations Sustainable the world. Development Goals (SDGs), which are detailed in our latest Sustainability Report. Lenovo uses its ERM framework and process to regularly evaluate and address sustainability and Lenovo maintains strong commitments to ethical corporate social responsibility risks. The Company’s corporate citizenship and sustainability practices Board of Directors and management team across in all of its activities. These are important all major functions of the Company use this same commitments critical for the future of the Company process. Lenovo’s corporate governance framework in meeting expectations from customers and the includes a Corporate Sustainability Policy, signed communities with which the Company interacts. by Chairman and CEO Yuanqing Yang, which outlines the social, environmental, and economic Below contains a selection of Lenovo’s FY18/19 principles that guide the Company’s operation. The sustainability achievements. Find more information policy is available at www.lenovo.com/sustainability. in Lenovo’s Sustainability Report available at www.lenovo.com/sustainability. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 127 Sustainability Overview Key Recognitions from the Global Community: • 2019 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, recognizing commitments to transparency in gender reporting and advancing women’s equality • 2019 EcoVadis CSR Gold level rating • 2018 Platinum Award in Corporate Governance and Sustainability and Social Responsibility Reporting Award from the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants • 2018 Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index • 2018 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change – Lenovo scored B, “Management Level,” on CDP’s climate questionnaire and an A on the CDP Supplier Engagement Rating, assessing progress toward environmental stewardship through climate change mitigation and adaptation – Lenovo was recognized with the “China Influence Award on Climate Change Mitigation” award by CDP in March 2019. Lenovo received the 2018 Best Corporate Governance Award from the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. In addition, several organizations have recognized Lenovo manufacturing and Research & Development sites for safety, including Lenovo Chengdu, China, which received the “2018 Lenovo Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer, John Recognition of Safety Culture Demonstration Cerretani, accepted the ‘2018 CDP China Influence Enterprise” from the local government. Award on Climate Change Mitigation’ in Beijing in March 2019. • 2018 – Human Rights Campaign – Corporate Equality Index – Lenovo achieved a 100% (perfect score) • Fatherly’s 50 Best Places to Work for new Dads • 2018 Working Mother 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers • 2018 Working Mother Best Companies for Dads 128 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report ETHiCS AnD COMPLiAnCE Lenovo expects the highest standards of ethical Trust and integrity form key cultural foundations for conduct from its employees and has a clear nonLenovo. Lenovo promotes a culture that demands retaliation policy that protects employees who seek the highest ethical standards of business conduct guidance on ethical or compliance issues or report and a commitment to compliance with all laws any information pertaining to potential violations and regulations wherever it operates. Its policies of law, Company policy, or the Code of Conduct. and programs align with its objective to operate Lenovo provides formal, confidential mechanisms ethically in all Lenovo business activities. for reporting such concerns, all of which are addressed and tracked to resolution. Lenovo has an Ethics and Compliance Office (ECO) that works in partnership with its business units Privacy across the globe to ensure they operate within Lenovo recognizes the great importance of privacy legal and ethical obligations. Led by Lenovo’s to individuals everywhere – customers, website Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer, ECO plays visitors, product users, employees...everyone. The a critical role in providing the resources and responsible use and protection of personal and information employees need to make well-informed other information under the Company’s care is a choices and decisions. core value. The ECO continually reviews and assesses To ensure adherence to Lenovo privacy policies, Lenovo’s internal policies and procedures, principles and processes, the Company maintains conducts in-person training sessions, and a global Privacy Program led by the Legal provides communications to our business teams Department and a cross-functional Privacy Working to improve employee education on ethics and Group comprised of key partners drawn from compliance issues. Additionally, the ECO maintains Information Security, Product Security, Product and monitors confidential reporting lines that Development, Marketing, E-Commerce, Service and employees and third parties may use to report Repair, Human Resources, and other groups. misconduct. The ECO also leads Lenovo’s efforts to conduct ethics and reputational due diligence on Key projects of the Privacy Program include: Lenovo business partners. • Engagement with Lenovo’s business teams on privacy due diligence and application of key Lenovo’s Code of Conduct, an integral part of privacy principles its ethics and compliance program, applies to all • Development and governance of internal and Lenovo employees worldwide. external privacy policies • Hold pre-launch privacy review processes The Code establishes clear expectations for for products, software, websites, marketing employee compliance with policies related to programs, internal applications, and vendor lawful and ethical business conduct and behavior. relationships We make the Code available to employees in • Host employee privacy awareness and training nine languages and accessible on Lenovo’s initiatives website along with other corporate policies at • Support for contracts www.lenovo.com/csr_resources. Regular training • Tracking and application of legal requirements on the Code and related policies is provided and industry best practices to reinforce the Company’s commitment to • Audit and assessment compliance and conducting business with integrity. • Incident response planning and processes Questions or concerns about Lenovo’s privacy policies and programs can be addressed to privacy@lenovo.com. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 129 Sustainability Overview PRODuCT RESPOnSiBiLiTY Lenovo’s Quality Policy forms the foundation of Lenovo provides high-quality products that its Quality Management System, which is ISO are safe to operate throughout their lifecycle. (International Organization for Standardization) Lenovo designed corporate strategies, policies, 9001:2015 certified. To maintain the highest and guidelines to support this commitment. Our level of quality in products, Lenovo employs an products meet all applicable legal requirements as active, closed-loop process whereby feedback well as voluntary safety and ergonomics practices mechanisms provide quick resolution to customer to which Lenovo subscribes wherever our products issues. When we discover product issues we are sold. See Lenovo’s product safety priorities perform a root cause analysis and feed the results below. back into manufacturing, development, and test organizations to ensure similar issues do not arise with current or future products. Comply with applicable legal requirements and voluntary Select suppliers safety and ergonomics who demonstrate practices to which Lenovo similar commitments subscribes to safety Lenovo’s Continually Product Safety improve product safety Priorities processes investigate product safety incidents and take prompt Provide customers with remedial actions to protect labeling, instructions, and customers and employees other information to safely use Lenovo products 130 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report MAnuFACTuRinG AnD SuPPLY CHAin encourages its suppliers to achieve OHSAS 18001 OPERATiOnS certification through voluntary initiatives. Manufacturing Operations Lenovo’s manufacturing business model combines Occupational Health and Safety both Company-owned manufacturing capabilities We want to provide a safe and healthy working with original design manufacturer (ODM) environment for all Lenovo employees. The partnerships and joint-venture manufacturing. This Company’s Global Occupational Health and Safety hybrid model gives us a competitive advantage (OHS) organization creates and maintains worldwhich allows us to bring new innovations to market class standards for employee workplace safety fast while we maintain strong control over product through our Occupational Safety and Health development and supply chain operations. Given Management System. This System delivers health our global manufacturing operation, we can tailor and safety programs and processes throughout our products to regional markets. our global manufacturing footprint through education, prevention, checks, and controls that All Lenovo global manufacturing locations are ISO are vital to achieving the Company’s objectives 9001 (Quality), ISO 14001 (Environmental) and for innovation, productivity and continual OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety) certified. As improvement. We quickly and fully integrate and required by these globally accepted standards, we measure new facilities into our system to our implemented objectives and targets annually at demanding health and safety standards. All Lenovo each Lenovo manufacturing facility for continual global manufacturing locations are OHSAS 18001 improvement and a safe and healthy work certified by Bureau Veritas, a leading independent environment for our employees. In addition, Lenovo certification body. Countries with health & safety-certified (OHSAS 18001) Lenovo manufacturing locations Brazil China india Japan Mexico u.S.A. Lenovo focuses on continually improving the and environmental assessments at all internal sustainability performance of its manufacturing global manufacturing locations to provide high organizations guided by programs and tools of levels of regulatory and external management the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). Lenovo systems compliance. upholds compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct by conducting regular occupational health, safety, 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 131 Sustainability Overview Supply Chain Operations Lenovo recognizes the importance of concerns Lenovo expects its suppliers to provide the regarding the sourcing of materials containing highest quality parts, products, and services, and tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold (3T/G), and cobalt. to conduct business ethically, responsibly, and When we source these materials from regions sustainably. We measure our top 100 suppliers, experiencing political and social conflict, which may which constitute most of our procurement spend, include the Democratic Republic of the Congo or across 25 key sustainability indicators. A large surrounding countries, we refer to them as “conflict majority of our procurement spend suppliers minerals.” We support the efforts of the RBA, the are ISO 9001/ISO 14001/OHS 18001 certified, Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP), issue public sustainability reports, and receive NGOs, and governmental bodies to solve this quarterly scorecards from Lenovo which include complex issue. We have supported these efforts sustainability performance. with our RBA membership dues since 2006 and direct participation in RBA programs. Also, Lenovo First and foremost, we require suppliers has joined the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) contractually through purchase order terms and to focus on conflict materials beyond 3T/G. conditions and other formal agreements to comply with all legal, regulatory, and various additional Lenovo’s activities regarding conflict minerals sustainability requirements. We require them to include: implement and maintain documented quality and environmental management systems that meet ISO • A comprehensive Conflict Minerals Policy as 9001 and ISO 14001 requirements, follow all laws well as a specific Cobalt Policy regarding environmental and workplace conditions, comply with restricted materials requirements, and • Working with suppliers through formal provide necessary declarations. contracts and directly validating their due diligence efforts via independent third-party Lenovo also implements the RBA Code of Conduct RBA audits contractually with its suppliers as well as the Lenovo Supplier Code of Conduct. The RBA code • Participating in RMI conflict mineral covers elements of labor, environmental, and health conferences, smelter engagement teams, and concerns. It specifically addresses child labor, other work groups forced labor, working hours, overtime, time off, recruitment fees, and ensuring these requirements • Holding regular education sessions for are passed on to all levels of the supply chain. employees, publishing quarterly newsletters, Lenovo works to make sure 95 percent of its Tier and providing supplier training as needed 1 suppliers and 50 percent of its Tier 2 suppliers by procurement spend comply with this directive • Employing the RBA Conflict Minerals Reporting through formal self-assessments and independent Template (CMRT) for Reasonable Country of third-party audits. Origin Inquiry (RCOI) efforts across 95 percent of our procurement spend and our supply Regarding supplier environmental impacts, chain Lenovo’s Environmental Affairs Policy requires Lenovo’s Procurement team to identify areas of • Utilizing RMAP to audit and certify smelters as environmental risk based on specific criteria and being conflict-free compliant then to conduct prescribed actions to mitigate risk. We audit suppliers with the highest potential • Reporting the program status to Lenovo’s risk before we use them, and we audit them on a Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer regular schedule. Additionally, we require suppliers to report their policy goals, greenhouse gas (GHG) • Reporting publicly our conflict minerals report, emissions, water usage, waste generation, and the smelters and refiners in our supply chain renewable energy use annually, and we track how and their country of location as well as our list they’re doing on their reduction efforts. of suppliers 132 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Supplier Diversity owned businesses as well as businesses located We believe in providing equal opportunity for in Historically Underutilized Business Zones all suppliers while developing and advocating (HUBZones) and Small Businesses within our a diversified supplier base. We seek to provide procurement activities. the maximum practical opportunities for diverse suppliers to provide goods and services while Lenovo recognizes the impact that supplier also creating sustainable, mutually beneficial diversity has on the community. We understand relationships. To that end, we are focusing on that when businesses with diverse ownership maximizing the inclusion of Minority-, Women-, flourish and prosper, the communities they serve Veteran-, Service Disabled Veteran-, Disabled-, share the benefits. And when our communities Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) – succeed, we all win. To increase diversity in our business relationships, Lenovo seeks to include the following suppliers: HuB Zone business Woman-owned Minority-owned Service-disabled veteran-owned Supplier LGBT-owned Diversity Small disadvantaged business veteran-owned Persons with a disability-owned Small Business Lenovo also partners with a variety of national THE EnviROnMEnT and regional organizations, such as the National Lenovo’s long-term, comprehensive approach Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), to environmental management encompasses the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council everything from site operations and product design (WBENC) and Carolinas/Virginia Small Business to recycling and product end-of-life management. Development Council (CVMSDC), to facilitate Lenovo’s Environmental Affairs Policy, which supplier identification and program development. applies to all operations and forms the foundation Annually, Lenovo conducts more than US$190 of Lenovo’s EMS, provides the backbone for million in business with certified small suppliers Lenovo’s strategy. Find the Environmental Affairs and more than US$300 million with certified diverse Policy available at www.lenovo.com/environment. suppliers in the United States. We describe our approach to managing For more information, please visit our Supplier environmental risk and ensuring compliance in the Diversity website at www.lenovo.com/supplierdiversity. Management Discussion & Analysis section on page 31 and Supply Chain Operations section on page 132. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 133 Sustainability Overview Climate Change needed to stabilize atmospheric greenhouse gas Lenovo has identified climate change as a (GHG) levels and hold global average temperatures significant environmental risk and opportunity. to acceptable increases. Lenovo’s actions include We evaluate it as part of the processes described reducing global emissions by 40-to-70 percent below. between 2010 and 2050 and attaining zero emissions by 2100. These actions align with the 1) As part of Lenovo’s ERM system process, we global scientific community’s recommendations evaluate and prioritize climate change at least for maintaining global warming below two degrees annually with regards to internal manufacturing Celsius over the 21st century relative to preand external supply chain risks. industrial levels. 2) As part of Lenovo’s ISO 14001 EMS, we Lenovo’s climate change strategy receives input evaluate and assign a quantified score at least from the very highest levels of our organization. annually for environmental risks including Lenovo’s Executive Committee and Board of climate change for use in establishing Directors directed Lenovo to establish a secondobjectives and targets under the EMS. generation Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reductions goal. We released this new goal in 3) We consider climate change as part of FY15/16. It calls upon Lenovo to reduce Scope 1 Lenovo’s Sustainability Reporting Materiality and 2 GHG emissions by 40 percent by 2020 relative Assessment process. to our FY09/10 adjusted baseline. This secondgeneration target for GHG emission reductions Lenovo’s Climate and Energy Policy forms the aligns with our customers’ and investors’ foundation of our climate change strategy. This expectations and follows the latest scientific Policy supports the conclusions as presented findings of climate science. In support of this by the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of the goal, in May 2015 the Lenovo Board of Directors Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) recommended that Lenovo achieve 30 megawatts – “Climate Change 2014.” Lenovo concurs with of direct renewable generation by 2020. the findings and agrees that specific actions are LEnOvO GLOBAL GHG EMiSSiOn TARGET 40% reduction compared to FY 2009/10 baseline 2009 2020 134 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report In FY18/19, Lenovo submitted preliminary thirdgeneration targets for 2020 and beyond to the Science Based Targets Initiative for review. Based on feedback from the review, Lenovo will resubmit final targets for 2020 after we verify data for the new baseline year. In addition to addressing these high-level corporate goals, Lenovo established more detailed climate change-related goals as part of Lenovo’s EMS. We will discuss them in more detail in Lenovo’s FY18/19 Sustainability Report. Lenovo responded to the 2018 CDP climate change survey and received a B, placing Lenovo in the management Solar panel installation at Lenovo Whitsett, North category. We make our annual climate change Carolina facility March 2019. report, including a climate change risk and opportunities analysis, available at www.cdp.net. For additional details on Lenovo’s GHG emissions While we have demonstrated good progress during inventory and management, see Lenovo’s climate the early stages of GHG reduction and renewable change web pages at www.lenovo.com/climate and energy commitments, more work needs to be Sustainability Reports at www.lenovo.com/sustainability. done. With a continued focus on energy efficiency, Lenovo’s global teams continue to work to identify and implement energy reduction, renewable energy, and carbon offset opportunities to provide a cost-effective path to meeting our secondgeneration targets. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 135 Sustainability Overview Waste and Water Reducing and recycling waste and conserving water represent key areas of commitment. Lenovo tracks waste metrics and works to identify and implement opportunities to reduce waste quantities. Lenovo operations generate minimal quantities of hazardous waste. Lenovo tracks and monitors water consumption and discharge in its operations even though it does not have any wet processes; water use only involves human consumption and sanitation. Lenovo developed a water risk map for Lenovo’s sites in a scope of our EMS. Details on performance relative to waste and water are available in Lenovo’s Sustainability Report. For additional details on Lenovo’s waste Lightweight and robust bamboo and bagasse fiber and water inventory, see Lenovo’s Sustainability based packaging is 100% compostable, shown here Reports and website: www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste. on a 12 ThinkPad notebook. Lenovo’s waste and water data are third-party verified by Bureau Veritas to a reasonable level of Transport and Packaging assurance. Please see verification statements at Lenovo considers transport and packaging www.lenovo.com/waterandwaste. to be among its significant environmental aspects. Emissions arise from different types Environmentally Conscious Products Program of transportation and distribution activities Lenovo includes its Environmentally Conscious throughout Lenovo’s value chain, including Products Program in its EMS and incorporates emissions from product transport and the business an expectation for continual improvement. We travel of Lenovo employees. Lenovo works reflect our commitment to product environmental closely with its partners to ship products in the leadership in our Environmental Affairs Policy, most environmentally responsible manner and which includes product-specific commitments encourages employees to utilize technology to related to responsible materials usage, energy reduce travel. efficiency, and recycling. Lenovo’s product environmental standards and specifications require Packaging can affect transportation emissions in the designers of all Lenovo products to consider addition to the environmental impacts of when it is certain environmentally conscious design practices used and disposed. We are continually innovating to facilitate and encourage reuse and recycling and to improve packaging to reduce size and weight to minimize resource consumption. and to use more environmentally responsible materials as part of our Environmentally Conscious Product Program. We establish company-wide transport and packaging objectives and targets annually and publish them in Lenovo’s Sustainability Report, along with results of the reporting year’s objectives and targets. 136 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo prioritizes using environmentally preferable materials whenever possible. Lenovo continues to drive innovation in using recycled content materials, and in FY17/18 we released our first products made with closed-loop post-consumer recycled content (CL-PCR), the V410z All-in-One desktop and the ThinkVision T22v-10 monitor. In FY18/19, we followed up this success with the release of numerous new models made with CL-PCR, including the following: Product Type Model name % CL-PCR Desktop M920z 24% Accessories Lenovo Essential Wireless Keyboard 50.6% Accessories Lenovo USB Numeric Keypad 84.6% Monitors TIO24Gen3-IR 55.97% Monitors L23i-18 24.60% Monitors ThinkVision X1 (2nd Gen) 34.34% Monitors T27i-10 37.50% Monitors S27i-10 44.80% Monitors L27i-28 44.50% Monitors L24e-20 43.57% Monitors S24e-10 43.39% Monitors L22e-20 43.70% Monitors S22e-10 49.03% Monitors S22e-19 43.60% Monitors L27m-28 43.10% Monitors K27i-10 33.20% Monitors K27i-16 33.20% Monitors K24e-10 30.31% Monitors T24m-10 53% Monitors T24i-10 53% Monitors P32u-10 47% To date, Lenovo has used more than 2500 metric tonnes (net) of CL-PCR since we started using this material in 2017. Products made with CL-PCR* FY17/18 FY18/19 0 5 10 15 20 25 *24%-85% CL-PCR 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 137 Sustainability Overview Take Back and Recycling Product Includes developing Lenovo offers product take-back and recycling and offering tools such energy programs for both consumer and business as Lenovo Efficiency efficiency Mode (LEM), which customers in most major markets where it does helps servers operate business, with many of those programs free to the at peak efficiency consumer. For business customers, Lenovo’s Asset when the OS is running Recovery Service (ARS) provides customizable solutions including computer take-back, data Product Includes identifying destruction, refurbishment, and recycling services. hotspots for targeted carbon emissions reductions footprint on high-volume OuR PEOPLE mainstream products Lenovo believes its employees are its most in each business unit valuable strategic assets, differentiated by a strong company culture. Lenovo’s global diversity helps us better serve our customers. Lenovo goes beyond Product Includes refining diversity with a focus on creating an inclusive packaging design to environment with the intended outcome of each packaging increase pallet density employee feeling valued, respected, and a sense of belonging. The foundation of our respect for employees comes in our commitment to non-discrimination and a work environment free from harassment regardless Environmentally Includes efforts to of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity steadily increase preferred or expression, national origin, ethnicity, sexual the percentage of materials recycled plastic used orientation, sex, age, disability, veteran status, or in manufacturing any other characteristic protected by law. Lenovo products Lenovo’s “Commitment to Diversity and Nondiscrimination” Policy documents and formalizes Lenovo’s commitments to ensuring equal opportunity and maintaining a diverse workforce. We are also an Affirmative Action – Equal Opportunity Employer in the United States. Lenovo’s employee-related standards, policies, and benefits are designed to be best-in-class, attracting and retaining top talent and enabling them to achieve their full potential. 138 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Operating in a continually changing technology SOCiAL invESTMEnTS industry, we value a well-trained and educated We direct our social investments to empower workforce. As such, we focus heavily on training diverse and minority populations with access to and education. technology innovations and science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education. Lenovo Being a successful employer and hiring/retaining provides social investments through the global employees fuels our business success. We design work of Lenovo Corporate Philanthropy and the our human resource efforts and initiatives to make Lenovo Foundation, Lenovo’s charitable and Lenovo a desirable place to work. Our ability philanthropic arm launched on October 22, 2018. to hire, train, and retain employees successfully ensures that we are making the correct investments We execute our social investments through in our human capital. strategic charitable partnerships specific to Lenovo’s geographies around the world. In North Lenovo measures employment success across America, Lenovo partners with NAF (National five key elements: compensation and benefits; Academy Foundation), Boys & Girls Clubs of work-life balance; performance and recognition; America, and the Smithsonian Center for Learning development and career opportunities; and and Digital Access. Each partnership provides retention. Diversity factors into who we are, a unique approach to engaging diverse and what we make, and nearly everything we do: minority individuals in STEM. Most notably, the we represent more than 60 countries; we work NAF partnership is in its fifth year of providing the with suppliers of different types; we give back in Lenovo Scholar Network, which offers more than different ways to local communities where our 5,000 students at 118 public high schools across the employees live and work; and customers across 160 United States the opportunity to learn to develop countries count on our products. Since releasing mobile applications. our first Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Report in November 2018, we’ve launched a D&I Board of 10 Other strategic partnerships include United top executives and have committed to increasing Way Europe, Laboratoria in Latin America, the women’s representation among our leadership. For Indigenous Reading Project in Asia Pacific, and additional details on Lenovo’s Diversity ongoing community outreach through the Horizon and Inclusion accomplishments, see Corporate Volunteer Consultancy in China. https://www.lenovo.com/us/en/about/diversity. In addition to STEM education, Lenovo engages We understand that an unhealthy or dangerous with local communities and provides relief in workplace could have significant negative times of natural disasters. Lenovo uses a metric implications for our employees, the quality of based evaluation process to ensure an appropriate our products, and the Company’s standing as a and consistent response to disasters around the legally compliant and responsible corporate citizen. world, regardless of the media attention that a With this in mind, Lenovo’s OHS organization is disaster may or may not receive. The Lenovo committed to ensuring the implementation of an natural disaster response team works with local effective health and safety management system. employees to determine an appropriate response, Please see the Manufacturing and Supply Chain implementing their response and providing Operations section for more information. ongoing aid through trusted disaster response partners, like American Red Cross and Save the Children. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 139 Sustainability Overview Employee Engagement in the Community employees have volunteered more than 150,000 hours, In addition to philanthropic initiatives, Lenovo empowers and Lenovo and its employees have contributed more employees to give back to their communities through than $20 million to charitable causes. volunteerism. In April 2018, nearly 2,000 employees around the world were able to take a day to volunteer In April 2018, Lenovo held its second annual global through Lenovo’s 2018 global week of service, Make service event, engaging nearly 2,000 employees a Difference Week. Employees gave more than 10,000 around the world in local volunteerism. Employees hours in volunteer service focused on STEM education gave more than 10,000 hours in volunteer service and the environment, through efforts that met the focused on STEM education and the environment, unique needs of their communities. The company through efforts that met the unique needs of their grants employees in North America and China 32 hours communities. of annual paid time off for volunteerism and offers employees in North America a 50 percent match for For more information about social investments, their charitable donations. Since 2005, North America please see Lenovo’s Sustainability Report. Lenovo volunteers in Shenzhen, China guide a In addition to providing a technology donation student through STEM activities during 2018 Global for an indigenous population near Lima, Peru, Week of Service. volunteers interacted through traditional weaving and hand crafts. 140 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Directors’ Report 142 Independent Auditor’s Report 173 Consolidated Income Statement 179 Consolidated Statement Of Comprehensive Income 180 Consolidated Balance Sheet 181 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 183 Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity 185 Notes To The Financial Statements 187 Five-Year Financial Summary 291 Corporate Information 292 Directors’ Report The directors of Lenovo Group Limited (the “Company”) submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) for the year ended March 31, 2019. PRinCiPAL BuSinESS AnD GEOGRAPHiCAL AnALYSiS OF OPERATiOnS The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The activities of its principal subsidiaries are set out in note 37 to the financial statements. Details of the analyses of the Group’s performance for the year by operating segment are set out in note 5 to the financial statements. BuSinESS REviEW A discussion and analysis of the activities as required by Schedule 5 to the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the Laws of Hong Kong), including a fair review of the business and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, particulars of important events affecting the Group that have occurred since the end of the financial year 2018, and an indication of likely future development in the Group’s business, can be found in the “Five-Year Financial Summary”, “Chairman & CEO Statement”, “Management’s Discussion & Analysis” and “Sustainability Overview” sections of this annual report. These discussions form part of this directors’ report. RESuLTS AnD APPROPRiATiOnS The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 179 of this annual report. The state of affairs of the Group and of the Company as at March 31, 2019 is set out in the consolidated balance sheet on pages 181 and 182 of this annual report and the balance sheet of the Company in note 30(a) to the financial statements respectively. The consolidated cash flows of the Group for the year are set out in the statement on pages 183 and 184 of this annual report. An interim dividend of HK6.0 cents (2018: HK6.0 cents) per share, amounting to a total of approximately HK$720.9 million (approximately US$92.1 million) (2018: approximately HK$666.5 million (approximately US$85.4 million)), was paid to shareholders during the year. The Board has resolved to recommend the payment of a final dividend of HK21.8 cents per share for the year ended March 31, 2019 (2018: HK20.5 cents). Subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company to be held on July 9, 2019 (“AGM”), the proposed final dividend will be payable on July 24, 2019 to the shareholders whose names appear on the register of members of the Company on July 15, 2019. For the purposes of determining shareholders’ eligibility to attend and vote at the AGM, and entitlement to the proposed final dividend, the register of members of the Company will be closed. Details of such closures are set out below: (i) For determining shareholders’ eligibility to attend and vote at the AGM: Latest time to lodge transfer documents for registration 4:30 p.m. on July 2, 2019 Closure of register of members From July 3 to July 9, 2019 Record date July 3, 2019 142 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report RESuLTS AnD APPROPRiATiOnS (continued) (ii) For determining shareholders’ entitlement to the proposed final dividend: Latest time to lodge transfer documents for registration 4:30 p.m. on July 12, 2019 Closure of register of members July 15, 2019 Record date July 15, 2019 During the above closure periods, no transfer of shares will be registered. To be eligible to attend and vote at the AGM, and to qualify for the proposed final dividend, all properly completed transfer documents accompanied by the relevant share certificates must be lodged for registration with the Company’s share registrar, Tricor Abacus Limited, at Level 22, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong not later than the aforementioned latest times. FivE-YEAR FinAnCiAL SuMMARY A summary of the results for the year and of the assets and liabilities of the Group as at March 31, 2019 and for the last four financial years are set out on page 291 of this annual report. DiSTRiBuTABLE RESERvES As at March 31, 2019, the distributable reserves of the Company amounted to US$1,014,943,000 (2018: US$776,657,000). BAnK BORROWinGS Particulars of bank borrowings as at March 31, 2019 are set out in note 26 to the financial statements. DOnATiOnS Charitable and other donations made by the Group during the year amounted to US$1,678,000 (2018: US$1,788,000). SHARE CAPiTAL Details of movement of share capital of the Company during the year are set out in note 28 to the financial statements. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 143 Directors’ Report COnvERTiBLE BOnDS The Company issued US$675,000,000 3.375% convertible bonds (“Bonds”) due 2024 to third party professional investors only and the Bonds were listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”) on January 25, 2019. The Bonds are convertible into a maximum of 662,539,112 shares at the conversion price of HK$7.99 per share in accordance with the subscription agreement dated January 15, 2019 (“Subscription Agreement”) (“Conversion Shares”), which represents (i) approximately 5.51% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at the date of issue; and (ii) approximately 5.23% of the issued share capital of the Company, as enlarged by full conversion of the Bonds (assuming there will be no other changes in the Company’s shares). The Conversion Shares issued upon conversion of the Bonds will be fully paid and in all respects rank pari passu with the Company’s shares in issue on the relevant registration date. The Conversion Shares (if and when issued) will be issued under the general mandate granted to the directors pursuant to an ordinary resolution of the Company passed at the annual general meeting held on July 5, 2018. There had not been any exercise of the Bonds during the financial year ended March 31, 2019, and no redemption right had been exercised by the bondholders or the Company during the year ended March 31, 2019. Assuming the Bonds were fully exercised on March 31, 2019, the shareholdings of the Company immediately before and after the full exercise of the Bonds are set out below for illustration purposes: Shareholding upon full conversion of immediately before the Bonds at the initial the full exercise of conversion price of Shareholders the Bonds HK$7.99 each Approximate Approximate % of the total % of the total number of issued share number of issued share Shares capital Shares capital LHL(1) 2,867,636,724 23.87% 2,867,636,724 22.62% RLL(2) 388,819,317 3.24% 388,819,317 3.07% LEL (3) 240,100,000 2.00% 240,100,000 1.89% SHL(4) 622,804,000 5.18% 622,804,000 4.91% Union Star(5) 996,750,579 8.30% 996,750,579 7.86% Directors of the Company(6) 107,948,913 0.89% 107,948,913 0.85% Subscribers for the Bonds – – 662,539,112 5.23% Other public Shareholders 6,790,732,081 56.52% 6,790,732,081 53.57% Total 12,014,791,614 100.00% 12,677,330,726 100.00% 144 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnvERTiBLE BOnDS (continued) Notes: (1) Legend Holdings Corporation (“LHL”), a company incorporated in the PRC, the H shares of which are listed on the Stock Exchange (stock code: 3396). (2) Right Lane Limited (“RLL”), a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability and a wholly owned subsidiary of LHL. (3) Legion Elite Limited (“LEL”), a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and a wholly owned subsidiary of RLL. (4) Sureinvest Holdings Limited (“SHL”), a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and an investment holding company held as to 86.99% by Mr. Yang Yuanqing, 4.66% by Mr. Wong Wai Ming (chief financial officer of the Company) and 8.34% by eight other individuals. (5) Union Star Limited (“union Star”), a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and is held as to 21.00%, 32.00% and 47.00% by SHL, LHL (through LEL) and Red Eagle Group (PTC) Limited (through Harvest Star Limited), respectively. Harvest Star Limited is a company incorporated in the Cayman Island and a wholly owned subsidiary of Red Eagle Group (PTC) Limited (a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and a trust holding company of an employee benefit trust of the Company). (6) Without taking into account of the share awards held by the Directors. Based on the cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, 2019 and the cash flow from operating activities of the Company, the Company has the ability to meet its redemption obligation under the Bonds. Further particulars of the Bonds are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements. EQuiTY-LinKED AGREEMEnTS Pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, the Company issued and the subscriber subscribed for 90,613,689 units of bonus warrants (“Bonus Warrants”) at the initial exercise price of HK$5.17 per Bonus Warrant on November 17, 2017. The exercise in full of the subscription rights attaching to the Bonus Warrants will result in the issue of 90,613,689 shares of the Company. As at March 31, 2019, all the units of Bonus Warrants remained outstanding. For further details of the Bonus Warrants, please refer to note 11 to the financial statements, and also the Company’s announcements dated September 29, 2017 and November 17, 2017 and circular dated October 16, 2017 in relation to, among other things, issuance of the Bonus Warrants. Save as disclosed above and the “Long-Term Incentive Program” and the “Employee Share Purchase Plan” as disclosed in the Compensation Committee Report and note 28 to the financial statements, no equitylinked agreements were entered into by the Company during the year or subsisted at the end of the year. SuBSiDiARiES, ASSOCiATES AnD JOinT vEnTuRES Particulars of the Company’s principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as at March 31, 2019 are set out in notes 37 and 17 to the financial statements respectively. MAnAGEMEnT COnTRACTS No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any substantial part of the business of the Company were entered into or existed during the year. MAJOR CuSTOMERS AnD SuPPLiERS During the year, the Group sold less than 11% of its goods and services to its five largest customers. The percentages of purchases for the year attributable to the Group’s major suppliers are as follows: The largest supplier 14% Five largest suppliers combined 35% None of the directors of the Company, their close associates or any shareholder (which to the knowledge of the directors own more than 5% of the number of issued shares of the Company) had an interest in the major suppliers noted above. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 145 Directors’ Report PuRCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTiOn OF THE COMPAnY’S LiSTED SECuRiTiES During the year ended March 31, 2019, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries purchased, sold or redeemed any of the Company’s listed securities, except that the respective trustee of the long-term incentive program and the employee share purchase plan of the Company purchased a total of 226,487,041 shares from the market for award to employees upon vesting. Details of these program and plan are set out under sections headed “Long-Term Incentive Program” and “Employee Share Purchase Plan” in the Compensation Committee Report on page 119 and page 121 respectively of this annual report. DiRECTORS The directors during the year and up to the date of this report are: Chairman and Executive Director Mr. Yang Yuanqing non-executive Directors Mr. Zhu Linan Mr. Zhao John Huan independent non-executive Directors Dr. Tian Suning Mr. Nicholas C. Allen Mr. Nobuyuki Idei Mr. William O. Grabe Mr. William Tudor Brown Ms. Ma Xuezheng Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond (appointed on February 22, 2019) Professor Shoucheng Zhang (appointed on August 17, 2018 and passed away on December 1, 2018) In accordance with article 95 of the Company’s articles of association, Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond who was appointed as a director during the year, shall hold office until the AGM and, being eligible, has offered himself for re-election. In accordance with article 107 of the Company’s articles of association, Mr. Zhu Linan, Dr. Tian Suning, Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry and Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr will retire by rotation at the AGM. Dr. Tian Suning will not stand for re-election at the AGM after having served as an independent non-executive director of the Company for more than 9 years. The other three retiring directors will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM. The Company has received from each of the independent non-executive directors an annual confirmation of his/her independence pursuant to rule 3.13 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange (the “Listing Rules”). The Nomination and Governance Committee has duly reviewed the independence of each of these directors. The Company considered that all independent non-executive directors meet the independence guidelines set out in rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules and are independent in accordance with the terms of the guidelines. The list of directors who have served on the boards of directors of the subsidiaries of the Company during the year ended March 31, 2019 or during the period from April 1, 2018 to the date of this report is available on the Company’s website (https://investor.lenovo.com/en/publications/list_directors.php). 146 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT Honorary Chairman Mr. Liu Chuanzhi, 75, has been the Honorary Chairman and Senior Advisor of the Company since November 3, 2011. Mr. Liu is the founder of the Group and held the positions of executive director, nonexecutive director and chairman of the Board at different times from 1993 until his resignation from the Board on November 3, 2011. As our Honorary Chairman, Mr. Liu is not a director or an officer of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company, and does not have any management role in the Company or any of its subsidiaries. In 1966, he graduated from the Radar Navigation Department of People’s Liberation Army Institute of Telecommunication Engineering (中國人民解放軍軍事電信工程學院雷達導航系) (now known as Xidian University) in China and has substantial experiences in corporate management. Mr. Liu is the chairman of the board and executive director of Legend Holdings Corporation (HKSE listed), a company holding substantial interests in the issued shares of the Company. Biography of directors Chairman and executive director Mr. Yang Yuanqing, 54, is the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and an executive director of the Company. He is also a director and a shareholder of Sureinvest Holdings Limited which holds interests in the issued shares of the Company. Mr. Yang assumed the duties of chief executive officer of the Company on February 5, 2009. Prior to that, he was the chairman of the Board from April 30, 2005. Before taking up the office as chairman, Mr. Yang was the chief executive officer and has been an executive director of the Company since December 16, 1997. Mr. Yang has 30 years of experience in IT industry. Under his leadership, Lenovo has been China’s bestselling PC brand since 1997 and is the leading PC vendor, one of the major players in global smartphone and x86 server markets. Mr. Yang holds a master’s degree from the Department of Computer Science at the University of Science and Technology of China. Mr. Yang is currently a director of Baidu, Inc. (NASDAQ listed) and an independent director of Taikang Insurance Group Inc. Mr. Yang is also a guest professor at the University of Science and Technology of China and a member of the International Advisory Council of Brookings Institute. non-executive directors Mr. Zhu Linan, 56, has been a non-executive director of the Company since April 30, 2005. Mr. Zhu graduated with a master’s degree in electronic engineering from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and has more than 20 years of management experience. He was previously a senior vice president of the Group. Mr. Zhu is currently an executive director, president and member of executive committee of Legend Holdings Corporation (HKSE listed), a company holding substantial interests in the issued shares of the Company and he also serves as director of its various members. He is a non-executive director of CAR Inc. (HKSE listed). He was previously a non-executive director of Peak Sport Products Co., Limited. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 147 Directors’ Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT (continued) Biography of directors (continued) non-executive directors (continued) Mr. Zhao John Huan, 56, has been a non-executive director of the Company since November 3, 2011. Mr. Zhao holds a master’s degree in business administration from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, dual master’s degrees in electric engineering and physics from Northern Illinois University and a bachelor’s degree in physics from Nanjing University. He is currently an executive director, executive vice president and member of executive committee of Legend Holdings Corporation (HKSE listed), a company having substantial interests in the issued shares of the Company and the chairman and president of Hony Capital Limited. In addition, he currently holds the following positions: non-executive director of China Glass Holdings Limited, the chairman of the board, executive director and chief executive officer of Best Food Holding Company Limited, chairman of the board and non-executive director of Hospital Corporation of China Limited, chairman and executive director of International Elite Ltd. (all HKSE listed), non-executive director of Shanghai Jin Jiang International Hotels Development Co., Ltd. 上海錦江國際酒店發展股份有限 公司 and ENN Ecological Holdings Co., Ltd 新奧生態控股股份有限公司 (both listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange), non-executive director of Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co., Ltd. 中聯重科 股份有限公司(HKSE and Shenzhen Stock Exchange listed). Mr. Zhao was previously a director of Wumart Stores, Inc., New China Life Insurance Company Ltd., CSPC Pharmaceutical Group Limited and Chinasoft International Limited, Fiat Industrial S.p.A. (subsequently merged into CNH Industrial N.V.) and the deputy chairman of Shanghai Chengtou Holding Co., Ltd. 上海城 投控股股份有限公司 and Shanghai Environment Group Co., Ltd. 上海環境集團股份有限公司. independent non-executive directors Dr. Tian Suning, 55, has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since August 2, 2007. He is the founder and chairman of a Chinese focused private equity fund China Broadband Capital Partners, L.P.. He is currently chairman and an executive director of AsiaInfo Technologies Limited (HKSE listed), an independent non-executive director of China Minsheng Banking Corp., Ltd (HKSE and Shanghai Stock Exchange listed). In 1993, he co-founded AsiaInfo Holdings LLC. He was previously a nonexecutive director of Huayi Tencent Entertainment Company Limited (formerly known as China Jiuhao Health Industry Corporation Limited), an independent non-executive director of MasterCard Incorporated, a vice chairman of PCCW Ltd. between 2005 and 2007, an independent director of Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co., Ltd., a non-executive director of Taikang Insurance Group Inc. (formerly Taikang Life Insurance Company Ltd.). Dr. Tian holds a Ph.D. in natural resource management from Texas Tech University and a M.S. degree in ecology from Chinese Academy of Sciences. Mr. nicholas C. Allen, 64, has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since November 6, 2009. Mr. Allen received a bachelor of arts degree in economics/social studies from Manchester University, United Kingdom. He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Mr. Allen has extensive experience in accounting and auditing and was a partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers until his retirement in June 2007. Mr. Allen is an independent non-executive director and the chairman of the board of directors of Link Real Estate Investment Trust (HKSE listed), an independent non-executive director of CLP Holdings Limited (HKSE listed). He was previously an independent non-executive director of Hysan Development Company Limited and VinaLand Limited. 148 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT (continued) Biography of directors (continued) independent non-executive directors (continued) Mr. nobuyuki idei, 81, has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since September 28, 2011. Mr. Idei is the founder and chief executive officer of Quantum Leaps Corporation, an executive advisory company. Until retiring in June 2005, for more than a decade, Mr. Idei held a wide variety of leadership positions at Sony Corporation, including chairman and group chief executive officer. He was also the chairman of Sony’s advisory board from June 2005 to June 2012. Mr. Idei currently serves on the boards of directors of FreeBit Co., Ltd. and Monex Group, Inc. (both Tokyo Stock Exchange listed) and Stripe International Inc.. Mr. Idei is also the chairman of the National Conference on Fostering Beautiful Forests in Japan. Mr. Idei holds a bachelor’s degree in political science and economics from Waseda University in Tokyo. He has served on the boards of directors of Nestlé S.A., Electrolux, General Motors Company, Accenture plc and Baidu, Inc. and also served in a number of other advisory positions including as counselor to the Bank of Japan, vice chairman of Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and chairman of the IT Strategy Council, an advisory committee to Japan’s Prime Minister. Mr. William O. Grabe, 81, has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since February 8, 2012 and was appointed as the lead independent director of the Company on May 23, 2013. Before that, he was a non-executive director of the Company since May 17, 2005. Mr. Grabe is currently a director of the following listed companies: Gartner Inc. and QTS Realty Trust, Inc. (both NYSE listed). He was previously an independent director of Compuware Corporation and a director of Covisint Corporation. Mr. Grabe is an advisory director of General Atlantic LLC. He formerly served as a managing director of General Atlantic LLC and has been associated with General Atlantic Group since 1992. Prior to that, he served as a corporate vice president and officer of IBM. Mr. William Tudor Brown, 60, has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since January 30, 2013. Mr. Brown is a Chartered Engineer and holds an MA (Cantab) Degree in electrical sciences from Cambridge University. He is a fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology and a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. He was awarded as Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) on June 15, 2013. Mr. Brown was one of the founders of ARM Holdings plc (“ARM”) (London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ listed). During the years with ARM, he held a broad range of leadership positions including engineering director, chief technical officer, executive vice president for global development, chief operating officer and president. He had responsibility for developing high-level relationships with industry partners and governmental agencies and for regional development. He also served as a director of ARM from October 2001 to May 3, 2012. Before joining ARM, he was the principal engineer at Acorn Computers Ltd., working exclusively on the ARM research & development programme since 1984. Mr. Brown is currently an independent non-executive director of Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (HKSE listed) and a director of Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (NASDAQ listed). He was previously an independent non-executive director of P2i Limited and Xperi Corporation. He also served on the UK Government Asia Task Force until May 2012. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 149 Directors’ Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT (continued) Biography of directors (continued) independent non-executive directors (continued) Ms. Ma Xuezheng, 66, was re-designated as an independent non-executive director of the Company on November 7, 2013. Prior to that, she was a non-executive Vice Chairman of the Company since 2007. Before becoming a non-executive director, she was an executive director and the chief financial officer of the Company at different times between 1997 and 2007 and held directorship in various subsidiaries of the Company. She is currently founding partner and senior adviser of Boyu Capital Advisory Company Limited and an independent non-executive director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. In addition, she is also a non-executive director of Unilever N.V. (NYSE and Euronext Amsterdam listed), Unilever PLC (NYSE and London Stock Exchange listed) and an independent director of Schneider Electric SE (Euronext listed). She was formerly a non-executive director of Wumart Stores, Inc. and STELUX Holdings International Limited, an independent non-executive director of Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited and non-executive director of the Securities and Futures Commission. Ms. Ma holds a bachelor of arts degree from Capital Normal University. Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry, 50, has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since November 6, 2014. Prior to that, he was the board observer of the Company since February 20, 2013. He holds a master’s degree and a bachelor’s degree of science in electrical engineering from Stanford University, where he served on the Board of Trustees from June 2005 until September 2016 and from October 2017 to the present. Mr. Yang co-founded Yahoo! Inc. (NASDAQ listed) and served as its chief executive officer from June 2007 to January 2009. He also served as a member of the board of directors of Yahoo! Inc. until January 17, 2012. During such appointment, Mr. Yang focused on corporate strategy and technology vision. Mr. Yang was also instrumental in building strategic business partnerships, international joint ventures and recruiting key talent. Mr. Yang also served as a director of Yahoo! Japan Corporation from January 1996 to January 2012, an independent director of Cisco Systems, Inc. from July 2000 to November 2012. Mr. Yang is currently an independent director of Workday Inc. (Nasdaq listed) and Alibaba Group Holding Limited (NYSE listed). Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr, 56, was re-designated as an independent non-executive director of the Company on September 1, 2016. Prior to that, he was a non-executive director of the Company since 2015. He holds a Master of Arts degree in Engineering Science from Oxford University and a Master of Business Administration degree from Harvard University. Mr. Orr joined McKinsey & Company (“McKinsey”) in 1986 and held a broad range of senior positions in McKinsey until his retirement in August 2015. During the years with McKinsey, he was Greater China Managing Partner and subsequently Senior Partner (1999-2015), Managing Partner of McKinsey Asia (20082014) and Member of McKinsey’s global Operating Committee (2008-2015). He also served on McKinsey’s Global Shareholder’s Board (2003-2015) and chaired the Governance and Risk Committee. In the past 20 years, Mr. Orr has served a broad range of clients in Asia, with primary focus on China and technology related sectors across Asia. Mr. Orr is currently (i) an independent non-executive director of Swire Pacific Limited and Meituan Dianping (both HKSE listed) and (ii) the chairman of the audit committee of Meituan Dianping. He is also a Vice Chairman of the China-Britain Business Council. 150 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT (continued) Biography of directors (continued) independent non-executive directors (continued) Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond, aged 64, has been appointed as an independent non-executive director since February 22, 2019. Mr. Woo is a retired partner of Ernst & Young (“Ernst & Young”). Before his retirement in June 2015, he had held various senior positions with Ernst & Young in the Greater China area. He was a director and the general manager of Ernst & Young Hua Ming CPA, a member of Ernst & Young’s Greater China Leadership Team, and the managing partner of Ernst & Young’s Greater China Operations. He has more than 30 years of professional experience, specializing in audit, corporate restructuring, IPO, risk management, and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Woo is a Canadian Chartered Accountant and a Hong Kong Certified Public Accountant. He obtained his master’s degree in Business Administration from York University (Canada) in 1982. Mr. Woo is currently an independent non-executive director of Dah Chong Hong Holdings Limited and Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. (both HKSE listed). He was previously an independent non-executive director of Great Wall Pan Asia Holdings Limited. Biography of senior management Mr. Gianfranco Lanci, 64, joined the Group in April 2012 and is currently the Corporate President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company responsible for the principal operations of all the Group’s five geographies, and the Intelligent Device Group, which includes the Company’s PC, Smart Devices and Mobile Device businesses. Before taking up the office as Corporate President, Mr. Lanci was Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of the Company and President of the PC Group, EMEA and AP. Mr. Lanci has substantial experience across the PC business, including leadership roles at Texas Instruments and Acer. He was appointed as President of Acer Inc. in 2005 and in 2008 became Chief Executive Officer and President. Under his leadership, he led Acer to the number two position globally and number one in EMEA while recording record profitability for three consecutive years. He holds a degree in engineering from the Politecnico of Turin. Ms. Gao Lan, 53, joined the Group in 2009 and is currently the Senior Vice President of Human Resources of the Company, responsible for human resources, organizational development, global talent, compensation and benefits, as well as nurturing the Company’s culture. Prior to this, Ms. Gao held several Vice President roles leading the HR functions of many teams, including Emerging Markets Group, APLA & China Geography, People & Organization Capability and HR Strategy & Operations. Before joining the Group, Ms. Gao held senior positions in HR in various multinational companies. Ms. Gao holds a bachelor degree of science from Nankai University, studied M.Phil. degree from Cambridge University in the UK, completed human resource management course at the Western Management Institute of Beijing and the Leadership Excellence for Business HR Program at Stanford University in the US. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 151 Directors’ Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT (continued) Biography of senior management (continued) Mr. He Zhiqiang, 56, joined the Group in 1986 and is currently the Senior Vice President of the Company and President of Lenovo Capital and Incubator Group. This group is responsible for driving innovation through investment in startups, spinning off new businesses and exploring new technologies. Prior to that, Mr. He held various leadership positions in the Group including the President of the Ecosystem and Cloud Services Business Group and was the Chief Technology Officer overseeing Lenovo’s Research & Technology initiatives and systems. Mr. He holds a bachelor’s degree in computer communication from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications and a master’s degree in computer engineering from the Institute of Computing Technology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Ms. Qiao Jian, 51, joined the Group in 1990 and is currently the Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company, overseeing Lenovo’s strategy and planning, global brand, marketing, communications and customer engagement efforts. Before that, Ms. Qiao was CoPresident of the Mobile Business Group focusing on Lenovo’s Mobile business in China. Prior to that, Ms. Qiao was the Senior Vice President of Human Resources. Ms. Qiao held various senior positions in the Group including Senior Vice President of Strategy and Planning and Vice President of Human Resources in China – both before and after the acquisition of IBM’s PC Division. Ms. Qiao has extensive experience in strategy, marketing and branding, and human resources. She holds a bachelor’s degree in management science from Fudan University and holds an EMBA from the China Europe International Business School. Ms. Laura G. Quatela, 61, joined the Group in October 2016 as a Senior Vice President and the Chief Legal Officer responsible for the Group’s legal, IP, litigation, corporate governance, government relations and corporate social responsibility matters globally. Before joining the Group, Ms. Quatela had a 15-year career with Eastman Kodak Company (“Kodak”) holding a broad range of leadership positions including Chief Intellectual Property Officer, General Counsel, Senior Vice President, Co-Chief Operating Officer and President of the company. She had responsibility for licensing Kodak’s technology, patents and trademarks and leading Kodak’s consumer film, photographic paper, retail photo kiosk, event imaging and OLED businesses. Prior to joining Kodak, Ms. Quatela worked for Clover Capital Management, Inc., SASIB Railway GRS, and Bausch & Lomb. In private law practice, she was a defense litigator specializing in mass tort cases. Ms. Quatela is a graduate of Denison University, B.A., International Politics and Case Western Reserve University School of Law, J.D., where she sponsors the Women in Law and Leadership Conference and was inducted into the Society of Benchers. Ms. Quatela is conversant in Mandarin. Dr. Yong Rui, 49, joined the Group in November 2016 as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of the Company. He oversees Lenovo’s corporate technical strategy, research and development directions, and leads the Lenovo Research organization. Before joining the Group, Dr. Rui had an 18-year career with Microsoft, where he held various leadership roles in R&D strategy, basic research, technology incubation and product development, most recently as Deputy Managing Director of Microsoft Research Asia. Dr. Rui is a world renowned technologist in computer science, and a fellow of ACM, IEEE, IAPR, and SPIE. He received his BS from Southeast University, his MS from Tsinghua University, and his PhD from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). 152 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report BiOGRAPHY OF DiRECTORS AnD SEniOR MAnAGEMEnT (continued) Biography of senior management (continued) Mr. Kirk Skaugen, 48, joined the Group in November 2016 as an Executive Vice President of the Company and the President of the Data Center Group. In this capacity he leads the end-to-end data center business including Hyperscale & Cloud, High Performance Computing & Artificial Intelligence, Software Defined Infrastructure, Edge/IOT servers, Telecommunications, traditional servers, storage and networking and the related software and solutions. This includes strategic planning, architecture, hardware and software engineering, supply chain and procurement, quality, customer service, and the sales and marketing across Lenovo DCG’s five geographies. Prior to Lenovo, Mr. Skaugen worked at Intel for 24 years where in his most recent positions he led the Data Center Group and Client Computing Group as senior vice president. As head of Client Computing, Mr. Skaugen was responsible for Intel’s largest revenue and profit contributor including Intel’s PC, tablet, and phone businesses. He has also served as general manager of Intel’s Asia Pacific Solutions Group responsible for software development, system integrator and CIO relationships across the Asia region. Mr. Skaugen holds a bachelor of science in electrical engineering from Purdue University. Mr. Wong Wai Ming, 61, is currently the Executive Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. He was previously an investment banker for more than 15 years and also held senior management positions in listed companies in Hong Kong. He was an independent non-executive director of the Company from March 30, 1999 until his appointment to the position of Chief Financial Officer in 2007. Mr. Wong is a member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and holds a bachelor’s degree in management sciences from the Victoria University of Manchester in the United Kingdom. DiRECTORS’ SERviCE COnTRACTS There is no service contract, which is not determinable by the Company within one year without payment of compensation (other than statutory compensation), in respect of any director proposed for re-election at the AGM. DiRECTORS’ MATERiAL inTERESTS in TRAnSACTiOnS, ARRAnGEMEnTS OR COnTRACTS No other transactions, arrangements or contracts that is significant in relation to the Group’s business to which the Company, its holding company, any of its subsidiaries or fellow subsidiaries was a party and in which a director of the Company or his or her connected entities had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted at the end of the year or at any time during the year. DiRECTORS’ inDEMniTiES AnD inSuRAnCE As permitted by the articles of association of the Company, a director or a former director of the Company may be indemnified out of the Company’s assets against any liability incurred by the director to a person other than the Company or an associated company of the Company that attaches to such director in his or her capacity as a director of the Company, to the extent permitted by law. Such permitted indemnity provision is in force throughout the year and up to the date of this report. The Company has also taken out and maintained directors’ and officers’ liability insurance throughout the year, which provides appropriate cover for certain legal actions brought against its directors and officers. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 153 Directors’ Report DiRECTORS’ inTERESTS As at March 31, 2019, the interests and short positions of the directors and chief executive of the Company in the shares, underlying shares and debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) as recorded in the register maintained by the Company under section 352 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model Code”) in the Listing Rules were as follows: (i) interests in the shares and underlying shares of the Company Capacity and number of shares/underlying shares held Aggregate Approximate interests in shares/ Personal Corporate long percentage of name of director underlying shares interests interests position interests (Note 1) (Note 2) Mr. Yang Yuanqing Ordinary shares 84,424,413 622,804,000 707,228,413 (Note 3) Share awards 271,974,632 – 271,974,632 979,203,045 8.15% Mr. Zhu Linan Ordinary shares 2,600,330 – 2,600,330 Share awards 3,226,821 – 3,226,821 5,827,151 0.05% Mr. Zhao John Huan Ordinary shares 603,437 – 603,437 Share awards 4,077,129 – 4,077,129 4,680,566 0.04% Dr. Tian Suning Ordinary shares 1,133,141 – 1,133,141 Share awards 4,077,129 – 4,077,129 5,210,270 0.04% Mr. Nicholas C. Allen Ordinary shares 1,005,761 – 1,005,761 Share awards 4,351,445 – 4,351,445 5,357,206 0.04% Mr. Nobuyuki Idei Ordinary shares 613,814 – 613,814 Share awards 4,351,445 – 4,351,445 4,965,259 0.04% Mr. William O. Grabe Ordinary shares 2,852,665 744,281 3,596,946 Share awards 4,351,445 – 4,351,445 7,948,391 0.07% Mr. William Tudor Ordinary shares 512,055 – 512,055 Brown Share awards 4,130,605 – 4,130,605 4,642,660 0.04% Ms. Ma Xuezheng Ordinary shares 10,603,007 2,240,000 12,843,007 Share awards 4,077,129 – 4,077,129 16,920,136 0.14% Mr. Yang Chih–Yuan Ordinary shares 402,930 – 402,930 Jerry Share awards 3,930,934 – 3,930,934 4,333,864 0.04% Mr. Gordon Robert Ordinary shares 213,079 – 213,079 Halyburton Orr Share awards 3,257,298 – 3,257,298 3,470,377 0.03% 154 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report DiRECTORS’ inTERESTS (continued) (ii) interests in shares and underlying shares of the associated corporations of the Company number and class of shares/ Approximate name of underlying shares/ percentage name of associated Long position/ Capacity/ registered capital of interests director corporations short position nature of interests held (Note 4) Mr. Yang SHAREit Technology Long position Personal interests 5,500,000 15.98% Yuanqing Holdings Inc. held as beneficial series A owner preferred shares 北京聯想智慧醫療信息 Long position Personal interests registered capital 1.25% 技術有限公司 held as beneficial of RMB2,400,000 (Note 5) owner 國民認證科技（北京） Long position Personal interests registered capital 4.72% 有限公司 held as beneficial of RMB1,097,144 (Note 5) owner 北京聯想雲科技有限公司 Long position Personal interests registered capital 5.33% held as beneficial of RMB3,200,000 (Note 5) owner 深圳聯想懂的通信 Long position Personal interests registered capital 3.93% 有限公司 held as beneficial of RMB2,584,615 (Note 5) owner 聯想教育科技（北京） Long position Personal interests registered capital 2.00% 有限公司 held as beneficial of RMB1,000,000 (Note 5) owner Notes: 1. Share awards represent underlying shares convertible into ordinary shares. Details of share awards are set out under the section headed “Long-Term Incentive Program” in the Compensation Committee Report. 2. The approximate percentage of interests is based on the shares/underlying shares comprising the interests held as a percentage of the total number of shares in issue of the Company of the same class immediately after the relevant event and as recorded in the register maintained under section 352 of the SFO. 3. The shares are held by Sureinvest Holdings Limited in which Mr. Yang Yuanqing holds more than one-third of the voting power at its general meetings. Therefore, Mr. Yang is taken to have an interest in 622,804,000 shares under the SFO and such interest is also reported under the below section headed “Substantial Shareholders’ and Other Persons’ Interests”. 4. The approximate percentage of interests is based on the shares comprising the interests held as a percentage of the total number of shares in issue of the associated corporation of the same class immediately after the relevant event and as recorded in the register maintained under section 352 of the SFO. 5. Mr. Yang Yuanqing holds the interests of RMB2,400,000 (being 1.25%), RMB1,097,144 (being 4.72%), RMB3,200,000 (being 5.33%), RMB2,584,615 (being 3.93%) and RMB1,000,000 (being 2%) in the registered capital in 北京聯想智慧醫療信息技術有限公司, 國民認證科技（北京）有限公司, 北京聯想雲科技有限公司, 深圳聯想懂的通信有限公司 and 聯想教育科技（北京）有限公司 respectively. Save as disclosed above, as at March 31, 2019, none of the directors or chief executive of the Company or their associates had any interests or short positions in the shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company or its associated corporations (within the meaning of Part XV of the SFO) as recorded in the register maintained by the Company under section 352 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 155 Directors’ Report DiRECTORS’ RiGHTS TO ACQuiRE SHARES OR DEBEnTuRES Under the long-term incentive program of the Company, the Board or the trustee of the program shall select the employees (including but not limited to the directors) of the Group for participation in the program, and determine the number of shares to be awarded. Details of the movements in the share awards for the year ended March 31, 2019 are set out under the section headed “Long-Term Incentive Scheme” in the Compensation Committee Report and in the note 28 to the financial statements. Save as disclosed in the sections headed “Directors’ Interests” of this report, and “Long-Term Incentive Program” of the Compensation Committee Report, at no time during the year ended March 31, 2019 was the Company or a specified undertaking of the Company a party to any arrangements to enable the directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate. SuBSTAnTiAL SHAREHOLDERS’ AnD OTHER PERSOnS’ inTERESTS As at March 31, 2019, the following persons (other than the directors and chief executive of the Company as disclosed above) had interests or short positions in the shares and/or underlying shares of the Company as recorded in the register required to be kept under section 336 of the SFO: Capacity and number of shares/ underlying shares held Aggregate long and short Approximate Long position/ Beneficial Corporate positions percentage of name Short position owner interests (Note 1) interests Legend Holdings Corporation Long position 2,867,636,724 628,919,317 3,496,556,041 29.10% (Note 2) Right Lane Limited Long position 388,819,317 240,100,000 628,919,317 5.23% (Note 3) Red Eagle Group (PTC) Limited Long position – 996,750,579 996,750,579 8.30% (Notes 4 & 6) Harvest Star Limited Long position – 996,750,579 996,750,579 8.30% (Notes 5 & 6) Union Star Limited Long position 996,750,579 – 996,750,579 8.30% Sureinvest Holdings Limited Long position 622,804,000 – 622,804,000 5.18% (Note 7) BlackRock, Inc. Long position – 784,543,830 784,543,830 6.53% Short position – 10,000 10,000 0.00% 156 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report SuBSTAnTiAL SHAREHOLDERS’ AnD OTHER PERSOnS’ inTERESTS (continued) Notes: 1. The interests or short positions include underlying shares as follows:– Long position Convertible instruments Cash settled unlisted name unlisted equity derivatives equity derivatives BlackRock, Inc. – 5,346,000 Red Eagle Group (PTC) Limited 90,613,689 – Harvest Star Limited 90,613,689 – Union Star Limited 90,613,689 – 2. Out of 628,919,317 shares, 388,819,317 shares are directly held by Right Lane Limited (“Right Lane”), a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Legend Holdings Corporation, and 240,100,000 shares are indirectly held by Right Lane through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Legion Elite Limited (“Legion Elite”). 3. These shares are held by Legion Elite. 4. These shares/underlying shares of the Company are indirectly held by Harvest Star Limited through Union Star Limited (“Union Star”). 5. These shares/underlying shares of the Company are directly held through Union Star. 6. The interests represent 906,136,890 shares and 90,613,689 units of bonus warrants issued to Union Star under the subscription agreement dated September 29, 2017 entered into between the Company and Union Star and as disclosed in the Company’s announcements dated September 29, 2017 and November 17, 2017 and circular dated October 16, 2017. 7. Mr. Yang Yuanqing holds more than one-third of the voting power at general meetings of Sureinvest Holdings Limited (“Sureinvest”). Accordingly, Mr. Yang is deemed to have interests in those 622,804,000 shares of the Company held by Sureinvest under the SFO. This interest is also included as corporate interests of Mr. Yang in the above section headed “Directors’ Interests”. Save as disclosed above, as at March 31, 2019, no other persons (other than the directors and chief executive of the Company, whose interests are set out in the above section headed “Directors’ Interests”) had any interests or short positions in the shares or underlying shares of the Company as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under section 336 of the SFO. RETiREMEnT SCHEME ARRAnGEMEnTS The Company contributes toward retirement income protection for its employees through the provision of defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and/or contributions to various public retirement schemes in certain jurisdictions. These benefits form an important part of the Company’s total compensation and benefits program that is designed to attract and retain highly skilled and talented employees. Defined Benefit Pensions Plans Chinese Mainland – Retirement Schemes The Group participates in respective local municipal government retirement schemes in the mainland of China (“Chinese Mainland”) whereby it is required to make an annual contribution of no more than 20% of three times the monthly average salaries as set out by the local municipal government each year. The local municipal governments undertake to assume the retirement benefit obligations of all retirees of the qualified employees in the Chinese Mainland. In July 2006, the Group has established a supplemental retirement program for its employees in Chinese Mainland. This is a defined contribution plan, with voluntary employee participation. In addition to the above, the Group has defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover substantially all regular employees, and supplemental retirement plans that cover certain executives. Information on the principal pension plans sponsored by the Group is summarized in this section. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 157 Directors’ Report RETiREMEnT SCHEME ARRAnGEMEnTS (continued) Defined Benefit Pensions Plans (continued) united States of America (“uS”) – Lenovo Pension Plan The Company provides US regular, full-time and part-time employees who were employed by IBM prior to being hired by the Company and who were members of the IBM Personal Pension Plan (“PPP”) with non-contributory defined benefit pension benefits via the Lenovo Pension Plan. As of December 31, 2015, the plan was frozen. The Lenovo Pension Plan consists of a tax-qualified plan and a non-tax-qualified (non-qualified) plan. The qualified plan is funded by Company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The non-qualified plan, which provides benefits in excess of US Internal Revenue Service limitations for tax-qualified plans, is unfunded. Pension benefits are calculated using a five year average final pay formula that determines benefits based on a participant’s salary and years of service, including prior service with IBM. The benefit is reduced by the amount of the IBM PPP benefit accrued to May 1, 2005, which will be paid by IBM’s trust. For the year ended March 31, 2019, an amount of US$1,793,650 was charged to the income statement with respect to the qualified and non-qualified plans. The principal results of the most recent actuarial valuation of the plan at March 31, 2019 were the following: • The actuarial valuation was prepared by Fidelity. The actuaries involved are fully qualified under the requirements of US law. • The actuarial method used was the Projected Unit Credit Cost method and the principal actuarial assumptions were: – Discount rate: 3.25% – Expected return on plan assets: 3.25% – Future salary increases: N/A • The qualified plan was 63% funded at the actuarial valuation date. • There was a net liability of US$36,791,089 under the qualified plan for this reason at the actuarial valuation date. Japan – Pension Plan The Company operates a hybrid plan that consists of a defined contribution up to the annual tax-deductible limit plus a cash balance plan with contributions of 7% of pay. The plan is funded by Company contributions to a qualified pension fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. For the year ended March 31, 2019, an amount of Yen 947,195,426 was charged to the income statement with respect to this plan. 158 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report RETiREMEnT SCHEME ARRAnGEMEnTS (continued) Defined Benefit Pensions Plans (continued) Japan – Pension Plan (continued) The principal results of the most recent actuarial valuation of the plan at March 31, 2019 were the following: • The actuarial valuation was prepared by JP Actuary Consulting Co., Ltd. The actuaries involved are fully qualified under the requirements of Japanese law. • The actuarial method used was the Projected Unit Credit Cost method and the principal actuarial assumptions were: Discount rate: 0.50% Expected return on plan assets: 0.50% Future salary increases: Age-group based • The plan was 67% funded at the actuarial valuation date. • There was a net liability of Yen 8,482,143,438 under this plan at the actuarial valuation date. Germany – Pension Plan The Company operates a hybrid plan that provides a defined contribution for some participants and a final pay defined benefit for other participants, depending on which former IBM plan they were in. The Company also operates a defined benefit plan for Motorola Mobility employees. Employees hired by IBM before January 1, 1992 have a defined benefit based on a final pay formula. Employees hired from 1992 to 1999 have a combination of a defined benefit based on a final pay formula and a defined contribution plan with employee required contributions of 7% of pay above the social security ceiling and a 100% company match. Employees hired in or after 2000 have a combination of a cash balance plan with an employer contribution of 2.95% of pay below the social security ceiling, and a voluntary defined contribution plan where employees can contribute specific amounts through salary sacrifice. Employees of Motorola Mobility have a defined benefit based on a final pay formula. The plan is partially funded by Company and employee contributions to an insured support fund with DBV-Winterthur up to the maximum tax-deductible limits. In line with standard practice in Germany, the remainder is unfunded (book reserve). For the year ended March 31, 2019, an amount of EUROS 3,511,196 was charged to the income statement with respect to this plan. The principal results of the most actuarial valuation of the plan at March 31, 2019 were the following: • The actuarial valuation was prepared by Kern, Mauch & Kollegen (Motorola Mobility valuation prepared by WillisTowersWatson). The actuaries involved are fully qualified under German law. • The actuarial method used was the Projected Unit Credit Cost method and the principal actuarial assumptions were: Discount rate: 0.75% Future salary increases: Age-group based Future pension increases: 2.00% 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 159 Directors’ Report RETiREMEnT SCHEME ARRAnGEMEnTS (continued) Defined Benefit Pensions Plans (continued) Germany – Pension Plan (continued) • The plans were 27% funded at the actuarial valuation date. • There was a net liability of EUROS 172,592,207 under this plan at the actuarial valuation date. Defined Contribution Plans united States of America (“uS”) – Lenovo Savings Plan U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees of Lenovo (United States) Inc., including employees of Motorola Mobility LLC, are eligible to participate in the Lenovo Savings Plan, which is a tax-qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Motorola Mobility 401(k) Plan merged into the Lenovo Savings Plan effective December 31, 2015. The Company matches 100% of the employee’s contribution up to the first 6% of the employee’s eligible compensation. Employee contributions are voluntary. All contributions, including the Company match, are made in cash, in accordance with the participants’ investment elections. The Company match is immediately vested. uS Lenovo Executive Deferred Compensation Plan The Company also maintains an unfunded, non-qualified, defined contribution plan, the Lenovo Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, which allows eligible executives to defer compensation, and to receive Company matching contributions, with respect to amounts in excess of Internal Revenue Service limits for tax-qualified plans. Compensation deferred under the plan, as well as Company matching contributions are recorded as liabilities. Deferred compensation amounts may be directed by participants into an account that replicates the return that would be received had the amounts been invested in similar Lenovo Savings Plan investment options. Company matching contributions, are directed to participant accounts and fluctuate based on changes in the stock prices of the underlying investment portfolio. united Kingdom (“uK”) – Lenovo Stakeholders Plan UK regular, full-time, part-time and fixed term Lenovo contract employees are eligible to participate in the Lenovo Stakeholders Plan, which is a tax-qualified defined contribution “stakeholder” plan. The Company contributes 8.7% of an employee’s eligible salary to the employee’s pension account each year and the employer contributions are dependent on employee contributing no less than 3% of their salary to the same fund. Canada – Defined Contribution Pension Plan Canadian regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the Defined Contribution Pension Plan, which is a tax-qualified defined contribution plan. The Company contributes 4% of the employee’s eligible compensation, in addition the Company matches 50% of the employee’s contribution up to the first 4% of the employee’s eligible compensation. All contributions are made in cash, in accordance with the participants’ investment elections. Employee contributions are voluntary. Hong Kong – Mandatory Provident Fund The Group operates a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme for all qualified employees employed in Hong Kong. They are required to contribute 5% of their compensation (subject to the ceiling under the requirements set out in the Mandatory Provident Fund legislation). The employer’s contribution will increase from 5% to 7.5% and 10% respectively after completion of five and ten years of service by the relevant employees. 160 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS During the year, the Group conducted certain continuing connected transactions with certain connected persons (as defined in the Listing Rules) which are required to be disclosed pursuant to rules 14A.49 and 14A.71 of the Listing Rules. (i) Continuing connected transactions with nEC Corporation and its associates During the year, the Group conducted the following continuing connected transactions with NEC Corporation and its associates, details of which are set out as follows: Lenovo NEC Holdings B.V. (“JvCo”, together with its subsidiaries the “JvCo Group”), is a joint venture company held as to 66.6% by the Company (through Lenovo International Coöperatief U.A. (formerly known as Lenovo (International) B.V.), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and 33.4% by NEC Corporation (“nEC”, together with its subsidiaries the “nEC Group”) to own and operate their respective personal computer businesses in Japan pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement entered into between the Company and amongst others, NEC dated January 27, 2011 and became effective on July 1, 2011 (the “Closing Date”) and as amended on October 7, 2014. At or prior to the Closing Date, NEC or other members of the NEC Group entered into various agreements (the “CCT Agreements”) with the Company, the JVCo or other members of the JVCo Group in respect of the provision of certain services and products to or by the JVCo Group to facilitate the operation of its personal computer business in Japan. Details of the CCT Agreements are set out in the announcement dated April 21, 2011 and the circular issued by the Company to the shareholders on May 11, 2011. The continuing connected transactions under the NEC Mobiling Agreement ceased subsequently in June 2013 following NEC’s disposal of the shares in NEC Mobiling, Ltd.. Upon the Closing Date, JVCo became an indirect non-wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. As NEC is a substantial shareholder of the JVCo and therefore a connected person of the Company, the transactions contemplated under the CCT Agreements constitute continuing connected transactions for the Company under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules. On May 25, 2017, the annual caps for the CCTs were set for the period from May 25, 2017 to March 31, 2018 and for the two financial years ending March 31, 2019 and 2020 (the “Revised Annual Caps”) given the established business relationship between the Company and NEC and the mutual business development needs and goals. It was contemplated that the term of the CCT Agreements be automatically renewed for an additional year until a prescribed date or unless either party gives notice to the other of its intention to terminate such agreements (the “Automatic Renewal”). 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 161 Directors’ Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (i) Continuing connected transactions with nEC Corporation and its associates (continued) Details of the CCT Agreements are set out below: Supply Agreement Date: February 28, 2011 and amended on October 7, 2014 Parties: NEC and NEC Embedded Products, Ltd. (“nECP”) (formerly known as NEC Personal Products, Ltd.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEC (whose rights and obligations were transferred to NEC Personal Computers, Ltd. (“nECPC”), a member of the JVCo Group, on and following the Closing Date) Services provided/received: The supply of certain “nEC” branded personal computer products to NEC. Term: Commenced from July 1, 2011 and continued until July 1, 2016, subject to Automatic Renewal thereafter. Revised Annual Cap(Note): 25/5/2017 – 31/3/2018: JPY122,897 million (US$1,106,073,000) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019: JPY147,476 million (US$1,327,284,000) 1/4/2019 – 31/3/2020: JPY147,476 million (US$1,327,284,000) nEC Fielding Agreement Date: January 15, 2004 Parties: NEC Fielding, Ltd., a subsidiary of NEC, and NECP (whose rights and obligations were transferred to NECPC, a member of the JVCo Group, on and following the Closing Date) Services provided/received: NEC Fielding, Ltd. agreed to provide maintenance and other ancillary services for certain equipment sold or leased and used by the NECPC following the Closing Date. Term: The initial term ended on March 31, 2004 and had been automatically renewed for an additional one-year term until July 1, 2016, subject to Automatic Renewal thereafter. Revised Annual Cap(Note): 25/5/2017 – 31/3/2018: JPY2,370 million (US$21,330,000) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019: JPY3,009 million (US$27,081,000) 1/4/2019 – 31/3/2020: JPY3,009 million (US$27,081,000) 162 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (i) Continuing connected transactions with nEC Corporation and its associates (continued) nESiC Agreement Date: August 18, 2003 Parties: NEC Networks & System Integration Corporation (“nESiC”), an associate of NEC, and NECP (whose rights and obligations were transferred to NECPC, a member of the JVCo Group, on and following the Closing Date) Services provided/received: NESIC agreed to provide NECPC with operation and maintenance services for intranet and other internal communication systems of NECPC following the Closing Date. Term: The initial term ended on March 31, 2004 and had been automatically renewed for an additional one-year term until July 1, 2016, subject to Automatic Renewal thereafter. Revised Annual Cap(Note): 25/5/2017 – 31/3/2018: JPY113 million (US$1,017,000) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019: JPY121 million (US$1,089,000) 1/4/2019 – 31/3/2020: JPY121 million (US$1,089,000) nEC newco Brand Licence Agreement and Ancillary Agreements Date: July 1, 2011 and amended on October 7, 2014 Parties: NEC and NECPC (a member of the JVCo Group on and following the Closing Date) Services provided/received: NEC agreed to grant NECPC, JV Co and Lenovo (Japan) Ltd. (a member of JVCo Group) a licence to use certain rights in connection with the letters and the mark “NEC” at royalty payable to NEC by NECPC. Revised Term: Commenced from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2018 and is subject to Automatic Renewal until up to June 30, 2026. Revised Annual Cap(Note): 25/5/2017 – 31/3/2018: JPY253 million (US$2,277,000) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019: JPY349 million (US$3,141,000) 1/4/2019 – 31/3/2020: JPY368 million (US$3,312,000) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 163 Directors’ Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (i) Continuing connected transactions with nEC Corporation and its associates (continued) Transitional Services Agreement Date: May 30, 2011 Parties: The Company and NEC Services provided/received: Services to be provided by NEC Group to JVCo Group and vice versa including business infrastructure related services, development & production services, sales related services, maintenance & support services, real estate services and information technology services. Revised Term: Commenced from July 1, 2011 and expired after June 30, 2016 but extended to June 30, 2017, subject to Automatic Renewal thereafter. Revised Annual Cap(Note): Annual fees for services provided to JVCo Group by NEC Group (payable to NEC): 25/5/2017 – 31/3/2018: JPY13,516 million (US$121,644,000) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019: JPY18,343 million (US$165,087,000) 1/4/2019 – 31/3/2020: JPY18,343 million (US$165,087,000) Annual fees for services provided to NEC Group by JVCo Group (payable from NEC): 25/5/2017 – 31/3/2018: JPY775 million (US$6,975,000) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019: JPY1,128 million (US$10,152,000) 1/4/2019 – 31/3/2020: JPY1,179 million (US$10,611,000) Note: The translation of Japanese yen into United States dollars is based on the exchange rate of JPY1.00 to US$0.0090 for information purposes only. Full details of the above continuing connected transactions are set out in the announcements and circulars published by the Company on January 27, 2011, April 21, 2011, May 11, 2011, January 20, 2014, February 24, 2014, October 7, 2014 and May 25, 2017 and on the websites of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and the Company. 164 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (ii) Continuing connected transactions with Compal Electronics, inc. and it associates During the period from April 1 to August 31, 2018, the Group engaged in certain continuing connected transactions with Compal Electronics, Inc. (“Compal”, together with its affiliates the “Compal Group”), the then substantial shareholder of LC Future Center Limited (“LCFC”), a company owned as to 51% by the Company and 49% by Compal. As LCFC is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and Compal was then a substantial shareholder of LCFC, Compal was a connected person of the Company at subsidiary level under the Listing Rules. The Group and the Compal Group had, prior to the setting up of LCFC, entered into master agreements in relation to (i) the supply of components from the Group to the Compal Group; and (ii) the purchase of products and services from the Compal Group by the Group (together the “Existing CCT Agreements”). Details of the Existing CCT Agreements are set out in the announcements published by the Company on May 22, 2015, September 9, 2015, April 1, 2016, March 31, 2017 and March 29, 2018 and on the websites of the Company and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and are summarized below. Details of the Existing CCT Agreements are set out below: OEM Components Purchase Agreement Date: June 20, 2006 Parties: Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and Compal Services provided/received: The Group shall supply certain components (including but not limited to, electronic components and/or assemblies specified by Compal) to the Compal Group. Annual cap: (i) 22/5/2015 – 31/3/2016 (ii) 1/4/2016 – 31/3/2017 (iii) 1/4/2017 – 31/3/2018 (iv) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019 The estimated value of the transactions will not exceed US$16,000 million in aggregate under the Existing CCT Agreements or will not exceed US$8,000 million under OEM Components Purchase Agreement for each of the above period. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 165 Directors’ Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (ii) Continuing connected transactions with Compal Electronics, inc. and it associates (continued) System Purchase Agreement Date: January 19, 2006 Parties: Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (whose rights and obligations were assigned to Lenovo PC HK Limited pursuant to an assignment and novation agreement) and Compal Services provided/received: The Compal Group shall supply to the Group: (i) certain products, including but not limited to, (a) computer system units and the associated documentation, packaging, software packages; (b) any component when separately purchased from the system unit; (c) other materials, such as hard drives, memory cards and modems; and (d) other related computer and mobile products; and (ii) certain services, including but not limited to, activities, tasks and work items related to the manufacture and support of the products. Annual cap: (i) 22/5/2015 – 31/3/2016 (ii) 1/4/2016 – 31/3/2017 (iii) 1/4/2017 – 31/3/2018 (iv) 1/4/2018 – 31/3/2019 The estimated value of the transactions will not exceed US$16,000 million in aggregate under the Existing CCT Agreements or will not exceed US$8,000 million under System Purchase Agreement for each of the above period. The Existing CCT Agreements were entered into by the Company prior to Compal becoming a connected person of the Company and do not have a fixed period as required under rule 14A.52 of the Listing Rules. The Stock Exchange has granted a waiver from strict compliance with rule 14A.52 of the Listing Rules so as to allow the duration of each of the Existing CCT Agreements to exceed three years. As Compal has disposed of its entire interest in LCFC and ceased to be a substantial shareholder of LCFC on August 31, 2018, Compal is no longer a connected person of the Company and the transactions contemplated under the Existing CCT Agreements are no longer connected transactions of the Company as from September 1, 2018. 166 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (iii) Continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu Limited and its associates During the year, the Group conducted the following continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu Limited and its associates, details of which are set out as follows: Fujitsu Client Computing Limited (“FCCL”), is a joint venture company held as to 51% by the Company (through Lenovo International Coöperatief U.A.) and 44% by Fujitsu Limited (“Fujitsu”, together with its subsidiaries the “Fujitsu Group”) to engage in the business of personal computers and their related products pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement entered into between the Company and amongst others, Fujitsu dated November 2, 2017 and became effective on May 2, 2018 (the “Completion Date”). At or prior to the Completion Date, Fujitsu or other members of the Fujitsu Group entered into various agreements (the “Fujitsu CCT Agreements”) with FCCL in respect of the provision of certain services and products to or by FCCL to facilitate the operation of its personal computer business in Japan. Details of the Fujitsu CCT Agreements are set out in the announcement published by the Company on May 2, 2018. Upon the Completion Date, FCCL became an indirect non -wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. As Fujitsu is a substantial shareholder of FCCL and therefore a connected person of the Company, the transactions contemplated under the Fujitsu CCT Agreements constitute continuing connected transactions for the Company under Chapter 14A of the Listing Rules and are subject to reporting requirements under the Listing Rules. Details of the Fujitsu CCT Agreements are set out below: Transitional Services Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and Fujitsu Services provided/received: Transitional services provided by Fujitsu to FCCL and vice versa including research and development, sales and marketing, information technology support, development and management, customer care support, manufacturing support, supply chain management, procurement and corporate management. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and continues until the earlier of last date of terms of the Transitional Services Agreement or the fifth anniversary of May 2, 2018. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by Fujitsu to FCCL: JPY21,300 million (approximately US$195 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 Incomes generated for services to Fujitsu by FCCL: JPY1,300 million (approximately US$12 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 167 Directors’ Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (iii) Continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu Limited and its associates (continued) Secondment Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and Fujitsu Services provided/received: Secondment by Fujitsu to FCCL of certain employees of Fujitsu. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and continues until the earlier of employment of all the seconded employees being transferred from Fujitsu to FCCL (or otherwise terminated) or termination in accordance with the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement or the fifth anniversary of May 2, 2018. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by Fujitsu to FCCL: JPY6,500 million (approximately US$60 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 Services Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL, Fujitsu Technology Solutions GMBH (“FTS”) and Fujitsu Technology Solutions IP GMBH Services provided/received: FTS agreed to provide FCCL product management services, VAT support services, purchasing and supply chain management services and IP support services. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and shall continue for a period of five years, subject to extension by mutual agreement. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by FTS to FCCL: JPY400 million (approximately US$4 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 168 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (iii) Continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu Limited and its associates (continued) Manufacture Agreement (FPE) Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and Fujitsu Peripherals Limited (“FPE”) Services provided/received: FPE agreed to provide manufacturing services to FCCL. FCCL agreed to provide component sourcing services to FPE. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and shall continue for a period of five years. The term may be extended under same terms and conditions by agreement between the parties. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by FPE to FCCL: JPY300 million (approximately US$3 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 Incomes generated for services to FPE by FCCL: JPY100 million (approximately US$1 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2021, 2022 and 2023 JPY200 million (approximately US$2 million) in the financial year ending March 31, 2020 Manufacture Agreement (FiT) Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and Fujitsu Isotec Limited (“FiT”) Services provided/received: FIT agreed to provide manufacturing services to FCCL. FCCL agreed to provide component sourcing services to FIT. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and shall continue for a period of five years. The term may be extended under same terms and conditions by agreement between the parties. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by FIT to FCCL in each of the financial years ending March 31: 2019: JPY53,200 million (approximately US$488 million) 2020: JPY55,700 million (approximately US$511 million) 2021: JPY49,200 million (approximately US$451 million) 2022: JPY50,800 million (approximately US$466 million) 2023: JPY52,400 million (approximately US$481 million) Incomes generated for services to FIT by FCCL in each of the financial years ending March 31: 2019: JPY22,000 million (approximately US$202 million) 2020: JPY23,100 million (approximately US$212 million) 2021: JPY20,400 million (approximately US$187 million) 2022: JPY21,000 million (approximately US$193 million) 2023: JPY21,700 million (approximately US$199 million) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 169 Directors’ Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (iii) Continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu Limited and its associates (continued) Sales and Distribution Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and Fujitsu Services provided/received: FCCL agreed to supply Fujitsu-branded products and such other products and services as agreed between the parties and services to Fujitsu. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and shall continue for a period of five years. The term may be extended under same terms and conditions by agreement between the parties. Annual cap: Incomes generated for services to Fujitsu by FCCL in each of the financial years ending March 31: 2019: JPY333,800 million (approximately US$3,062 million) 2020: JPY337,600 million (approximately US$3,097 million) 2021: JPY325,600 million (approximately US$2,987 million) 2022: JPY336,000 million (approximately US$3,083 million) 2023: JPY346,700 million (approximately US$3,181 million) Fujitsu Trademark and Brand License Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and Fujitsu Services provided/received: Fujitsu granted FCCL licenses to use Fujitsu name and trademarks. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and shall continue for a period of five years. The term may be extended under same terms and conditions by mutual agreement between the parties or for a period of three years at FCCL’s option. Annual cap: Royalty payable to Fujitsu: JPY500 million (approximately US$5 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 170 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) (iii) Continuing connected transactions with Fujitsu Limited and its associates (continued) Manufacturing and Services Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and FTS Services provided/received: FTS agreed to manufacture products and provide the purchasing and supply chain management services to FCCL. FCCL agreed to provide component sourcing services to FTS. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and shall continue for a period of five years. The term may be extended under same terms and conditions by agreement between the parties. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by FTS to FCCL in each of the financial years ending March 31: 2019: JPY130,400 million (approximately US$1,196 million) 2020: JPY139,700 million (approximately US$1,282 million) 2021: JPY125,700 million (approximately US$1,153 million) 2022: JPY129,700 million (approximately US$1,190 million) 2023: JPY133,900 million (approximately US$1,228 million) Incomes generated for services to FTS by FCCL in each of the financial years ending March 31: 2019: JPY52,400 million (approximately US$481 million) 2020: JPY55,500 million (approximately US$509 million) 2021: JPY45,600 million (approximately US$418 million) 2022: JPY47,000 million (approximately US$431 million) 2023: JPY48,500 million (approximately US$445 million) R&D Services Agreement Date: May 2, 2018 Parties: FCCL and FTS Services provided/received: FTS agreed to provide research and development services to FCCL. Term: Commenced from May 2, 2018 and remain in force for the Initial Business Plan Period. After Initial Business Plan Period, the terms shall be automatically renewed annually and expire at the fifth anniversary of May 2, 2018. Annual cap: Expenses incurred from the use of services provided by FTS to FCCL: JPY2,600 million (approximately US$24 million) in each of the financial years ending March 31, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 171 Directors’ Report COnTinuinG COnnECTED TRAnSACTiOnS (continued) In accordance with rule 14A.55 of the Listing Rules, the independent non-executive directors of the Company reviewed the continuing connected transactions as mentioned in sections (i) – (iii) above and confirmed that the transactions were entered into: (1) in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group; (2) on normal commercial terms or better; and (3) according to the relevant agreement governing them on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of the shareholders of the Group as a whole. Pursuant to rule 14A.56 of the Listing Rules, the Company’s external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”) was engaged to report on the Group’s continuing connected transactions in accordance with Hong Kong Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and with reference to Practice Note 740 “Auditor’s Letter on Continuing Connected Transactions under the Hong Kong Listing Rules” issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. PwC has issued an unqualified letter containing findings and conclusions in respect of the continuing connected transactions disclosed by the Group in the paragraph above in accordance with rule 14A.56 of the Listing Rules. A copy of the auditor’s letter has been provided by the Company to the Stock Exchange. SiGniFiCAnT RELATED PARTY TRAnSACTiOnS During the year, the Group entered into certain transactions with parties regarded as “related parties” under applicable accounting principles. Details of the significant related party transactions undertaken in the normal course of business are set out in note 31 to the financial statements. None of these transactions constitutes a discloseable connected transaction as defined under the Listing Rules. AuDiTOR The financial statements for the year have been audited by PwC who retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. PuBLiC FLOAT Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge of the directors of the Company, as at the date of this report, there is sufficient public float of more than 25% of the Company’s total number of issued shares as required under the Listing Rules. On behalf of the Board Yang Yuanqing Chairman and Chief Executive Officer May 23, 2019 172 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Independent Auditor’s Report inDEPEnDEnT AuDiTOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LEnOvO GROuP LiMiTED (incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability) OPiniOn What we have audited The consolidated financial statements of Lenovo Group Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) set out on pages 179 to 290, which comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet as at March 31, 2019; • the consolidated income statement for the year then ended; • the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended; • the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; • the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and • the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies. Our opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at March 31, 2019, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”) issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“HKICPA”) and have been properly prepared in compliance with the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance. BASiS FOR OPiniOn We conducted our audit in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing (“HKSAs”) issued by the HKICPA. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. independence We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“the Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. KEY AuDiT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 173 Independent Auditor’s Report KEY AuDiT MATTERS (continued) Key audit matters identified in our audit are summarised as follows: • Impairment assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives • Recognition of deferred income tax assets How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Key Audit Matter impairment assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Refer to notes 4(a) and 16 to the consolidated Our procedures in relation to the Group’s financial statements impairment assessment included: As at March 31, 2019, the Group had goodwill • Assessing management’s identification and other intangible assets with indefinite of CGUs based on the Group’s useful lives totaling US$6,211 million. The accounting policies and our Group tests at least annually whether understanding of the Group’s business. goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives have suffered any • Assessing the value in use calculation impairment. methodology adopted by management. For the purpose of assessing impairment, • Challenging the reasonableness of key assets are grouped at the lowest level for assumptions such as revenue growth which there are separately identified cash rates, operating margins and discount flows cash generating units (“CGUs”). The rates with reference to the business and recoverable amount of each CGU was industry circumstances. determined based on value in use calculations using cash flow projections. • Reconciling input data to supporting evidence, such as approved forecasts of In carrying out the impairment assessments, future profits and strategic plans. significant management judgement was used to appropriately identify CGUs and • Considering the reasonableness of the to determine key assumptions, including forecasts of future profits and strategic revenue growth rates, operating margins and plans by comparing them against past discount rates. results achieved. Management are of the view that there was • Assessing management’s sensitivity no evidence of impairment of goodwill or analysis around the key assumptions, other intangible assets with indefinite useful to ascertain the extent to which lives as at March 31, 2019. adverse changes, both individually or in aggregate, might impact on the We focused on this area because the value outcome of the impairment assessment in use calculations required significant of the goodwill and other intangible management judgements with respect to assets with indefinite useful lives. revenue growth rates, operating margins and discount rates. We found the judgements made by management in relation to the impairment assessment to be supportable based on the available evidence. 174 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report KEY AuDiT MATTERS (continued) How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Key Audit Matter Recognition of deferred income tax assets Refer to notes 4(b) and 19 to the Our procedures in relation to the recognition consolidated financial statements of deferred income tax assets included: As at March 31, 2019, the Group had deferred • Evaluating management’s assessment income tax assets of US$1,863 million. as to whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods Deferred income tax assets are recognized by reference to forecasts of future to the extent that it is probable that future profits/strategic plans and future taxable profit will be available against which reversals of taxable temporary the temporary differences can be utilized. differences to support the recognition of deferred income tax assets. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or • Assessing the underlying assumptions substantively enacted by the balance sheet used in management’s approved date and expected to apply when the related forecasts of future profits such as deferred income tax asset is realized. revenue growth rates and operating margins by comparison to historical Recognition of the deferred income tax results and future strategic and assets involves judgement regarding the tax plans and with reference to the future financial performance of the entity business and industry circumstances. in which the deferred income tax asset has been recognized. A number of factors are • Testing management’s reconciliations evaluated in considering whether there is of forecast profits to forecast taxable evidence that it is probable the deferred profits to supporting evidence on a income tax assets will be realized, including sample basis. whether there will be sufficient taxable profits available during the utilization periods, • Validating available tax losses, existence of taxable temporary differences, including the respective expiry periods group relief and tax planning strategies. to tax returns and tax correspondence of the relevant subsidiaries. Management has performed its assessment on the recognition of these deferred income • Testing the calculation of deferred tax assets and considers that the realization income tax assets by reference to tax of these assets is probable as at March 31, rates enacted or substantively enacted 2019. by the balance sheet date. We focused on this area because of the We found the judgements made by inherent uncertainties involved in forecasting management in relation to recognition of future taxable profits and future reversals of deferred income tax assets to be supportable taxable temporary differences. based on the available evidence. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 175 Independent Auditor’s Report OTHER inFORMATiOn The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises all of the information included in the annual report other than the consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. RESPOnSiBiLiTiES OF DiRECTORS AnD THE AuDiT COMMiTTEE FOR THE COnSOLiDATED FinAnCiAL STATEMEnTS The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with HKFRSs issued by the HKICPA and the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. AuDiTOR’S RESPOnSiBiLiTiES FOR THE AuDiT OF THE COnSOLiDATED FinAnCiAL STATEMEnTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. We report our opinion solely to you, as a body, in accordance with Section 405 of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with HKSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. 176 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report AuDiTOR’S RESPOnSiBiLiTiES FOR THE AuDiT OF THE COnSOLiDATED FinAnCiAL STATEMEnTS (continued) As part of an audit in accordance with HKSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the Audit Committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 177 Independent Auditor’s Report AuDiTOR’S RESPOnSiBiLiTiES FOR THE AuDiT OF THE COnSOLiDATED FinAnCiAL STATEMEnTS (continued) We also provide the Audit Committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Audit Committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is Shia Yuen Yee. PricewaterhouseCoopers Certified Public Accountants Hong Kong, May 23, 2019 178 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Note uS$’000 US$’000 Revenue 5 51,037,943 45,349,943 Cost of sales (43,667,299) (39,077,812) Gross profit 7,370,644 6,272,131 Other income – net – 301 Selling and distribution expenses (2,657,965) (2,833,253) Administrative expenses (2,209,340) (1,757,319) Research and development expenses (1,266,341) (1,273,729) Other operating expenses – net (59,181) (21,408) Operating profit 6 1,177,817 386,723 Finance income 7(a) 27,399 32,145 Finance costs 7(b) (337,027) (263,160) Share of losses of associates and joint ventures 17 (11,525) (2,506) Profit before taxation 856,664 153,202 Taxation 8 (199,460) (279,977) Profit/(loss) for the year 657,204 (126,775) Profit/(loss) attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 596,343 (189,323) Perpetual securities holders 53,760 53,680 Other non-controlling interests 7,101 8,868 657,204 (126,775) Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to equity holders of the Company Basic 11(a) uS5.01 cents US(1.67) cents Diluted 11(b) uS4.96 cents US(1.67) cents Dividends 12 425,764 399,284 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 179 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Note uS$’000 US$’000 Profit/(loss) for the year 657,204 (126,775) Other comprehensive (loss)/income: Item that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of taxes 8, 35 (25,641) (19,797) Items that have been reclassified or may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Fair value change on available-for-sale financial assets, net of taxes 8, 20 – 224 Fair value change on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, net of taxes 8, 20 (15,978) – Fair value change on cash flow hedges from foreign exchange forward contracts, net of taxes 8 – Fair value gain/(loss), net of taxes 284,542 (233,651) – Reclassified to consolidated income statement (244,396) 222,073 Currency translation differences (434,816) 288,711 Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (436,289) 257,560 Total comprehensive income for the year 220,915 130,785 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 160,845 68,237 Perpetual securities holders 53,760 53,680 Other non-controlling interests 6,310 8,868 220,915 130,785 180 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Consolidated Balance Sheet At March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Note uS$’000 US$’000 non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 1,430,817 1,304,751 Prepaid lease payments 14 463,996 507,628 Construction-in-progress 15 232,097 382,845 Intangible assets 16 8,324,575 8,514,504 Interests in associates and joint ventures 17 79,061 35,666 Deferred income tax assets 19 1,862,902 1,530,623 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 – 373,077 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 20 449,363 – Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 20 71,486 – Other non-current assets 187,985 181,759 13,102,282 12,830,853 Current assets Inventories 21 3,434,660 3,791,691 Trade receivables 22(a) 6,661,484 4,972,722 Notes receivable 22(b) 46,454 11,154 Derivative financial assets 70,972 24,890 Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 22(c) 3,753,926 4,703,335 Income tax recoverable 185,643 227,203 Bank deposits 23 70,210 84,306 Cash and cash equivalents 23 2,662,854 1,848,017 16,886,203 15,663,318 Total assets 29,988,485 28,494,171 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 181 Consolidated Balance Sheet At March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Note uS$’000 US$’000 Share capital 28 3,185,923 3,185,923 Reserves 210,530 332,697 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,396,453 3,518,620 Perpetual securities 29 993,670 993,670 Other non-controlling interests 473,178 246,598 25(a)(ii), Put option written on non-controlling interests 27(b) (766,238) (212,900) Total equity 4,097,063 4,545,988 non-current liabilities Borrowings 26 2,426,770 2,648,725 Warranty provision 25(b) 254,601 278,908 Deferred revenue 678,137 583,405 Retirement benefit obligations 35 434,246 413,482 Deferred income tax liabilities 19 359,679 230,609 Other non-current liabilities 27 1,247,646 333,332 5,401,079 4,488,461 Current liabilities Trade payables 24(a) 6,429,835 6,450,792 Notes payable 24(b) 1,272,840 801,974 Derivative financial liabilities 74,426 62,694 Other payables and accruals 25(a) 8,942,336 9,217,764 Provisions 25(b) 738,688 858,475 Deferred revenue 780,951 732,552 Income tax payable 298,224 168,779 Borrowings 26 1,953,043 1,166,692 20,490,343 19,459,722 Total liabilities 25,891,422 23,948,183 Total equity and liabilities 29,988,485 28,494,171 On behalf of the Board Yang Yuanqing Ma Xuezheng Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Director 182 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Note uS$’000 US$’000 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash generated from/(used in) operations 34 2,115,996 (61,991) Interest paid (324,427) (243,584) Tax paid (318,996) (450,718) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 1,472,573 (756,293) Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (234,682) (217,849) Purchase of prepaid lease payments – (10,908) Sale of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments and construction-in-progress 129,683 40,525 Interest acquired in associates and a joint venture (5,349) (2,205) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 36 (99,298) – Deemed disposal of a subsidiary, net of cash disposed (21,106) – Net proceeds from disposal of a joint venture – 160,564 Payment for construction-in-progress (303,045) (285,447) Payment for intangible assets (163,094) (156,390) Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets – (100,466) Purchase of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (73,836) – Purchase of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (4,739) – Net proceeds from sale of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 33,996 – Net proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets – 165 Repayment of deferred consideration – (686,301) Decrease in bank deposits 14,096 112,414 Dividends received 230 286 Interest received 27,399 32,145 Net cash used in investing activities (699,745) (1,113,467) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 183 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended March 31, 2019 2019 2018 Note uS$’000 US$’000 Cash flows from financing activities Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 11(b) – 496,041 Capital contribution from other non-controlling interests 77,769 1,823 Contribution to employee share trusts (157,343) (61,211) Issue of perpetual securities – 149,625 Dividends paid (404,350) (380,750) Dividends paid to other non-controlling interests (4,758) (4,937) Distribution to perpetual securities holders (53,760) (53,312) Issue of convertible bonds 675,000 – Issuing costs of convertible bonds (10,107) – Proceeds from borrowings 5,700,215 7,425,740 Repayments of borrowings (5,700,000) (6,724,406) Issue of notes – 749,119 Repayment of notes – (723,389) Net cash generated from financing activities 122,666 874,343 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 895,494 (995,417) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (80,657) 88,835 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,848,017 2,754,599 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 2,662,854 1,848,017 184 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended March 31, 2019 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Put option Other written Investment Employee Share-based nonon nonShare revaluation share compensation Hedging Exchange Other Retained Perpetual controlling controlling capital reserve trusts reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings securities interests interests Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 At April 1, 2017 2,689,882 (2,965) (111,228) 123,493 (5,328) (1,226,618) 62,751 1,693,614 843,677 240,844 (212,900) 4,095,222 (Loss)/profit for the year – – – – – – – (189,323) 53,680 8,868 – (126,775) Other comprehensive income/(loss) – 224 – – (11,578) 288,711 – (19,797) – – – 257,560 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year – 224 – – (11,578) 288,711 – (209,120) 53,680 8,868 – 130,785 Transfer to statutory reserve – – – – – – 15,097 (15,097) – – – – Vesting of shares under long-term incentive program – – 70,737 (91,528) – – – – – – – (20,791) Deferred tax charge in relation to long-term incentive program – – – (2,196) – – – – – – – (2,196) Share-based compensation – – – 202,088 – – – – – – – 202,088 Contribution to employee share trusts – – (61,211) – – – – – – – – (61,211) Dividends paid – – – – – – – (380,750) – – – (380,750) Issue of perpetual securities (Note 29) – – – – – – – – 149,625 – – 149,625 Issue of ordinary shares 496,041 – – – – – – – – – – 496,041 Issue of bonus warrants – – – – – – (6,399) – – – – (6,399) Capital contribution from other non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – 1,823 – 1,823 Dividends paid to other non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – (4,937) – (4,937) Distribution to perpetual securities holders (Note 29) – – – – – – – – (53,312) – – (53,312) At March 31, 2018 3,185,923 (2,741) (101,702) 231,857 (16,906) (937,907) 71,449 1,088,647 993,670 246,598 (212,900) 4,545,988 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 185 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended March 31, 2019 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Put option Other written investment Employee Share-based nonon nonShare revaluation share compensation Hedging Exchange Other Retained Perpetual controlling controlling capital reserve trusts reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings securities interests interests Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 At April 1, 2018 3,185,923 (2,741) (101,702) 231,857 (16,906) (937,907) 71,449 1,088,647 993,670 246,598 (212,900) 4,545,988 Change in accounting policy – (17,376) – – – – – 5,746 – – – (11,630) Restated total equity 3,185,923 (20,117) (101,702) 231,857 (16,906) (937,907) 71,449 1,094,393 993,670 246,598 (212,900) 4,534,358 Profit for the year – – – – – – – 596,343 53,760 7,101 – 657,204 Other comprehensive (loss)/income – (15,978) – – 40,146 (434,025) – (25,641) – (791) – (436,289) Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year – (15,978) – – 40,146 (434,025) – 570,702 53,760 6,310 – 220,915 Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – – – – – – – 151,167 – 151,167 Vesting of shares under long-term incentive program – – 118,836 (137,317) – – – – – – – (18,481) Deferred tax credit in relation to long-term incentive program – – – 2,178 – – – – – – – 2,178 Deemed disposal of a subsidiary – – – – – – – – – (1,371) – (1,371) Share-based compensation – – – 214,822 – – – – – – – 214,822 Termination of put option written on non-controlling interests – – – – – – 11,913 – – – 212,900 224,813 Put option written on non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – – (766,238) (766,238) Contribution to employee share trusts – – (157,343) – – – – – – – – (157,343) Dividends paid – – – – – – – (404,350) – – – (404,350) Capital contribution from other non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – 77,769 – 77,769 Change of ownership of subsidiaries without loss of control – – – – – – 2,537 – – (2,537) – – Dividends paid to other non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – (4,758) – (4,758) Distribution to perpetual securities holders (Note 29) – – – – – – – – (53,760) – – (53,760) Issue of convertible bonds – – – – – – 77,342 – – – – 77,342 At March 31, 2019 3,185,923 (36,095) (140,209) 311,540 23,240 (1,371,932) 163,241 1,260,745 993,670 473,178 (766,238) 4,097,063 186 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Notes to the Financial Statements 1 GEnERAL inFORMATiOn AnD BASiS OF PREPARATiOn Lenovo Group Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together, the “Group”) develop, manufacture and market reliable, high-quality, secure and easy-to-use technology products and services. Its product lines include legendary Think-branded commercial personal computers and Idea-branded consumer personal computers, as well as servers, workstations, and a family of mobile internet devices, including tablets and smartphones. The Company is a limited liability company incorporated in Hong Kong. The address of its registered office is 23rd Floor, Lincoln House, Taikoo Place, 979 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong. The Company has its primary listing on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRS”). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except that certain financial assets and financial liabilities are stated at fair values, as explained in the significant accounting policies set out below. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with HKFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The Group has adopted the following new standards, interpretation and amendments to an existing standard that are mandatory for the year ended March 31, 2019 which the Group considers is appropriate and relevant to its operations: – HKFRS 9, Financial instruments – HKFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers – HK (IFRIC) – Int 22, Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration – Amendments to HKFRS 2, Share-based payment Except for the two new standards, the adoption of the newly effective interpretation and the amendments to an existing standard did not result in substantial changes to the Group’s accounting policies or financial results. The following describes the key changes arising from the adoption of the two new standards that impact the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 187 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 GEnERAL inFORMATiOn AnD BASiS OF PREPARATiOn (continued) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures (continued) HKFRS 9, Financial instruments The new standard addresses the classification, measurement and de-recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets. HKFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”) and fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”). The basis of classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at FVPL with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in which case the accumulated fair value changes in other comprehensive income will not be recycled to the profit or loss in the future. For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement, except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income for liabilities designated at FVPL. The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (“ECL”) rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under HKAS 39. Under HKFRS 9, trade receivables of the Group are to be classified as FVOCI instruments with earlier recognition of loss expected, and the amount of any relevant impairment provision may be revised when ECL is referenced. The Group currently holds certain investments in equity instruments which are classified as FVOCI instruments. Gains or losses realized on the sale of financial assets at FVOCI will no longer be transferred to profit or loss on sale, but instead will be reclassified below the line from the investments revaluation reserve to retained earnings. The Group continues to apply HKAS 39 for hedge accounting. Impact of adoption The adoption of HKFRS 9 resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts recognized in the financial statements. In accordance with the transitional provisions in HKFRS 9, comparative figures have not been restated. The total impact on the Group’s retained earnings as at April 1, 2018 is as follows: uS$’000 Closing retained earnings at March 31, 2018 1,088,647 Reclassify investments from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at FVPL 17,376 Bond refinancing (11,630) Opening retained earnings at April 1, 2018 1,094,393 188 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 1 GEnERAL inFORMATiOn AnD BASiS OF PREPARATiOn (continued) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures (continued) HKFRS 9, Financial instruments (continued) Impact of adoption (continued) (i) Classification and measurement On April 1, 2018, the Group’s management has assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate HKFRS 9 categories. The main effects resulting from this reclassification are as follows: (a) Reclassification from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at FVPL Certain investments were reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at FVPL (US$294,601,000 as at April 1, 2018). They do not meet the HKFRS 9 criteria for classification at amortized cost, because their cash flows do not represent solely payments of principal and interest. Related fair value gains of US$17,376,000 were transferred from the investment revaluation reserve to retained earnings on April 1, 2018. During the year, net fair value gains of US$125,550,000 relating to financial assets at FVPL were recognized in profit or loss. (b) Equity investments previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets The Group elected to present in other comprehensive income the changes in fair value of certain of its equity investments previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets, because these investments are held as long-term strategic investments that are not expected to be sold in the short to medium term. As a result, assets with a fair value of US$78,476,000 as of April 1, 2018 were reclassified from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at FVOCI. (c) Bond refinancing Following the adoption of HKFRS 9, the Group could no longer defer the recognition of a loss from the refinancing of a borrowing. Under the Group’s previous accounting policies, this loss would have been recognized over the remaining life of the borrowing by adjusting the effective interest rate, on the basis that the terms and conditions of the facility remained largely unchanged. A related loss of US$11,630,000 was adjusted to retained earnings on April 1, 2018. (d) Impairment of financial assets The Group applies the HKFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring ECL which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. The Group has concluded that there is no material variance between the ECL and the allowance recorded as at April 1, 2018. HKFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers This standard replaced HKAS 18 which covers contracts for goods and services and HKAS 11 which covers construction contracts. The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognized when control of a good or service transfers to a customer. The standard permits either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption. Under HKFRS 15, revenue arising from channel sales of the Group may be subject to a different timing of recognition, which may impact the amount of revenue recognized by the Group for a given period. The Group has assessed the effects of applying the new standard on the consolidated financial statements and has not identified any significant impact to the Group. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 189 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 GEnERAL inFORMATiOn AnD BASiS OF PREPARATiOn (continued) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures (continued) new standard, interpretation and amendments to existing standards not yet effective The following new standard, interpretation and amendments to existing standards, which are considered appropriate and relevant to the Group’s operations, have been issued but are not effective for the year ended March 31, 2019 and have not been early adopted: Effective for annual periods beginning on or after HKFRS 16, Leases January 1, 2019 HK (IFRIC) – Int 23, Uncertainty over income tax treatments January 1, 2019 Amendments to HKFRS 9, Prepayment features with negative compensation January 1, 2019 Amendments to HKAS 28, Long-term interests in associates and joint ventures January 1, 2019 Amendments to HKAS 19, Plan amendment, curtailment or settlement January 1, 2019 Annual improvements to HKFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle – various standards January 1, 2019 Amendments to HKFRS 3, Definition of a business January 1, 2020 Amendments to HKAS 1 and HKAS 8, Definition of material January 1, 2020 Amendments to HKFRS 10 and HKAS 28, Consolidated financial statements and investments in associates Date to be determined Among the above, HKFRS 16 is of higher relevancy to the Group’s operations. The following describes the key changes that may impact the consolidated financial statements of the Group. HKFRS 16, Leases HKFRS 16 requires almost all leases of lessees to be recognized on the balance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed. The accounting for lessors will not significantly change. Under the new standard, the right to use the leased item and the obligation to pay rent are recognized as an asset and a financial liability respectively. The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases. The standard will affect primarily the accounting for operating leases of the Group. The standard permits either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption. At March 31, 2019, the Group had operating lease commitments of US$473 million. Upon adoption of HKFRS 16 the majority of operating lease commitments will be recognized in the consolidated balance sheet as lease liabilities and right-of-use assets. The lease liabilities would subsequently be measured at amortized cost and the right-of-use asset will be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Group does not intend to adopt the standard before its effective date. The Group intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption. Other than the impacts discussed above, the Group is in the opinion that the adoption of the other interpretation and amendments to existing standards will not result in a significant effect on its consolidated financial statements. 190 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. (a) Principles of consolidation and equity accounting (i) Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries made up to March 31. Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations by the Group (refer to (ii)). Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions are eliminated. Profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions that are recognized in assets are also eliminated. Adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries when necessary to align their accounting policies to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. For subsidiaries which adopted December 31 as their financial year end date for statutory reporting purposes, their financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 have been used for the preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. (ii) Business combinations The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognized amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 191 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (a) Principles of consolidation and equity accounting (continued) (ii) Business combinations (continued) If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognized in the consolidated income statement. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and, in a business combination achieved in stages the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed (Note 2(g)(i)). If it is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized directly in the consolidated income statement. (iii) Changes in ownership interests The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control as transactions with equity owners of the Group. A change in ownership interest results in an adjustment between the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests to reflect their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount of the adjustment to non-controlling interests and any consideration paid or received is recognized in a separate reserve within equity attributable to owners of the Company. When the Group ceases to consolidate or equity account for an investment because of a loss of control, joint control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. This fair value becomes the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified/ permitted by applicable HKFRSs. If the ownership interest in a joint venture or an associate is reduced but joint control or significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate. 192 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (a) Principles of consolidation and equity accounting (continued) (iii) Changes in ownership interests (continued) The potential cash payments related to put options issued by the Group over the equity of a subsidiary are accounted for as financial liabilities. The amount that may become payable under the option on exercise is initially recognized at present value of redemption amount as a written put option liability with a corresponding charge directly to equity. A written put option liability is subsequently re-measured as a result of the change in the expected performance at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognized in the consolidated income statement. In the event that the option expires unexercised, the written put option liability is derecognized with a corresponding adjustment to equity. (iv) Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognized in the consolidated income statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequent accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized as other comprehensive income or loss in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized as other comprehensive income or loss are reclassified to the consolidated income statement. (v) Separate financial statements Investments in subsidiaries in the Company’s balance sheet are accounted for at cost less impairment. The results of subsidiaries are accounted for by the Company on the basis of dividends received and receivable. Impairment testing of the investments in subsidiaries is required upon receiving dividends from these investments if the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary in the period the dividend is declared or if the carrying amount of the investment in the separate financial statements exceeds the carrying amount in the consolidated financial statements of the investee’s net assets including goodwill. (b) Associates and joint arrangements Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structures of the joint arrangements. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and applied HKFRS 11 in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 193 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (b) Associates and joint arrangements (continued) Associates and joint ventures Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost. The Group’s interests in associates and joint ventures include goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The Group’s share of its associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognized in the consolidated income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income or loss is recognized as other comprehensive income or loss with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or the joint venture including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or the joint venture. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate and joint venture is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value and recognizes the amount adjacent to share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures in the consolidated income statement. Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between the Group and its associates or joint ventures are recognized in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates or the joint ventures. Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. For associates and joint ventures which adopted December 31 as their financial year end date for statutory reporting purposes, their financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 have been used for the preparation of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Joint operation Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of an arrangement. Investments in joint operations are accounted for such that each joint operator recognizes its assets (including its share of any assets jointly held), its liabilities (including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly), its revenue (including its share of revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation) and its expenses (including its share of any expenses incurred jointly). Each joint operator accounts for the assets and liabilities, as well as revenues and expenses, relating to its interest in the joint operation in accordance with the applicable standards. 194 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (c) Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Lenovo Executive Committee (the “LEC”) that makes strategic decisions. (d) Translation of foreign currencies (i) Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The financial statements of the Company and of the Group are presented in United States dollars, which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency. (ii) Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are generally recognized in the income statement. They are deferred in equity if they are related to qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges or are attributable to part of the net investment in a foreign operation. All foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are presented in the income statement within “Other operating expenses – net”. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. Translation differences on financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are as part of the fair value gain or loss. For example, translation differences on non-monetary assets and liabilities such as equities held at FVPL are recognized in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss and translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equities classified as FVOCI are recognized in other comprehensive income or loss. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 195 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (d) Translation of foreign currencies (continued) (iii) The results and financial position of all the group entities that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: – assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; – income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions); and – all resulting exchange differences are recognized as other comprehensive income or loss. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are recognized as other comprehensive income or loss and included in the exchange reserve in equity. (iv) On the disposal of a foreign operation (that is, a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary, loss of joint control of a joint venture, or loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the equity holders of the Company are reclassified to the consolidated income statement. In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognized in the consolidated income statement. For all other partial disposals (that is, reductions in the Group’s ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture that do not result in the Group losing influence or joint control), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to the consolidated income statement. 196 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (e) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate asset is derecognized when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance are charged in the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Freehold land and buildings comprise mainly factories and office premises. All freehold lands are located outside Hong Kong and are not depreciated. Depreciation of buildings, buildings related equipment and leasehold improvements is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their costs to their estimated residual values over the unexpired periods of the leases or their expected useful lives to the Group ranging from 10 to 50 years whichever is shorter. Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their costs to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives to the Group. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Plant and machinery Tooling equipment 50% – 100% Other machinery 14% – 20% Furniture and fixtures 20% – 25% Office equipment 20% – 33% Motor vehicles 20% The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount (Note 2(h)). Gain or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the relevant asset, and is recognized within “Other operating expenses – net” in the consolidated income statement. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 197 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (f) Construction-in-progress Construction-in-progress represents buildings, plant and machinery and internal use software under construction and pending installation and is stated at historical cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost comprises all direct and indirect costs of acquisition or construction or installation of buildings, plant and machinery or internal use software as well as interest expenses and exchange differences on the related funds borrowed during the construction, installation and testing periods and prior to the date when the assets were available for use. No depreciation or amortization is provided for on construction-in-progress. On completion, the carrying values of the buildings, plant and machinery or internal use software are transferred from construction-in-progress to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets. Gain on disposal of construction-in-progress is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the relevant assets, and is recognized within “Other operating expenses – net” in the consolidated income statement. (g) intangible assets (i) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration of an acquisition transferred over the Group’s interests in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in interests in associates and joint ventures. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (“CGU”), or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is recognized immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. (ii) Trademarks and trade names Separately acquired trademarks and trade names are shown at historical cost. Trademarks and trade names acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Trademarks and trade names that have an indefinite useful life are tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are expected to generate net cash inflows. (iii) Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Customer relationships have a definite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of not more than 15 years. 198 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (g) intangible assets (continued) (iv) internal use software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: – it is technically feasible to complete the software so that it will be available for use; – management intends to complete the software and use or sell it; – there is an ability to use or sell the software; – it can be demonstrated how the software will generate probable future economic benefits; – adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software are available; and – the expenditure attributable to the software during its development can be reliably measured. Development costs include the employee costs incurred as a result of developing software and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. Costs associated with maintaining computer software are recognized as an expense as incurred. Acquired computer software licenses costs and computer software development costs are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of not more than 8 years. (v) Patents and technology Expenditure on acquired patents and technology is capitalized at historical cost upon acquisition and amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of not more than 10 years. (vi) Exclusive right An exclusive right acquired in a business combination is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. An exclusive right has a definite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of not more than 15 years. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 199 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (h) impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life or are not yet available for use are not subject to depreciation or amortization and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. (i) Financial assets (i) Classification From April 1, 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: – those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit or loss), and – those to be measured at amortized cost. The classification depends on the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows. For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other comprehensive income. For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investments at FVOCI. The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes. (ii) Recognition and derecognition Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. 200 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (i) Financial assets (continued) (iii) Measurement At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at FVPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss. Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest. Debt instruments Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Group classifies its debt instruments: – Amortized cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortized cost. Interest income from these financial assets, impairment losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, and gain or loss arising on derecognition are recognized directly in profit or loss. – FVOCI: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other comprehensive income, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognized in profit or loss. When the financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. – FVPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognized in profit or loss in the period in which it arises. Equity instruments The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value. Where the Group’s management has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends from such investments continue to be recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. On disposal of these equity investments, any related balance within the investment revaluation reserve is reclassified to retained earnings. Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVPL are recognized in the profit or loss as applicable. Financial assets at FVOCI comprise equity investments which are not held for trading, and which the Group has irrevocably elected at initial recognition to recognize in this category. These are strategic investments and the Group considers this classification to be more relevant. Financial assets at FVPL comprise equity investments which are held for trading, and which the Group has not elected to recognize fair value gains and losses through other comprehensive income. Details on how the fair value of financial instruments is determined are disclosed in note 3(d). 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 201 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (i) Financial assets (continued) (iv) Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty. (v) Accounting policies applied until March 31, 2018 The Group has applied HKFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not to restate comparative information. As a result, the comparative information provided continues to be accounted for in accordance with the Group’s previous accounting policy. Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into: (i) at FVPL, (ii) loans and receivables; and (iii) available-for-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. Financial assets at FVPL Financial assets at FVPL are financial assets held for trading, and those designated at FVPL at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management. Derivatives are also categorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges (Note 2(k)). Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months; otherwise, they are classified as non-current. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables comprise trade, notes and other receivables, deposits, bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet (Note 2(n) and 2(o)). Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless mature or management intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 202 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (i) Financial assets (continued) (v) Accounting policies applied until March 31, 2018 (continued) Recognition and measurement Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets not carried at FVPL are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs. Financial assets carried at FVPL are initially recognized at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at FVPL are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognized as follows: • for financial assets at FVPL – in profit or loss within other income or other expenses. • for available-for-sale financial assets that are monetary securities denominated in a foreign currency – translation differences related to changes in the amortized cost of the security are recognized in income statement and other changes in the carrying amount are recognized in other comprehensive income or loss. • for other monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale – in other comprehensive income or loss. Dividends on financial assets at FVPL and available-for-sale financial assets are recognized in profit or loss as other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. Interest income from financial assets at FVPL and available-for-sale financial assets is recognized in the income statement. (j) impairment of financial assets From April 1, 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried at amortized cost and FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by HKFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized from initial recognition of the receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. Impairment losses on trade receivables are presented as net impairment losses in income statement. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the same line item. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 203 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (j) impairment of financial assets (continued) Accounting policies applied until March 31, 2018 (i) Assets carried at amortized cost The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization, and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults. For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement. If a loan or held-to-maturity investment has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized (such as improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the previously recognized impairment loss is recognized in the income statement. (ii) Assets classified as available-for-sale The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. For debt securities, the Group uses the criteria referred to in (i) above. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. For equity investments, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also evidence that the assets are impaired. If any such evidence exists, the cumulative losses, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognized in the income statement, is removed from equity and recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement. 204 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (k) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair values. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: (i) hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge) or (ii) hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges). The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. (i) Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. (ii) Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as cash flow hedges is recognized as other comprehensive income or loss. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale or purchase that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognized in the income statement within “Finance costs”. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized in the income statement within “Other operating expenses – net”. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument that has been recognized as other comprehensive income from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument that has been recognized as other comprehensive income from the period when the hedge was effective shall be reclassified from equity to the income statement immediately. (iii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized immediately in the income statement. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 205 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (l) Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts are recognized as a financial liability at the time the guarantee is issued. The liability is initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of: – the amount determined in accordance with the expected credit loss model under HKFRS 9 and – the amount initially recognized less, where appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognized in accordance with the principles of HKFRS 15. The fair value of financial guarantees is determined as the present value of the difference in net cash flows between the contractual payments under the debt instrument and the payments that would be required without the guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for assuming the obligations. Where guarantees in relation to loans or other payables of associates are provided for no compensation, the fair values are accounted for as contributions and recognized as part of the cost of the investment. (m) inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on a weighted average basis. The cost of finished goods (except for trading products) and work-in-progress comprises direct materials, direct labour and an attributable proportion of production overheads. For trading products, cost represents invoiced value on purchases, less purchase returns and discounts. Net realizable value is determined on the basis of anticipated sales proceeds less estimated selling expenses. (n) Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. Majority of other receivables are amounts due from subcontractors for part components sold in the ordinary course of business. Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at FVOCI, less loss allowance. Other receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measures at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. See Note 2(i) for further information about the Group’s accounting for trade receivables and Note 2(j) for a description of the Group’s impairment policies. If collection of trade and other receivables is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. (o) Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents mainly comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. 206 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (p) Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. Where any group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received (net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects) is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. (q) Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial asset or financial liability, including fees and commissions paid to agents, advisers, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and securities exchanges, and transfer taxes and duties. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The fair value of the liability portion of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond. This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortized cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option. This is recognized and included in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax effects. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. (r) Trade and other payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for part components or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Majority of other payables are obligations to pay for finished goods that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from subcontractors. Trade and other payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Trade and other payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 207 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (s) Provisions Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as interest expense. (i) Warranty provision The Group records warranty liabilities at the time of sale for the estimated costs that will be incurred under its basic limited warranty. The specific warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product and the country in which it was sold, but generally includes technical support, repair parts and labor associated with warranty repair and service actions. The period ranges from one to three years. The Group reevaluates its estimates on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the amounts as necessary. (ii) Other provisions Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Restructuring costs provision comprises lease termination penalties and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses. (t) Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred income tax. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 208 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (t) Current and deferred income tax (continued) Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. (u) Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group. It can also be a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognized because it is not probable that outflow of economic resources will be required or the amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably. A contingent liability is not recognized but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. When a change in the probability of an outflow occurs so that the outflow is probable, it will then be recognized as a provision. (v) Revenue Income is classified by the Group as revenue when it arises from the sales of goods and the provision of services in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. (i) Sale of goods and provision of services Revenue from sale of hardware, software, peripherals and mobile devices and the provision of services is recognized when control over such products or services is transferred to the customer at the amount of promised consideration to which the Group is expected to be entitled, excluding those amounts collected on behalf of third parties. Revenue excludes value-added tax, an allowance for estimated returns, rebates and discounts. The Group enters into different shipping terms with customers. Control of hardware, software, peripherals and mobile devices is transferred when delivery has occurred. Delivery is generally considered as occurred once the goods are shipped. For certain transactions that the Group retains control during the course of shipment, the Group defers the recognition of revenue and cost of such products until they are delivered to the designated locations. The Group’s obligation to repair or replace faulty products under the standard warranty terms is recognized as a provision. Control of systems integration service, information technology technical service and extended warranty service is transferred over time during the contract period or when services are rendered. No element of financing is deemed present as the sales are made with a credit term of 0 – 120 days, which is consistent with market practice. A receivable is recognized when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 209 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (v) Revenue (continued) (ii) interest income Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest income on impaired receivables is recognized using the original effective interest rate. (iii) Dividend income Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established. (w) non-base manufacturing costs Non-base manufacturing costs are costs that are periodic in nature as opposed to product specific. They are typically incurred after the physical completion of the product and include items such as outbound freight for in-country finished goods shipments, warranty costs, engineering charges, storage and warehousing costs, and contribute to bringing inventories to their present location and condition. Non-base manufacturing costs enter into the calculation of gross margin but are not inventoriable costs. (x) Employee benefits (i) Pension obligations The Group operates various pension schemes. The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. Significant portion of the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used. The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized as other comprehensive income or loss in the year in which they arise. They are included in retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. 210 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (x) Employee benefits (continued) (i) Pension obligations (continued) Past service costs are recognized immediately in the income statement. Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are recognized immediately in profit or loss as past service costs. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due and are reduced by employer’s portion of voluntary contributions forfeited by those employees who leave the scheme prior to vesting fully. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. The Group’s contributions to local municipal government retirement schemes in connection with retirement benefit schemes in the Mainland of China (“Chinese Mainland”) are expensed as incurred. The local municipal governments in the Chinese Mainland assume the retirement benefit obligations of the qualified employees. (ii) Post-employment medical benefits The Group operates a number of post-employment medical benefit schemes, the largest being in the United States. The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized as other comprehensive income or loss in the period in which they arise. The obligations of these schemes in the United States are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries. (iii) Long-term incentive program The Group operates a long-term incentive program to recognize employees’ individual and collective contributions, and includes two types of awards, namely share appreciation rights and restricted share units (“Long-term Incentive Awards”). The Company reserves the right, at its discretion, to pay the award in cash or ordinary shares of the Company. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the Long-term Incentive Awards is recognized as employee benefit expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the Long-term Incentive Awards granted, including any market performance conditions (for example, an entity’s share price); excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets); and including the impact of non-vesting conditions. Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of Long-term Incentive Awards that are expected to become exercisable/ vested. The total expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 211 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (x) Employee benefits (continued) (iii) Long-term incentive program (continued) At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of Long-term Incentive Awards that are expected to become exercisable. It recognizes the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to share-based compensation reserve under equity. Employee share trusts are established for the purposes of awarding shares to eligible employees under the long-term incentive program. The employee share trusts are administered by independent trustees and are funded by the Group’s cash contributions and recorded as contributions to employee share trusts, an equity component. The administrator of the employee share trusts buys the Company’s shares in the open market for award to employees upon vesting. Upon vesting, the corresponding amounts in the share-based compensation reserve will be transferred to share capital for new allotment of shares to employees, or to the employee share trusts for shares awarded to employees by the employee share trusts. (iv) Termination benefit Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognizes costs for a restructuring that is within the scope of HKAS 37 and involves the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their present value. (v) Share options The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital when the options are exercised. (y) Government grants Grants from the government are recognized at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognized as “Other operating expenses – net” in the consolidated income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in other non-current liabilities as deferred government grants and are credited to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets. 212 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 2 SiGniFiCAnT ACCOunTinG POLiCiES (continued) (z) Operating leases (as the lessee) Leases where substantially all the rewards and risks of ownership of assets remain with the leasing company are accounted for as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Interest in leasehold land that is accounted for as an operating lease is presented as “prepaid lease payments” in the consolidated balance sheet and is amortized over the lease terms on a straight line basis, ranging from 10 to 50 years for the Group. (aa) Related party transactions A related party transaction is a transfer of resources, services or obligations between the Group and a related party of the Group, regardless of whether a price is charged. (i) A person, or a close member of that person’s family, is related to the Group if that person: – has control or joint control over the Group; – has significant influence over the Group; or – is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or the Group’s parent. (ii) An entity is related to the Group if any of the following conditions applies: – The entity and the Group are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary is related to the others). – One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a group of which the other entity is a member). – Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party. – One entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the third party. – The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Group or an entity related to the Group. – The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (i) above. – A person, or a close member of that person’s family, who has control or joint control over the Group, has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity). (ab) Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Group’s and Company’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders in case of final dividend and by the Company’s directors in case of interim dividend. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 213 Notes to the Financial Statements 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, such as market risk (including foreign currency risk and cash flow interest rate risk), credit risk, and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Financial risk management is carried out by the centralized treasury department (“Group Treasury”). (a) Financial risk factors (i) Foreign currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to United States dollar, Renminbi and Euro. Foreign currency risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investment in foreign operations denominated in a currency that is not the group companies’ functional currency. Management has set up a policy to require group companies to manage their foreign currency risk against their functional currency. The Group’s forward foreign currency contracts are either used to hedge a percentage of anticipated cash flows (mainly export sales and purchase of inventories) which are highly probable, or used as fair value hedges for the identified assets and liabilities. For segment reporting purposes, external hedge contracts on assets, liabilities or future transactions are designated to each operating segment, as appropriate. The following tables detail the Group’s exposure at the balance sheet date to currency risk arising from recognized assets or liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity to which they relate, except for the currency risk between United States dollar and Hong Kong dollar given the two currencies are under the linked exchange rate system. For presentation purposes, the amounts of the exposure are shown in United States dollar, translated using the spot rate at the balance sheet date. Differences resulting from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations into the Group’s presentation currency are excluded. 214 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (a) Financial risk factors (continued) (i) Foreign currency risk (continued) 2019 2018 united United States States dollar Renminbi Euro dollar Renminbi Euro uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Trade and other receivables 271,290 12,181 11,172 182,738 44,530 14,803 Bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents 35,292 16,078 36,519 24,478 9,132 20,554 Trade and other payables (352,175) (67,591) (12,420) (320,730) (24,341) (18,422) Borrowings – (594,747) – – (635,015) – Intercompany balances before elimination (3,506,479) 899,134 (413,895) (2,716,689) 1,136,490 (318,945) Gross exposure (3,552,072) 265,055 (378,624) (2,830,203) 530,796 (302,010) Notional amounts of forward exchange contracts used as economic hedges 3,524,724 – 329,219 3,118,896 – 269,936 Net exposure (27,348) 265,055 (49,405) 288,693 530,796 (32,074) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 215 Notes to the Financial Statements 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (a) Financial risk factors (continued) (ii) Cash flow interest rate risk The Group’s interest rate risk mainly arises from short-term and long-term borrowings denominated in United States dollar. It is the Group’s policy to mitigate interest rate risk through the use of appropriate interest rate hedging instruments. Generally, the Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates. Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals (primarily quarterly), the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts. The Group operates various customer financing programs. The Group is exposed to fluctuation of interest rates of all the currencies covered by those programs. (iii) Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers and subcontractors, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. For banks and other financial institutions, the Group controls its credit risk through monitoring their credit rating and setting approved counterparty credit limits that are regularly reviewed. The Group has no significant concentration of customer credit risk. The Group has a credit policy in place and exposures to these credit risks are monitored on an ongoing basis. No credit limits were exceeded by any customers during the reporting period, and management does not expect any significant losses from non-performance by these counterparties. 216 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (a) Financial risk factors (continued) (iii) Credit risk (continued) The Group applies the simplified approach to provide for expected credit losses prescribed by HKFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected credit loss provision for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on the days past due. The gross carrying amount of the trade receivables and the loss allowance provision determined under the new accounting policies from April 1, 2018 analyzed by aging band are set out below: Gross carrying Loss Expected credit March 31, 2019 amount allowance loss rate uS$’000 uS$’000 Not past due 5,774,882 (172) 0% Past due less than 31 days 513,051 (80) 0% Past due within 31 to 60 days 125,345 (1) 0% Past due within 61 to 90 days 59,705 (191) 0% Past due over 90 days 288,843 (99,898) 35% 6,761,826 (100,342) Gross carrying Loss Expected credit April 1, 2018 amount allowance loss rate US$’000 US$’000 Not past due 4,110,780 (78) 0% Past due less than 31 days 444,645 (268) 0% Past due within 31 to 60 days 140,562 (4,189) 3% Past due within 61 to 90 days 74,125 (6,719) 9% Past due over 90 days 311,226 (97,362) 31% 5,081,338 (108,616) (iv) Liquidity risk Cash flow forecasting at least for next 12 months of the Group is performed by Group Treasury. It monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational, financing and investing needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities (Note 26) at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants (where applicable) on any of its borrowing facilities. Such forecasting takes into consideration the Group’s debt financing plans, net current liabilities position, covenant compliance, compliance with internal balance sheet ratio targets and, if applicable external regulatory or legal requirements, for example, currency restrictions. Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above balances required for working capital management are transferred to Group Treasury. Group Treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, time deposits, money market deposits and marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the above-mentioned forecasts, At the balance sheet date, the Group held money market funds of US$583,924,000 (2018: US$8,393,000) (Note 23). 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 217 Notes to the Financial Statements 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (a) Financial risk factors (continued) (iv) Liquidity risk (continued) The tables below analyze the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining periods at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity dates. Derivative financial liabilities are included in the analysis if their contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash outflows/(inflows). Repayable on demand Over 3 or 3 months months to Over 1 to Over 3 to or less 1 year 3 years 5 years Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 At March 31, 2018 Borrowings 1,138,704 159,243 1,599,043 1,340,625 4,237,615 Trade, notes and other payables and accruals 14,225,510 385,920 – – 14,611,430 Deferred consideration – – 25,072 – 25,072 Written put option liability 224,813 – – – 224,813 Others – – 106,906 53,409 160,315 Derivatives settled in net: Forward foreign exchange contracts 4,844 – – – 4,844 Derivatives settled in gross: Forward foreign exchange contracts – outflow 5,952,722 909,683 – – 6,862,405 – inflow (5,930,706) (903,571) – – (6,834,277) At March 31, 2019 Borrowings 1,950,291 151,061 1,263,286 1,506,166 4,870,804 Trade, notes and other payables and accruals 14,308,820 685,965 – – 14,994,785 Deferred consideration – – 25,072 – 25,072 Contingent consideration – – 115,093 – 115,093 Written put option liabilities – – 330,269 542,127 872,396 Others – – 63,924 127,179 191,103 Derivatives settled in net: Forward foreign exchange contracts 7,860 1,996 – – 9,856 Derivatives settled in gross: Forward foreign exchange contracts – outflow 5,740,706 1,958,660 – – 7,699,366 – inflow (5,760,493) (1,968,788) – – (7,729,281) 218 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (b) Market risk sensitivity analysis HKFRS 7 “Financial instruments: Disclosures” requires the disclosure of a sensitivity analysis for market risks that show the effects of a hypothetical change in the relevant market risk variable to which the Group is exposed to at the balance sheet date on profit or loss and total equity. The sensitivity analysis for each type of market risks does not reflect inter-dependencies between risk variables. The sensitivity analysis assumes that a hypothetical change of the relevant risk variable had occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to the relevant risk variable in existence on that date. The bases and assumptions adopted in the preparation of the analyses will by definition, seldom equal to the related actual results. The disclosure of the sensitivity analysis on market risks is solely for compliance with HKFRS 7 disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments, and are for illustration purposes only; and it should be noted that the hypothetical amounts so generated do not represent a projection of likely future events and profits or losses of the Group. (i) Foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity analysis At March 31, 2019, if United States dollar had weakened/strengthened by one percent against the major currencies with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for the year would have been US$2.4 million higher/lower (2018: pre-tax profit for the year would have been US$2.1 million higher/lower), mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of unhedged portion of receivable and payable balances. The analysis above is based on the assumption that United States dollar weakened or strengthened against all other currencies in the same direction and magnitude, but it may not be necessarily true in reality. (ii) interest rate sensitivity analysis At March 31, 2019, if interest rate on borrowings had been 25 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for the year would have been US$5.9 million lower/higher (2018: pre-tax profit for the year would have been US$3.6 million lower/higher). At March 31, 2019, if interest rates on customer financing programs had been 25 basis points higher/lower with all other variables held constant, pre-tax profit for the year would have been US$7.1 million lower/higher (2018: pre-tax profit for the year would have been US$6.0 million lower/higher). This analysis is based on the assumption that the interest rates of all the currencies covered by the customer financing programs go up and down at the same time and with the same magnitude; however, such assumptions may not be necessarily true in reality. (c) Capital risk management The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 219 Notes to the Financial Statements 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (c) Capital risk management (continued) Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) divided by total equity. The Group’s strategy remains unchanged and the gearing ratios and net debt position of the Group as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$ million US$ million Bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents 2,733 1,932 Less: total borrowings (4,380) (3,815) Net debt position (1,647) (1,883) Total equity 4,097 4,546 Gearing ratio 1.07 0.84 (d) Fair value estimation The table below analyzes financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows: – Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities – Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) – Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. These instruments are included in Level 1. The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximize the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3. Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: – The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves. – The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value. – Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. 220 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (d) Fair value estimation (continued) The following table presents the assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at March 31, 2019 and 2018. 2019 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets Listed equity investments – – – – 29,563 – – 29,563 Unlisted equity investments – – – – – – 343,514 343,514 Financial assets at FVPL Listed equity investments 196,225 – – 196,225 – – – – Unlisted equity investments – – 253,138 253,138 – – – – Financial assets at FVOCI Listed equity investments 30,858 – – 30,858 – – – – Unlisted equity investments – – 40,628 40,628 – – – – Trade receivables – 6,661,484 – 6,661,484 – – – – Derivative financial assets – 70,972 – 70,972 – 24,890 – 24,890 227,083 6,732,456 293,766 7,253,305 29,563 24,890 343,514 397,967 Liabilities Derivative financial liabilities – 74,426 – 74,426 – 62,694 – 62,694 Contingent consideration – – 113,283 113,283 – – – – – 74,426 113,283 187,709 – 62,694 – 62,694 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 221 Notes to the Financial Statements 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (d) Fair value estimation (continued) During the year ended March 31, 2019, there was a transfer of US$145,866,000 relating to financial assets at FVPL from Level 3 to Level 1 as those financial assets became listed in active markets. There were no significant transfers of financial assets among Levels 1, 2 and 3 fair value hierarchy classification during the year ended March 31, 2018. The movements in the financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 fair value hierarchy for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Equity securities 2019 Financial assets Financial assets at FvPL at FvOCi uS$’000 uS$’000 At the beginning of the year – – Change in accounting policy 294,601 48,913 Exchange adjustment (7,770) (1,852) Fair value change recognized in other comprehensive income – (11,172) Fair value change recognized in profit or loss 87,497 – Transfer to Level 1 (145,866) – Additions 58,672 4,739 Disposals (33,996) – At the end of the year 253,138 40,628 Available-for-sale financial assets 2018 US$’000 At the beginning of the year 231,755 Exchange adjustment 15,172 Fair value change recognized in other comprehensive income (2,828) Additions 100,466 Transfer to investment in a joint venture (901) Disposals (150) At the end of the year 343,514 222 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 3 FinAnCiAL RiSK MAnAGEMEnT (continued) (d) Fair value estimation (continued) Contingent consideration 2019 uS$’000 At the beginning of the year – Exchange adjustment 461 Additions 111,047 Recognized in profit or loss 1,775 At the end of the year 113,283 Total losses for the year included in profit or loss under “finance costs” 1,775 No sensitivity analysis for unlisted equity investments is presented as a reasonably possible change in key assumptions used in the sensitivity analysis would not result in any significant potential financial impact. Sensitivity analysis in respect of contingent consideration is disclosed in Note 27. 4 CRiTiCAL ACCOunTinG ESTiMATES AnD JuDGMEnTS The preparation of financial statements often requires the use of judgment to select specific accounting methods and policies from several acceptable alternatives. Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The following are the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the financial statements: (a) impairment of non-financial assets The Group tests at least annually whether goodwill and other assets that have indefinite useful lives have suffered any impairment. Other assets that are subject to depreciation and amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amounts of an asset or a cash-generating unit have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates. The value-in-use calculations primarily use cash flow projections based on financial budgets, in general covered five years, were approved by management and estimated terminal values at the end of the five-year period. There are a number of assumptions and estimates involved for the preparation of cash flow projections for the period covered by the approved budget and the estimated terminal value. Key assumptions include the expected growth in revenues and operating margin, growth rates and selection of discount rates, to reflect the risks involved and the earnings multiple that can be realized for the estimated terminal value. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 223 Notes to the Financial Statements 4 CRiTiCAL ACCOunTinG ESTiMATES AnD JuDGMEnTS (continued) (a) impairment of non-financial assets (continued) Management prepared the financial budgets reflecting actual and prior year performance and market development expectations. Judgment is required to determine key assumptions adopted in the cash flow projections and changes to key assumptions can significantly affect these cash flow projections and therefore the results of the impairment reviews. (b) income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. There are certain transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The tax liabilities recognized are based on management’s assessment of the likely outcome. The Group recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the financial statements. Deferred income tax assets are mainly recognized for temporary differences such as warranty provision, accrued sales rebates, bonus accruals, and other accrued expenses, and unused tax losses carried forward to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences and the unused tax losses can be utilized, based on all available evidence. Recognition primarily involves judgment regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred income tax asset has been recognized. A variety of other factors are also evaluated in considering whether there is convincing evidence that it is probable that some portion or all of the deferred income tax assets will ultimately be realized, such as the existence of taxable temporary differences, group relief, tax planning strategies and the periods in which estimated tax losses can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets and related financial models and budgets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and to the extent that there is insufficient convincing evidence that sufficient taxable profits will be available within the utilization periods to allow utilization of the carry forward tax losses, the asset balance will be reduced and the difference charged to the income statement. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provisions and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made. 224 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 4 CRiTiCAL ACCOunTinG ESTiMATES AnD JuDGMEnTS (continued) (c) Warranty provision Warranty provision is based on the estimated cost of product warranties when revenue is recognized. Factors that affect the Group’s warranty liability include the number of sold units currently under warranty, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims on those units, and cost per claim to satisfy our warranty obligation. The estimation basis is reviewed on an on-going basis and revised where appropriate. Certain of these costs are reimbursable from the suppliers in accordance with the terms of relevant arrangements with the suppliers. These amounts are recognized as a separate asset, to the extent of the amount of the provision made, when it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received if the Group settles the obligation. (d) Revenue recognition Application of various accounting principles related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires the Group to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with non-standard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate performance obligations. Other significant judgments include determining whether the Group or a reseller is acting as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered part of one arrangement. The Group sells products to channels. Sales through channels are primarily made under agreements allowing for volume discounts, price protection and rebates, and marketing development funds. The Group monitors the channel inventory level with reference to historical data. Revenue recognition is also impacted by the Group’s ability to estimate volume discounts, price protection and rebates, marketing development funds. The Group considers various factors, including a review of specific transactions, historical experience, market and economic conditions and channel inventory level when calculating these provisions and allowances. Revenue is only recognized to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. Revenue from sales of goods is recognized when the control of the goods is transferred to customer, which are generally occurred upon shipment. For certain transactions that the Group retains control during the course of shipment, the Group defers the recognition of revenue and cost of such products until they are delivered to the designated locations. (e) Retirement benefits Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations are dependent on various assumptions. The Group’s major assumptions primarily relate to discount rate, expected return on assets, and salary growth. In determining the discount rate, the Group references market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds. The currency and term of the bonds are consistent with the currency and estimated term of the benefit obligations being valued. The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations for returns over the life of the related assets and obligations. The salary growth assumptions reflect the Group’s longterm actual experience and future and near-term outlook. Actual results that differ from the assumptions are generally recognized in the year they occur. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 225 Notes to the Financial Statements 4 CRiTiCAL ACCOunTinG ESTiMATES AnD JuDGMEnTS (continued) (f) Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date. The Group has used discounted cash flow analyses for various available-for-sale financial assets that are not traded in active markets. (g) Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations, which requires the Group to record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values on the date of acquisition. Significant judgment is used to estimate the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, including estimating future cash flows from the acquired business, determining appropriate discount rates, asset lives and other assumptions. 5 SEGMEnT inFORMATiOn The Group has formed the Intelligent Devices Group (“IDG”), combining PC and Smart Device Business Group (“PCSD”) and Mobile Business Group (“MBG”) together. The new business group structure, namely IDG and Data Center Group (“DCG”), replaces the Group’s original segment by geography and is designed to align the Group more closely with its strategic direction and market dynamics to better serve customers. The Group has adopted the new business group structure as the reporting format effective for the year ended March 31, 2019 and the comparative segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current organizational structure. Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Lenovo Executive Committee (the “LEC”), the chief operating decision-maker, that are used to make strategic decisions. The LEC assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of pre-tax income/(loss). This measurement basis excludes the effects of non-recurring expenses such as restructuring costs from the operating segments. The measurement basis also excludes the effects of certain income and expenses such as fair value change of financial instruments and disposal gain/ (loss) of fixed assets that are from activities driven by headquarters and centralized functions. Certain finance income and costs are not allocated to segments when these types of activities are driven by the central treasury function which manages the cash position of the Group. Supplementary information on segment assets and liabilities presented below is primarily based on the business group of the entities or operations which carry the assets and liabilities, except for entities performing centralized functions for the Group the assets and liabilities of which are not allocated to any segment. 226 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 5 SEGMEnT inFORMATiOn (continued) (a) Segment revenue and pre-tax income/(loss) for reportable segments 2019 2018 Revenue Revenue from external Pre-tax from external Pre-tax customers income/(loss) customers income/(loss) uS$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 IDG 45,013,362 1,842,840 40,955,583 880,406 DCG 6,024,581 (230,600) 4,394,360 (424,866) Segment total 51,037,943 1,612,240 45,349,943 455,540 Unallocated: Headquarters and corporate (expenses)/income – net (640,312) (204,540) Depreciation and amortization (136,263) (100,654) Finance income 4,121 5,349 Finance costs (142,496) (65,236) Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (11,525) (2,506) (Loss)/gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments and construction-in-progress (1,651) 62,750 Fair value gain on financial assets at FVPL 125,550 – Dilution gain on interest in associates and a joint venture 24,189 2,499 Gain on deemed disposal of a subsidiary 22,811 – Consolidated profit before taxation 856,664 153,202 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 227 Notes to the Financial Statements 5 SEGMEnT inFORMATiOn (continued) (b) Segment assets for reportable segments 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 IDG 19,797,625 18,955,347 DCG 4,094,194 4,729,617 Segment assets for reportable segments 23,891,819 23,684,964 Unallocated: Deferred income tax assets 1,862,902 1,530,623 Financial assets at FVPL 449,363 – Financial assets at FVOCI 71,486 – Derivative financial assets 70,972 24,890 Available-for-sale financial assets – 373,077 Interests in associates and joint ventures 79,061 35,666 Bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents 2,733,064 1,932,323 Unallocated deposits, prepayments and other receivables 166,874 242,899 Income tax recoverable 185,643 227,203 Other unallocated assets 477,301 442,526 Total assets per consolidated balance sheet 29,988,485 28,494,171 228 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 5 SEGMEnT inFORMATiOn (continued) (c) Segment liabilities for reportable segments 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 IDG 19,045,230 17,287,630 DCG 1,456,268 1,809,529 Segment liabilities for reportable segments 20,501,498 19,097,159 Unallocated: Deferred income tax liabilities 359,679 230,609 Derivative financial liabilities 74,426 62,694 Borrowings 4,379,813 3,815,417 Unallocated other payables and accruals 246,467 538,972 Unallocated provisions 1,336 1,399 Unallocated other non-current liabilities 29,979 33,154 Income tax payable 298,224 168,779 Total liabilities per consolidated balance sheet 25,891,422 23,948,183 (d) Analysis of revenue by geography 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 China 12,357,527 11,525,321 AP 9,764,456 7,156,293 EMEA 12,502,510 12,481,897 AG 16,413,450 14,186,432 51,037,943 45,349,943 (e) Analysis of revenue by timing of revenue recognition 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Point in time 50,052,707 44,408,850 Over time 985,236 941,093 51,037,943 45,349,943 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 229 Notes to the Financial Statements 5 SEGMEnT inFORMATiOn (continued) (f) Revenue recognized in relation to deferred revenue and receipt in advance Deferred revenue and receipt in advance (included in “other payables and accruals”) amounting to US$1,675 million (2018: US$1,687 million) primarily relate to the Group’s unfulfilled performance obligations for which consideration has been received at the reporting date. Revenue is recognized in the period when the performance obligations are fulfilled. US$1,103 million was recognized as revenue during the year that was included in such balance at the beginning of the year. (g) Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations The following table includes revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied at the reporting date. 2019 uS$’000 Within one year 996,611 More than one year 678,137 1,674,748 (h) Other segment information iDG DCG Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 Depreciation and amortization 452,511 422,590 209,846 215,278 662,357 637,868 Finance income 23,058 26,791 220 5 23,278 26,796 Finance costs 174,245 183,655 20,286 14,269 194,531 197,924 Additions to non-current assets (Note) 976,339 587,710 102,449 82,883 1,078,788 670,593 Note: Excluding other non-current assets and including non-current assets acquired through acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 36). The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred income tax assets and post-employment benefit assets (there are no rights arising under insurance contracts) located in China and other countries is approximately US$4,357,099,000 (2018: US$4,245,626,000) and US$6,361,432,000 (2018: US$6,681,527,000) respectively. 230 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 6 OPERATinG PROFiT Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting) the following: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of prepaid lease payments 291,760 259,121 Amortization of intangible assets 506,860 479,401 Employee benefit costs (Note 9) (a) 4,006,967 3,663,301 Cost of inventories sold 41,580,106 36,970,355 Inventories write down – 60,534 Auditor’s remuneration – Audit services (b) 10,383 9,252 – Non-audit services 4,701 3,856 Rental expenses under operating leases 131,918 147,133 Government grants (Note 27(c)) (69,391) (161,820) Net foreign exchange loss 111,529 55,735 Net (gain)/loss on foreign exchange forward contracts for cash flow hedges reclassified from equity (244,396) 222,073 Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 4,608 Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments and construction-in-progress 4,970 (50,937) Fair value gain on financial assets at FVPL (125,550) – Dilution gain on interest in associates and a joint venture (24,189) (2,499) Gain on deemed disposal of a subsidiary (22,811) – Ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges (18,394) (7,807) (a) During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Group announced resource actions to further enhance efficiency and competitiveness in view of industrial challenges. Severance costs of approximately US$101 million were recognized in “other operating expenses – net”. (b) Of the above audit services fees, US$9,211,000 (2018: US$8,421,000) is payable to the Company’s auditor. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 231 Notes to the Financial Statements 7 FinAnCE inCOME AnD COSTS (a) Finance income 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Interest on bank deposits 21,927 27,672 Interest on money market funds 5,472 4,473 27,399 32,145 (b) Finance costs 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 92,103 44,376 Interest on convertible bonds 7,109 – Interest on notes 123,428 130,229 Interest on promissory note – 11,589 Factoring costs 96,730 71,897 Commitment fee 868 779 Interest on contingent consideration and written put option liabilities 14,758 1,110 Others 2,031 3,180 337,027 263,160 8 TAXATiOn The amount of taxation in the consolidated income statement represents: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Current tax – Hong Kong profits tax 37,162 16,997 – Taxation outside Hong Kong 432,094 332,795 Deferred tax (Note 19) – Credit for the year (269,796) (469,815) – Effect of change in tax rate – 400,000 199,460 279,977 232 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 8 TAXATiOn (continued) Hong Kong profits tax has been provided at the rate of 16.5% (2018: 16.5%) on the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation outside Hong Kong represents income and irrecoverable withholding taxes of subsidiaries operating in the Chinese Mainland and overseas, calculated at rates applicable in the respective jurisdictions. Pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted by the government of the United States (“US”) on December 22, 2017, the US corporate tax rate is reduced for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. This rate change led to a write-off of US deferred income tax assets of approximately US$400 million for the year ended March 31, 2018. The Group has been granted certain tax concessions by tax authorities in the Chinese Mainland and overseas whereby the subsidiaries operating in the respective jurisdictions are entitled to tax concessions. The differences between the Group’s expected tax charge, calculated at the domestic rates applicable to the countries concerned, and the Group’s tax charge for the year are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Profit before taxation 856,664 153,202 Tax calculated at domestic rates applicable in countries concerned 283,106 45,038 Income not subject to taxation (386,175) (282,563) Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes 237,604 141,540 Recognition/utilization of previously unrecognized temporary differences/tax losses (914) (58,020) Effect on deferred income tax assets due to change in tax rates – 400,000 Deferred income tax assets not recognized 61,930 20,023 Under-provision in prior years 3,909 13,959 199,460 279,977 The weighted average applicable tax rate for the year was 33.0% (2018: 29.4%). The increase is caused by changes in tax concessions and profitability of the Group’s subsidiaries in respective countries they are operating. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 233 Notes to the Financial Statements 8 TAXATiOn (continued) The tax credit/(charge) relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2019 2018 Before tax Tax credit After tax Before tax Tax charge After tax uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Fair value change on available-for-sale financial assets – – – 224 – 224 Fair value change on financial assets at FVOCI (16,304) 326 (15,978) – – – Fair value change on cash flow hedges 39,480 666 40,146 (11,538) (40) (11,578) Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations (Note 35) (25,641) – (25,641) (19,797) – (19,797) Currency translation differences (434,816) – (434,816) 288,711 – 288,711 Other comprehensive (loss)/ income (437,281) 992 (436,289) 257,600 (40) 257,560 Deferred tax (Note 19) 992 (40) 234 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 9 EMPLOYEE BEnEFiT COSTS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Wages and salaries (2018: including severance and related costs of US$100,775,000) 3,057,257 2,778,153 Social security costs 241,280 247,117 Long-term incentive awards granted (Note 28) 214,822 199,779 Pension costs – Defined contribution plans 192,184 182,721 – Defined benefit plans (Note 35) 23,302 16,439 Others 278,122 239,092 4,006,967 3,663,301 The Group contributes to respective local municipal government retirement schemes which are available to all qualified employees in the Chinese Mainland. Contributions to these schemes are calculated with reference to the monthly average salaries as set out by the local municipal government. The Group participates in various defined contribution schemes, either voluntary or mandatory, for all qualified employees. The assets of those defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds. The Group also contributes to certain defined benefit pension schemes, details of which are set out in Note 35. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 235 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 EMOLuMEnTS OF DiRECTORS AnD HiGHEST PAiD inDiviDuALS (a) Directors’ and senior management’s emoluments Directors’ emoluments comprise payments by the Group to directors of the Company in connection with the management of the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries. The remuneration of each director and the chief executive who is also a director, for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is set out below: 2019 Retirement payments and Long-term employer’s Discretionary incentive contribution Other bonuses awards to pension Housing benefits Fees Salaries (note i) (note ii) schemes allowance in-kind Total Name of Director uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 Executive director Mr. Yang Yuanqing (CEO) – 1,314 1,478 11,833 140 – 606 15,371 Non-executive directors Mr. Zhu Linan 93 – – 208 – – – 301 Mr. Zhao John Huan 93 – – 208 – – – 301 Independent non-executive directors Dr. Tian Suning 93 – – 208 – – – 301 Mr. Nicholas C. Allen 121 – – 208 – – – 329 Mr. Nobuyuki Idei 93 – – 208 – – – 301 Mr. William O. Grabe 128 – – 208 – – – 336 Mr. William Tudor Brown 93 – – 208 – – – 301 Ms. Ma Xuezheng 113 – – 208 – – – 321 Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry 93 – – 210 – – – 303 Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr 93 – – 207 – – – 300 Professor Shoucheng Zhang 11 – – 454 – – – 465 Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond 10 – – – – – – 10 1,034 1,314 1,478 14,368 140 – 606 18,940 236 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 10 EMOLuMEnTS OF DiRECTORS AnD HiGHEST PAiD inDiviDuALS (continued) (a) Directors’ and senior management’s emoluments (continued) 2018 Retirement payments and Long-term employer’s Discretionary incentive contribution Other bonuses awards to pension Housing benefits Fees Salaries (note i) (note ii) schemes allowance in-kind Total Name of Director US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Executive director Mr. Yang Yuanqing (CEO) – 1,404 1,213 15,286 149 – 700 18,752 Non-executive directors Mr. Zhu Linan 93 – – 196 – – – 289 Mr. Zhao John Huan 93 – – 196 – – – 289 Independent non-executive directors Dr. Tian Suning 93 – – 196 – – – 289 Mr. Nicholas C. Allen 120 – – 196 – – – 316 Mr. Nobuyuki Idei 93 – – 196 – – – 289 Mr. William O. Grabe 128 – – 196 – – – 324 Mr. William Tudor Brown 93 – – 196 – – – 289 Ms. Ma Xuezheng 113 – – 196 – – – 309 Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry 93 – – 198 – – – 291 Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr 93 – – 174 – – – 267 1,012 1,404 1,213 17,226 149 – 700 21,704 Notes: (i) Discretionary bonuses paid for the two years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 represent the amounts in connection with the performance bonuses for the two years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively. (ii) Details of the long-term incentive program of the Company are set out in Note 28. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the long-term incentive awards is recognized as an expense. The total amount to be amortized over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the long-term incentive awards at the date of grant. The amounts disclosed above represent the amortized amounts for the two years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. (iii) Mr. William O. Grabe has elected to defer his receipt of the cash of director’s fee into fully vested share units under the long-term incentive program (Note 28) for the two years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. (iv) During the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, annual pension payment of US$1.5 million was made to Mr. Liu Chuanzhi, a retired director. (v) Professor Shoucheng Zhang was appointed as an independent non-executive director on August 17, 2018. Professor Zhang passed away on December 1, 2018 and ceased to be a director of the Company from the same day. Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond was appointed as an independent non-executive director on February 22, 2019. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 237 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 EMOLuMEnTS OF DiRECTORS AnD HiGHEST PAiD inDiviDuALS (continued) (a) Directors’ and senior management’s emoluments (continued) During the year, no retirement benefits, payments or benefits in respect of termination of directors’ services were paid or made, directly or indirectly, to the directors; nor any are payable (2018: nil). No consideration was provided to or receivable by third parties for making available directors’ service (2018: nil). There are no loans, quasi-loans or other dealings in favour of the directors, their controlled body corporate and connected entities (2018: nil). No director of the Company had a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any significant transactions, arrangements and contracts in relation to the Company’s business to which the Company was or is a party that subsisted at the end of the year or at any time during the year (2018: nil). (b) Five highest paid individuals The five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year include one (2018: one) director whose emoluments are reflected in the analysis presented above. The emoluments of the remaining four (2018: four) individuals during the year are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Basic salaries, allowances, and other benefits-in-kind 4,276 5,349 Discretionary bonuses (note i) 6,502 4,987 Retirement payments and employer’s contribution to pension schemes 2,292 2,062 Long-term incentive awards 20,205 18,375 Compensation for loss of office – 6,680 Others 962 623 34,237 38,076 Note: (i) Discretionary bonuses paid for the two years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 represent the amounts in connection with the performance bonuses for the two years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively. 238 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 10 EMOLuMEnTS OF DiRECTORS AnD HiGHEST PAiD inDiviDuALS (continued) (b) Five highest paid individuals (continued) The emoluments fell within the following bands: number of individuals 2019 2018 Emolument bands US$5,164,482 – US$5,228,240 – 1 US$5,419,518 – US$5,483,276 1 – US$5,993,349 – US$6,057,107 1 – US$7,077,253 – US$7,141,011 – 1 US$8,862,506 – US$8,926,264 1 – US$11,221,590 – US$11,285,348 – 1 US$13,835,710 – US$13,899,468 1 – US$14,473,301 – US$14,537,059 – 1 11 EARninGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE (a) Basic Basic earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year after adjusting shares held by the employee share trusts for the purposes of awarding shares to eligible employees under the long term incentive program. 2019 2018 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 12,014,791,614 11,441,318,678 Adjustment for shares held by employee share trusts (121,750,794) (130,726,638) Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for calculation of basic earnings/(loss) per share 11,893,040,820 11,310,592,040 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company 596,343 (189,323) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 239 Notes to the Financial Statements 11 EARninGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE (continued) (b) Diluted Diluted earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding due to the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Company has three categories (2018: two categories) of dilutive potential ordinary shares, namely long-term incentive awards, bonus warrants and convertible bonds (2018: long-term incentive awards and bonus warrants). Long-term incentive awards were dilutive for the year ended March 31, 2019 and anti-dilutive for the year ended March 31, 2018. Bonus warrants were anti-dilutive for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Convertible bonds were anti-dilutive for the year ended March 31, 2019. 2019 2018 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for calculation of basic earnings/(loss) per share 11,893,040,820 11,310,592,040 Adjustments for long-term incentive awards 136,193,366 – Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for calculation of diluted earnings/(loss) per share 12,029,234,186 11,310,592,040 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the Company used to determine diluted earnings/(loss) per share 596,343 (189,323) On September 29, 2017, the Company as issuer and Union Star Limited as subscriber (“the Subscriber”) entered into a subscription agreement in relation to issuance of new shares and bonus warrants. On November 17, 2017, the Company issued and the Subscriber subscribed for 90,613,689 units of bonus warrants at exercise price of HK$5.17. The gross proceeds from the share subscription is approximately HK$3,905,450,000. Upon certain changes in the shareholding of the Subscriber immediately before or after the subscription, 32% of the Subscriber will be indirectly held by Legend Holdings Corporation (through Legion Elite Limited) and 68% of the Subscriber will be indirectly held by senior management of the Group. 240 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 11 EARninGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE (continued) (b) Diluted (continued) The subscription and issuance of bonus warrants increase the total number of shares in issue of the Company (“the Company’s shares”). Shares from the subscription represent (i) approximately 8.16% of the Company’s shares and (ii) approximately 7.54% of the Company’s shares as enlarged by the subscription. The exercise in full of the subscription rights attaching to the bonus warrants will result in the issue of 90,613,689 shares which represent (i) approximately 0.75% of the Company’s shares as enlarged by the subscription and (ii) approximately 0.75% of the Company’s shares as enlarged by the subscription and the full exercise of the bonus warrants (assuming there will be no other changes in the Company’s shares). As at March 31, 2019, all of bonus warrants remains outstanding. The calculation of the diluted earnings/(loss) per share amount is based on the profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company, adjusted to reflect the impact from any dilutive potential ordinary shares, as appropriate. The weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation is the number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, as used in the basic earnings/(loss) per share calculation, and the weighted average number of ordinary shares assumed to have been issued at no consideration on the deemed exercise or conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 12 DiviDEnDS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Interim dividend of HK6.0 cents (2018: HK6.0 cents) per ordinary share, paid on November 30, 2018 92,071 85,434 Proposed final dividend – HK21.8 cents (2018: HK20.5 cents) per ordinary share 333,693 313,850 425,764 399,284 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 241 Notes to the Financial Statements 13 PROPERTY, PLAnT AnD EQuiPMEnT Freehold land and Leasehold Plant and Furniture Office Motor buildings improvements machinery and fixtures equipment vehicles Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 At April 1, 2017 Cost 578,103 447,879 661,786 66,197 580,635 8,479 2,343,079 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 66,883 177,662 423,709 44,927 389,395 4,253 1,106,829 Net book amount 511,220 270,217 238,077 21,270 191,240 4,226 1,236,250 Year ended March 31, 2018 Opening net book amount 511,220 270,217 238,077 21,270 191,240 4,226 1,236,250 Exchange adjustment 35,270 2,668 8,444 1,051 7,982 10 55,425 Additions 36,435 6,214 86,634 1,723 85,474 1,369 217,849 Transfers 60,777 3,614 5,546 516 2,570 447 73,470 Disposals (907) (1,633) (7,836) (282) (6,453) (340) (17,451) Depreciation (20,631) (41,266) (98,339) (7,473) (87,051) (1,424) (256,184) Impairment recognized – (4,608) – – – – (4,608) Closing net book amount 622,164 235,206 232,526 16,805 193,762 4,288 1,304,751 At March 31, 2018 Cost 714,053 449,194 735,491 67,796 636,074 9,393 2,612,001 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 91,889 213,988 502,965 50,991 442,312 5,105 1,307,250 Net book amount 622,164 235,206 232,526 16,805 193,762 4,288 1,304,751 Year ended March 31, 2019 Opening net book amount 622,164 235,206 232,526 16,805 193,762 4,288 1,304,751 Exchange adjustment (32,223) (1,527) (3,353) (216) (7,264) (136) (44,719) Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 36) 17,743 232 15,690 349 178 72 34,264 Deemed disposal of a subsidiary – – (138) – – – (138) Additions 14,394 14,146 100,462 7,111 95,481 3,088 234,682 Transfers 150,629 53,931 1,460 5,101 3,373 – 214,494 Disposals (242) (9,970) (7,709) (237) (5,014) (380) (23,552) Depreciation (23,725) (60,474) (105,167) (9,352) (88,171) (2,076) (288,965) Closing net book amount 748,740 231,544 233,771 19,561 192,345 4,856 1,430,817 At March 31, 2019 Cost 858,096 479,171 788,336 76,589 650,985 9,736 2,862,913 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 109,356 247,627 554,565 57,028 458,640 4,880 1,432,096 Net book amount 748,740 231,544 233,771 19,561 192,345 4,856 1,430,817 242 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 14 PREPAiD LEASE PAYMEnTS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 At the beginning of the year 507,628 473,090 Exchange adjustment (29,240) 43,229 Additions – 10,908 Disposals – (7,327) Amortization (14,392) (12,272) At the end of the year 463,996 507,628 Prepaid lease payments represent the payments for land use rights held by the Group in the Chinese Mainland under term leases between 10 to 50 years. 15 COnSTRuCTiOn-in-PROGRESS Buildings under construction internal use software Others Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 At the beginning of the year 218,025 210,674 153,242 156,769 11,578 45,717 382,845 413,160 Exchange adjustment (29,326) 19,544 (6,607) 4,928 (8,395) 7,066 (44,328) 31,538 Additions 90,890 104,621 152,676 180,826 59,479 – 303,045 285,447 Transfers (178,606) (45,608) (124,433) (187,016) (43,373) (41,205) (346,412) (273,829) Disposals (62,927) (71,206) – (2,265) (907) – (63,834) (73,471) Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – – 781 – 781 – At the end of the year 38,056 218,025 174,878 153,242 19,163 11,578 232,097 382,845 During the year, the Group had capitalized borrowing costs amounting to US$3.1 million (2018: US$4.4 million) on qualifying assets. Borrowing costs were capitalized at the weighted average rate of its general borrowings of 4.69% (2018: 4.60%). 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 243 Notes to the Financial Statements 16 inTAnGiBLE ASSETS (a) Trademarks and Patent and Goodwill trade names internal use Customer technology Exclusive (note (b)) (note (b)) software relationships (note (c)) right Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 At April 1, 2017 Cost 4,855,738 1,305,073 910,972 1,387,483 1,709,761 – 10,169,027 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses – 39,120 705,502 330,736 744,524 – 1,819,882 Net book amount 4,855,738 1,265,953 205,470 1,056,747 965,237 – 8,349,145 Year ended March 31, 2018 Opening net book amount 4,855,738 1,265,953 205,470 1,056,747 965,237 – 8,349,145 Exchange adjustment 232,483 8,803 5,331 32,901 9,203 – 288,721 Additions – – 35,358 – 121,032 – 156,390 Transfer from construction-in-progress – – 197,716 – 2,643 – 200,359 Disposals – – (683) – (27) – (710) Amortization – (355) (82,877) (127,618) (268,551) – (479,401) Closing net book amount 5,088,221 1,274,401 360,315 962,030 829,537 – 8,514,504 At March 31, 2018 Cost 5,088,221 1,313,745 1,171,245 1,433,773 1,846,553 – 10,853,537 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses – 39,344 810,930 471,743 1,017,016 – 2,339,033 Net book amount 5,088,221 1,274,401 360,315 962,030 829,537 – 8,514,504 Year ended March 31, 2019 Opening net book amount 5,088,221 1,274,401 360,315 962,030 829,537 – 8,514,504 Exchange adjustment (275,347) (5,817) (7,662) (26,396) (5,038) – (320,260) Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 36) 129,415 – 9,413 153,483 2,011 48,600 342,922 Additions – – 20,206 – 142,888 – 163,094 Transfer from construction-in-progress – 110 128,814 – 2,994 – 131,918 Disposals – – (363) – (380) – (743) Amortization – (109) (129,343) (140,737) (236,671) – (506,860) Closing net book amount 4,942,289 1,268,585 381,380 948,380 735,341 48,600 8,324,575 At March 31, 2019 Cost 4,942,289 1,307,330 1,288,725 1,544,885 1,988,698 48,600 11,120,527 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses – 38,745 907,345 596,505 1,253,357 – 2,795,952 Net book amount 4,942,289 1,268,585 381,380 948,380 735,341 48,600 8,324,575 244 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 16 inTAnGiBLE ASSETS (continued) (a) (continued) Amortization of US$27,743,000 (2018: US$35,592,000), US$8,437,000 (2018: US$10,979,000), US$368,189,000 (2018: US$326,397,000) and US$102,491,000 (2018: US$106,433,000) are included in the ‘cost of sales’, ‘selling and distribution expenses’, ‘administrative expenses’ and ‘research and development expenses’ in the consolidated income statement respectively. (b) impairment tests for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives The carrying amounts of goodwill and trademarks and trade names with indefinite useful lives are presented below: Mature Emerging China AP EMEA AG Market Market Total uS$ million uS$ million uS$ million uS$ million uS$ million uS$ million uS$ million At March 31, 2019 Goodwill – PCSD 1,051 679 221 320 – – 2,271 – MBG – – – – 679 905 1,584 – DCG 490 158 88 351 – – 1,087 Trademarks and trade names – PCSD 209 59 104 67 – – 439 – MBG – – – – 197 263 460 – DCG 162 54 31 123 – – 370 Mature Emerging China AP EMEA AG Market Market Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million At March 31, 2018 Goodwill – PCSD 1,117 574 247 334 – – 2,272 – MBG – – – – 717 959 1,676 – DCG 503 161 123 353 – – 1,140 Trademarks and trade names – PCSD 209 59 109 67 – – 444 – MBG – – – – 197 263 460 – DCG 162 54 31 123 – – 370 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 245 Notes to the Financial Statements 16 inTAnGiBLE ASSETS (continued) (b) impairment tests for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives (continued) The Group completed its annual impairment test for goodwill allocated to the Group’s various CGUs by comparing their recoverable amounts to their carrying amounts as at the reporting date. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use. These assessments use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period with a terminal value related to the future cash flow of the CGU extrapolated using constant projection of cash flows beyond the five-year period. The estimated growth rates adopted do not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the businesses in which the CGU operates. Future cash flows are discounted at the rate of 9%, 11% and 10% for PCSD, MBG and DCG respectively (2018: 9%, 11% and 10% respectively). The estimated compound annual growth rates used for value-in-use calculations under the five-year financial budgets period are as follows: 2019 2018 PCSD MBG DCG PCSD MBG DCG China -1% n/A 18% 0% N/A 11% AP -1% n/A 14% -1% 24% 6% EMEA 0% n/A 12% -1% 32% 4% AG 0% n/A 15% 0% 7% 12% Mature Market n/A 24% n/A N/A N/A N/A Emerging Market n/A 16% n/A N/A N/A N/A The Group announced a new organizational structure in May 2018 by combining PCSD and MBG under IDG, following the earlier creation of the new reporting business units for MBG based upon market structure, namely MBG Mature Market and MBG Emerging Market. MBG’s goodwill and trademarks and trade names with indefinite useful lives have been reallocated to the CGU affected using a relative value approach. Management determined budgeted gross margins based on past performance and its expectations for the market development. The budgeted growth rates are based on management expectations, and where considered appropriate, with adjustments made with reference to industry reports which are more conservative for the purpose of goodwill impairment test. The discount rates are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments. The directors are of the view that there was no impairment of goodwill and trademarks and trade names based on impairment tests performed as at March 31, 2019 (2018: nil). The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis on key assumptions used for the annual impairment test for goodwill. A reasonably possible change in key assumptions used in the impairment test for goodwill would not cause any CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its respective recoverable amount. (c) At March 31, 2019, patent and technology of US$48,029,000 (2018: US$34,459,000) is under development. 246 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 17 inTERESTS in ASSOCiATES AnD JOinT vEnTuRES 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Share of net assets – Associates 66,672 26,005 – Joint ventures 12,389 9,661 79,061 35,666 The following is a list of the principal associates and joint ventures: interest held indirectly Place of incorporation/ Company name establishment 2019 2018 Principal activities Associates 北京閃聯雲視信息技術有限公司 Chinese 23.7% 23.7% Distribution and development (Beijing Shanlian Yunshi Information Mainland of IT technology Technology Limited) (Note ii) 成都諦聽科技有限公司 Chinese 17.3% 17.3% Distribution and development (Chengdu Diting Technology Limited) (Note ii) Mainland of IT technology 茄子技術控股有限公司 Cayman 43.7% 47.7% Software development (Shareit Technology Holdings Inc.) (Note ii) Islands 深圳視見醫療科技有限公司 Chinese 16.5% 17.8% Development of techniques (Imsight Medical Technology Inc.) (Note ii) Mainland applied to clinical medical image analysis 北京聯想智慧醫療信息技術有限公司 Chinese 25.4% 54.6% Development of hospital and (Beijing Lenovo Healthcare Information Mainland regional healthcare Technology Ltd.) (Note ii) information system 河南聚聯智慧大數據科技有限公司 Chinese 19.9% – Construction and operation (Henan Ju Lian Smart Big Data Technology Limited) Mainland of education-related (Note ii) informatization project Joint ventures 北京聯想金服科技有限公司 Chinese 50.0% 50.0% Online payment platform (Beijing Lenovo Fintech Co., Ltd.) (Note ii) Mainland development 聯想新視界（北京）科技有限公司 Chinese 35.1% 35.1% Software development (Lenovo New Vision (Beijing) Technology Mainland Co., Ltd.) (Note ii) 聯想教育科技（北京）有限公司 Chinese 49.0% – Talent development in (Lenovo Education Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Mainland vocational education (Note ii) Notes: (i) All the above associates and joint ventures operate principally in their respective places of incorporation or establishment. (ii) The English name of the company is a direct translation or transliteration of its Chinese registered name. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 247 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 inTERESTS in ASSOCiATES AnD JOinT vEnTuRES (continued) The following sets out the aggregate amount of the Group’s share of associates and joint ventures: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Share of (losses)/profits of associates (10,677) 1,323 Share of losses of joint ventures (848) (3,829) (11,525) (2,506) 18 FinAnCiAL inSTRuMEnTS BY CATEGORY Financial Other Financial assets financial assets at Financial Derivatives at FvOCi assets amortized assets used for (nonat FvOCi cost at FvPL hedging recycling) (recycling) Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 Assets At March 31, 2019 Financial assets at FVPL – 449,363 – – – 449,363 Financial assets at FVOCI – – – 71,486 – 71,486 Derivative financial assets – – 70,972 – – 70,972 Trade receivables – – – – 6,661,484 6,661,484 Notes receivable 46,454 – – – – 46,454 Deposits and other receivables 2,602,071 – – – – 2,602,071 Bank deposits 70,210 – – – – 70,210 Cash and cash equivalents 2,662,854 – – – – 2,662,854 5,381,589 449,363 70,972 71,486 6,661,484 12,634,894 248 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 18 FinAnCiAL inSTRuMEnTS BY CATEGORY (continued) Assets at fair value Availablethrough Derivatives for-sale Loans and profit used for financial receivables and loss hedging assets Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Assets At March 31, 2018 Available-for-sale financial assets – – – 373,077 373,077 Derivative financial assets – 15,037 9,853 – 24,890 Other non-current assets 43,901 – – – 43,901 Trade receivables 4,972,722 – – – 4,972,722 Notes receivable 11,154 – – – 11,154 Deposits and other receivables 3,362,293 – – – 3,362,293 Bank deposits 84,306 – – – 84,306 Cash and cash equivalents 1,848,017 – – – 1,848,017 10,322,393 15,037 9,853 373,077 10,720,360 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 249 Notes to the Financial Statements 18 FinAnCiAL inSTRuMEnTS BY CATEGORY (continued) Financial liabilities at Financial Derivatives amortized liabilities used for cost at FvPL hedging Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Liabilities At March 31, 2019 Trade payables 6,429,835 – – 6,429,835 Notes payable 1,272,840 – – 1,272,840 Derivative financial liabilities – 23,423 51,003 74,426 Other payables and accruals 8,942,336 – – 8,942,336 Borrowings 4,379,813 – – 4,379,813 Deferred consideration 25,072 – – 25,072 Contingent consideration – 113,283 – 113,283 Written put option liabilities 783,505 – – 783,505 21,833,401 136,706 51,003 22,021,110 At March 31, 2018 Trade payables 6,450,792 6,450,792 Notes payable 801,974 801,974 Derivative financial liabilities 35,937 26,757 62,694 Other payables and accruals 8,992,951 8,992,951 Borrowings 3,815,417 3,815,417 Deferred consideration 25,072 25,072 Written put option liability 224,813 224,813 20,311,019 35,937 26,757 20,373,713 250 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 19 DEFERRED inCOME TAX ASSETS AnD LiABiLiTiES Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the rates applicable in the respective jurisdictions. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are netted off when the taxes relate to the same tax authority and where offsetting is legally enforceable. The following amounts, determined after appropriate offsetting, are shown separately on the consolidated balance sheet: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Deferred income tax assets: Recoverable within 12 months 775,932 635,386 Recoverable after 12 months 1,086,970 895,237 1,862,902 1,530,623 Deferred income tax liabilities: Recoverable after 12 months (359,679) (230,609) Net deferred income tax assets 1,503,223 1,300,014 The movements in the net deferred income tax assets are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 At the beginning of the year 1,300,014 1,213,655 Reclassification and exchange adjustment (33,864) 18,780 Credited to consolidated income statement (Note 8) 269,796 469,815 Credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income (Note 8) 992 (40) Credited/(charged) to share-based compensation reserve 2,178 (2,196) Acquisition of subsidiaries (Note 36) (35,893) – Effect of change in tax rate (Note 8) – (400,000) At the end of the year 1,503,223 1,300,014 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 251 Notes to the Financial Statements 19 DEFERRED inCOME TAX ASSETS AnD LiABiLiTiES (continued) (a) The movements in deferred income tax assets (prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction), analyzed by major components, during the year are as follows: Tax Provisions depreciation Deferred Share-based and accruals Tax losses allowance revenue payment Others Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 At April 1, 2017 450,128 904,564 15,624 95,532 19,735 5,394 1,490,977 Reclassification and exchange adjustments 10,081 (303) 10,746 5,407 – (1,527) 24,404 Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 99,193 394,009 2,760 (8,102) 7,942 846 496,648 Credited to other comprehensive income – – – – – 488 488 Charged to share-based compensation reserve – – – – (2,196) – (2,196) Effect of change in tax rate (56,580) (351,713) (836) (11,210) (8,851) (823) (430,013) At March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2018 502,822 946,557 28,294 81,627 16,630 4,378 1,580,308 Reclassification and exchange adjustments (36,949) (5,963) 8,211 8,698 – (1,241) (27,244) Credited/(charged) to consolidated income statement 68,432 148,757 37,064 19,642 17,709 (1,589) 290,015 Credited to share-based compensation reserve – – – – 2,178 – 2,178 Acquisition of subsidiaries 25,898 – – – – – 25,898 At March 31, 2019 560,203 1,089,351 73,569 109,967 36,517 1,548 1,871,155 Deferred income tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences and tax losses carried forward to the extent that realization of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable. 252 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 19 DEFERRED inCOME TAX ASSETS AnD LiABiLiTiES (continued) (a) (continued) At March 31, 2019, the Group did not recognize deferred income tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences of approximately US$1,324,199,000 (2018: US$1,036,897,000) and tax losses of approximately US$2,383,242,000 (2018: US$2,258,581,000) that can be carried forward against future taxable income, of which, tax losses of US$937,153,000 (2018: US$1,015,591,000) can be carried forward indefinitely. The remaining balances of tax losses will expire as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Expiring in – 2018 – 131,173 – 2019 55,850 16,911 – 2020 125,895 21,635 – 2021 141,492 199,549 – 2022 403,808 381,940 – 2023 423,072 396,743 – 2024 227,102 51,870 – 2025 37,406 23,177 – 2026 11,530 6,114 – 2027 18,166 13,878 – 2028 1,768 – 1,446,089 1,242,990 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 253 Notes to the Financial Statements 19 DEFERRED inCOME TAX ASSETS AnD LiABiLiTiES (continued) (b) The movements in deferred income tax liabilities (prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction), analyzed by major components, during the year are as follows: Accelerated intangible undistributed Property tax valuation earnings valuation depreciation Others Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 At April 1, 2017 129,263 57,677 3,116 87,128 138 277,322 Reclassification and exchange adjustments 8,485 (233) 472 (2,434) (666) 5,624 (Credited)/charged to consolidated income statement (25,256) 27,551 25 24,513 – 26,833 Charged to other comprehensive income – – – – 528 528 Effect of change in tax rate (57) – – (29,956) – (30,013) At March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2018 112,435 84,995 3,613 79,251 – 280,294 Reclassification and exchange adjustments 13,415 – (1,460) (6,538) 1,203 6,620 (Credited)/charged to consolidated income statement (38,503) (4,266) 11 63,222 (245) 20,219 Credited to other comprehensive income – – – – (992) (992) Acquisition of subsidiaries 59,483 – – – 2,308 61,791 At March 31, 2019 146,830 80,729 2,164 135,935 2,274 367,932 254 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 20 FinAnCiAL ASSETS (a) Financial assets at FvPL 2019 uS$’000 At the beginning of the year – Change in accounting policy (Note) 294,601 Exchange adjustment (10,628) Fair value change recognized in profit or loss 125,550 Additions 73,836 Disposals (33,996) At the end of the year 449,363 Listed equity securities: – In Hong Kong 56,226 – Outside Hong Kong 139,999 196,225 Unlisted equity securities 253,138 449,363 Note: These investments were classified as available-for-sale financial assets as at March 31, 2018, see Note 20(c). 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 255 Notes to the Financial Statements 20 FinAnCiAL ASSETS (continued) (b) Financial assets at FvOCi 2019 uS$’000 At the beginning of the year – Change in accounting policy (Note) 78,476 Exchange adjustment (3,940) Fair value change recognized in other comprehensive income (16,304) Additions 4,739 Acquisition of subsidiaries 8,515 At the end of the year 71,486 Listed equity securities: – In Hong Kong 11,516 – Outside Hong Kong 19,342 30,858 Unlisted equity securities 40,628 71,486 Note: These investments were classified as available-for-sale financial assets as at March 31, 2018, see Note 20(c). 256 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 20 FinAnCiAL ASSETS (continued) (c) Financial assets previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets 2018 US$’000 At the beginning of the year 255,898 Exchange adjustment 17,540 Fair value change recognized in other comprehensive income 224 Additions 100,466 Transferred to investment in a joint venture (901) Disposals (150) At the end of the year 373,077 Listed equity securities: – In Hong Kong 12,108 – Outside Hong Kong 17,455 29,563 Unlisted equity securities 343,514 373,077 21 invEnTORiES 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Raw materials and work-in-progress 1,796,880 2,005,975 Finished goods 1,016,132 1,133,363 Service parts 621,648 652,353 3,434,660 3,791,691 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 257 Notes to the Financial Statements 22 RECEivABLES (a) Customers are generally granted credit term ranging from 0 to 120 days. Ageing analysis of trade receivables of the Group at the balance sheet date, based on invoice date, is as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 0 – 30 days 4,560,771 3,046,240 31 – 60 days 1,332,471 1,169,286 61 – 90 days 430,207 320,183 Over 90 days 438,377 545,629 6,761,826 5,081,338 Less: loss allowance (100,342) (108,616) Trade receivables – net 6,661,484 4,972,722 Trade receivables that are not past due are fully performing and not considered impaired. At March 31, 2019, trade receivables, net of loss allowance, of US$886,774,000 (2018: US$862,020,000) were past due. The ageing of these receivables, based on due date, is as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Within 30 days 512,971 444,377 31 – 60 days 125,344 136,373 61 – 90 days 59,514 67,406 Over 90 days 188,945 213,864 886,774 862,020 258 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 22 RECEivABLES (continued) (a) (continued) Movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 At beginning of the year 108,616 104,379 Exchange adjustment 7,245 (2,390) Increase in loss allowance recognized in profit or loss 43,858 55,052 Uncollectible receivables written off (5,168) (18,002) Unused amounts reversed (54,209) (30,423) At the end of the year 100,342 108,616 (b) Notes receivable of the Group are bank accepted notes mainly with maturity dates within six months. (c) Details of deposits, prepayments and other receivables are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Deposits 14,632 15,818 Other receivables 2,587,439 3,346,475 Prepayments 1,151,855 1,341,042 3,753,926 4,703,335 Note: Majority of other receivables of the Group are amounts due from subcontractors for parts components sold in the ordinary course of business. (d) The carrying amounts of trade receivables, notes receivable, deposits and other receivables approximate their fair values. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 259 Notes to the Financial Statements 23 BAnK DEPOSiTS AnD CASH AnD CASH EQuivALEnTS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Bank deposits – maturing between three to twelve months 1,620 11,013 – restricted bank balances 68,590 73,293 70,210 84,306 Cash and cash equivalents – cash at bank and in hand 2,078,930 1,839,624 – money market funds 583,924 8,393 2,662,854 1,848,017 2,733,064 1,932,323 Maximum exposure to credit risk 2,733,064 1,932,323 Effective annual interest rates 0%-6.5% 0%-6.5% 24 PAYABLES (a) Aging analysis of trade payables of the Group at the balance sheet date, based on invoice date, is as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 0 – 30 days 4,279,000 3,694,507 31 – 60 days 1,046,525 1,793,380 61 – 90 days 757,718 727,029 Over 90 days 346,592 235,876 6,429,835 6,450,792 (b) Notes payable of the Group are mainly repayable within three months. (c) The carrying amounts of trade payables and notes payable approximate their fair values. 260 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 25 PROviSiOnS, OTHER PAYABLES AnD ACCRuALS (a) Details of other payables and accruals are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Accruals 1,969,914 1,865,507 Allowance for billing adjustments (i) 1,650,226 1,634,287 Written put option liability (ii) – 224,813 Other payables (iii) 5,322,196 5,493,157 8,942,336 9,217,764 Notes: (i) Allowance for billing adjustments relates primarily to allowances for future volume discounts, price protection, rebates, and customer sales returns. (ii) Pursuant to the joint venture agreement entered into between the Company and Compal Electronics, Inc. (“Compal”) to establish a joint venture company (“JV Co”) to manufacture notebook computer products and related parts, the Company and Compal are respectively granted call and put options which entitle the Company to purchase from Compal and Compal to sell to the Company the 49% Compal’s interests in the JV Co. The call and put options will be exercisable at any time after October 1, 2019 and October 1, 2017 respectively. During the year, the Company entered into a put option termination agreement with Compal, while Compal signed a share purchase agreement with Hefei Zhi Ju Sheng Bao Equity Investment Co., Ltd. (“ZJSB”) to dispose the 49% interest in JV Co to ZJSB. Please refer to note 27(b)(ii) for details of the put option granted. The financial liability that may become payable under the put option is initially recognized at present value of redemption amount within other non-current liabilities with a corresponding charge directly to equity, as a put option written on non-controlling interest. The put option liability shall be re-measured as a result of the change in the expected performance of the JV Co at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognized in the consolidated income statement. In the event that the put option lapses unexercised, the liability will be derecognized with a corresponding adjustment to equity. (iii) Majority of other payables are obligations to pay for finished goods that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from subcontractors. (iv) The carrying amounts of other payables and accruals approximate their fair values. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 261 Notes to the Financial Statements 25 PROviSiOnS, OTHER PAYABLES AnD ACCRuALS (continued) (b) The components of provisions of the Group are as follows: Environmental Warranty restoration Restructuring Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Year ended March 31, 2018 At the beginning of the year 1,061,906 8,390 89,652 1,159,948 Exchange adjustment 24,577 638 3,794 29,009 Provisions made 895,939 9,662 100,775 1,006,376 Amounts utilized (901,204) (9,771) (140,168) (1,051,143) 1,081,218 8,919 54,053 1,144,190 Long-term portion classified as non-current liabilities (278,908) (6,807) – (285,715) At the end of the year 802,310 2,112 54,053 858,475 Year ended March 31, 2019 At the beginning of the year 1,081,218 8,919 54,053 1,144,190 Exchange adjustment (37,163) (274) (1,991) (39,428) Provisions made 807,636 14,545 – 822,181 Amounts utilized (875,413) (14,403) (36,576) (926,392) Acquisition of subsidiaries – 24,510 – 24,510 976,278 33,297 15,486 1,025,061 Long-term portion classified as non-current liabilities (254,601) (31,772) – (286,373) At the end of the year 721,677 1,525 15,486 738,688 The Group records its warranty liability at the time of sales based on estimated costs. Warranty claims are reasonably predictable based on historical failure rate information. The warranty accrual is reviewed quarterly to verify it properly reflects the outstanding obligation over the warranty period. Certain of these costs are reimbursable from the suppliers in accordance with the terms of relevant arrangements with them. The Group records its environmental restoration provision at the time of sales based on estimated costs of environmentally-sound disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment upon return from end-customers and with reference to the historical or projected future return rate. The environmental restoration provision is reviewed at least annually to assess its adequacy to meet the Group’s obligation. Restructuring costs provision mainly comprises lease termination obligations and employee termination payments, arising from a series of restructuring actions to reduce costs and enhance operational efficiency. The Group records its restructuring costs provision when it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of restructuring actions. 262 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 26 BORROWinGS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Current liabilities Short-term loans (i) 1,166,907 1,166,692 Note (ii) 786,136 – 1,953,043 1,166,692 Non-current liabilities Notes (ii) 1,836,264 2,648,725 Convertible bonds (iii) 590,506 – 2,426,770 2,648,725 4,379,813 3,815,417 Notes: (i) The majority of the short-term bank loans are denominated in United States dollar. As at March 31, 2019 the Group has total revolving and short-term loan facilities of US$2,501 million (2018: US$1,896 million) which has been utilized to the extent of US$1,181 million (2018: US$1,170 million). (ii) interest rate 2019 2018 issue date Principal amount Term per annum Due date uS$’000 US$’000 May 8, 2014 US$786 million 5 years 4.7% May 2019 786,136 774,341 June 10, 2015 RMB4 billion 5 years 4.95% June 2020 594,747 635,015 March 16, 2017 US$500 million 5 years 3.875% March 2022 497,391 496,590 March 29, 2018 US$750 million 5 years 4.75% March 2023 744,126 742,779 2,622,400 2,648,725 (iii) On January 24, 2019, the Company completed the issuance of 5-Year US$675 million convertible bonds bearing annual interest at 3.375% due in January 2024 (“the Bonds”) to third party professional investors (“the bondholders”). The bondholders have the right, at any time on or after 41 days after the date of issue up to the 10th day prior to the maturity date, to convert part or all of the outstanding principal amount of the Bonds into ordinary shares of the Company at a conversion price of HK$7.99 per share, subject to adjustments. The outstanding principal amount of the Bonds is repayable by the Company upon the maturity of the Bonds on January 24, 2024, if not previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled. The proceeds would be used to repay the outstanding 2019 notes and for the Company’s working capital and general corporate purposes. Assuming full conversion of the Bonds at the initial conversion price of HK$7.99 per share, the Bonds will be convertible into 662,539,112 shares. The Group has sufficient unutilized bank facility to meet its redemption obligations of the Bonds. The initial fair value of the liability portion of the bond was determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent nonconvertible bond at the issue date. The liability is subsequently recognized on an amortized cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option and recognized in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax, and not subsequently remeasured. The liability and equity components of convertible bonds on initial recognition are presented as follows: uS$’000 Face value of the convertible bonds on the issue date 675,000 Less: transaction costs (10,107) Net proceeds 664,893 Less: equity component (77,342) Liability component on initial recognition 587,551 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 263 Notes to the Financial Statements 26 BORROWinGS (continued) The exposure of all the borrowings of the Group to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Within 1 year 1,953,043 1,166,692 1 to 3 years 1,092,138 1,409,356 3 to 5 years 1,334,632 1,239,369 4,379,813 3,815,417 The fair values of the notes and convertible bonds as at March 31, 2019 were US$2,626 million and US$779 million respectively (2018: fair value of the notes was US$2,659 million). The carrying amounts of other borrowings approximate their fair values as the impact of discounting is not significant. Total bank facilities of the Group are as follows: Total facilities utilized amounts 2019 2018 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 Revolving loans 1,800,000 1,100,000 1,125,000 1,100,000 Short-term loans 701,437 795,637 55,800 70,000 Foreign exchange contracts 9,525,182 8,706,553 9,525,182 8,644,518 Other trade finance facilities 2,194,695 1,730,185 1,636,823 1,090,008 14,221,314 12,332,375 12,342,805 10,904,526 All borrowings are unsecured and the effective annual interest rates at March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 are as follows: united States dollar 2019 2018 Short-term loans 3.93%-6.44% 3.38%-5.31% Convertible bonds 6.15% – 264 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 27 OTHER nOn-CuRREnT LiABiLiTiES 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Contingent consideration (a) 113,283 – Deferred consideration (a) 25,072 25,072 Written put option liabilities (b) 783,505 – Environmental restoration (Note 25(b)) 31,772 6,807 Government incentives and grants received in advance (c) 50,087 58,988 Deferred rent liabilities 83,977 94,377 Others 159,950 148,088 1,247,646 333,332 Notes: (a) Pursuant to the completion of business combinations, the Group is required to pay in cash to the then respective sellers contingent consideration with reference to certain performance indicators as written in the respective agreements with the sellers; and deferred consideration. Accordingly, non-current liabilities in respect of the fair value of contingent consideration and present value of deferred consideration have been recognized. The contingent consideration is subsequently remeasured at their fair values as a result of change in the expected performance at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognized in the consolidated income statement. Deferred consideration is subsequently carried at amortized cost. As at March 31, 2019, the potential undiscounted amounts of future payments in respect of the contingent and deferred considerations that the Group could be required to make to the then respective sellers under such arrangements are as follows: Joint venture with NEC Corporation US$25 million Fujitsu Limited (“Fujitsu”) JPY2.55 billion to JPY12.75 billion With reference to the performance indicators, if the actual performance of FCCL had been 10% higher/lower than its expected performance, the contingent consideration would have been increased/decreased by approximately nil and US$23 million respectively with the corresponding loss/gain recognized in consolidated income statement. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 265 Notes to the Financial Statements 27 OTHER nOn-CuRREnT LiABiLiTiES (continued) Notes: (continued) (b) (i) Pursuant to the joint venture agreement entered into between the Company and Fujitsu, the Company and Fujitsu are respectively granted call and put options which entitle the Company to purchase from Fujitsu and Development Bank of Japan (“DBJ”), or Fujitsu and DBJ to sell to the Company, 49% interest in Fujitsu Client Computing Limited and its subsidiary, Shimane Fujitsu Limited (together “FCCL”). Both options will be exercisable following the fifth anniversary of the date of completion. The exercise price for the call and put options will be determined based on the fair value of the 49% interest as of the day of exercising the option. FCCL will pay to its shareholders by way of dividends in their respective shareholding proportion in a range of FCCL’s profits available for distribution under applicable law in respect of each financial year during the term of the joint venture agreement, after making transfers to reserves and provisions. (ii) With reference to note 25(a)(ii), during the year, ZJSB acquired the 49% interest in JV Co from Compal. Pursuant to the option agreement entered into between a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group and Hefei Yuan Jia Start-up Investment LLP (“Yuan Jia”), which holds 99.31% interest in ZJSB, the Group and Yuan Jia are respectively granted call and put options which entitle the Group to purchase from Yuan Jia, or Yuan Jia to sell to the Group, the 99.31% interest in ZJSB. The call and put options will be exercisable at any time after August 31, 2022 and August 31, 2021 respectively. The exercise price for the call and put options will be determined in accordance with the joint venture agreement, and up to a maximum of RMB2,300 million (approximately US$343 million). The financial liability that may become payable under the put option and dividend requirement is initially recognized at present value of redemption amount within other non-current liabilities with a corresponding charge directly to equity, as a put option written on non-controlling interest. The put option liability shall be re-measured as a result of the change in the expected performance at each balance sheet date, with any resulting gain or loss recognized in the consolidated income statement. In the event that the put option lapses unexercised, the liability will be derecognized with a corresponding adjustment to equity. (c) Government incentives and grants received in advance by certain group companies included in other non-current liabilities are mainly related to research and development projects and construction of property, plant and equipment. These Group companies are obliged to fulfill certain conditions under the terms of the government incentives and grants. The government incentive and grants are credited to the income statement upon fulfillment of those conditions and on a straight line basis over the expected life of the related assets respectively. 28 SHARE CAPiTAL 2019 2018 number Number of shares uS$’000 of shares US$’000 Issued and fully paid: Voting ordinary shares: At the beginning of the year 12,014,791,614 3,185,923 11,108,654,724 2,689,882 Issue of ordinary shares – – 906,136,890 496,041 At the end of the year 12,014,791,614 3,185,923 12,014,791,614 3,185,923 On November 17, 2017, the Company has issued 906,136,890 shares at price of HK$4.31 per share through a subscription agreement entered into by the Company and Union Star Limited (Note 11). 266 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 28 SHARE CAPiTAL (continued) Long-term incentive program A performance-related long-term incentive program was approved on May 26, 2005 for the purpose of rewarding and motivating directors, executives and top-performing employees of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Participants”). The long-term incentive program is designed to enable the Company to attract and retain the best available personnel, and encourage and motivate Participants to work towards enhancing the value of the Company and its shares by aligning their interests with those of the shareholders of the Company. The Company also approved a share-based compensation package for non-executive directors. Under the long-term incentive program, the Company may grant awards, at its discretion, using any of the two types of equity-based compensation: (i) share appreciation rights and (ii) restricted share units, which are described below: (i) Share Appreciation Rights (“SARs”) An SAR entitles the holder to receive the appreciation in value of the Company’s share price above a predetermined level. (ii) Restricted Share units (“RSus”) An RSU equals to the value of one ordinary share of the Company. Once vested, an RSU is converted to an ordinary share. Under the two types of compensation, the Company reserves the right, at its discretion, to settle the award in cash or ordinary shares of the Company. Movements in the number of units of award granted during the year and their related weighted average fair values are as follows: number of units SARs RSus Outstanding at April 1, 2017 555,262,485 360,682,279 Granted during the year 490,920,405 301,523,867 Vested during the year (249,496,096) (142,386,897) Lapsed/cancelled during the year (87,244,882) (41,623,477) Outstanding at March 31, 2018 709,441,912 478,195,772 Outstanding at April 1, 2018 709,441,912 478,195,772 Granted during the year 669,166,505 381,949,708 Vested during the year (307,893,000) (208,171,494) Lapsed/cancelled during the year (81,211,905) (51,594,394) Outstanding at March 31, 2019 989,503,512 600,379,592 Average fair value per unit (HK$) – At March 31, 2018 1.01 5.50 – At March 31, 2019 0.76 4.57 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 267 Notes to the Financial Statements 28 SHARE CAPiTAL (continued) Long-term incentive program (continued) The fair values of the SARs awarded under the long-term incentive program were calculated by applying a Black-Scholes pricing model. For the year ended March 31, 2019, the model inputs were the fair value (i.e. market value) of the Company’s shares at the grant date, taking into account the expected volatility of 31.47 percent (2018: 34.04 percent), expected dividends during the vesting periods of 5.49 percent (2018: 5.59 percent), contractual life of 4.4 years (2018: 4.5 years), and a riskfree interest rate of 1.85 percent (2018: 0.94 percent). The remaining vesting periods of the awards under the long-term incentive program as at March 31, 2019 ranged from 0.14 to 2.92 years (2018: 0.41 to 2.92 years). 29 PERPETuAL SECuRiTiES In March 2017, the Group issued a total of US$850 million perpetual securities through its wholly owned subsidiary, Lenovo Perpetual Securities Limited (“the issuer”). The net proceed amounted to approximately US$842 million. The securities are perpetual, non-callable in the first 5 years and entitle the holders to receive distributions at a distribution rate of 5.375% per annum in the first 5 years, floating thereafter and with a fixed step up margin, payable semi-annually in arrears, cumulative and compounding. As the perpetual securities do not contain any contractual obligation to pay cash or other financial assets pursuant to the terms and conditions of the issue; in accordance with HKAS 32, they are classified as equity and for accounting purpose regarded as part of non-controlling interests. In April 2017, the Group issued an additional US$150 million perpetual securities under the same terms, which are fungible with and form a single series with the aforementioned US$850 million perpetual securities. 268 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 30 BALAnCE SHEET AnD MOvEMEnT OF RESERvES OF THE COMPAnY (a) Balance sheet of the Company At March 31 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,080 1,376 Intangible assets 890 1,581 Interest in an associate 1,887 1,887 Investments in subsidiaries 9,017,668 8,580,253 Available-for-sale financial assets – 46,291 Financial assets at FVPL 45,792 – Financial assets at FVOCI 15,782 – Other non-current assets 50,000 – 9,133,099 8,631,388 Current assets Deposits, prepayments and other receivables 39,604 52,050 Amounts due from subsidiaries 5,626,654 4,201,643 Cash and cash equivalents 12,975 15,936 5,679,233 4,269,629 Total assets 14,812,332 12,901,017 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 269 Notes to the Financial Statements 30 BALAnCE SHEET AnD MOvEMEnT OF RESERvES OF THE COMPAnY (continued) (a) Balance sheet of the Company (continued) At March 31 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Share capital 3,185,923 3,185,923 Reserves (Note 30(b)) 1,389,578 981,864 Total equity 4,575,501 4,167,787 non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,426,770 2,648,725 Amount due to a subsidiary 1,000,000 1,000,000 Deferred income tax liabilities 684 – Other non-current liabilities 139,138 25,900 3,566,592 3,674,625 Current liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 23,423 4,884 Other payables and accruals 70,330 86,904 Borrowings 1,897,243 1,096,689 Amounts due to subsidiaries 4,679,243 3,870,128 6,670,239 5,058,605 Total liabilities 10,236,831 8,733,230 Total equity and liabilities 14,812,332 12,901,017 On behalf of the Board Yang Yuanqing Ma Xuezheng Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Director 270 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 30 BALAnCE SHEET AnD MOvEMEnT OF RESERvES OF THE COMPAnY (continued) (b) Movement of reserves of the Company The changes in the reserves of the Company during the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: investment Share-based revaluation compensation Exchange Other Retained reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 At April 1, 2017 (11,444) 118,647 10,204 8,614 713,824 839,845 Profit for the year – – – – 446,962 446,962 Other comprehensive loss (22,779) – – – – (22,779) Total comprehensive (loss)/ income for the year (22,779) – – – 446,962 424,183 Vesting of shares under long-term incentive program – (91,528) – – – (91,528) Share-based compensation – 199,892 – – – 199,892 Issue of bonus warrants – – – (6,399) – (6,399) Dividends paid – – – – (384,129) (384,129) At March 31, 2018 (34,223) 227,011 10,204 2,215 776,657 981,864 At April 1, 2018 (34,223) 227,011 10,204 2,215 776,657 981,864 Change in accounting policy 14,937 – – – (26,567) (11,630) Restated total equity (19,286) 227,011 10,204 2,215 750,090 970,234 Profit for the year – – – – 670,791 670,791 Other comprehensive loss (356) – – – – (356) Total comprehensive (loss)/ income for the year (356) – – – 670,791 670,435 Vesting of shares under long-term incentive program – (137,317) – – – (137,317) Share-based compensation – 214,822 – – – 214,822 Issue of convertible bonds – – – 77,342 – 77,342 Dividends paid – – – – (405,938) (405,938) At March 31, 2019 (19,642) 304,516 10,204 79,557 1,014,943 1,389,578 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 271 Notes to the Financial Statements 31 SiGniFiCAnT RELATED PARTY TRAnSACTiOnS (a) The Group had the following significant related party transactions in the normal course of business during the year: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 閃聯信息技術工程中心有限公司 (IGRS Engineering Lab Limited) (an associate) – Purchase of goods 10,280 15,654 Note: The English name of each company is a direct translation of its Chinese registered name. (b) Key management compensation Details on key management compensation are set out in Note 10. 32 COMMiTMEnTS (a) Capital commitments Apart from disclosed elsewhere in these financial statements, on March 31, 2019, the Group had the following other capital commitments: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Contracted but not provided for: – Property, plant and equipment 92,948 154,658 – IT consulting services – 1,092 – Investment in a subsidiary – 188,692 – Investment in financial assets 10,924 13,776 103,872 358,218 (b) Commitments under operating leases The future aggregate minimum lease payments in respect of land and buildings and prepaid lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases of the Group are as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Not later than one year 104,882 33,454 Later than one year but not later than five years 222,450 293,253 Later than five years 145,856 194,161 473,188 520,868 272 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 33 COnTinGEnT LiABiLiTiES The Group, in the ordinary course of its business, is involved in various claims, suits, investigations, and legal proceedings that arise from time to time. Although the Group does not expect that the outcome in any of these legal proceedings, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations, litigation is inherently unpredictable. Therefore, the Group could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect its operating results or cash flows in a particular period. 34 RECOnCiLiATiOn OF PROFiT BEFORE TAXATiOn TO nET CASH GEnERATED FROM/ (uSED in) OPERATiOnS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Profit before taxation 856,664 153,202 Share of losses of associates and joint ventures 11,525 2,506 Finance income (27,399) (32,145) Finance costs 337,027 263,160 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of prepaid lease payments 291,760 259,121 Amortization of intangible assets 506,860 479,401 Share-based compensation 214,822 199,779 Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 4,608 Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment, prepaid lease payments and construction-in-progress 4,970 (50,937) Loss on disposal of intangible assets 743 710 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – (15) Gain on deemed disposal of a subsidiary (22,811) – Dilution gain on interests in associates and a joint venture (24,189) (2,499) Fair value change on bonus warrants 18,598 (3,003) Fair value change on financial instruments (12,802) 12,749 Fair value change on financial assets at FVPL (125,550) – Dividend income (230) (286) Decrease/(increase) in inventories 496,706 (997,656) Increase in trade receivables, notes receivable, deposits, prepayments and other receivables (326,932) (1,012,749) (Decrease)/increase in trade payables, notes payable, provisions, other payables and accruals (163,698) 919,996 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 79,932 (257,933) Net cash generated from/(used in) operations 2,115,996 (61,991) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 273 Notes to the Financial Statements 34 RECOnCiLiATiOn OF PROFiT BEFORE TAXATiOn TO nET CASH GEnERATED FROM/ (uSED in) OPERATiOnS (continued) (a) Reconciliation of financing liabilities This section sets out an analysis of financing liabilities and the movements in financing liabilities for the year presented. Financing liabilities 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Short-term loans – current 1,166,907 1,166,692 Notes – current 786,136 – Notes – non-current 1,836,264 2,648,725 Convertible bonds – non-current 590,506 – Financing liabilities 4,379,813 3,815,417 Short-term loans – variable interest rates 1,166,907 1,166,692 Notes – fixed interest rates 2,622,400 2,648,725 Convertible bonds – fixed interest rates 590,506 – Financing liabilities 4,379,813 3,815,417 ShortLong-term Convertible term loans loans note notes bonds current non-current current non-current non-current Total US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Financing liabilities as at April 1, 2017 70,003 397,687 – 2,569,005 – 3,036,695 Proceeds from borrowings 7,413,740 12,000 – – – 7,425,740 Repayments of borrowings (6,324,406) (400,000) – – – (6,724,406) Issue of notes – – – 749,119 – 749,119 Repayment of notes – – – (723,389) – (723,389) Foreign exchange adjustments – – – 56,175 – 56,175 Other non-cash movements 7,355 (9,687) – (2,185) – (4,517) Financing liabilities as at March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2018 1,166,692 – – 2,648,725 – 3,815,417 Proceeds from borrowings 5,700,215 – – – – 5,700,215 Repayments of borrowings (5,700,000) – – – – (5,700,000) Transfer – – 774,341 (774,341) – – Issue of convertible bonds – – – – 675,000 675,000 Issuing cost of convertible bonds – – – – (10,107) (10,107) Foreign exchange adjustments – – – (41,014) – (41,014) Other non-cash movements – – 11,795 2,894 (74,387) (59,698) Financing liabilities as at March 31, 2019 1,166,907 – 786,136 1,836,264 590,506 4,379,813 274 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Pension obligation included in non-current liabilities Pension benefits 407,723 387,632 Post-employment medical benefits 26,523 25,850 434,246 413,482 Expensed in income statement Pension benefits (Note 9) 23,302 16,439 Post-employment medical benefits 1,418 1,177 24,720 17,616 Remeasurements for: Defined pension benefits 26,248 20,597 Post-employment medical benefits (607) (800) The Group’s largest pension liabilities are now in Germany. Its defined benefit plan is closed to new entrants and now covers around 20% of employees. The defined benefit plan contains a large number of retirees and former employees with benefits which have vested, but where payment will be deferred until they retire. The Group continues to maintain significant pension liabilities in Japan, where a cash balance benefit is provided for substantially all employees. In the US, the defined benefit plan is closed to new entrants, and now covers only 1.0% of employees. There is also a supplemental defined benefit plan that covers certain executives. The Group also operates final salary defined benefit plans in a number of countries as a result of past acquisitions. The Group’s major plans are valued by qualified actuaries annually using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 275 Notes to the Financial Statements 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS (continued) (a) Pension benefits The amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Present value of funded obligations 568,780 548,060 Fair value of plan assets (346,348) (334,597) Deficit of funded plans 222,432 213,463 Present value of unfunded obligations 185,291 174,169 Liability in the balance sheet 407,723 387,632 Representing: Pension benefits obligation 407,723 387,632 The principal actuarial assumptions used are as follows: 2019 2018 Discount rate 0.5%-3.25% 0.5%-3.25% Future salary increases 0%-4.5% 0%-3.5% Future pension increases 0%-2% 0%-2% Life expectancy for male aged 60 27 27 Life expectancy for female aged 60 28 29 The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: impact on defined benefit obligation Change in increase in Decrease in 2019 assumption assumption assumption Discount rate 0.5% Decrease by 10.6% increase by 10.7% Salary growth rate 0.5% increase by 1.0% Decrease by 0.9% Pension growth rate 0.5% increase by 8.3% Decrease by 7.5% increase by 1 year Decrease by 1 year in assumption in assumption Life expectancy increase by 4.0% Decrease by 3.9% 276 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS (continued) (a) Pension benefits (continued) Impact on defined benefit obligation Change in Increase in Decrease in 2018 assumption assumption assumption Discount rate 0.5% Decrease by 10.6% Increase by 11.4% Salary growth rate 0.5% Increase by 1.2% Decrease by 1.1% Pension growth rate 0.5% Increase by 8.0% Decrease by 7.3% Increase by 1 year Decrease by 1 year in assumption in assumption Life expectancy Increase by 3.3% Decrease by 3.3% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognized within the balance sheet. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous year. (b) Post-employment medical benefits The Group operates a number of post-employment medical benefit schemes, principally in the US. The method of accounting, assumptions and the frequency of valuations are similar to those used for defined benefit pension schemes. The US plan (Lenovo Future Health Account and Retiree Life Insurance Program) is currently funded by a trust that qualifies for tax exemption under US tax law, out of which benefits to eligible retirees and dependents will be made. Changes in future medical cost trend rates has no effect on the liabilities for post-employment medical benefits. The amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 Present value of funded obligations 26,764 26,652 Fair value of plan assets (1,453) (2,391) 25,311 24,261 Present value of unfunded obligations 1,212 1,589 Liability in the balance sheet 26,523 25,850 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 277 Notes to the Financial Statements 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS (continued) (c) Additional information on post-employment benefits (pension and medical) Plan assets of the Group comprise: 2019 2018 Quoted unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Pension plan Equity instruments Information technology 530 – 530 2,079 – 2,079 Energy 245 – 245 235 – 235 Manufacturing 4,845 – 4,845 9,726 – 9,726 Others 4,203 – 4,203 3,573 – 3,573 9,823 – 9,823 15,613 – 15,613 Debt instruments Government 77,716 – 77,716 49,617 – 49,617 Corporate bonds (investment grade) 56,267 – 56,267 50,056 – 50,056 Corporate bonds (Non-investment grade) 780 – 780 8,864 – 8,864 134,763 – 134,763 108,537 – 108,537 Others Property – 13,181 13,181 – 13,270 13,270 Qualifying insurance policies – 66,966 66,966 – 43,503 43,503 Cash and cash equivalents 30,664 – 30,664 16,302 – 16,302 Investment funds – 38,503 38,503 – 55,821 55,821 Structured bonds – 50,158 50,158 – 81,180 81,180 Others – 2,290 2,290 – 371 371 30,664 171,098 201,762 16,302 194,145 210,447 175,250 171,098 346,348 140,452 194,145 334,597 Medical plan Cash and cash equivalents 1,453 – 1,453 2,391 – 2,391 The long term strategic asset allocations of the plans are set and reviewed from time to time by the plans’ trustees taking into account the membership, liability profile and the liquidity requirements of the plans. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12.5 years. 278 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS (continued) (c) Additional information on post-employment benefits (pension and medical) (continued) Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension and post-employments medical benefits: Less than Between Between Over a year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At March 31, 2019 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 Pension benefits 21,238 21,450 81,261 822,903 946,852 Post-employment medical benefits 947 1,030 3,666 41,573 47,216 Total 22,185 22,480 84,927 864,476 994,068 Pension and medical plan assets do not include any of the Company’s ordinary shares or US real estate occupied by the Group (2018: nil). Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets of the Group: Pension Medical 2019 2018 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 Opening fair value 334,597 300,872 2,391 3,568 Exchange adjustment (21,483) 21,767 (15) – Interest income 5,156 5,287 79 103 Remeasurements: Experience gain/(loss) 3,661 5,644 (22) 318 Contributions by the employer 19,868 25,681 32 41 Contributions by plan participants 661 663 – – Benefits paid (35,785) (25,317) (1,012) (1,639) Acquisition of subsidiaries 39,673 – – – Closing fair value 346,348 334,597 1,453 2,391 Actual return on plan assets 8,817 10,931 57 421 Contributions of US$20,603,000 are estimated to be made for the year ending March 31, 2020. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 279 Notes to the Financial Statements 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS (continued) (c) Additional information on post-employment benefits (pension and medical) (continued) Reconciliation of movements in present value of defined benefit obligations of the Group: Pension Medical 2019 2018 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 Opening defined benefit obligation 722,229 646,149 28,241 28,498 Exchange adjustment (48,978) 54,847 (110) 215 Current service cost 17,447 14,516 586 315 Past service cost (1,235) (1,141) – – Interest cost 11,564 11,051 911 965 Remeasurements: (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (1,024) (609) (201) 5 Loss/(gain) from changes in financial assumptions 27,538 13,487 (9) 10 Experience loss/(gain) 3,395 13,363 (419) (497) Contributions by plan participants 684 663 – – Benefits paid (46,854) (27,397) (1,023) (1,270) Curtailment loss/(gain) 682 (2,700) – – Acquisition of subsidiaries 68,623 – – – Closing defined benefit obligation 754,071 722,229 27,976 28,241 During the year, benefits of US$11,069,000 were settled directly by the Group (2018: US$2,080,000). Summary of pensions and post-retirement medical benefits of the Group: 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Present value of defined benefit obligations 782,047 750,470 674,647 739,805 699,680 Fair value of plan assets 347,801 336,988 304,440 296,931 289,562 Deficit 434,246 413,482 370,207 442,874 410,118 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising on plan assets (3,639) (5,962) 6,620 3,580 (29,070) Actuarial losses/(gains) arising on plan liabilities 29,280 25,759 (49,398) 21,082 99,157 25,641 19,797 (42,778) 24,662 70,087 280 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 35 RETiREMEnT BEnEFiT OBLiGATiOnS (continued) (c) Additional information on post-employment benefits (pension and medical) (continued) The amounts recognized in the consolidated income statement are as follows: Pension Medical 2019 2018 2019 2018 uS$’000 US$’000 uS$’000 US$’000 Current service cost 17,447 14,516 586 315 Past service cost (1,235) (1,141) – – Interest cost 11,564 11,051 911 965 Interest income (5,156) (5,287) (79) (103) Curtailment loss/(gain) 682 (2,700) – – Total expense recognized in the consolidated income statement 23,302 16,439 1,418 1,177 36 BuSinESS COMBinATiOnS During the year, the Group completed two business combination activities aiming at expanding the Group’s existing scale of operations and to enlarge the Group’s market share. On May 2, 2018, the Group acquired 51% interest of FCCL. FCCL is principally engaged in manufacturing and distribution of PC products. Immediately following completion, the Company, Fujitsu Limited and Development Bank of Japan respectively own 51%, 44% and 5% of the interest in FCCL. The acquisition of FCCL provides the Group with efficiencies and economies of scale to benefit the development, manufacture and distribution of Fujitsu-branded personal computer products, while enabling improved global penetration of the Fujitsu personal computer brand for the benefit of both consumer and enterprise market customers. During the year, the Group has set up a non-wholly owned subsidiary, Lenovo NetApp Technology Limited (“LNTL”), with Solidfire BV (“NetApp”) for the purpose of business acquisition of storage business in China from NetApp. Such business acquisition was completed on February 18, 2019. Immediately following the completion, the Group and NetApp respectively own 51% and 49% of the interest in LNTL. LNTL is principally engaged in the business of developing and distributing storage solutions and products in China. The acquisition provides the Group with exclusive right in distributing NetApp branded storage products in China and enlarges the Group’s market share of storage business in China. The estimated total consideration for the business combination activities completed during the year is approximately US$287 million, including initial and contingent consideration. 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 281 Notes to the Financial Statements 36 BuSinESS COMBinATiOnS (continued) Set forth below is the preliminary calculation of goodwill: FCCL LnTL Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 Purchase consideration: – Cash paid (a) 127,104 48,600 175,704 – Fair value of contingent consideration (b) 111,047 – 111,047 Total purchase consideration 238,151 48,600 286,751 Less: fair value of net assets acquired (114,267) (43,069) (157,336) Goodwill 123,884 5,531 129,415 (a) For the acquisition of FCCL, cash payment comprising cash consideration of JPY17,680,280,000 (US$161.0 million) net of a downward adjustment of JPY3,722,999,906 (US$33.9 million) calculated based on the actual working capital amount and the actual net debt as at the completion date was made to Fujitsu Limited. For the acquisition of LNTL, cash payment of US$48.6 million was made to LNTL. (b) The contingent consideration is to be payable in cash after March 31, 2020. The fair value of contingent consideration is included in other non-current liabilities in the balance sheet. The major components of assets and liabilities arising from the business combination activities are as follows: FCCL LnTL Total uS$’000 uS$’000 uS$’000 Cash and cash equivalents 22,906 53,500 76,406 Property, plant and equipment 33,564 700 34,264 Deferred income tax assets less liabilities (23,743) (12,150) (35,893) Intangible assets 164,907 48,600 213,507 Other non-current assets 9,455 – 9,455 Net working capital except cash and cash equivalents 56,249 (6,200) 50,049 Non-current liabilities (39,285) – (39,285) Fair value of net assets acquired 224,053 84,450 308,503 Less: share of other non-controlling interests (109,786) (41,381) (151,167) Fair value of net assets attributable to the interest acquired 114,267 43,069 157,336 282 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 36 BuSinESS COMBinATiOnS (continued) Intangible assets arising from the business combination activities mainly represent customer relationships and an exclusive right. The Group has engaged external valuers to perform fair value assessments on these intangible assets in accordance with HKAS 38 “Intangible Assets” and HKFRS 3 (Revised) “Business Combination”. At March 31, 2019, the Group has not finalized the fair value assessments for net assets acquired (including intangible assets) from the business combination activities. The relevant fair values of net assets stated above are on a provisional basis. Acquisition-related costs of US$9.4 million have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended March 31, 2019. The aggregate revenue included in the consolidated income statement since May 2, 2018 and February 18, 2019 contributed by FCCL and LNTL was approximately US$2,778 million and US$5 million, respectively. FCCL contributed an aggregate profit after taxation of approximately US$89 million and LNTL incurred an aggregate loss after taxation of approximately US$3 million over the same period. No separate set of financial information was prepared for FCCL and LNTL before the acquisition. Accordingly, disclosure of the revenue and profit/loss after taxation of both newly acquired businesses for the full year from April 1, 2018 has not been made. 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES The following includes the principal subsidiaries directly or indirectly held by the Company and, in the opinion of the directors, are significant to the results of the year or form a substantial portion of the net assets of the Group. The directors consider that giving details of other subsidiaries would result in particulars of excessive length. Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 Held directly: 聯想（北京）有限公司 Chinese Mainland HK$175,481,300 100% 100% Manufacturing and (Lenovo (Beijing) Limited) 1 distribution of IT products (wholly foreign-owned enterprise) and provision of IT services 聯想（上海）有限公司 Chinese Mainland HK$10,000,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products (Lenovo (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.) 1 and provision of IT (wholly foreign-owned enterprise) services 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 283 Notes to the Financial Statements 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 Held indirectly: Fujitsu Client Computing Limited Japan JPY400,000,000 51% – Manufacturing and distribution of IT products 聯寶（合肥）電子科技有限公司 Chinese Mainland US$265,000,000 51% 51% Manufacturing and (LCFC (Hefei) Electronics distribution of IT Technology Co., Ltd.)1 products (wholly foreign-owned enterprise) Lenovo (Asia Pacific) Limited Hong Kong HK$3,045,209,504.92 100% 100% Investment holding and distribution of IT products 北京聯想軟件有限公司 Chinese Mainland HK$5,000,000 100% 100% Provision of IT services (Beijing Lenovo Software Limited) 1 and distribution of IT (wholly foreign-owned enterprise) products Lenovo (Australia & New Zealand) Australia AUD45,860,993.40 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Pty Limited Lenovo (Belgium) BVBA Belgium EUR1,317,700,834.94 100% 100% Investment holding and distribution of IT products Lenovo (Canada) Inc. Canada CAD10,000,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo Computer Limited Hong Kong HK$2 100% 100% Procurement agency and distribution of IT products Lenovo (Danmark) ApS Denmark DKK126,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products 284 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 Lenovo (Deutschland) GmbH Germany EUR25,100 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo Enterprise Solutions Singapore SGD55,958,592 100% 100% Manufacturing and (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. wholesaling of computers, computer hardware and peripheral equipment Lenovo Enterprise Solutions Ltd. Japan JPY50,000,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo (France) SAS France EUR1,837,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo HK Services Limited Hong Kong HK$2 100% 100% Provision of business planning, management, global supply chain, finance, and administration support services Lenovo Global Technology Hong Kong US$123,001 100% 100% Investment holding (Asia Pacific) Limited and distribution of IT products Lenovo Global Technology HK Hong Kong US$10,000,001 100% 100% Procurement agency Limited and distribution of IT products Lenovo Global Technology Hong Kong US$1 100% 100% Distribution of IT products (Hong Kong) Distribution Limited Lenovo (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong HK$74,256,023 100% 100% Distribution of IT products 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 285 Notes to the Financial Statements 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 惠陽聯想電子工業有限公司 Chinese Mainland HK$31,955,500 100% 100% Manufacturing and (Lenovo (Huiyang) Electronic distribution of IT Industrial Co., Ltd.)1 products (wholly foreign-owned enterprise) Lenovo (India) Private Limited India INR8,607,471,514 100% 100% Manufacturing and distribution of IT products 聯想信息產品（深圳）有限公司 Chinese Mainland RMB643,966,800 100% 100% Manufacturing and (Lenovo Information Products distribution of IT (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd.)1 products (limited liability company (wholly-owned entity)) Lenovo (Israel) Ltd. Israel ILS1,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo (Italy) S.r.l Italy EUR100,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo (Japan) Ltd. Japan JPY100,000,000 66.64% 66.64% Distribution of IT products Lenovo Korea LLC Korea KRW3,580,940,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico MXN1,424,048,114 100% 100% Distribution of IT products 聯想移動通信科技有限公司 Chinese Mainland RMB187,500,000 100% 100% Manufacturing and (Lenovo Mobile Communication distribution of IT products Technology Ltd.)1 and provision of IT (foreign-investment enterprise services wholly-owned entity) 286 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 摩托羅拉（武漢）移動技術通信有限公司 Chinese Mainland RMB60,000,000 100% 100% Manufacturing of mobile (Motorola (Wuhan) Mobility products Technologies Communication Company Limited)1 前稱“聯想移動通信（武漢）有限公司” (formerly known as “Lenovo Mobile Communication (Wuhan) Limited”)1 (foreign-investment enterprise wholly-owned entity) Lenovo NetApp Technology Chinese Mainland US$10,000,000 51% Delivering IT products Limited and data management solution Lenovo PC HK Limited Hong Kong HK$2,377,934,829.50 100% 100% Procurement agency ordinary and and distribution of IT HK$1,000,000 products non-voting deferred Lenovo PC International Limited Hong Kong HK$4,758,857,785 100% 100% Intellectual properties Lenovo (Schweiz) GmbH Switzerland CHF2,000,000 100% 100% Manufacturing and distribution of IT products Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore SGD1,971,231,035.94 100% 100% Manufacturing and wholesaling of computers, computer hardware and peripheral equipment 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 287 Notes to the Financial Statements 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 Lenovo (South Africa) (Pty) Limited South Africa RAND100 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo (Spain), S.L. Spain EUR37,475,456.40 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo (Sweden) AB Sweden SEK200,200 100% 100% Distribution of IT products 聯想系統集成（深圳）有限公司 Chinese Mainland RMB263,407,660 100% 100% Manufacturing and distribution (Lenovo Systems Technology of IT products Company Limited)1 (有限責任公司（法人獨資)) (limited liability company (wholly-owned entity)) Lenovo Technology United Kingdom GBP8,629,510 100% 100% Distribution of IT products (United Kingdom) Limited Lenovo Technology B.V. Netherlands EUR20,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo Technology Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia MYR1,000,000 100% 100% Selling and distribution of computer hardware, software and peripherals and services Lenovo Tecnologia (Brasil) Ltda Brazil BRL4,424,321,818 100% 100% Manufacturing and distribution of IT products Lenovo (Thailand) Limited Thailand THB243,000,000 100% 100% Distribution of IT products as well as mobile phone, smart phone and tablet, server and storage Lenovo (United States) Inc. United States US$1 100% 100% Distribution of IT products Lenovo (Venezuela), SA Venezuela VEB717,184,632 100% 100% Distribution of IT products 288 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 聯想（西安）有限公司 Chinese Mainland RMB10,000,000 100% 100% Provision of IT services (Lenovo (Xian) Limited)1 and distribution of IT (Chinese-foreign equity joint products venture) LLC “Lenovo (East Europe/Asia)” Russia RUB1,910,000 100% 100% Distribution and marketing of IT products Medion AG Germany EUR48,418,400 79.84% 79.83% Retail and service business for consumer electronic products and complementary digital services Motorola Mobility Comércio de Brazil BRL756,663,401 100% 100% Developer, owner, Produtos Eletronicos Ltda. licensor and seller of communications hardware and software Motorola Mobility International United States – 100% 100% Holding company Sales LLC Motorola Mobility LLC United States – 100% 100% Developer, owner, licensor and seller of communications hardware and software NEC Personal Computers, Ltd. Japan JPY500,000,000 66.64% 66.64% Manufacturing and distribution of IT products 深圳聯想海外控股有限公司 Chinese Mainland US$760,822,799.24 100% 100% Investment management (Shenzhen Lenovo Overseas Holdings Limited)1 (wholly-foreign owned enterprise) 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 289 Notes to the Financial Statements 37 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARiES (continued) Place of incorporation/ issued and fully Percentage of issued Company name establishment paid up capital capital held Principal activities 2019 2018 Shimane Fujitsu Limited Japan JPY450,000,000 51% – Manufacturing and distribution of IT products Stoneware, Inc. United States US$861,341.25 100% 100% Development and distribution of IT products 陽光雨露信息技術服務（北京）有限公司 Chinese Mainland RMB50,000,000 100% 100% Provision of repair services (Sunny Information Technology for computer hardware Service, Inc.)1 and software systems (Chinese-foreign equity joint venture) Notes: (i) All the above subsidiaries operate principally in their respective places of incorporation or establishment. (ii) All the Chinese Mainland subsidiaries are limited liability companies. They have adopted December 31 as their financial year end date for statutory reporting purposes. For the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, financial statements of these Chinese Mainland subsidiaries for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 have been used. (iii) Medion AG is a publicly traded German stock corporation listed on the Frankfurt am Main stock exchange. The percentage of issued capital held is equivalent to approximately 86.52% (2018: 86.51%) excluding treasury shares. (iv) The company whose English name ends with a “1” is a direct transliteration of its Chinese registered name. 38 APPROvAL OF FinAnCiAL STATEMEnTS The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on May 23, 2019. 290 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report Five-Year Financial Summary COnDEnSED COnSOLiDATED inCOME STATEMEnT 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Revenue 51,037,943 45,349,943 43,034,731 44,912,097 46,295,593 Profit/(loss) before taxation 856,664 153,202 489,927 (276,851) 970,967 Taxation (199,460) (279,977) 40,514 132,276 (134,364) Profit/(loss) for the year 657,204 (126,775) 530,441 (144,575) 836,603 Profit/(loss) attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 596,343 (189,323) 535,084 (128,146) 828,715 Perpetual securities holders 53,760 53,680 1,872 – – Other non-controlling interests 7,101 8,868 (6,515) (16,429) 7,888 657,204 (126,775) 530,441 (144,575) 836,603 Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to equity holders of the Company Basic (US cents) 5.01 (1.67) 4.86 (1.16) 7.77 Diluted (US cents) 4.96 (1.67) 4.86 (1.16) 7.69 COnDEnSED COnSOLiDATED BALAnCE SHEET 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 uS$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 Non-current assets 13,102,282 12,830,853 12,317,587 11,966,613 11,889,352 Current assets 16,886,203 15,663,318 14,868,387 12,966,776 15,507,158 Total assets 29,988,485 28,494,171 27,185,974 24,933,389 27,396,510 Non-current liabilities 5,401,079 4,488,461 4,756,906 6,146,880 5,841,997 Current liabilities 20,490,343 19,459,722 18,333,846 15,760,260 17,448,392 Total liabilities 25,891,422 23,948,183 23,090,752 21,907,140 23,290,389 Net assets 4,097,063 4,545,988 4,095,222 3,026,249 4,106,121 2018/19 Annual Report Lenovo Group Limited 291 Corporate Information HOnORARY CHAiRMAn PRinCiPAL BAnKERS Mr. Liu Chuanzhi Bank of China BNP Paribas BOARD OF DiRECTORS Citibank, N.A. Chairman and Executive Director DBS Bank Ltd. Mr. Yang Yuanqing inDEPEnDEnT AuDiTOR non-executive Directors PricewaterhouseCoopers Mr. Zhu Linan Certified Public Accountants Mr. Zhao John Huan 22nd Floor, Prince’s Building, Central, Hong Kong independent non-executive Directors Dr. Tian Suning SHARE REGiSTRAR Mr. Nicholas C. Allen Tricor Abacus Limited Mr. Nobuyuki Idei Level 22, Hopewell Centre, Mr. William O. Grabe 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong Mr. William Tudor Brown Ms. Ma Xuezheng AMERiCAn DEPOSiTARY RECEiPTS Mr. Yang Chih-Yuan Jerry (Depositary and Registrar) Mr. Gordon Robert Halyburton Orr Citibank, N.A. Mr. Woo Chin Wan Raymond 6th Floor, 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013, USA CHiEF FinAnCiAL OFFiCER Mr. Wong Wai Ming STOCK CODES Hong Kong Stock Exchange: 992 COMPAnY SECRETARY American Depositary Receipts: LNVGY Mr. Mok Chung Fu, Eric WEBSiTE REGiSTERED OFFiCE www.lenovo.com 23rd Floor, Lincoln House, Taikoo Place, 979 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong 292 Lenovo Group Limited 2018/19 Annual Report www.lenovo.com This report is printed on environmentally friendly paper manufactured from elemental chlorine-free pulp Printed on chemistry free plate system and soy ink
