s BIC GRAPHIC EUROPE SA. Pol. lnd. Entre Vías Complejo BIC 43006 Tarragona Spain Qfcuchic Tel. t34l 97 556 044 Fax t34l 977 551 554 www.bicgraphic.eu l0-APR-2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, After joining UN Global Compact's Spanish red in April 2018, I am pleased to reconfirm Loday our strong commitment to the UN Global Compact 10 Principles as well as to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. As new UN Global Compact participant, BIC Graphic Europe's teams worked during the tirst year on comprehensive compilation of all documentation and practices we have in place in order to see how are the principles and sustainable development goals already covered and how we can improve our level of participation to the said principles and goals. We are proud to present this very tirst BIC Graphic Europe's Communication on Progress. Not only you will be able to learn about some oF BIC Graphic Europe'initiatives in Spain, you will also see our initiatives at BIC Group worldwide level. I would like to highlight two actions of BIC Graphic Europe in 2018. Firstly, since September 2018, we are using 100% renewable electricity in our facilities in Tarragona, Spain. Secondly, in addition to our Code of Ethics and Code oF Conduct, we drafted and approved a detailed Equality Plan. ln 2019, BIC Graphic Europe will continue to integrate the l0 Principles and 17 Sustainable Development Goals in our everyday operations. Sincerely yours, and General Manager ic Europe, Middle East & Africa • • • • • • • • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY How to read the BIC Group's Non-Financial Performance Statement The BIC Group has decided to present the various elements of information required by French executive order n°2017-1265 of August 9, 2017 (for the application of ordinance n°2017-1180 of July 19, 2017 regarding the publication of non-financial information by certain large companies and corporate groups) in different chapters of its management report in order to place each element where it can most effectively aid the reader’s comprehension. Consequently, the BIC Group’s business model is presented in the integrated report, page 7. Chapter 2, Risks, contains the presentation of major CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) risks and the methodology implemented by the BIC Group to identify and rank them. Lastly, Chapter 3, Our environmental, social and societal responsibility, presents: ● in the “Challenges, risks and opportunities” sections: the key issues as identified using the materiality matrix(1), with a link to the major CSR risk(s) identified and described in Chapter 2; ● in the “Policy, approach and measures implemented” sections: a description of the policies instituted by the BIC Group, including, where necessary, the due diligence procedures implemented to identify, prevent and reduce the occurrence of those risks; ● in the “Progress made in 2018” and “Performance” sections: the results achieved by these policies, including key performance indicators. The BIC Group identifies information expressly required in the Non-Financial Performance Statement with the initials [NFPS]. Firmly convinced of the value of the BIC Sustainable Development Program, which has been in effect for 15 years, the Group has also decided to continue presenting all of the action plans implemented as part of this program, including those that do not directly help prevent or reduce a major risk. A cross reference table is also available in Appendix page 316. (1) Published in 2017 Registration document. 64 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] 3.1. THE BIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM AND ITS FIVE FLAGSHIP COMMITMENTS: WRITING THE FUTURE, TOGETHER [NFPS] The story of BIC is first and foremost a story about our vision: “To provide simple, inventive and reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every time.” Since the very beginning, sustainability has been deeply rooted in BIC’s values as an integral part of its day-to-day operations. For nearly 15 years, sustainable development has played a fundamental role in BIC’s strategy, helping guide its various endeavors, especially its social and societal actions. The ambition of BIC is to ensure that the Group limits its impact and makes a meaningful contribution to the lives of its employees and society over the long term. Through its new seven-year program, Writing the Future, Together , BIC seeks to build on its longstanding involvement in sustainable development and to bolster its engagement by pledging to five commitments. 3.1.1. OUR COMMITMENT FOR 2025, ROOTED IN OUR HISTORY AND CONVICTIONS 3.1.1.1. The history of BIC’s Sustainable Development Program Launch of the BIC Publication of the 1st consultation 2008-Launch of 2nd BIC SD 3rd BIC Barometer Definition Launch of Sustainable 1st BIC Sustainable with the the 1st BIC SD Barometer of the ambition WRITING THE Development Development Stakeholders Panel Barometer Progress from for 2025, FUTURE, Program, report Progress from 0 to 9/10 with goals TOGETHER with all functions, Progress made 0 to 8.6/10 and action plans categories toward reaching and continents goals: from 58% to involved in its 79% implementation 2003 2004 2005 2008-2010 2011-2013 2014-2016 2017 2018 Based on the principles of its Sustainable Development Program The vision thus defined is expressed in the signature Writing the (see box below), namely studying the materiality of the issues, Future, Together, driven by BIC’s ambition for sustainability (see incorporating the UN Sustainable Development Goals and feedback 3.1.1.2) and comprising five ambitious commitments. These from the BIC Sustainable Development Barometer, but also taking commitments are in line with the Group’s strategy. into account regulatory requirements as well as lessons drawn ● #1 Fostering sustainable innovation in BIC® products: By from regular benchmarks and consultations with stakeholders, in 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint of BIC® 2017 the BIC Group defined ambitious commitments that will products will be improved enable it to create value over the long term for the benefit of all of its stakeholders. ● #2 Acting against climate change: By 2025, BIC will use 80% renewable electricity The method consisted of a preliminary phase of internal ● #3 Committing to a safe work environment: By 2025, BIC consultations with all of the major departments—categories, aims for zero accidents across all operations continents and functions—followed by a phase of co-defining the commitments with the active engagement of the Leadership Team. ● #4 Proactively involving suppliers: By 2025, BIC will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure the most secure, innovative and efficient sourcing ● #5 Improving lives through education: By 2025, BIC will improve learning conditions for 250 million children globally • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 65 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] THE BIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Launched in 2003, the BIC Sustainable Development Program has continued to evolve and expand, incorporating major environmental and human issues as well as the expectations of all stakeholders, but also benefiting from advances in R&D, innovations, and evolutions in the Group’s operations. This exhaustive program encompasses all key sustainability issues as well as the risks (1) related to sustainable development to which the BIC Group, as a responsible company, must respond. A specific reporting system is used to monitor the Group’s performance as part of a dynamic of ongoing improvement. For nearly 10 years, the Program was guided by a triennial oversight tool called the BIC Sustainable Development Barometer, which has now been succeeded by the five ambitious commitments defined in the signature Writing the Future, Together. Through its Sustainable Development Program, the BIC Group also contributes to the global sustainable development goals adopted by the UN in its successive programs (the Millennium Development Goals until 2015 and the Sustainable Development Goals since then) (see also page 69). 3.1.1.2. BIC’s ambition for Sustainable Development “At BIC, we believe in providing simple, inventive, reliable people we employ and society in the long term, simply choices for everyone, everywhere, every time. And we believe because it is the right thing to do. in doing so responsibly with the planet, society and future We believe that improving our environmental and societal generations in mind. product footprint, acting against climate change, providing Our approach to sustainability is deeply rooted in our values our employees with a safe workplace, making our supply and is an integral part of our day-to-day operations. Staying chain more responsible and reinforcing our commitment to true to our philosophy of honoring the past and inventing the education are key in shaping our business tomorrow so that future, we want our ongoing commitment to sustainable we can write a sustainable future for all. development to be long-lasting and far-reaching. The next chapter of our sustainability journey starts here. Our ambition is to ensure that we limit our impact on the With you. Today.” planet and make a meaningful contribution to the lives of the Gonzalve Bich – CEO (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the Chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. 66 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] 3.1.1.3. Writing the Future, Together – Progress chart WRITING THE FUTURE, TOGETHER 5 commitments Progress as of Dec. 2018 Other factors: approach and performance Pages UN SDG* By 2025, the As of Dec. 2018, the Eight categories of criteria have been selected for the evaluation 75 environmental processes and criteria for and improvement of BIC® products’ environmental and societal and/or societal product evaluation and footprint (light and long lasting, recycled plastic, second life, green footprint of BIC® improvement are being chemistry, responsible chemistry, efficient manufacturing, products will be defined affordability, benefits for society.) improved Other factors of the approach: • 8.32% of all BIC® products made from alternative materials • 6% recycled plastics in the manufacture of BIC products (Stationery) • 19 BIC® products with the NF Environnement ecolabel • At least, 50% of BIC® products have environmental benefits • At the end of 2018, more than 34 million pens collected through TerraCycle By 2025, BIC will 68% renewable electricity The use of renewable energy by the BIC Group is part of a global 88 use 80% being used approach to energy that also covers energy efficiency in operations. renewable When it comes to using renewable energy, the approach is based on electricity a Group roadmap and takes into account local opportunities and constraints. The use of certified renewable electricity is expected to help reduce BIC’s GHG emissions by 50% by 2025 (market-based). Since 2018, all BIC®products manufactured in France and Brazil are using renewable electricity. Other factors of the approach: • In terms of energy efficiency, the Group is continuing its efforts. Thus over the last 10 years, energy consumption per ton of products has decreased by 16% By 2025, BIC As of end 2018, a The Group belongs to “Vision 0,” a program of the International 98 aims for zero roadmap has been defined Social Security Association accidents across for each category and Groupwide deployment of the EH&S reference system all operations continent Safety reporting covering all BIC Group employees An incident management tool for recording and analyzing each incident, then monitoring the resulting action plan 209 managers have taken “Managing Safely” training More than 50,000 hours of safety training have been delivered in 2018 * UN Sustainable Development Goals. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 67 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] WRITING THE FUTURE, TOGETHER 5 commitments Progress as of Dec. 2018 Other factors: approach and performance Pages UN SDG* By 2025, BIC will As of end 2018, the The BIC Group has mapped its risks related to purchasing (100% of 108 work responsibly strategic suppliers, risks all purchased supplies) and defined an action plan for controlling with its strategic and actions have been key risks. suppliers to identified Other factors of the approach: ensure the most secure, • ESG evaluations (EcoVadis tool) of strategic suppliers since 2011 innovative and • Global or local program for CSR auditing of contract efficient sourcing manufacturers • 346 strategic suppliers • 10 purchasing categories evaluated • 95 risks identified • 31 action categories identified • 74% of contract manufacturers audited in 2018 By 2025, BIC will Learning conditions for BIC Global Education Week: 113 improve learning approximately 15 million • 63 BIC sites participating conditions for children were improved in 250 million 2018 through direct • 40 pays children globally actions with children or • 26.4% of employee participated through actions with Other factors of the approach: teachers and parents • 58% of actions and philanthropic contributions undertaken by local entities or Corporate Foundation promote education (82% ** in financial value) * UN Sustainable Development Goals. ** For this indicator, all philanthropic actions in favor of education, including those carried out under commitment # 5, are considered. 68 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • BIC GROUP – PRESS RELEASE CLICHY – 17 APRIL 2019 Follow BIC latest news on Writing the Future, Together Major steps achieved during this first year A word from Gonzalve BICH, Chief Executive Officer: “ Our sustainable development commitments program, “Writing the Future, Together” concluded its first year with solid results. Thanks to the commitment of BIC team members, I am proud to say that we are on track to achieve the goals we set for BIC by 2025. The accomplishments made since April 2018 are a great start toward reaching our goal of limiting BIC’s impact on the planet and making a meaningful contribution to the lives of the people we employ and society as a whole in the long term. Let’s continue Writing the Future, Together! ” By 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint of BIC® products will be improved. In 2018… we defined the processes and criteria to evaluate our products. The objective is to deploy a comprehensive eco-design process within each of the product categories. To achieve this, we are creating a scorecard tool to assess and improve BIC® products’ environmental and societal footprint. In 2018, we held workshops to gather input from the R&D, Innovation, Marketing, Sustainable Development, Categories, Procurement, and IT teams. Eight categories of criteria were defined for the scorecard, including whether the products use recycled plastics, alternative materials and responsible chemistry. In addition, BIC continued its work to align with the circular economy and integrate more alternative materials into our manufacturing process. Some key figures: 8.32% of BIC® stationery products are made from alternative materials 6% of the plastic used in the manufacture of BIC® stationery products is recycled 19 BIC® products have the “NF-Environnement” ecolabel ≥50% of BIC® products offer environmental benefits By 2025, BIC will use 80% renewable electricity. In 2018… 68% of electricity used by BIC Group worldwide came from renewable energy sources. As of 2018, many BIC sites now use 100% renewable electricity purchased through certificates that support investments in renewable energy. The sites include: all the factories and the global headquarters in France, the BIC lighters factory and BIC Graphic Europe sites in Spain, and the Manaus plant in Brazil. This year Cello installed solar panels in one of its factory rooftops in India. Some key figures: The Milford lighters plant and Shelton Headquarters in the U.S. use renewable electricity since 2012 and BIC shavers factory in Greece uses 100% renewable electricity since 2016. Reducing energy consumption and working on energy efficiency are an essential part of acting against Climate Change. During the last 10 years, BIC’s energy consumption per ton of manufactured products has improved by 16%, and we will continue to make progress in this area. By 2025, BIC aims for zero accidents across all operations. In 2018… BIC achieved an incidence rate of 2.09 for BIC team members and 61 out of 84 BIC sites had zero accidents. In 2018, BIC became part of the “Vision Zero” program, a worldwide alliance with over 500 signatory companies and organizations that promote best practices for safety, health and well-being in the workplace. To support this commitment, BIC: Established an international network of HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) experts to share best practices and implement local roadmaps aimed at zero accidents. Enlarged the safety reporting scope to cover all BIC team members and activities. Implemented an HSE tool for accident monitoring and management across most categories and continents. By 2025, BIC will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure we have the most secure, innovative and efficient sourcing. In 2018… we identified the strategic suppliers and their associated risks and opportunities on environmental, social and regulatory aspects. To ensure that we have the most secure, innovative and efficient resources, we are developing an action plan to strengthen supplier relations and reach our objective. Some key figures: 346 strategic suppliers were identified out of 15,000 suppliers 95 risks were identified 10 categories of purchases were evaluated 31 categories of actions were identified By 2025, BIC will improve learning conditions for 250 million children, globally. In 2018… BIC improved the learning conditions for 15 million+ children!* BIC teams worldwide acted to promote quality education through: teacher workshops, school contests, educational webinars and more. In 2018, 76 initiatives were carried out, impacting over 15 million children. BIC Group also participates in philanthropic actions led by the BIC Corporate Foundation, regions and factories. These programs positively impact many local communities. 107 philanthropic actions (donations of products, funding and skills-sharing) benefited local communities, 18 projects in 13 countries were supported by the BIC Corporate Foundation. Team member engagement is also a main pillar of this commitment. In 2018 the 1st BIC Global Education Week was a great success! Participation included 63 BIC sites in 40 countries, allowing BIC team members to give their time to help improve the learning conditions of children from their local communities. *People below the legal age in their respective countries. #CONTACTS Investors Relations: +33 1 45 19 52 26 Press Contacts: +33 1 45 19 51 51 Sophie Palliez-Capian Albane de la Tour d’Artaise sophie.palliez@bicworld.com albane.delatourdartaise@bicworld.com Isabelle de Segonzac: +33 1 53 70 74 70 isegonzac@image7.fr #ABOUT BIC BIC is a world leader in stationery, lighters and shavers. For more than 70 years, BIC has honored the tradition of providing highquality, affordable products to consumers everywhere. Through this unwavering dedication BIC has become one of the most recognized brands and is a trademark registered worldwide for identifying BIC products which are sold in more than 160 countries around the world. In 2018, BIC Net Sales were 1,949.8 million euros. The Company is listed on “Euronext Paris” and is part of the SBF120 and CAC Mid 60 indexes. BIC is also part of the following Socially Responsible Investment indexes: CDP A list and CDP “Supplier Engagement rating Leader board”, Euronext Vigeo – Eurozone 120, Euronext Vigeo – Europe 120, FTSE4Good indexes, Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence Investment Registers, Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe, Stoxx Global ESG Leaders Index. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] 3.1.1.4. With Writing the Future, Together, the BIC Group contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 By 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint of BIC® products will be improved. By 2025, BIC will use 80% renewable electricity. By 2025, BIC aims for zero accidents across all operations. By 2025, BIC will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure the most secure, innovative and efficient sourcing. By 2025, BIC will improve learning conditions for 250 million children, globally. The table shown above charts the ways in which Writing the SDG 8. Decent work and economic growth, in particular through Future, Together contributes to the UN SDGs. To create it, the BIC the development of products and production modes that favor the Group evaluated its contribution to the targets defined by the UN efficient use of resources, including recycled materials (see pages for its 17 major goals. The BIC Group contributes mainly to two 74 to 78 and 86 to 94). goals, in particular through the products that it manufactures and SDG 12. Responsible consumption and production, through the markets in more than 160 countries, reflecting its vision of offering Company’s eco-design program, which offers consumers “simple, inventive and reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, information to help them make their purchasing choices, and every time”: through its monitoring and compliance program, which ensures • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 69 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] that the products it markets are safe and comply with health and 3.1.2. INTEGRATING SUSTAINABLE environmental standards (see pages 75, 80 and 82 to 84). DEVELOPMENT INTO OUR Within the direct perimeter of its operations or its sphere of direct OPERATIONS influence by making simple, reliable products that meet essential needs available to everyone, undertaking initiatives that provide support for its employees, offering various products and programs 3.1.2.1. Analysis of CSR risks resulting from to promote access to education, reducing the environmental the BIC Group’s operations and the impacts of its factories, ensuring respect for Human Rights in its use of its goods and services own factories and by its suppliers and subcontractors, and through the actions of its Corporate Foundation – the Group also The main CSR risks resulting from the BIC Group’s operations and contributes to the following UN sustainable development goals: the use of its goods and services are discussed in the chapter on “Risks,” pages 44 to 48. SDG 1. End poverty; SDG 3. Good health and well-being; 3.1.2.2. Sustainable development as a key SDG 4. Quality education; factor in the decision-making SDG 5. Gender equality; process SDG 6. Clean water sanitation; The issues of sustainable development are considered in the SDG 7. Affordable and clean energy; Company’s decision-making process. Every meeting of the SDG 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure; Leadership Team includes an update on recent progress in SDG 10. Reduced inequalities; sustainable development. In 2017, the Leadership Team supervised the development of the “Writing the Future, Together” SDG 13. Climate action; program and defined the Group’s commitments for 2025. SDG 15. Life on land; The BIC Sustainable Development Program’s goals and progress SDG 16. Peace, justice and strong institution. are presented at least once a year to the Board of Directors and at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. In addition, the Audit Committee is kept abreast of the policies and programs implemented by the Group. In 2017, a Nominations, Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) committee was formed within the Board of Directors. 70 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] 3.1.2.3. Our operational structure Managing sustainable development is based on a continuous improvement approach that is deployed across the entire BIC Group since 2013. For the definition of the “Writing the Future, Together” program, “Champions” were designated for each topic in order to coordinate the tasks of defining the commitments. A dedicated organization has been introduced to enable the implementation of the roadmaps and achievement of the 2025 goals. Relying on the “Champions” as well as the active involvement of the Leadership Team and the three category Directors, this new organization reflects the “integrated” approach that BIC seeks to adopt in order to fulfill its commitments. BOARD OF DIRECTORS NOMINATIONS, GOVERNANCE AND CSR COMMITTEE • To review the report on social, societal and environmental responsibility, the actions taken by the Group and its policy • To review the progress made against the strategy and commitments taken LEADERSHIP TEAM Defines strategies for the Sustainable Development Program Decisions Proposals COUNTRIES FUNCTIONS • Apply the Sustainable Development Support SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT Support • Integrate sustainable development Program locally: • Develops proposals and action plans in certain projects to meet the needs of customers • Leads and coordinates the Sustainable Development Program • Contribute to the reporting of and other stakeholders extra-financial data • Develops communication targeting the SRI community and other taking local cultures and targets regulations into account • Carries out surveys and exploratory projects • Contribute to the reporting Contribution Contribution • Handles sustainable development watch and corporate relations of extra-financial data to the to the program • Supervises the consolidation of extra-financial data program Leadership and Coordination Proposals CHAMPIONS • Propose and supervise the action plans 3.1.2.4. Our Policies commitments to ensure the quality and safety of its lighters (see also page 82). BIC Group’s sustainable development approach is based on a set of documents that defines its vision and gives a framework to each The Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy, defined in 2005 employee’s everyday activities, ensuring compliance with the and signed by the CEO, codifies the Group’s commitment to principles of sustainable development. minimizing the impact of its industrial activities (see also page 86). The five BIC Values: Ethics, Responsibility, Teamwork, Simplicity, The BIC Charter of Diversity, which was signed by the CEO and the Ingenuity. Group’s Human Resources Director in 2011, demonstrates BIC’s desire to actively promote diversity (see also page 105). Since 2007, the BIC Code of Ethics has defined the fundamental ethical principles that the Group asks all employees to follow under The Responsible Purchasing Charter, signed in 2014, codifies the all circumstances and everywhere in the world (see also page 111). Group’s desire to establish mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers based on its five Values (see also page 109). The Group’s Anti-Corruption Policy, defined in 2016, states that BIC Group will not tolerate bribery or corruption in any place where The Responsible Communication Charter, defined in 2013, it operates, upholding its reputation for integrity (see page 111). formalizes BIC Group’s integration of the Value of Responsibility in its communication. This charter applies to all communication The BIC Group Code of Conduct comprises a set of professional undertaken by the Group around the world (see also page 73). and social principles derived from the standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) (see also page 110). The Group’s statement on animal testing, prohibiting these tests unless specifically required by regulation (REACH) and prompting The Product Safety Policy, introduced in 2001, specifies the the Company to use reliable alternatives to animal testing on 10 commitments adopted to ensure that the products developed chemical substances made possible by the latest technological and manufactured by BIC are safe in terms of human health and breakthroughs. the environment. More specifically, BIC has adopted seven • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 71 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] 3.1.3. INTERACTION WITH OUR ❯ Approach STAKEHOLDERS In addition to responding to its customers’ specific questionnaires on its CSR approach, BIC discusses all pertinent topics with them, 3.1.3.1. The BIC Panel including sustainable development issues, as part of its commercial relations. In certain cases these relations can take the ❯ Challenges and approach form of partnerships. All the professional functions involved (marketing, communication, sales) are equipped with the tools they To have an outside point of view on its entire sustainable need to explain BIC’s Sustainable Development Program. BIC development approach, BIC has organized a panel of four Group’s eco-design approach (see page 75) and stringent product stakeholders since 2005, including two customers, one investor safety standards (see page 82) give its products an advantage for analyst and one supplier. meeting current societal trends. Each year, individual interviews were held to enable members of the panel to comment on the Company’s strategy and practices, suggest improvements that could contribute to the action plans, 3.1.3.3. Responsible lobbying and express expectations for the future and formulate opinions on the participation in sector working Group’s Sustainable Development Program. groups BIC Group wants to seize the opportunity offered by the new ❯ Challenges commitment program “Writing the Future, Together” to reassess the way it interacts with stakeholders. The next step could be to BIC Group considers lobbying to be a positive action, making good form a panel of stakeholders with recognized expertise in key use of its industrial expertise and knowledge of the market in its issues for the BIC Group, in particular the major issues concerning relationships with the public authorities. For the Group, lobbying is the risks identified during the updating of the mapping (laws on the quite simply the communication, targeted towards duty of vigilance and Non-Financial Performance Statement). decision-makers and important players on key issues, of the lessons learned from its experience to help establish the necessary balances. Its purpose is to help improve the 3.1.3.2. Evaluation by clients of the CSR effectiveness of the authorities’ regulatory actions, to improve the approach and the products’ safety of the products available on the market, thus improving environmental and social consumer safety and ensuring fair competition. In this way, BIC performance seeks to be recognized and consulted as a stakeholder in all decisions and actions that affect its operations. ❯ Challenges BIC Group distinguishes its “customers” (i.e. companies, public ❯ Approach administrations and office supply distributors, as well as major Participation in sector dialogue mass-market retailers) from its “consumers,” the end users of its BIC Group pursues its lobbying activities in a responsible, ethical products (whose expectations are discussed in section 3.2.2.). way to ensure that the legal and regulatory decisions, as well as Customers are becoming increasingly demanding in terms of the the actions undertaken to enforce the rules, have realistic and environmental and social performance of the products they buy, as effective technical and economic consequences, maintaining or well as the evaluation of their suppliers’ sustainable development restoring fair and honest relations among all the market players. policies. Although BIC has no tradition of making public statements on They submit many questionnaires addressing increasingly specific major industrial or societal topics, the Group does address the and diversified topics. Their questions concern environmental public when this type of action seems necessary. It also management policies, systems for collecting and recycling waste, participates in sector dialogue and seeks to exert its influence in environmental advantages and product labeling, compliance with four key areas that are directly related to its commitments as a product quality and safety regulations, the local origin of products, responsible corporation: product safety, the fight against respect for human rights, etc. counterfeiting, the fight against unfair competition and Retailers and wholesalers also want their collaborators in the environmental protection. distribution chain to show how they are helping to reduce the BIC carries out its lobbying primarily as a member of various global environmental and social impact of their operations. BIC organizations, participating as needed in their working groups and Group participates in Walmart’s Sustainability Index (for shavers the conception of their positions: and writing instruments), which assesses suppliers’ sustainability ● French, European and American professional federations; performance according to indicators established by the Sustainability Consortium. BIC also carries out specific reporting ● standardization committees for toys, lighters and writing for Walmart every year through the CDP Supply Chain. instruments; ● French watchdog groups and intra-sector associations. 72 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The BIC Sustainable Development Program and its five flagship commitments: Writing the Future, Together [NFPS] BIC is a member of the Executive Committees of the main industry ❯ Progress made in 2018 associations, and in some cases, has been for many years. Throughout 2018, the dialogue on the topic of sustainable Lobbying activities can also take the form of direct contacts with development continued at various events, including: the pertinent authorities, institutions, governmental agencies and NGOs. ● the Oddo Mid-Cap Forum in January 2018 in Lyon, France, where BIC met, upon their request, with financial and The Group’s subsidiaries also cultivate direct relations with the extra-financial analysts and fund managers at individual and national authorities in their countries of operation. However, the group meetings; Group has no professional lobbyists on its payroll. ● the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on May 16, 2018; ● the ESG/SRI meeting organized by Société Générale on Clearly identified lobbying responsibilities November 13, 2018. At the highest level of the Group, CEO Gonzalve Bich and BIC Executive Vice-President Marie-Aimée Bich-Dufour, along with the Category and Continent Directors, are responsible for steering and 3.1.3.5. Responsible Communication monitoring all lobbying actions on a regular basis. ❯ Challenges The operational responsibility for BIC’s relationships with public BIC seeks to engage in controlled, responsible communication authorities and institutions is delegated to a small number of operations that will allow the Group to retain the confidence of its specifically identified managers, who have been named to stakeholders. represent the Group in the above-mentioned proceedings. The Category and Continent Directors are kept informed of the progress of laws and regulations that affect their operations. ❯ Approach and Policy BIC Group ensures strict compliance with local laws and Defined in 2013, the Responsible Communication Charter regulations in the pursuit of its lobbying activities. Like all the formalizes BIC Group’s integration of the Value of Responsibility in Group’s activities, lobbying is governed by the Anti-Corruption its communication. This Charter expresses BIC’s intention to share Policy and the BIC Code of Ethics, which names the persons to be reliable information and release clear, accurate messages; it notified in case of violation. applies to all communication undertaken by the Group around the world towards all its stakeholders. Employee awareness To ensure accuracy in the Group’s communication, this Charter The latest developments concerning lighters are shared with the comprises three principles by which BIC pledges to: Group’s employees during the results presentations. The General ● implement the necessary means, in terms of organization, Managers and Marketing Managers are also kept directly abreast processes and tools, for verifying all communications issued of BIC’s lobbying actions on lighters. by the Group; ● make responsible use of its stakeholders’ personal data, in ❯ Progress made in 2018 compliance with the regulations; BIC Group lobbying activity in 2018 focused on pending regulations ● include environmental and social impacts in the criteria that and standards concerning stationery products (EU directives and determine its communication choices. regulations: REACH, CLP, Toy Safety) and lighters (ISO 9994, Child It also defines communication actions to help build a more Safety, CLP). The Group is also following the European Commission responsible world. project to improve market oversight. 3.1.3.4. Dialogue with the financial community 100% of the environmental claims that appear on the packaging, in the catalogs ❯ Challenges and on the websites for BIC® products are Shareholders and investors increasingly seek to integrate approved by the Legal Department. sustainable development into the realm of finance. As part of its ongoing dialogue with the financial community, BIC strives to offer all relevant information and indicators and shows how its Sustainable Development Program has allowed the Group to seize opportunities and control the associated risks. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 73 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] 3.2. RESPONSIBILITY CONCERNING OUR PRODUCTS [NFPS] BIC produces and markets consumer products that are lightweight, have a long performance life, and are affordable by everyone. Right from the start, BIC® products have been designed and made with just what’s necessary in terms of raw materials, leaving out anything that is superfluous. To attain this goal, the Group has always pursued an approach that is based on innovation and emphasizes economy of materials. Through its Writing the Future, Together program, BIC is reinforcing its commitment with the creation of a “Sustainable Scorecard,” conceived to improve the environmental, social and societal performance of all BIC® products. BIC also contributes to the emergence of the circular economy by cultivating its eco-design process, initiating partnerships for the supply of secondary raw materials, and participating in the creation of a pilot recycling program for writing products. In addition, all BIC® products are designed to meet and anticipate the expectations of all consumers in developed as well as developing countries. 3.2.1. OUR PRODUCTS’ 3.2.1.1. BIC takes action to minimize ENVIRONMENTAL the impact of plastics PERFORMANCE For many years, beginning long before the current increased public concern about plastic pollution, the BIC Group has been committed ❯ Challenges, risks and opportunities to fighting plastic pollution through four different actions: To manufacture its products, BIC uses raw materials (plastics, inks, 1. Minimizing the quantity of plastic materials it uses and packaging and metals, etc.) and resources (water and energy), and lengthening the useful life of its products (see page 75); generates waste. The challenge for BIC is to minimize its products’ 2. Identifying and using alternative materials (recycled or primary environmental impact, namely the use of these raw biosourced plastics) (see page 76); materials. 3. Implementing a recycling system in preparation for the The BIC Group has identified the following risks among the major circular economy (see page79); CSR risks (1) resulting from its operations: 4. Preparing for the future. ● “Plastic: plastic wastes and depletion of the resource”; The BIC Group also monitors very closely technical and regulatory ● “Animal well-being” (for compliance with the requirements of evolutions concerning plastic. the REACH regulation). OVERCOMING THE BREAKDOWN OF RAW MATERIAL PURCHASES IN 2018 DISPOSABLE/SUSTAINABLE CONTRADICTION 12% Metals BIC® products are very often stigmatized as “disposable.” Although not all of them are refillable, neither are they used just once. On the contrary, most 46% 19% of them offer long-lasting performance: more than Plastics Packaging 2 km of writing for a ball pen, up to 3,000 flames produced for a lighter and 17 shaves for a triple-blade shaver. In addition, most of them are designed with no superfluous parts or features, using a minimum of raw materials, and BIC makes an ongoing effort to reduce 23% Other their environmental impact in daily use. Each of the various products on the market, whether refillable or not, meets a specific consumer need. (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. 74 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] ❯ Policy, approach and measures implemented BIC’S THREE ECO-DESIGN SOLUTIONS 3.2.1.2. Writing the Future, Together – #1 Fostering sustainable Economy of materials innovation in BIC® products Integrating alternative materials BIC has set the goal of fostering sustainable product innovation Developing refillable products and has codified this ambition in the following commitment: By 2025, the environmental and/or societal footprint of BIC® products will be improved. In 2018, BIC reached the first milestone in fulfilling this Economy of materials commitment by defining the process and criteria for evaluating BIC has always sought to optimize its use of raw materials as and improving its products, summed up in the “Sustainable much as possible. As an expert in the processing of plastics, BIC Scorecard.” Designed to accelerate sustainable innovation across exercises its responsibility above all by minimizing its use of these the Group, this tool brings together all R&D projects conducted at materials. BIC for the purpose of product improvement. The criteria defined in In the Stationery category, the BIC® Cristal® ball pen, one of the the Sustainable Scorecard will be applied to all products (both new Group’s flagship products, exemplifies this approach. Even though and updated existing products) and to all the steps in the product its design already optimized the use of materials in 1950, the BIC® development process. To evaluate the products’ environmental and Cristal® ball pen continues to benefit from ongoing research to societal footprint, eight criteria (light and long lasting, recycled minimize the quantity of material used: plastic, second life, green chemistry, responsible chemistry, efficient manufacturing, affordability, benefits for society) have ● it has a minimum writing length of more than 2 km; been defined. For each criterion, each product’s performance is ● it uses only 2.9 grams of material per kilometer of writing, evaluated according to two, three or four indicators. This tool compared with 6.6 grams for a competing product with makes the eco-design approach developed by the Group many comparable characteristics. years ago (described below) the focal point of product development In the Shavers category, BIC achieves very good performance on at BIC, establishing its guidelines as unconditional principles. its markets due to its highly competitive price/quality ratio. For 2019 will be devoted to the evaluation of all products with the each product range, this price/quality ratio is made possible by the Sustainable Scorecard, constituting the second milestone in the development of simple products that require an optimal quantity of fulfillment of this commitment. materials. The implementation of the resulting improvement plans for all For example, the BIC® Simply Soleil® shaver is designed to weigh as three categories of BIC® products is scheduled to begin in 2020. Its little as possible. Although it is hollow, its handle nonetheless progress will be monitored using as an indicator the percentage of ensures a high level of performance, quality and comfort in BIC® products that have been improved in comparison with the shaving. baseline year of 2019. ❯ Progress made in 2018 3.2.1.3. The three eco-design solutions In January 2018, production was launched in Europe of an developed by BIC optimized version of one of the Group’s flagship products, the BIC® Flex 3, launched in Latin America in 2017. Without affecting its To minimize the consumption of non-renewable raw materials, BIC ease of use, the shaver’s hollow handle was further lightened by has developed an eco-design approach based on three points: reducing the quantity of rubber. This modification also makes the ● minimizing the quantity of materials used in the production lines more efficient, resulting in a 34% reduction in manufacturing of each product, while ensuring long-lasting material and a 22% reduction in weight in comparison with the performance; previous BIC® Flex 3 shaver. The first products with this new BIC® ● using alternative materials of either vegetable or recycled Flex 3 handle were packaged for Europe in July 2018 and will be origin; rolled out to the Middle East-Africa markets in 2019. ● developing refillable products. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 75 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] BIC® WRITING PRODUCTS EARN THE NF ENVIRONNEMENT ECOLABEL For equal performance in use, the NF Environnement ecolabel granted in France by AFNOR Certification certifies products that have a reduced impact on the environment. To obtain this ecolabel, a product must comply with certain functional and ecological guidelines conceived to reduce its environmental impact throughout its life cycle. In the case of BIC® writing products, the main criteria for receiving the ecolabel are limited quantities of raw materials or the use of recycled materials, a long performance life and the strength of the pencil leads. BIC was the first manufacturer of writing instruments to earn NF Environnement certification. Today, a full range of 19 BIC® products has been granted this ecolabel, including historical products like the BIC® Cristal® and the BIC® 4-Colors™ ballpoint pen, as well as the pens in the BIC® Ecolutions® line. Integrating alternative materials Research & Development Regarding new materials, the BIC Research and Development 133 alternative materials tested. teams, in collaboration with the Purchasing departments, focus on two approaches: ● the use of existing innovative materials. An inventory of innovative materials available for industrial use is kept up to Integrating alternative or recycled materials into date. From this list, engineers select materials that stationery products correspond to industrial and economic requirements with the Since 2014, BIC has been conducting a research program to objective of conducting feasibility tests. In the absence of a maximize the use of recycled and alternative materials in simple, economical solution to develop a material based on BIC® products. To achieve this, the research teams have identified biological material from plants, recycled materials are all BIC® products whose design could be modified or adapted for chosen; production using alternative/recycled materials without sacrificing ● collaborative research with suppliers to identify new quality. The challenge is, first of all, to ensure a perennial source of materials (e.g. plant-based or recycled, etc.), new concepts or such materials that meet the specifications and are available on hybrid materials. Many materials are considered and then the market, and secondly, to convert any products that lend analyzed. These have included potato starch, sugarcane, plant themselves to this adaptation. Exemplifying this approach, the fibers, woodchips, etc. Once a formulation is ready, it is tested BIC® Ecolutions® range is a complete stationery line that consists of to ensure that it meets industrial specifications for quality and products manufactured using recycled materials (at least 50%) in safety, sometimes going all the way to the final qualification compliance with the standard ISO 14021. For example, the stage. BIC® Matic Ecolutions® mechanical pencil contains 65% recycled 133 alternative materials had been tested, including 45 recycled materials. All stationery lines now include at least one product plastics, 38 hybrid materials and 50 materials derived from made with alternative (e.g. recycled) materials. renewable resources. THE RECYBIC PROJECT RECOGNIZED BY ADEME The RecyBIC project was launched in 2016 at the Boulogne site (France) with the goal of increasing production capacity for pencils in the Evolution® line using recycled materials (100+ million units). Submitted in response to an ADEME (French Environment and Energy Management Agency) call for proposals entitled ORPLAST (Objectif Recyclage PLASTiques), the project received a subsidy to fund the supply of recycled rather than virgin polystyrene, investment in the necessary equipment and further research. BIC at the heart of an innovation community respectively in the production of inks from microorganisms and in Over the years, BIC has cultivated more than 100 strategic natural cellulose fibers. Since 2012, BIC Group has also been a partnerships in research and development with startups, member of Matériaux Chimie, Chimie Verte (formerly called MAUD), companies at the forefront of innovation, universities, research a competitiveness cluster based in Villeneuve-d’Ascq that backs institutes and external laboratories, playing a leading role in a innovative projects in materials, chemistry, green chemistry and community with which it pursues long-term prospective and sustainable development. The projects sponsored by the cluster development programs. For example, BIC Group works closely with concern multifunctional, eco-designed and bio-sourced materials, a number of French startups, like Pilibio and Inofib, specializing high-efficiency processes and clean technologies. 76 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] To further its involvement in sustainable development, BIC has 4-Couleurs™ and 4-CouleursTM 3+1 combine three ink colors and a joined Bio-speed, a consortium bringing together multiple groups, mechanical pencil, all refillable. On the U.S. market, pen refills are including Danone, Faurecia, Lego, Michelin, L’Oreal and Quicksilver, available on a dedicated website www.shopbic.com. They are also for the purpose of accelerating the emergence of a biomass available on the website www.bicworld.com, which links to a economy. Its goal is to reduce fossil fuel dependency and the European e-commerce site offering the BIC® refill range. environmental footprint of manufactured products by promoting In the Shaver category, the BIC® Hybrid shaver is sold as a handle the conversion of non-food biomass into polymers. with four-to-six heads. The underside of the handle is also ribbed to reduce the use of plastic without altering the shaver’s Developing refillable and hybrid products ergonomic characteristics, which are the same as those of a BIC makes an ongoing effort to launch refillable products due to conventional handle. Because it comes with four-to-ten heads, the their environmental advantages. However, in the case of low-end product’s performance life is at least four times that of a standard stationery products, the consumer demand for refills is virtually non-refillable shaver. Over its entire life cycle and for one year of non-existent. shaving, the environmental impact of the BIC® Hybrid shaver is 28% In the Stationery category, BIC continues to offer refillable pens. less than that of a similar non-refillable BIC® model, like the For example, in the BIC® Gel-ocity® line of refillable gel ink pens, the BIC® Comfort 3® Action®. LAUNCH OF THE BIC SHAVE CLUB In 2017, BIC Group launched the “BIC Shave Club” in France and in the United Kingdom. The first such service in France, it offers online subscriptions for refillable BIC® men’s shavers. With their subscription, customers receive a free handle and thereafter monthly refills shipped directly to their homes. Meeting the current demand for direct sales and easier access to products, this new distribution mode makes optimal use of the potential of BIC’s refillable shavers. ❯ Progress made in 2018 This indicator is calculated on the number of units and concerns the products of the three main categories (except PIMACO and Building on the success in recent years of its triple-blade Cello Pens activities). BIC® Hybrid shavers, which offer the consumer high-quality shaving along with environmental performance, the Group pursued the development of this line in 2018 by: ❯ Perspectives ● ® expanding its distribution under the BIC Comfort 3 Hybrid To sustain the momentum of recent years, in 2019 the Group plans brand in Latin America; to further expand the distribution of its men’s and women’s hybrid shaver lines: ● launching a BIC® Flex 3 Hybrid shaver in a pack containing a handle and five heads, adapted for North America; ● two launches in North America: the BIC® Flex 2 Hybrid in a ● launching the BIC® Soleil Bella Click, a four-blade women’s pack containing a handle and 10 heads, and the BIC® Soleil shaver consisting of a lightweight hollow handle sold with Click 5, a women’s five-blade shaver consisting of a handle four heads, in North America; sold with three heads; ® ● a launch in Europe: the BIC Soleil Click in Italy, a three-blade ● launching the BIC® Flex 5 Hybrid in Russia in a pack containing a handle and two heads. women’s shaver consisting of a lightweight hollow handle sold with six heads; ® ● two launches in Latin America: the BIC Soleil Clic, a ❯ Performance of the eco-design process three-blade women’s shaver consisting of a lightweight In 2018, the three BIC® products categories have sold at least 50% hollow handle sold with six heads, and the BIC® Flex 3 Hybrid, of products with at least one environmental benefit. a handle sold with five heads; BIC has defined the environmental benefits for its products by ® ● two launches in the Middle East-Africa: the BIC Flex 3 Hybrid, complying with at least one of the following: a three-blade shaver sold with four heads, and the BIC® Flex 5 ● lightweight and long-lasting (writing instruments ≤ 3 g/km; Hybrid, a five-blade shaver sold with four heads. correction products ≤ 1.8 g/m; lighters ≤ 8 g/1,000 flames; The Stationery category is pursuing several innovative projects, shavers ≤ 1 g/shave); including the reuse of post-industrial waste in the core of a Velleda ● made from alternative materials (recycled, vegetable origin, whiteboard, which will reduce emissions of this type of waste by etc.); 300 tons a year. BIC Stationery is also conducting trials for the circular economy in partnership with LOOP. ● refillable; ● eco-labeled (NF Environnement, etc.). • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 77 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] 3.2.1.4. Tools to facilitate the eco-design To deploy an effective policy for limiting the environmental impact process of BIC® products, the first step is to measure these impacts across entire life cycles. BIC has been a pioneer in this field since 1994, Measuring products’ environmental performance commissioning life cycle studies of its products by outside Eco-measurement has shown that the product’s consulting experts, which confirm that the environmental impact of weight/performance life ratio is a pertinent indicator for a product is mainly due to raw material usage in its manufacturing. environmental performance. In fact, the more lightweight a product BIC has embarked upon an environmentally responsible approach, is and the longer it lasts, the better its environmental performance. and demonstrated that its founding principle of “just what’s This illustrates the necessity for finding solutions that are adapted necessary” (1) enables the Group not only to offer more affordable to saving resources. products, but also products that have less impact on the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS FOR THREE MAIN BIC® PRODUCTS Life cycle assessment approach – ReCiPe (version 1.12) Endpoint (H/A) Europe Raw materials Production Distribution End of life BIC® Cristal® ball pen 81% 12% 4% 3% ® BIC Maxi flint lighter 81% 11% 5% 3% BIC® Classic single-blade shaver 79% 14% 4% 3% To evaluate its products’ environmental performances, BIC focuses (R&D) designers to carry out complete and detailed environmental on life cycle phases where it can take action. For shavers, an evaluations, as well as create quick decision-making studies approach incorporating the usage phase shows that this step – during the design process. involving water, water heating and the disposal of the shaving Whenever possible for products that are still on the drawing board, cream packaging – plays a key role (78% of the total environmental BIC R&D teams explore different solutions for minimizing impacts impact, according to certain estimations), underlining the by varying the types and quantities of materials used, while importance of consumer awareness. respecting design and manufacturing requirements. In this way, From 2008 to 2014, BIC measured the environmental BIC continues its quest to find a balance between quality, cost and performances of its products as part of a commitment specified in environmental requirements. the Barometer. This measure is now completely integrated in the In 2015, the databases used by the SimaPro tool were updated, processes for designing or modifying a product. In Stationery, making it possible to integrate the most recent scientific 100% of new products are thus subject to eco-measurement. knowledge. These updates take place in stages, eventually extending to all categories. Within BIC Group, the users of SimaPro in combination with the 100% of new Stationery products are e-DEA interface are essentially the R&D design teams and the Sustainable Development Department, for building the internal subject to eco-measurement. scientific expertise needed for the realization of normalized LCAs (ISO 14040). To bolster and spread the culture of eco-design within the Group, Our LCA and eco-design tools BIC deployed two specific tools in 2016: In 2004, upon the launch of its Sustainable Development Program, BIC extended the life cycle work and commissioned a normalized ● sharing the products’ environmental profiles with the teams Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) along with several simplified LCAs for in charge of their development, in the form of information three category-leading products. The move was immediately sheets summarizing the SimaPro findings. These sheets, followed by the procurement of an internal environmental which are integrated into the design and development measurement tool for use by BIC designers. process, improve the product managers’ knowledge of each product’s environmental benefits; In 2009, continuing its approach, BIC replaced its first tool with ● an in-house eco-design and LCA guide was made available to SimaPro, a professional LCA software package that is equipped the teams in charge of product design and new product with the e-DEA (2) interface to enable Research and Development launches. (1) Il y aura l’âge des choses légères by Thierry Kazazian, Victoires Éditions, 2003. (2) Everybody can Design with Environmental Awareness. 78 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] LCA AT BIC A Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is a method for assessing a product’s total environmental impact in each successive phase in its life: the extraction and transportation of the raw materials used to make it, the manufacturing processes, transportation to the consumer, product usage, and finally, end of life and waste processing. BIC Group often uses the simplified method of the life cycle approach, which is similar to Life Cycle Analysis except that it does not include the final independent verification phase. LCA is a comprehensive, multi-criterion method. Unlike carbon footprint analysis, which focuses on measuring a product’s impact on climate change, the LCA method takes all environmental aspects into account: water, air, soil, waste, human health, etc. From the very beginning of its Sustainable Development Program, BIC Group has been committed to the life cycle approach to verify that it is making steady progress in all pertinent areas. 3.2.1.5. BIC Group’s contribution to the A partnership with Govaplast and Plas Eco for the design, circular economy manufacture and distribution of UbicuityTM products. Used pens collected by the BIC-TerraCycle program are sorted and shredded ❯ Challenges by a recycler. The plastics selected for the production of outdoor furniture are shipped to Govaplast, which converts them into BIC Group is committed to eco-design, the efficient use of recycled plastic boards. The boards are in turn shipped to Plas Eco, resources and waste reduction, with the aim of continuing to use a which designs, manufactures, distributes and markets the minimal amount of materials and to experiment with alternative, products of the Ubicuity™ line. France’s first line of outdoor especially recycled, materials. BIC also seeks to understand all furniture made from recycled pens, Ubicuity™ offers seven issues concerning the end of its products’ life cycles, exploring models: benches and standing seats for secondary and high their recyclability and experimenting with recycling systems. schools, benches and educational planters for schools, picnic tables and tree seats. Made entirely from recycled plastic, these ❯ Approach products are themselves recyclable, resistant to rot, ultraviolet radiation and graffiti as well as very durable (guaranteed 10 years). BIC develops an innovative circular economy model They thus offer a smaller environmental footprint than virgin The first line of outdoor furniture made in France from recycled plastic or wooden outdoor furniture, along with excellent value in pens, UbicuityTM was launched in October 2017 upon the initiative of use and very low maintenance costs. BIC Group. It is the result of a successful collaboration between partners of an independent recycling channel that proposes a Recognized for the innovative character of UbicuityTM, BIC and its circular economy model unique in France. partners in this project have frequently been invited to share their initial feedback, in particular at conferences on innovation or the With UbicuityTM, BIC is testing a long-term recycling channel that circular economy, for example at professional events organized by aims to: the AGEEM teachers association and the mayors of France, the ● fund the extension of the collection program for used pens Made in France trade fair, and a conference on the circular (see below); economy hosted by ASLOG (French Logistics Association). ● show citizens and schoolchildren the concrete results of their As part of the continuation of its partnership with TerraCycle, BIC waste sorting: by collecting used pens, they contribute to the has developed a teaching module entitled Halte aux Déchets (“No transformation of those materials into outdoor furniture for More Waste”) on recycling for elementary school teachers, use in public areas and schoolyards; combining all of the necessary pedagogical material. The pupils ● accelerate post-consumer waste recycling, especially for are encouraged to learn about waste and recycling through fun plastics. and engaging lessons and exercises, and to recycle the pens they use in school. The module is distributed through the website This experiment relies on two innovative partnerships: EDD-Primaire.fr and a demonstration is available at BIC’s partnership with TerraCycle for the collection of used www.bicworld.com and on the TerraCycle site. writing instruments: since 2011, the BIC-TerraCycle program has been offering the collection and recycling of used writing Waste prevention and management at BIC factories instruments in Europe. A pioneer in this field, the program allows and other sites users of these products to organize at their consumption sites the More than 78% of the waste in BIC factories is recycled or reused collection of all types of writing instruments, whether BIC® branded in other ways (see page 92). For more than 10 years now, the or not, to be recycled. For each instrument collected, one euro cent waste tracking indicators have shown a constant reduction in the is donated to a charity or non-profit association of the organizer’s proportion of non-recycled waste per ton of production (-21% choice or, in the case of schools, directly to the school to finance an between 2009 and 2018). educational project. As of the end of 2018, more than 34 million pens had been collected and 467,000 euros in donations made. Although fighting against food waste, combating food insecurity This program, funded entirely by BIC, enables the Group to gain a and promoting responsible, fair trade, sustainable food are not better understanding of the way its products are used by key issues for BIC, the Group holds regular awareness events for consumers and to promote the sorting of waste. employees in its company restaurants, especially in Brazil and France. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 79 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] Approach for the sustainable use of resources 3.2.2. PRODUCTS CONCEIVED TO MEET Resource optimization measures are implemented at various AND ANTICIPATE CONSUMERS’ stages in the products’ life cycles for which the BIC Group has the means to take effective action: EXPECTATIONS ● the three-part approach to eco-design: economy of materials, Since its founding, BIC has believed that its products should satisfy integrating alternative materials and developing refillable and anticipate the expectations of all its consumers. It therefore products, described on pages 75 to 79; strives to develop and offer simple, affordable products leaving out ● the RecyBIC project to increase the production capacity for anything superfluous, that meet the expectations of consumers pencils in the Evolution® line using recycled materials (see and customers in developed countries as well as the needs of page 76); developing countries. ● the approach for reducing the environmental footprint of the Group’s packaging through the use of certified or recycled 3.2.2.1. Encouraging consumers to adopt fibers, described on page 84; more responsible consumption ● the approach for reducing water consumption and the habits numerous water-saving actions implemented in the factories every year, described on page 87; ❯ Challenges ● the approach for reducing energy consumption and the In the past few years, the demand for responsible products has numerous energy-saving actions implemented in the factories become a market trend in developed countries. Although this every year, described on page 89; criterion has become a strong expectation among the Group’s ● the use of renewable electricity, specified in a BIC Group customers (major retailers, administrations, distributors – see commitment for 2025 as part of the “Writing the Future, page 72), BIC has observed that the demand for “products offering Together” program (see page 88). the best environmental or social qualities” is not significantly BIC remains vigilant about the issue of soil protection even though higher among the consumers on its markets. Nonetheless, the it is not a major issue for the Group. Soil use conditions and the Group seeks to promote responsible consumption through its measures undertaken for soil protection are explained on page 93. product range and consumer information. ❯ Approach To promote responsible consumption, BIC uses its know-how to 6% of the plastics (by quantity) used in develop responsible products and ensures that its consumers are the Stationery category are recycled. aware of this fact, making a special effort to: ● offer products with the least possible environmental and social impact; ● give consumers accurate, pertinent information to help them ❯ Progress made in 2018 make well-informed choices. In 2018, the Ubicuity™ line took off in France, with outdoor All the products that use recycled materials display the Moebius furniture installed in several cities. strip symbol as well as information to help consumers make their purchasing decisions. Some BIC® products are NF Environnement In April 2018, Ubicuity™ was a finalist for the Plastic Recycle certified, while others supply information on their environmental Awards at the Plastic Recycling Show Europe, and is one of the and social qualities (eco-values) to help consumers choose projects shortlisted for the Entreprises pour l’Environnement (EpE) products that meet their expectations. The most appropriate prize. approach is chosen for each continent or category. For example, The Ubicuity™ outdoor furniture line was honored in October 2018 the communication in Europe emphasizes the NF Environnement as part of the 11th Sustainable Development Trophies organized by ecolabel certification of a given product, where it was Caux Seine Développement and Caux Seine Agglo. The project was manufactured, the amount of recycled materials in it or its writing commended for its circular economy approach, recovery and reuse length. In the Lighter category, the packaging for the BIC® Maxi, the of waste materials and partnership involving multiple private world’s bestselling lighter, mentions the number of flames (“Up to parties. 3,000 lights” or “Up to 2x more lights”) and the website www.mybiclighter.com includes a section on performance. ❯ Perspectives Pursuing its learning curve in the circular economy, the BIC Group 65 % will continue striving to improve the model. Made in France To help consumers make well-informed decisions, BIC strives to improve the clarity and reliability of the communication used for its range of responsible products. In keeping with its Responsible Communication Charter, the Group seeks to provide clear, accurate consumer information on the benefits of BIC® products. (See section 3.1.3.5 Responsible Communication). 80 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] In France, BIC is a member of the ADEME-Quantis platform and and proposes eco-habits that allow consumers to help reduce the participates in the joint effort now underway on environmental footprint. labeling of products. To this end, in 2012 the Group launched a test Since 2015, in compliance with French law, BIC Group has been score posting in the form of a dedicated website (1) that shows the offering consumers sorting instructions for its packaging. This ecological footprint of the BIC® Flex 3 and BIC® Flexi Lady shavers information is posted in a dedicated section of the Group’s website. “VOICE OF CONSUMER”: FOLLOWING UP ON CUSTOMER AND CONSUMER COMPLAINTS BIC’s organization makes it possible to collect consumer feedback on its products throughout the Group. All complaints are subject to an in-depth analysis, after which the products in question are sent to the quality team at their factory of origin. The resulting analysis reports, called the “Voice of Consumer,” provide a key performance indicator: the number of complaints per million products sold. This ratio has been reduced by half in the past five years and now stands, for example, at 1.6 for all Stationery products. subsidiary in Morocco, allowing it to serve these markets even better. In 2018, the Group announced the acquisition of the production operations for writing instruments of HACO Industries 19 BIC® writing instruments received in Kenya, as well as the Company’s distribution operations for the French ecolabel NF Environnement writing products, lighters and shavers. With this acquisition, the (NF 400). Group is bolstering its presence in the heart of East Africa, one of the world’s strongest markets for BIC® products. Creating products for growth markets. Between 2014 and 2016, eight products for growth markets, most of which were in ❯ Perspectives emerging countries, were launched. In 2016, the BIC® Cristal® Ultra Responsible products are a permanent and ever-growing feature Fine pen was launched in Nigeria, with a fine tip that meets local of BIC’s product range. In the coming years the Group will continue consumer preferences. integrating these products into its corporate strategy, in particular Adapting BIC® products to the buying power of emerging through commitment #1 of Writing the Future, Together: fostering countries, to meet basic needs of the population with quality sustainable innovation in BIC® products, while giving them greater products. For its launch in Nigeria, the design and production of the visibility by pursuing the efforts undertaken to improve the BIC® Cristal® Ultra Fine pen was adapted to ensure compatibility communication of its range of responsible products. with the local monetary system and buying power. Completely rethinking the packaging. In certain emerging 3.2.2.2. Making our products affordable countries, BIC is marketing its pens, lighters and shavers in to all packages that contain only one or two items. Examples include the BIC® 1 shaver and the BIC® 1 Lady shaver, which are sold in ❯ Challenges single-unit or two-unit pouches in Nigeria, Kenya, Madagascar, BIC Group is guided by a vision: “To offer simple, inventive and Côte d’Ivoire, Cameroon, Mali, Pakistan and Bangladesh. reliable choices for everyone, everywhere, every time.” For BIC Offering the best functionality at the best price. In emerging Group, making products that everyone can afford means adapting countries, where the optimization of the quality-price ratio is of them to markets in developing countries. The pens and shavers great importance for low-income populations, BIC sets its pricing marketed by BIC in more than 160 countries promote access to policies in collaboration with local retailers, taking into education and personal care. BIC is thus contributing to social consideration local consumption trends and selling price progress around the world. thresholds. For example, in 2017, BIC Group launched a new In 2018, 32% of the Group’s turnover came from these growth BIC® Soleil® Sensitive shaver developed especially for the South markets. American markets. Building on the know-how that it has acquired for meeting the needs of North American consumers, BIC adapted ❯ Approach and progress made in 2018 this product to offer high-quality shaving at a lower cost. In 2018, the Cello One was launched in India. This product was designed to BIC Group’s approach consists of adapting all possible parameters be affordable to all and thus facilitate access to writing on the to make its products affordable: Indian market. Building close relations between its production units and their Developing innovative distribution models. To reach the most distribution markets to facilitate the manufacture of products that impoverished consumers wherever they live, generally in remote are adapted to local consumption habits and purchasing power. rural areas or on the outskirts of large cities, BIC relies on local For example, a factory opened in Tunisia in 2013 enables the Group retailers to develop appropriate distribution channels, such as to respond more effectively to the needs of the North African individual kiosks or micro-shops, service outlets near schools or markets. In 2015, BIC opened an office in Côte d’Ivoire and a specific “Social business” initiatives (see page below). (1) www.bicworld.com/fr/affichage-environnemental. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 81 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] ❯ Perspectives improve their compensation by increasing their social benefits, for example offering healthcare protection or access to micro-credit Combining all of these parameters, the Group plans to launch the loans. A similar system was launched in Madagascar in May 2018, BIC® Flex 2 in emerging markets starting in 2020. and had already begun to achieve encouraging results by the end of the year. 3.2.2.3. Experimenting with innovative alternative distribution modes ❯ Perspectives through a Social business initiative In 2019, the Group will launch three inclusive distribution pilot ❯ Challenges projects in different countries. Goals will be defined for each project in terms of both economic viability and social impact, in The expression “bottom of the pyramid” (BOP) designates the order to implement a system for marketing profitable, and lowest-income populations, for whom most consumer goods therefore long-term, products. remain unaffordable, primarily because they are designed for more affluent populations at the “top of the pyramid.” Today it is estimated that more than three billion people in the world live on less than three U.S. dollars per day. In keeping with its vision of offering “simple, inventive and reliable choices for everyone, 3.2.3. PRODUCT SAFETY everywhere, every time,” BIC Group explores ways to make products available that meet the needs of BOP populations. Its longstanding commitment to sustainable development and the BIC® ❯ Challenges, risks and opportunities brand’s reputation for offering high-quality products at an BIC Group seeks to offer safe products that meet all standards and affordable price is among the Group’s key assets for playing an consumer expectations. This entails the integration of consumers’ active role in these markets. health and safety concerns in the design and production of its products. Consumers want to be assured that the products they buy are free of certain substances and safe for their health and the ❯ Approach environment. BIC Group also strives to strictly comply with all BIC Group created the position of BOP and Social Business Director regulations and the increasingly stringent, constantly evolving in 2016, and then in 2017 it defined its roadmap for 2025. First, the restrictions concerning product usage and chemical substances. meaning of the term “BOP” within the BIC Group was clarified in order to be able to provide precise responses for the target The “Product safety and consumer health-safety” risk is one of the populations. Then the possible strategies were analyzed to define major CSR risks (1) identified by the BIC Group. an action plan. To this end, an internal qualitative study was conducted among the Group’s key employees. It showed that apart ❯ Policies, approach and measures implemented from a few niches, BIC® products are mostly well-suited for the The topics of product safety and the protection of consumer health widest possible public, and that BIC employees are convinced that are of strategic importance for the Group. With the primary goal of inclusive distribution is a useful leverage point for meeting the offering safe, standard-compliant products, BIC Group integrates needs of consumers at the bottom of the pyramid. The Group plans regulatory compliance and risk management concerning product to launch nine financially viable inclusive distribution projects, with safety into its strategy through a body of documents defining its the aim of identifying three to be maintained over the long term. commitment, and through strict processes conceived to ensure To that end, three essential priorities have been defined: the that it markets only safe, compliant products. As a result, each day, strengthening of existing internal initiatives, partnerships with BIC supplies millions of products while maintaining consistent inclusive business structures, and partnerships with major quality, checked through a vast array of tests and in compliance companies that have established their own distribution modes. with national and international safety requirements. ❯ Progress made in 2018 The BIC policies for product safety In 2018, after exploring the latter two priorities, BIC turned its focus The Product Safety Policy, introduced in 2001, specifies the to the first one. The Group set out to perpetuate an inclusive 10 commitments adopted to ensure that the products developed distribution system that had been established by its subsidiary in and manufactured by BIC are safe for human health and the Senegal in 2015. Under this system, sales representatives visit environment. They include: owners of traditional stores, within a perimeter that can be ● a systematic program of pre-market product qualification reached on foot, to offer five BIC® products in three categories, thus testing; covering the entire country. In this way, they create new inclusive ● a global approach, resulting in products that often exceed the distribution routes, making these hygiene, personal care and safety requirements of local markets; writing products affordable to populations who live far from the conventional distribution networks. The BIC Group hopes to ● expecting BIC suppliers to comply with safety standards; (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. 82 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] ● incorporating safety considerations from the earliest stages ● building awareness among all stakeholders about safety and of product design, including toxicological evaluations and the appropriate use of BIC® products; tests to assess the products’ potential physical and chemical ● carefully reviewing all incidents involving the safety of BIC® hazards; products; ● the anticipation of product safety requirements through active ● appropriate measures for product recall in the case of an regulatory monitoring at national and international levels, in incident; close cooperation with industry associations that share their ● the implementation of this Policy by a Product Safety members’ expertise with the appropriate authorities; Department. ● the integration of innovations in product safety processes; BIC has also adopted seven specific commitments to ensure the quality and safety of its lighters (see below). THE BIC GROUP’S SEVEN COMMITMENTS TO ENSURE THE QUALITY AND SAFETY OF ITS LIGHTERS 1. All BIC® lighter plants are ISO 9001 certified production plants. BIC® lighter products meet or exceed the ISO 9994 international safety standard requirements. 2. BIC is an active member of various organizations (such as the European Federation of Lighter Manufacturers, working groups and technical committees for ISO and CEN and numerous other national standardization bodies) to provide the latest and most reliable quality and safety information to its customers. 3. Each BIC® lighter undergoes more than 50 separate automatic quality checks. Additionally, BIC conducts regular post-market product tests of its lighters. 4. BIC continuously develops exclusive technology to ensure the quality and safety of all BIC® lighters, including factors like flame height and stability, extinction time, and a reservoir that can resist extreme drop tests and exposure to elevated temperatures. 5. BIC has an integrated production process, designs and develops much of its own machinery and uses all the latest manufacturing technologies, from basic materials right down to the packaged product. 6. BIC employees are all guided by three principles: Method-Precision-Discipline. Each employee in the lighter plants spends nearly 25% of his or her time checking product conformity and proper operation of the control equipment. 7. BIC has been committed to sustainable, long-term safety programs for over 30 years. Regulatory monitoring and compliance Marketing compliant products that are safe for human BIC Group has a comprehensive monitoring system based on health and the environment formalized regulatory watch procedures in addition to internal and To guarantee consumer safety, the BIC Group category Directors external resources – in particular, the product safety teams’ are responsible for marketing safe products that comply with specific knowledge of BIC® products, their components and the regulations. To this end, they rely on: materials used. In 2018, a BIC Watch List was created. With this ● BIC Group’s commitment to ensure that its products comply list, the Group is extending the monitoring system to include with regulations and are safe for health and the environment non-official lists defined by NGOs, future regulations and (see above); controversial substances that are not already banned. The Group ● monitoring by dedicated regulatory watch teams (see above); always strives to anticipate the substitution of regulated substances. By its very nature open-ended, this Watch List will be ● a product safety qualification process for all products before expanded to include requirements and controversies reported they are launched in the market (see below). from outside of Europe. This solid, longstanding organization is constantly being adapted The BIC Group, as a member or Executive Committee member of and expanded to take changing regulations into account. The numerous sectoral organizations and industry associations (1), Leadership Team and management teams are systematically kept actively participates in regulatory watch and interactions with local abreast of new developments in product safety and regulations. regulatory authorities, an important activity for staying abreast of new requirements. (1) In particular, the BIC Group is a member of EWIMA (European Writing Instrument Manufacturers Association), WIMA (Writing Instrument Manufacturers Association), ACMI (Art & Creative Materials Institute), TIE (Toy Industries of Europe), EFLM (European Federation of Lighter Manufacturers), and the Fédération des Entreprises de la Beauté in France. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 83 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] Systematic testing and evaluation programs fail to meet standards. The Group has initiated actions to raise Before they arrive on the market, all BIC® products, including awareness among the various parties involved. modified products, must pass a full program of safety qualification In 2010, emphasizing the consequences for consumer safety, BIC tests. These tests and evaluations make it possible to assess filed a complaint against the Netherlands with the European potential hazards and to identify the chemical substances present, Commission for non-enforcement of EU safety standards for evaluate their risk level, verify their compliance with standards, lighters. As a result, the Commission opened an infringement and identify any adaptations of the formulas or substitutions that procedure against the Netherlands. In March 2012 and then in might be needed to reduce risks. July 2014, the country was served formal notice to explain its BIC Group faces competition from several low-cost lighters that too failure. The procedure remains pending. In 2018, BIC filed a often do not comply with international safety standards. According complaint with the European Commission for similar failures to to tests conducted by independent accredited laboratories, more enforce standards in France and Germany. than three-quarters of the lighter models in the European market COMPLIANCE WITH THE REACH REGULATION The European REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation establishes the regulatory framework for chemical substances and places responsibility on manufacturers to demonstrate the safety of the chemicals they use. To address these requirements, BIC created a dedicated organization to allow the integration of the REACH topics. At Group level, an expert was appointed who, with the support of specialized firms, monitors the regulation, evaluates the impacts for the Group and creates the administrative files. This person is the contact person for all entities on this topic. Since 2008, in response to REACH, BIC has preregistered 168 substances for six of its legal entities. In particular, the teams involved registered 14 substances in time to meet the final deadline of May 2018. Procedures have been implemented to anticipate the need for future registrations. ❯ Progress made in 2018 has an environmental impact during its manufacturing and shipping, and at its end of life. In 2018, the training cycle started in 2015 was continued and finalized. These training actions are aimed at production managers and technicians and concern the evolution of the regulatory context ❯ Approach and progress made in 2018 and the BIC processes to respond to them. By giving meaning to Historically, BIC promotes selling products without consumer the processes put in place, these trainings are intended to help the packaging or in value packs. In Europe, 69% of writing products are operational staff in their implementation. packaged in boxes, trays or pouches of at least 10 products (83% in Lastly, more than 335 products were tested in independent North America), 79% of lighters are sold in trays of at least 50 (72% laboratories. in North America) and 67% of shavers are marketed in pouches of five, 10 or more (49% in North America). ❯ Perspectives BIC Group Packaging Community In the coming years, the Group will continue to adapt its working The “Packaging Community” was formed to promote a packaging methods and means to maintain its own standards and level of approach that takes sustainable development into account and compliance concerning product safety. BIC will continue to expand demonstrates its utility for the Group (in particular through data on its regulatory watch activities to remain ready to adapt its financial advantages and reductions of GHG emissions), by processes, products and formulas as needed. The Group also plans pursuing shared goals (reduced use of PVC, increased use of to continue developing and extending its product safety training. recycled and/or certified cardboard – see below) and by defining a strategy for the Group in response to major trends (plastics policy, the circular economy, etc.). To that end, it unites a network of packaging experts from around the world. 3.2.4. OPTIMIZED PACKAGING Three priorities for reducing the impact of our packaging ❯ Challenges Priority #1: Selecting responsible packaging materials Packaging is needed at several stages in the life cycle of BIC® With the aim of reducing its environmental footprint resulting from products: for their protection, shipping, storage and sale, and for the production of packaging, the Group has set two goals, one on promotional support. BIC’s packaging consists primarily of boxes cardboard packaging and one on plastic packaging: and cases made of plastic, paper and cardboard. This packaging 84 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility concerning our products [NFPS] ● maintaining the level of 90% of BIC’s cardboard packaging Following the products distributed in North America and Oceania in coming from certified and/or recycled sources; 2017, the packaging for the entire BIC® Soleil line has been ● targeting the level of 90% of BIC’s plastic packaging being optimized for better visibility on the shelf while reducing the PVC-free. quantity of plastic used. This modification has made it possible to reduce the use of plastic by 20% and optimize shipping costs and Certified and/or recycled sourcing for cardboard packaging the related CO2 emissions (by about 15%). In order to increase the use of certified or recycled cellulose fiber in its packaging, BIC works closely with its packaging suppliers to Priority #3: Reducing packaging waste help them obtain certification and improve their supply processes. The Group is taking action to increase the recycling rate of Certifications can be: FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), SFI packaging production waste in the packaging center facilities. The (Sustainable Forestry Initiative) or PEFC (Pan European Forest Charlotte site in the U.S. has already reached the program’s goal of Certification). 100% waste recycling. The site is now focusing on the reduction of As of January 2014, the Group has reached its previously defined waste due to packaging obsolescence. goal of having 90% of its packaging come from certified sources The “Packaging Community” also seeks to reduce the amount of and/or containing more than 50% recycled fibers. At the end of waste generated by the destruction of stocks of obsolete 2018, the Group’s rate was 94.16% overall. This result reflects the packaging. efforts made on several continents and in the concerned factories to select suppliers that are engaged in a long-term responsible In Australia, since 2013, BIC has been a member of the Australian approach. Packaging Covenant (APC), a governmental initiative to promote the development of more sustainable packaging systems, increase PVC-free plastic packaging recycling and reduce packaging waste – three priorities shared by The elimination of PVC in BIC Group packaging was completed BIC Group. BIC Australia has defined several goals in this area. several years ago for the factories in Europe and in the U.S., where 99% of the packaging is now PVC-free. The elimination of PVC packaging is also well advanced in Mexico. ❯ Performance 94.02% 94.34% 94.16% Depending on the type of packaging, the transition from PVC to PET 88.46% 87.90% can entail a few simple adjustments of the machine settings or, in 83.46% other cases, a complete reworking of the packaging system. For this reason, the “Packaging Community” works with the factories and R&D, getting the marketing teams involved as far upstream as possible. This transition, initiated by BIC many years ago, allows the Group to meet the demands of certain distributors. For example, one major distributor in the U.K. will no longer stock products whose packaging contains PVC. The BIC Group takes advantage of every opportunity to replace plastic packaging by cardboard in its products. Two examples provide an apt illustration of this learning curve initiated by the Group: 2016 2017 2018 ● In 2018, the BIC® 4-Couleurs™ Velvet, marketed in Europe since the end of December, was designed with all-cardboard Percentage of cardboard packaging from certified packaging. This solution offers consumers the possibility of and/or recycled sources(1) touching the product directly and eliminates the blister, for a Percentage of plastic packaging that is PVC-free savings of 1 ton of plastic; ● In the U.K., the plastic presentation tray for shaver packs has (1) Cello Pens excluded. been replaced by a cardboard tray, for a savings of 16.5 tons of plastic. These indicators cover all packaged BIC® products delivered to the Priority #2: Reducing the quantity of packaging per Group’s customers all over the world (except pallets): consumer product sold packaging (pouch, blister, cardboard box), outer/inner, BIC Group actively seeks to reduce the weight and volume of its shrink-wrap, displays, etc. It is calculated on material weight. packaging through multiple targeted actions around the world in accordance with local distribution models. For example, in the U.S. in 2018, BIC continued its participation in Walmart’s “Packaging ❯ Perspectives Scorecard” program, which puts the focus on seven “Rs” for BIC will pursue its programs to reduce the amount of materials progress: Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Renew (use renewable used in its product packaging as well as the packaging waste materials), Revenue (look for savings), and Read (educate generated by its factories. consumers). The Stationery category plans to launch an action plan in 2019 to The packaging center in Charlotte (U.S.) has continued to reduce reduce the consumption of packaging materials. Based on a survey consumption of packaging per product sold, raising the proportion of good practices and innovations conducted within the category in of blister packs made directly on the production lines to 80%. 2018, this plan will be shared with the other categories in 2019 through the “Packaging Community.” • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 85 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] 3.3. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CONCERNING OUR OPERATIONS [NFPS] As an industrial leader in the manufacture of consumer products, BIC is committed to ensuring that its sites operate in an environmentally responsible way. BIC Group strives to reduce the impact of its manufacturing operations, optimize the shipping of its products and control the environmental footprint of its sales and support activities. BIC exerts good environmental control over its entire manufacturing chain due to two factors. First, BIC favors in-house production over contract manufacturing (92% of the Group’s net sales are generated by products manufactured in its own factories). Secondly, in the Consumer business in Europe, 82% of the products sold on this continent are also manufactured there. 3.3.1. OUR INDUSTRIAL SITES AND ensure that it remains pertinent and appropriate to the business. This procedure describes a periodic assessment and revision of OFFICES the Policy to ensure that it is still appropriate for any changes in the Group’s activities and products, including acquisitions and ❯ Challenges, risks and opportunities changing stakeholder expectations. To manufacture its products, BIC uses raw materials (plastics, inks, In addition, since 2018, all BIC sites (factories, packaging or paperboard, metals, etc.), consumes resources (water, energy) and distribution centers, head offices and other offices and produces waste. The Group is aware of the environmental impact installations) have been equipped with a system for documenting of its production activity and is committed to minimizing it. While and managing safety incidents, as part of the implementation of the need for raw materials is determined mainly by the design of commitment #3 Writing the Future, Together, Committing to a safe the products (see section 3.2.1. Our products’ environmental work environment (see page 98). performance), the factories that manufacture BIC® products assume the important responsibilities of optimizing their water At the industrial sites and energy consumption, as well as reducing greenhouse gas The Group’s Policy on Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) (GHG) emissions and waste production. requires factories to implement pragmatic management systems The BIC Group has identified the following risks as major CSR designed to involve all stakeholders, as well as to drive continuous risks (1) resulting from its operations: improvement of operational performance. Every BIC factory has a ● “climate change” risk; local EH&S manager in charge of deploying and maintaining these management systems. In addition, the Stationery category, which ● “other types of pollution (SEVESO sites)” risk. has the most sites around the world, employs a central EH&S manager who coordinates with local EH&S managers to ensure 3.3.1.1. Management systems that all facilities comply with the Group’s Policy and objectives, and to monitor site performance by consolidating, analyzing and ❯ Policy, approach and measures implemented communicating the results achieved. The Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) Policy, defined in 2005 The environmental management system helps ensure compliance and signed by the Chairman and CEO, codifies the Group’s with applicable laws and regulations concerning the commitment to assessing, managing, and improving the environment. This may include daily or periodic controls, to environmental and safety impacts that result from our operations, comply with local regulations, that are carried out internally or our products and our packaging. The Policy specifies BIC’s with the assistance of an independent external company. An action dedication to: plan is established to correct any identified compliance issues. ● pollution prevention; Within the framework of the management systems, an in-depth ● health and safety risk prevention; review of all aspects of the site’s activities and environmental ● regulatory compliance; impacts (water, air, soil, noise, etc.) is performed and action plans are defined to limit these environmental impacts. Simple ● continuous improvement; improvement targets are set for the factories to contribute to BIC’s ● awareness and involvement. overall environmental performance while meeting their own Since 2010, the EH&S Policy is deployed at all industrial sites. BIC specific challenges (production, resources, geographic location, maintains a formal procedure to review the BIC EH&S Policy to etc.). (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. 86 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] The environmental management systems deployed at BIC Group’s are consolidated with the presentation of the performances of the industrial sites call for contingency plans to deal with pollution Group’s industrial sites. accidents with off-site consequences. Emergency prevention and Initiatives have been undertaken at these sites to reduce their response plans have been established in locations where there is environmental footprint. The Shelton (U.S.) offices were granted an identiﬁed risk of an accident with consequences beyond plant LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) boundaries. certification in 2009 and are powered by electricity from renewable For example, in France, the two SEVESO plants have emergency sources. The Clichy site (France) also purchases electricity from procedure protocols (Plan d’Opération Interne and Plan Particulier renewable sources. In 2018, the site’s office waste collection d’Intervention), and a major hazard prevention policy (Politique de system was completely overhauled to ensure more effective Prévention des Accidents Majeurs). They have also implemented a sorting. The Clichy site (France) is in the process of finalizing a Safety Management System. mobility plan in order to offer employees alternative solutions to Outside France, some Group plants have equivalent emergency the individual car for their commute to work. In addition, the plans that address risks with potential off-site consequences. For renewal of the fleet of company and sales vehicles offered an example, plants in the U.S. maintain an Emergency Response Plan opportunity to choose vehicles with lower emissions, making it that includes prevention and management of the off-site possible to reduce the fleet’s average emission rate from 150 to consequences of any accidents. 113 gCO2 per km. In 2018, the implementation rate for BIC management systems at In the supply chain BIC industrial sites is 78% complete for the environment and 88% Beyond the accounting of its own environmental impacts, BIC complete for health and safety. These rates for management Group also considers the impacts of its supply chain. Since 2014, system implementation vary every year as plants join or leave the the Workplace Conditions Assessment (WCA) platform for auditing scope and others make progress, but rates remain consistently subcontractors’ working conditions (see page 110) has included a high. comprehensive questionnaire on environmental performance, accounting for 6% of the total number of questions posed. Of the Certifications 25 suppliers who were active and audited in 2018, 12 suppliers had In 2018, BIC Violex (Greece) has renewed ISO 50001 certification, deficiencies relating to the environment. A total of 18 deficiencies the international standard for energy management. This were identified, 44% of which were minor and 56% moderate. certification requires the definition of goals to improve energy consumption and the adoption of a system to track the results achieved to ensure ongoing improvement in energy management. 3.3.1.2. Reducing water consumption and assessing the scarcity of In 2018, the BIC Violex factory (Greece) has also renewed the European Water Stewardship (EWS) Gold certification in the resource recognition of its adoption of a water management system that ❯ Reducing water consumption optimizes consumption, reduces pollution, encourages the sharing of best practices. EWS certification also requires close cooperation Progress made in 2018 and performance with the other users of the catchment basin for the joint Water consumption per ton of production decreased by 2.6% management of this resource. between 2017 and 2018. Total water consumption decreased by 5% over the same period while production decreased by 2.5%. This In 2018, BIC Violex was granted BREEAM (Building Research is mainly due to the implementation of water efficiency programs Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) certification for that contemplate the optimization of the industrial processes and one of its buildings. machinery. The BIC (Nantong) Plastic Products (China) and BIC Bizerte (Tunisia) By normalizing water consumption to production, the measure of factories were granted LEED (Leadership in Energy and water efficiency is less dependent on fluctuations in production Environmental Design) certification in 2013 and 2016 respectively. volumes. However, it is important to note that: In 2018, BIC Shavers Mexico (Mexico) obtained the ISO 14001 ● for BIC Group’s purposes, “water consumption” is understood certification and nine other sites renewed the certification. ex to mean total water withdrawal. A portion of the industrial site (Greece) renewed their. BIC thus has 12 industrial sites that have withdrawal is not consumed or evaporated during their met the criteria of this environmental standard. operations, but it is treated and discharged. The fact that the BIC’s continued and steady progress in systems registrations Group measures water withdrawal ensures that all uses and underscores the Group’s commitment to the highest standards of dispositions of water are included; environmental protection and health and safety. ● a portion of water consumption, for building maintenance or watering for example, cannot be entirely correlated to In the offices production, mainly because it depends on external events For the sake of exemplarity, the BIC Sustainable Development (climatic conditions for instance); approach covers all of its operations, including office activities, ● the ratio per ton of production is a more relevant measure for even though they represent a non-significant part of the Group’s BIC Group activities with high levels of production (which is environmental impact. The environmental performances of the not the case for product storage and packaging, advertising Group’s three main offices (Clichy in France, Shelton in the U.S. and and promotional product printing, or office activities); Cajamar in Brazil), which have been monitored for four years now, • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 87 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] ● the gross indicators are disclosed on page 119 for additional Although no BIC Group industrial sites or offices are located in information. major water stress zones, eight are located in medium stress In 2018, 11 sites reduced their ratio of water consumption per ton areas (in Europe, United States, India, Africa, Mexico and Brazil). of production. These sites represent 36% of the Group’s water A cross-analysis of the scarcity of water and water consumption consumption and 48% its production, having improved their ratio of rates at the industrial sites and main offices shows that water consumption per ton of production by 13% overall. consumption at the sites in medium stress areas is already BIC Amazonia (Brazil), which represents an important part of the relatively limited. The Group will continue to improve the water Group’s water consumption (12%), reported a nearly 12% decrease consumption ratios at these sites. This new correlation of water in its ratio, mainly due to the installation of a daily monitoring consumption and scarcity enables BIC to prioritize its action plans remote system that allows the quick identification and resolution of for reducing water consumption. potential problems. Furthermore, improvements of sanitary facilities were performed and a heating, ventilation and air 3.3.1.3. Writing the Future, Together conditioning (HVAC) system was implemented in the Stationery – #2 Acting against climate change factory that enabled condensed water from air conditioning was reused to cover other parts of the HVAC system water needs. ❯ Policy, approach and measures implemented In general terms, various water efficiency actions have been Fighting climate change has always been an integral part of BIC’s implemented in different sites, such as the optimization of Sustainable Development Program. In 2017, in parallel with the production machinery, awareness-raising among employees, “One Planet Summit,” held on December 12, BIC Group signed the rainfall water recovery and improvement of the consumption French Business Pledge, joining 89 other French companies in a monitoring systems. vow to fight climate change. In 2018, the water consumption at the three main offices – Clichy BIC has set the goal of taking action against climate change and (France), Shelton (U.S.) and Cajamar (Brazil) – decreased by 15.6%, has codified this ambition in the following commitment: By 2025, totaling 18,513 m3, or 19.2 m3/occupied workstation, as a result of BIC will use 80% renewable electricity. the closure of BIC Graphic operations in 2017, which were attached to the water consumption of the Cajamar office. Building on the experience acquired in recent years at certain of its sites, in 2017 the BIC Group defined a roadmap for its goal of 80% renewable energy by 2025, as part of a long-term vision of ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION NORMALIZED TO BIC FACTORIES achieving 100% renewable electricity. This roadmap reflects a PRODUCTION – BIC GROUP – IN M3/TON strategy in which each country or site examines its opportunities 5.46 5.32 for sourcing renewable electricity, taking their regulatory and 5.02 operational constraints into account. To bring about a far-reaching change in its purchasing process for electricity, BIC is putting the focus on renewable energy certificates (1), green contracts and specific Power Purchase Agreements, and is investigating the production potential of certain sites. In addition to the use of renewable electricity, BIC is pursuing its investments and actions to improve its sites’ energy efficiency and strives to optimize its transportation activities in order to reduce their climate footprint (see section 3.3.2 Our transportation activities). 2016 2017 2018 ❯ Progress made in 2018 The use of renewable energy Assessing the scarcity of water resources In 2018, the share of renewable electricity consumed by the BIC at industrial sites and main offices Group stood at 68%, compared with 23% in 2017. This significant In 2018, BIC Group consumed 515,296 cubic meters of water increase in the Group’s use of renewable electricity reflects its worldwide. However, in addition to the volumes consumed, it is commitment in this area. In 2018: essential to consider where this consumption takes place. It can ● in France, the BIC Group purchased renewable electricity occur in so-called “water stress” zones where water is a scarce (Guarantee of Origin, or GoO) certificates for all of its French resource. The uneven distribution of water across the planet and factories and the headquarters in Clichy. This means that BIC® limited access to it, may give rise to severe political and social products manufactured in France are produced using tensions. renewable electricity; In 2018, to identify priority action zones, the Group sought to ● in Spain, the BIC Iberia and BIC Graphic Europe sites began determine the degree of scarcity of water at all of its sites sourcing renewable electricity in September through the (industrial sites and offices). An assessment of the risks related to purchase of certificates (GoO); water and its availability was carried out based on the sites’ geographic locations. (1) Renewable electricity is defined as electricity generated by biomass sources (including biogas), geothermal, solar, water (including hydroelectrical) or wind power. 88 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] ● in Brazil, the Manaus site began sourcing wind energy in 2018 ● the gross indicators are disclosed on page 119 as additional through the purchase of iREC certificates. This factory, which information. combines all three BIC® product categories, produces about Nine industrial sites improved their ratio of energy consumption 1 billion products per year for the South American market; per ton of production in 2018. These sites represent 19% of the ● in India, the Group invested for the first time in the installation Group’s energy consumption and 23% of the production of finished of photovoltaic solar panels (15 kW), installed on the roof of and semi-finished products, having improved their energy one of its eight factories in the country. efficiency by 12%. In addition, the Group continues to purchase certificates in other For example, BIC Amazonia (Brazil) achieved a 9% reduction in its regions and conducts opportunity studies for other renewable energy consumption per ton of production thanks to the installation energy supplies: of new machinery for the Shavers category and new LED lighting. ● in the United States, the purchase of renewable wind energy Energy efficiency programs at Group sites also included the certificates (U.S. RECs) has covered the electrical power installation of more efficient machinery, the optimization of lighting needs of the Shelton headquarters and the factory in Milford towards more efficient solutions and the awareness-raising among since 2012. This means that the lighters manufactured in the employees. U.S. are produced using renewable electricity; More specifically, in 2018, energy consumption at the three main ● in Greece, purchased GoO certificates cover all of the offices – Clichy (France), Shelton (U.S.) and Cajamar (Brazil) – electrical consumption of the BIC Violex site since 2016. totaled 0.65 GJ/m2. This performance represents a nearly 3% The BIC Group’s use of renewable energy allows it to promote the improvement in comparison with 2017, in particular due to the development of these energy sources in the countries where it closing down of BIC Graphic operations in Cajamar. operates, thus reducing its market-based (scope 2) indirect Since the main BIC offices are equipped with servers, the emissions (1). BIC estimates that the use of renewable electricity in sustainable development approach adopted by the IT support its operations will contribute to reducing its greenhouse gas departments has a direct impact on the sites’ environmental emissions by approximately 50% by 2025. footprint. After several years of effort on this issue: Optimizing energy consumption ● the virtualization of the Group’s internal and external servers has now reached the optimal level of about 80%. This gradual Many industrial sites forge partnerships with their suppliers to conversion has made it possible to reduce the number of explore all options for reducing electrical consumption. machines and to use increasingly efficient equipment, thus BIC constantly strives to strike a balance in its factories between reducing the amount of energy needed for cooling; optimal productivity and associated energy needs. For example, ● in 2017, the Group finalized the implementation of its the Group has implemented a program to replace hydraulic “Software as a Service” strategy: the applications shared by injection machines with more energy-efficient electrical machines. users Group-wide are installed in the “cloud,” i.e. on virtual Energy consumption per ton of production slightly increased servers that are externalized, mutualized and configured for between 2017 and 2018 (+1.3%), caused by increased needs for air automatic standby. To guarantee data security, service conditioning and heating due to weather conditions and to quality providers with ISO 27001 certification are chosen for requirements of production processes. externalized “cloud” storage; By normalizing energy consumption to production, the measure of ● the specifications for the renewal of the workstations energy efficiency is less dependent on fluctuations in production incorporate two sustainable development guidelines: the volumes. However, it is important to note that: quality of the suppliers’ sustainable development approach and the energy efficiency of the equipment. The difference in ● a portion of energy consumption, for building heating or energy consumption between the old and new workstations is lighting for example, cannot be entirely correlated to estimated at approximately 20%; production, mainly because it depends on external events (climatic conditions for instance); ● since 2013, in the Europe and Middle East-Africa zones, 100% of the employees who use a computer (some 4,000 in all) have ● the ratio per ton of production is a more relevant measure for been equipped with “Skype for Business,” a set of solutions BIC Group activities with high levels of production (which is for remote collaboration. not the case for office activities, product storage and packaging or for advertising and promotional product printing); (1) There are two ways to account for indirect (scope 2) emissions: a location-based method reflecting the average electricity mix of grids in each country in which energy consumption occurs, and a market-based method reflecting emissions from electricity that companies have actually bought. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 89 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] ❯ Performances factories. The total amount of indirect GHG emissions in 2018 was estimated at 88,470 teqCO2, showing a decrease of 5.9% For more than ten years, BIC Group provides information to the compared to 2017. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2018, aligned with the former years' performance, BIC obtained an A rating, placing it in the The total amount of direct and indirect GHG emissions was thus Climate “A-list” and on the CDP “Supplier Engagement Rating estimated to be 98,283 teqCO2 in 2018. Given that production leader board” rewarding companies that are making an decreased by 2.5% between 2017 and 2018, the ratio of direct and outstanding contribution to the fight against climate change. indirect GHG normalized to the Group’s production has decreased by 1.9%. In 2018, BIC Group quantified the direct and indirect emissions of GHG from its industrial sites and main offices (scopes 1 and 2): This reduction is explained mainly by the decrease of the national emission factors (scope 2) in some countries. ● the direct emissions (scope 1) are GHG emissions resulting from the combustion of fossil fuels, primarily natural gas and In the same time, the total amount of direct and indirect GHG fuel oil, mainly used to heat buildings. The total amount of emissions with the “market-based” approach is estimated to direct GHG emissions in 2018 was estimated at 9,813 teqCO2, 58,646 teqCO2, corresponding to a decrease of 14% compared to a representing a 13.6% increase compared to 2017; 2017. This is due to the increase of the share of electricity from renewable energy consumed by the Group. ● the indirect emissions (scope 2) are GHG emissions resulting from the production of the electricity consumed by the ANNUAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION NORMALIZED TO BIC GROUP SHARE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY – IN % OF TOTAL CONSUMPTION – PRODUCTION – IN GIGAJOULES/TON BIC GROUP 68% 12.02 11.98 12.14 24% 23% 6% 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 BREAKDOWN OF BIC GROUP ENERGY CONSUMPTION ANNUAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPES 1 AND 2) LOCATION-BASED AND MARKET-BASED – <1% <1% 1% IN TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENT – BIC GROUP 14% 13% 15% 100,539 102,681 98,283 68,524 85% 86% 84% 64,202 58,646 2016 2017 2018 Fuel oil 2016 2017 2018 Gas Electricity Location-based Market-based 90 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] ANNUAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS climate change (risks resulting from high temperatures, flooding, (SCOPES 1 AND 2) NORMALIZED TO PRODUCTION – IN TONS OF CO2 storms, hydric stress and rising sea levels) were evaluated for EQUIVALENT/TON – BIC GROUP each BIC site and for certain subcontractors and major suppliers. 1.033 For the sites most at risk, the Group plans to define an appropriate 1.007 1.014 action plan, incorporating any measures already implemented to counter the risk. 3.3.1.4. Reducing waste production ❯ Progress made in 2018 and performance In 2018, BIC Group reported a decrease (-1.9%) in the amount of waste generated per ton of production compared to 2017. This variation results from a decrease in the ratio of non-hazardous waste generated per ton of production (-4.6%), which represents almost 82% of the waste generated by the Group, and from an increase in the ratio of hazardous waste (+13.5%). 2016 2017 2018 ANNUAL PRODUCTION OF WASTE NORMALIZED TO PRODUCTION – IN TONS/TON – BIC GROUP Measuring and limiting the impact on climate change of other main causes of greenhouse gas 0.238 emissions The 2016 study of the main causes of greenhouse gas emissions 0.183 0.174 related to BIC Group’s operations and consumption of goods and services (covering factories and offices, excluding Cello Pens) was based on a carbon footprint study of the Clichy headquarters (France) and two factories (BIC Amazonia in Brazil and BIC Rasoirs in France) using the ADEME Bilan Carbone® method. The study demonstrated that in addition to direct emissions (scope 1) and 0.032 0.033 0.037 indirect emissions (scope 2), the main sources of other indirect (scope 3) emissions are: the purchase of products and services, 2016 2017 2018 upstream and downstream transport, and product end of life. Direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions plus these three Hazardous waste main causes of scope 3 emissions account for more than 80% of Non-hazardous waste the Group’s total GHG emissions. Regarding the item “purchases of goods and services,” the BIC Hazardous waste Group has been evaluating emissions related to its purchases of In 2018, BIC Group registered a 13.5% increase in hazardous waste raw materials since 2017. In 2018, these emissions were evaluated generated per ton of production compared to 2017. This increase is at 316,000 teqCO2, which corresponds to a rise of 14% due to the mainly due to increased maintenance needs of machinery, in order integration of Cello Pens in the reporting. to improve their productivity standards and to an improvement of waste classification. Regarding the item “upstream shipping,” the BIC Group estimates the emissions related to its intra-company shipping at However, 12 sites improved their ratio of hazardous waste 37,000 teqCO2. generated per ton of production in 2018. These factories, which represent 40% of the Group’s annual production of finished and Beyond simply measuring these emissions, the Group is semi-finished products and generate 25% of the Group’s implementing procedures to limit the footprint of these three hazardous waste, reported a 2% overall decrease in their ratio of causes of significant indirect (scope 3) emissions through: hazardous waste generated per ton of production. eco-design (see page 75), the optimization of shipping by limiting the weight of its products, the reduction of air freight, the BIC Violex (Greece) reported a 13% decrease in its ratio of optimization of shipping routes, including selection of its locations hazardous waste per ton of production, following the (see page 93), as well as adoption of a circular economy approach implementation of a project to stabilize and reduce the generation (see page 79). of wasted oil in the production process. In addition, some factories utilize a wastewater treatment plant to Evaluating the physical risks for the BIC Group treat some hazardous waste such as that from the surface regarding climate change treatment workshops, transforming it into metal hydroxide sludge, In 2018, using an analysis model based on risk statistics and the which can be managed to minimize risk to the environment. geographic locations of the sites, the physical risks linked to • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 91 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT – % OF TOTAL EXPRESSED BREAKDOWN OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT – IN TONS – BIC GROUP % OF TOTAL EXPRESSED IN TONS – BIC GROUP 11% 15% 13% 75% 73% 75% 49% 27% 31% 26% 11% 7% 43% 33% 5% 29% 12% 11% 12% 11% 10% 2% 5% 9% 3% 2% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Recycled Recycled Incinerated with energy recovery Incinerated with energy recovery Incinerated without energy recovery(a) Incinerated without energy recovery(a) Sent to land disposal Sent to land disposal Sent to other form of treatment or disposal Sent to other form of treatment or disposal (a) The category “Incinerated without energy recovery” was created (a) The category “Incinerated without energy recovery” was created in 2018. In 2016 and 2017 this waste was reported under the “Sent to in 2018. In 2016 and 2017 this waste was reported under the “Sent to other form of treatment or disposal” category. other form of treatment or disposal” category. Non-hazardous waste Better recovery of wastes, promoting recycling In 2018, BIC Group’s ratio of non-hazardous waste generated per and reducing waste to landfill ton of production decreased by 4.6% compared with 2017. In 2018, the proportion of recovered waste (recycled or incinerated with energy recovery) remained stable. It went from 79% to 78%. 12 industrial sites improved their ratio of non-hazardous waste This slight decrease is caused by the increase of non-recovered generated per ton of production between 2017 and 2018. These hazardous waste. industrial sites, which represent 48% of the Group’s annual production of finished and semi-finished products, reported a 9% The percentage of recycled industrial waste remains at 64%, the decrease overall in their ratio of non-hazardous waste generated same level as in 2017. per ton of production. During the same period, the quantity of waste produced per ton of For instance, BIC Shavers Mexico (Mexico) optimized its production production decreased from 0.216 tons to 0.212 tons, reflecting the process to generate less plastic waste. PIMACO Autoadesivos Group’s ongoing effort to limit its environmental footprint by (Brazil) implemented a program to reuse wooden pallets, extending improving its waste recovery and limiting the amount of wastes the life of the material and lowering the tonnage of wood waste that it produces. recycled. Efforts in plants towards recycling continued, such as the Regarding the main offices, non-hazardous waste production was implementation of better waste monitoring systems and 129 tons, which represented a decrease of 44% when compared to awareness-raising among employees. In 2018, BIC Canada pushed 2017, due in particular to the closing of BIC Graphic operations in towards waste recovery by incinerating with heat recovery its Cajamar (Brazil) and extraordinary discarding activities of furniture non-recyclable waste, instead of sending them to a landfill. and archives in 2017. The Shelton (U.S.) headquarters sends 100% Furthermore, in 2018, the Group reviewed the waste treatment of waste to recovery (recycled or incinerated with energy recovery). chosen for some of the wastes generated in the sites. The objective All three sites have a dedicated program to responsibly manage was to understand why a certain treatment was chosen over end of life for computer equipment. The Clichy headquarters others and evaluate if it was still the best option available in the (France) is studying the possibility of totally eliminating single-use market. These reasons were mainly regulatory obligations or the cups and glasses for both employees and visitors starting in 2019. absence of waste treatment facilities in isolated zones. In 2018, eight sites sent zero waste to landfill. 92 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] 3.3.1.5. Reducing other forms 3.3.2. OUR TRANSPORTATION of environmental impact ACTIVITIES Impact on biodiversity ❯ Challenges BIC Group’s effect on biodiversity takes place primarily through its land use (industrial, logistical and administrative sites) around the The objective of BIC’s shipping management system is to ensure world. the availability of its products to around 4 million points of sale all over the world, thus maximizing customer satisfaction, while at the To evaluate this impact, BIC relies on a “site approach”. A same time reducing the environmental impact of its transport cartographic analysis of the physical surroundings of each BIC (1) activities and optimizing costs. factory has been carried out in 2011. The majority of BIC’s factories are in non-sensitive (in most cases industrial) zones, and neither BIC engages in two types of transport for its products: their land use, nor their operations, pose any evident risk to their ● “Inter-site shipping” which refers to factory-factory and surroundings. factory-warehouse shipments (interand intra-continental); In places where there are specific obligations, the management ● “Distribution shipping” which refers to shipments from the systems address the problem and enable follow-up. factories or warehouses to the end customer. Three hives were installed at the headquarters site in Clichy Due to the environmental and financial impact of air freight, the (France) in partnership with Ekodev, and four hives are managed key challenge for the Group is to use this form of shipping as little by a local beekeeper at the BIC Écriture 2000 site in as possible. Even though it accounts for only 0.6% of the total Marne-la-Vallée (France). Through its partnership with Ekodev, BIC tonnage shipped, air freight is the transport method that generates also sponsors a melipona hive in the Yucatan region of Mexico as the most GHG: in 2018 it represented 43% of the Group’s total part of an effort to reintroduce this bee to its natural habitat. emissions from transport. Air, water and soil release that seriously affect ❯ Approach and progress made in 2018 the environment BIC Group has factories all over the world, which tends to limit the The nature of BIC Group’s manufacturing operations, primarily the need for shipping its products. For example, in the Consumer molding and assembly of plastic products and printing of products, business in Europe, 82% of the products sold on a given continent has a relatively low local environmental impact compared with are manufactured on that continent. other manufacturing sectors. Nevertheless, the BIC Sustainable In addition, BIC has chosen to outsource its transport operations Development Program, based on the EH&S Policy (see page 86), while maintaining a high level of internal expertise in the requires each site to measure, evaluate and reduce every management of service providers, flow engineering and transport significant form of environmental impact. management tools. A specific effort focused on each transport flow is the best way to provide high-quality, competitive shipping while Conditions for use of soil reducing environmental impact. In Europe and the U.S., where most of the Group’s sites are located, Led by BIC’s Transport Community, which unites the Group’s whenever an industrial site is closed, BIC ensures that plant shipping managers on each continent, the approach is comprised decommissioning is performed in accordance with local laws and of three main tactics: best environmental practices. When appropriate or when required ● raising awareness and controlling emissions; by law, BIC carries out studies of the soil and subsoil, although ● optimizing shipments and routes; most sites are not subject to compulsory examination. Such studies of pollution at European plants used over many years ● selecting responsible carriers. demonstrate that the Group’s business does not have a significant BIC pays close attention to the proportion of this type of transport, impact on soil and subsoil. with the goal of continuing to keep it below 2.3% for intra-company For French plants subject to specific regulatory requirements, the transport. In 2018, the share of air freight, in tons.kilometers, was policy for preventing the risk of soil pollution is an integral part of 0.93%. the operating plan. Raising awareness and measuring emissions Noise and odor impact Like any function involving the supply chain, the optimization of Odor is considered an insignificant aspect in the Group’s product shipping is a responsibility shared by several teams within BIC molding, assembly and printing activities. Group, from production to delivery, as well as sales and warehouse management. As far as noise impact is concerned, measures are taken within the property limits in the context of local regulations. If noise pollution Since 2014, the “Transport Community” has been working closely is brought to the Group’s attention in the future, studies will be with the categories (Stationery, Lighters, Shavers) and a steering conducted and any appropriate corrective actions implemented. working group tasked with identifying solutions to achieve significant and long-term reductions in air freight. In 2018, the Transport Community continued to consult with experts and work in cooperation with customers. Transport companies that are committed to sustainable development are also regularly consulted. The specific monitoring of air transport was introduced in 2014, with quarterly reports to the management teams in each zone. (1) Cello Pens is not in the scope of this study. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 93 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility concerning our operations [NFPS] With this regular monitoring, the Transport Community is focused ❯ Performance on this issue at the highest managerial levels. A detailed analysis of these reports has allowed the Transport Community to identify worldwide flows and to define three key actions for their optimization. Cost and flow optimization and the promotion of In 100% of the new Group’s calls initiatives to foster sustainable development are included in the for transport tenders, sustainable criteria for choosing transport service providers in new calls for tenders. development is a criterion for selection. In Europe, a new tool has been tested for distribution shipping in France, Benelux and the UK. Called the “TK’Blue index,” it is used to measure GHG emissions due to transport as well as all related BREAKDOWN OF TONNAGE SHIPPED BY MODE OF TRANSPORT – negative externalities (noise, soil and air pollution, safety, AS % OF TOTAL congestion), while also taking social factors into account. This 0.6% Air index enables the precise, reliable monitoring of GHG emissions resulting from the shipping of BIC® products, based on the transport providers’ current vehicle fleets and applying the same calculation method for all providers. Having proven its viability within the initially restricted perimeter of three countries, the test has now been extended to other European countries. Road 43.3% 56.1% Sea Optimizing shipments and routes In shipping, the main leverage points for decreasing emissions are the reduction of the distances traveled, the choice of transportation mode and load optimization. BIC’s logistical teams work on all three points in cooperation with other departments within the BREAKDOWN OF GHG EMISSIONS BY MODE OF TRANSPORT – AS % Group, such as Production and Sales, and service providers. OF TOTAL Following the completion of a project to map all intra-Group flows, a study is being conducted to pool shipments on a Group-wide Road 31.8% scale. 43.2% Air Selecting responsible carriers Logistical operations are carried out by transport companies chosen by BIC. Therefore, their equipment, methods and management systems are determining factors in the level of GHG emissions, including the age of the vehicles, training in the techniques of eco-driving, the use of speed governors, tire Sea 25% technology, emission measurement capacities, etc. In conjunction with the Group’s responsible purchasing policy, BIC selects carriers that can reduce the ecological footprint of its SHARE OF AIR FREIGHT AS % OF TOTAL (IN TONS/KILOMETERS) shipping operations. For example, in the U.S. and Canada, the Group only works with carriers that have received SmartWay® 2.29% certification, a program designed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1.92% To encourage its transport service providers to adopt responsible practices, BIC has incorporated the reduction of GHG emissions in its criteria for selecting carriers. Lastly, to foster its carriers’ commitment to corporate responsibility, BIC extended its Code of Conduct to logistics service 0.93% providers. The amended Code was made available to all the Group’s transport teams worldwide, to be put into practice with their service providers. To facilitate their carriers’ efforts, in 2015 the Brazilian teams developed a methodology for auditing a transporter’s commitment in relation to the requirements of the BIC Code of Conduct, with the goal of rewarding the most committed vendors. 2016 2017 2018 ❯ Perspectives In 2019, the Shaver category plans to launch a project to optimize the packaging of the Twin Lady shaver in Saltillo (Mexico). This optimization will increase by 10% the overall number of shavers per outer, for a savings of about 300 pallets per year, or seven containers in the Athens-Saltillo flow. 94 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] 3.4. OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES [NFPS] The women and men who make up BIC Group have been the key to its success from the very beginning. With factories all around the world, distribution teams in 53 countries and about 4 million sales outlets spanning the globe, BIC thrives on a shared corporate culture, enriched by local specificities. The challenge for its Human Resources is to continue to nurture this common culture, founded on BIC’s values and philosophy, across geographic, professional and organizational borders. Shared protocols, based on the Group’s history and built to serve its industrial and commercial goals both present and future, are deployed to develop the skills and strengthen the commitment of everyone in the Company, while protecting and improving their health, safety and well-being. Working with its social partners, BIC strives to create a favorable environment for the long-term development of its employees, and of the Group as a whole. 3.4.1 THE WORKFORCE For the year ending December 31, 2018, BIC Group had 13,664 3.4.1.1. Breakdown of the workforce permanent employees and 3,291 temporary staff. by region and activity The following sections describe the BIC’s workforce in 2018 and Changes in staff numbers by region are shown below: the evolution. WORKFORCE BY REGION – IN FULL-TIME EQUIVALENTS AS OF DECEMBER 31 Variation Workforce by region Dec. 2016 Dec. 2017 Dec. 2018 2018/2017 Europe 4,144 4,014 4,061 +1.1% North America 2,345 805 740 -7.8% Developing markets 10,873 10,117 8,863 -12.3% TOTAL PERMANENT STAFF 17,362 14,936 13,664 -8.5% Temporary staff 3,268 3,912 3,291 -15.9% TOTAL 20,630 18,848 16,955 -10.0% In 2018, permanent employees decreased by 8.5% across temporary staff, ﬁxed-period contracts and school and (1,270 employees). university interns. This essentially reﬂects the decrease of headcount in Cello Pens in As of December 31, 2018, the number of temporary workers was India (1,331 fewer employees between December 2017 (6,996 lower than December 31, 2017 by 621 (3,291 vs. 3,912). In India, employees) and December 2018 (5,665 employees)). This decrease the number of temporary workers decreased to 423, as well as in is linked to the volumes production decline and productivity Athens, Greece (80 less) and in Mexico (230 less). These decreases improvement. In all other BC subsidiaries, the permanent are linked to changes in the production volumes. workforce is rather constant. Temporary workers are employed in manufacturing (89% of Permanent employees (with a permanent employment contract) temporary staff), sales support (6%) and distribution and accounted for 81% of the Group’s total workforce. Temporary administration (5%), essentially due to the highly seasonal nature workers accounted for 19% of the Group’s total workforce, split of BIC’s activities. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 95 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY ACTIVITY BIC GROUP Managers accounted for 20% of permanent Group employees in 2018. For BIC Group, the main characteristic of a manager is that 1,693 1,723 he/she coordinates a range of resources for which he/she is 11% 13% responsible, with a degree of autonomy and responsibility 1,783 1,701 12% necessary for the achievement of objectives on at least an annual 12% basis. Management might refer to a team, a project, a process, a technique, or a customer or supplier portfolio. 3.4.1.4. Recruitment and terminations For recruitment purposes, the Group has, over recent years, developed a mobility policy and an active internal promotion policy 11,458 10,240 backed by career management tools (Individual Development Plan, 77% 75% Succession Plan, talent accelerators, etc.). The Group recruited 1,563 external candidates, including 400 for management positions, In 2018, the external recruitment rate was 11%, as last year (15% for managers). 2017 2018 The Group enhances awareness of the Company in the international employment market through the use of tools such LinkedIn and also partners with internationally renowned Distribution, Marketing and G&A specialized recruitment companies. Over recent years, the Group Sales and Customer Service has reinforced its managers’ expertise in recruitment techniques Manufacturing and R&D and has developed a more efficient selection and tracking process. The workforce, across each activity, has remained constant in VOLUNTARY TURNOVER – PERMANENT WORKFORCE recent years, reﬂecting the stability of BIC’s system of organization. 8% 8% 8% 8% 7% 7% 7% 3.4.1.2. Breakdown of the workforce by age 2014 2015 2016 2018 6% 6% All ages are represented in BIC. 2010 2011 2013 2012 2017 BREAKDOWN OF THE WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP In India (Cello Pens) the number of voluntary departures has doubled in 2018. It has increased from 740 in 2017 to 1,421 in 73% 75% 2018. The voluntary departures rate is 20% for 2018. In the rest of the Group, the voluntary departures rate increased from 6% to 8% in 2018, which corresponds to 622 resignations and retirements in 2018 (569 departures in 2017). In 2018, as in 2017, the highest rate is in Asia-Océania (21%). In North America, the rate is 11%, 10% in Middle East Africa and 9% in Latin America. For several years, Europe has a low voluntary turnover (5.6%) due to staff stability in factories. 20% 18% For the perimeter excluding India – Cello Pens, the Group carried 6% 7% out 360 terminations in 2018 versus 314 in 2017 (1). The involuntary departure rate has increased from 3 to 5%. In India, the number of terminations has significantly increased; Under 30 years 30 to 55 years Over 55 years from 295 to 431 terminations in 2018, representing an involuntary 2017 2018 departure rate of 6%. In the event of staff restructuring that results in job cuts and 3.4.1.3. Breakdown of the workforce terminations of profiles that are not adapted to the futures by category organizations, Group policy is to respect local legal obligations as a minimum, in cooperation with social partners. Moreover, BIC PERMANENT HEADCOUNT BY CATEGORY strives to reassign employees whenever possible. December December Variation 2017 2018 2018/2017 Managers 2,723 (18%) 2,787 (20%) +2.3% Non-managers 12,211 (82%) 10,877 (80%) -10.9% (1) Excluding Cello Pens and departures related to the sale of BIC Graphic in 2017. 96 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] As part of the operation to transfer BIC Sports activities, BIC Group 2018 saw an overall engagement index increase of +1.5 compared committed to communicating with all stakeholders in a consistent, with 2016 (84.3% vs. 83%). The addition of India accounted for the transparent manner and in accordance with applicable regulations. positive swing. Multiple communication formats were created and delivered The manager index saw a significant increase in 2018 compared throughout the BIC Graphic locations in question to keep with 2016 (77.6 vs. 72.2). employees regularly up to date on the process. All employees of BIC Sports were rehired by the new owner under the same In 2018, BIC’s strengths focused on Pride in Company, Engagement contractual conditions (salaries and benefits). and, once again, BIC Values. 87.9% of team members are “proud to be associated with BIC.” This is reflected in the favorable responses around the Group’s core values of Responsibility and Ethics. BIC also saw areas of opportunity, particularly in Growth and Development, Recognition and Reward, and Resources and 3.4.2. SHARING OUR VALUES, Support. In addition, there was opportunity identified with clarity of direction for the Company, which scored under 50%. LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES For the first time, BIC included an item targeting Diversity and ❯ Challenges Inclusion: “BIC promotes an inclusive culture where people of diverse backgrounds feel welcome.” Overall, team members The Group’s philosophy “Honor the past, Invent the future” responded very favorably at 82.4%. symbolizes for BIC a respect for its heritage, which is one of the keys to its success, as well as the way in which its employees build The engagement of its team members is a key asset that BIC seeks the future of the Group together. BIC’s heritage encompasses many to maintain. To that end, the Group’s managers continue to use aspects: an entrepreneurial spirit, products that have become specially developed tools and coaching to help them define local icons within their markets, irreproachable quality, attention to action plans in response to the survey results. These action plans detail, and the commitment of the employees who have built the are defined by each entity, based on its results. Training plans for BIC® brand. high-potential employees have been bolstered and possibilities for offering non-financial recognition are being studied. BIC University This philosophy constitutes a central element of BIC’s culture and is being refreshed for a global relaunch in January 2019 (see arises from the following five shared Values: Ethics, Responsibility, page 103). Teamwork, Simplicity and Ingenuity. BIC values the opinions of all its employees and regularly seeks ❯ Perspectives their views on the Group, their work environment and their perception of the Group’s programs. BIC will continue its program of in-house surveys, with the goal of being attentive to its employees and implementing plans for improvement. For example, North America conducted three ❯ Approach separate “spot” surveys of its team members throughout 2018 in Since 2005, surveys on engagement and adherence to values have response to a change of leadership. been used to measure the difference between the values as they are defined in the communication tools and as they are truly experienced by employees in the workplace, as well as the employees’ engagement and related factors like working conditions, individual recognition, independence, career 3.4.3. HEALTH/SAFETY opportunities and management effectiveness. IN THE WORKPLACE Accompanying this survey, the “Values in Action Awards” are conferred on team members, nominated by their co-workers, who ❯ Challenges, risks and opportunities embody and excel in certain BIC values in the workplace. To date, The BIC Group has identified the “health/safety in the workplace” over 1,400 team members have been recognized within this risk as one of the major CSR risks (1) resulting from its operations. program, which started in 2006. Safety in the workplace is a fundamental priority for BIC Group. BIC’s operations, both industrial and commercial, expose its ❯ Performance and progress made in 2018 workers to various professional risks (mechanical, chemical, The Engagement and Adherence to Values Survey psychosocial, biological, ergonomic) that differ from function to Once again, BIC conducted its Engagement and Adherence to function (headquarters, factories, sales force). For the Group, Values Survey in 2018. All factories within the Group were workplace safety means ensuring its employees’ physical and represented, along with 2,000 team members from India. This year mental well-being by preventing accidents and occupational the survey covered 11,053 team members (permanent and diseases. The Group deploys all useful means: health and safety temporary employees under contract). Participation increased management, ongoing improvement of working environments and from 84% in 2016 to 93% in 2018, a rise of 9 points, with 10,255 the organization of working hours, and actions to raise employees’ team members responding. This year over 83% of the participants awareness of safety issues. responded online. (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 97 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] The information presented in this chapter on health and safety in In the Shavers category, since 2011 three of the four factories have the workplace concerns all of the BIC Group’s activities. earned triple certification for their development and deployment of the EH&S Policy: Safety (OHSAS 18001), Quality (ISO 9001) and Environment (ISO 14001). Writing the Future, Together – #3 Committing to a safe work environment ❯ Progress made in 2018 BIC has set the goal of taking action for safety in the workplace, as stated in the following commitment: By 2025, BIC aims for zero In 2018, the launch of the “Vision Zero” approach spawned a great accidents across all operations. many projects: Inspired by the “Vision Zero” approach developed by the ● an accident surveillance tool (the “e-HSE Suite” platform) was International Social Security Association (1), the Group is developing selected and implemented in all of the Group’s sites. To be a program that integrates the dimensions of safety, health, and operational in 2019, it will serve as the management tool for well-being at work, at every level, with the goal of achieving zero workplace accidents (evaluating risks, recording and sick leave days due to on-site accidents for everyone who works documenting accidents, defining corrective action plans). This for BIC. It is based on the ISSA’s Seven Golden Rules: take tool will also be useful at the category and continent levels for leadership – demonstrate commitment; identify hazards – control developing effective action plans; risks; define targets – develop programs; ensure a safe and ● health & safety reporting was extended throughout the Group, healthy system – be well-organized; ensure safety and health in and is no longer limited to the factories and headquarters. All machines, equipment, and workplaces; improve qualifications – Group sites (offices, factories and headquarters) are now develop competence; invest in people – motivate by participation. included in the approach and reporting. This “zero accidents” goal implies an intensification of the Group’s In the Stationery category: safety culture and policies in all of its operations, and includes the ● all of the category’s factory directors got together for a implementation of specific local actions. two-day meeting at which they defined the safety strategy for In 2018, building on the approach already adopted over the past each of their factories. These strategies were then shared several years in the Stationery category, BIC began extending and with the employees and their implementation began within adapting that category’s health-safety roadmap to the other the year; categories and continents. 2019 will be devoted to finalizing and ● employees at all factories (except Cello Pens) were surveyed implementing these roadmaps. on the Group’s health-safety culture. This survey revealed the employees’ attitudes toward safety in the workplace and identified the elements of the health-safety culture at BIC. The ❯ Policy, approach and measures implemented results were shared with the management team of each BIC adopts a Health & Safety program that allows it to guarantee a factory to help them develop appropriate action plans. This working environment that protects its employees’ physical survey will be repeated every other year to measure progress integrity. In keeping with its Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) in the adoption of the health-safety culture; Policy, BIC Group strives to prevent or at least reduce health and ● Safety Watches were initiated in 2018 at all sites (except Cello safety risks for its employees, subcontractors and people who live Pens). Conducted among employees, they allow co-workers to or work near its production sites. point out questionable practices and habits in a dynamic of The Group deploys safety management systems at its production dialog and ongoing improvement. They have proven to be an sites. Each site has an EH&S manager in charge of the deployment effective tool for improving safety by changing behavior of the EH&S Policy and follow-up of programs for reducing the patterns; employees’ health and safety risks, under the responsibility of the ● the EH&S managers were trained in behavioral safety to Industrial Directors. The self-assessments of compliance with the facilitate the deployment of the Safety Watches. Code of Conduct were conducted for 10 years, until 2016. These Each year, various types of initiatives are also launched in the self-assessments are based on a questionnaire prepared and Group’s factories and other sites. A few examples from 2018: analyzed by independent Auditors. The organization of work in BIC’s factories complies with local laws and the Group’s Code of ● BIC South Africa opened a space dedicated to sharing safety Conduct, which is modeled on the standards of the International information within the factory in order to communicate on: the Labor Organization. “Vision Zero” roadmap and progress made so far, incident/accident alarms, responses to proposals submitted The BIC Group has established a specific internal organization for via a suggestion box, and feedback from audits and this purpose, including a contact at each BIC site (industrial sites or cross-visits; offices) as well as an EH&S manager for the Stationery category, which has the largest number of factories within the Group, plus a ● the Conté-Samer and BIC Écriture 2000 sites (France) hosted safety manager for Latin America. A Group EH&S committee is in their first Safety Days in 2018; charge of deploying the approach on all categories and continents ● “Safety Weeks” were organized at the BIC Violex (Greece) and and sharing best practices. Made up of HR and EH&S supervisors, Manaus (Brazil) sites. it meets every quarter. (1) The International Social Security Association (ISSA) is an international organization uniting social security administrations and institutions around the world. 98 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] ❯ Performance ❯ Perspectives In 2018, health and safety management systems were operational Starting in 2019, significant actions will advance the adoption of at 88% of BIC’s sites. the Group’s safety culture and the implementation of the health-safety roadmaps: In all BIC sites, accidents resulting in lost work time for BIC employees are mainly caused by the handling of materials and ● the first worldwide EH&S meeting will be held in Greece at BIC machines. The frequency rate increase in 2018 from 1.87 to 2.09. Violex in April 2019; The development and implementation of actions plans will ● the actions implemented by the Stationery category in 2018 continue in 2019 and should lead to an increased safety culture will be duplicated in the Shavers category; and a decrease of this rate. The severity rate remains stable at ● a safety welcome session will be established for all office 0.08. In addition, 61 sites reported no accidents with lost work time newly hired personnel; in 2018. ● the sharing of good practices will be expanded with a “Best In More generally, the Group regrets 76 accidents for BIC employees Class” communication campaign within the Group; and 8 for external temporary workers. The incidence rate for BIC employees and temporary workers reaches 2.14 in 2018. ● Safety Watches will be extended to the two Cello Pens factories in India. Most of the occupational diseases, which so far have only been monitored in France, are related to musculoskeletal disorders. Due to the extension of the reporting perimeter in 2018 to include all of the BIC Group’s operations (factories and offices), only two years of data will be given below. 3.4.4. EMPLOYEE SECURITY RELATED TO GEOPOLITICAL RISKS INCIDENCE RATE: NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS LEADING TO LOSS OF WORK TIME – PER MILLION HOURS WORKED The BIC Group has identified “employee safety related to geopolitical risks” as one of the major CSR risks (1) resulting from 2.09 2.14 its operations. 1.87 In 2018, BIC Middle East launched Travel Tracker, a service 1.80 provided in partnership with International SOS. This service offers team members comprehensive information and support before and during travel, automatically linked to their travel booking. It prepares them for their visit by providing information on any potential health, security, political or climate risks. It also includes emergency services through which BIC can be notified in case an unforeseen event occurs while an employee is traveling. Team members can also seek help if they find themselves in danger, have questions or need medical support during their trip. This initiative is part of a proactive strategy to mitigate risk by keeping safety and security top of mind. 2017 2018 BIC workforce BIC workforce & temporary workers 3.4.5. HEALTH AND WELL-BEING IN THE WORKPLACE SEVERITY RATE: NUMBER OF CALENDAR DAYS LOST DUE TO AN ACCIDENT – PER THOUSAND HOURS WORKED – BIC WORKFORCE ❯ Challenges For BIC Group, employee health and well-being are also a matter of 0.08 0.08 reducing the incidence of work-related diseases, primarily musculoskeletal disorders and psychosocial risks (PSR) such as stress. BIC keeps a close watch on these issues and constantly strives to reduce all forms of job-related suffering. To this end, in conjunction with the above-mentioned approaches to organization and health-safety in the workplace, programs to promote well-being at work are coordinated Group-wide and 2017 2018 deployed locally depending on each site’s specific needs. (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 99 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] ❯ Approach programs (osteoporosis, skin cancer, oral cancer and hypertension screenings). In addition, biometric screenings are offered at all BIC The Group’s worldwide program called “Quality of Life at Work”, sites in the United States (height, weight, waist circumference, launched for the purpose of defining goals and a global strategy for body mass index, cholesterol levels and A1C screenings). On-site improving quality of life in the workplace, continues to be flu shot clinics are offered in all U.S. locations. developed at many sites. As part of this worldwide program, action plans have been defined and implemented locally based on past initiatives deployed in various countries. Through this program, BIC Prevention/awareness campaigns seeks to promote wellness at work in the interest of its employees in Latin America and their engagement. In this way, the Group will help limit the To supplement the weekly exercise sessions that have been effects of professional or personal stress on its employees’ health. offered for several years now at the Group’s sites in Brazil (BIC This program promotes both shortand long-term initiatives and Amazonia, PIMACO and the headquarters in Cajamar), a new action plans based on a combination of reactive and preventive program called GymPass has been launched to encourage approaches. It includes a separate section on the “Role of employees and their families to engage in sports and physical Managers”. “Quality of Life at Work” also examines employees’ job activity. Awareness sessions were also held as part of the “Pink responsibilities and the quality of their working environment. October” (for the prevention of breast and cervical cancer) and “Blue November” (against prostate cancer) programs. In addition, The efforts focus on four main areas: on World Diabetes Day, BIC Amazonia offers screening and ● health and well-being: safety, physical exercise, nutrition; information for employees about the disease and ways to ● the manager’s role: stress management and prevention as prevent it. well as the new skills required for team leaders; In Mexico, a new security brigade was implemented for the new ● workspace and workstations: ergonomics, configuration of offices in Toreo. A Safety and Hygiene Committee was also formed workspaces and common areas; to comply with Mexican regulations. ● employee services: to make everyday life easier and help A series of initiatives were implemented in Central American employees deal with personal and professional difficulties. locations as a result of the well-being program launched in 2017. In each of the four above-mentioned fields, new initiatives have These initiatives focus on promoting a healthy lifestyle and been undertaken and the programs developed over the past physical activity. They include programs like after-work exercise as several years in various countries are being continued. The most well as monthly awareness sessions on nutrition, healthy snacks significant programs are described below. and other topics. Screening campaigns were also conducted on Health Day in November. ❯ Progress made in 2018: health and well-being In Colombia and Ecuador, Healthy Week was continued from 2017. During the week of August 13, team members were offered “You First by BIC” in the United States information on nutrition, wellness exams and talks by various In the United States, BIC CORPORATION continues to focus, through speakers from the wellness and health industry. In addition, the “You First by BIC” initiative, on all aspects of employee health “Well-Being Committees” were formed at the beginning of the year. and well-being: physical, psychological and financial. In 2018, there These committees focus on organizing and implementing activities was a continued campaign to promote a holistic approach to such as health and legal talks for team members. Medical well-being through a telehealth program, subsidized gym checkups were offered to ensure that all team members maintain memberships, an on-site cafeteria with healthy options and a their health. External sports activities like soccer games were healthy eating incentive program, healthy vending machines, a encouraged to promote exercise. seasonal on-site farmers market, an on-site walking trail and an In Argentina and Chile, the Group offers annual Safety and Hygiene on-site fitness room for group classes/meditation/yoga. Other training sessions, including CPR training, evacuation drills and efforts included the promotion of healthy lifestyles and an offer for handling of fire extinguishers. A week of health awareness called CIGNA HealthCare members and a covered spouse to earn “Your Health Matters” was implemented. 28% of the workforce “well-being dollars” annually. received influenza vaccinations and 37% received a medical To promote physical well-being, BIC CORPORATION continues to checkup. offer its employees numerous on-site preventive screening 100 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] Wellness promotion in Morocco A call for tenders in health and life insurance was launched in several countries for the purpose of finding brokers or insurers In Morocco, “Joy Ministers” are elected every quarter to focus on that can offer reduced rates and/or improved medical coverage. implementing wellness initiatives focused on well-being at work. The resulting changes will be implemented in 2019. The fight against HIV/AIDS in South Africa and programs to help employees maintain ❯ Perspectives in health and well-being good health In 2018, a new consultation with insurers and intermediaries in the sector will be an opportunity to extend the current system to Every year since 2000, BIC South Africa has implemented a include screening campaigns in several countries, to be program to combat HIV and AIDS in a country where the virus is implemented in 2019. taking an especially heavy toll. This initiative is managed by an in-house clinic and a team of peer educators made up of Group employees. The program consists of three parts: employee ❯ Progress made in 2018: the role of the manager education, voluntary counseling and testing for anyone (permanent The managers’ attitudes and behavior are the cornerstone of any or temporary employees) and a health program. BIC South Africa effort to combat psychosocial risks (PSR). As a responsible pays the majority of medical expenses for HIV-positive employees: company, BIC trains its managers in the ability to acquire and apply 100% of the employees who ask for antiretroviral medication new managerial skills and in their fundamental role as the receive it. If needed, seropositive employees can be vaccinated providers of a positive dynamic for themselves and for their teams. against hepatitis B. In 2018, educators were offered a refresher They also have a clearly stated mission to be on the lookout for the training course and videos about sexually transmitted diseases subtle signals indicating that an employee is in distress and are were shared with all employees. On World AIDS Day, like every trained to detect those signals. The “Manager@BIC” and year, an awareness campaign was carried out with the goal of “Leader@BIC” training modules, created to help managers deal reaching all employees. All of these events will be ongoing in 2019. effectively with the challenges they face as team leaders, The Company’s charge nurse attended an HIV conference in increasingly incorporate the aspect of well-being at work as well November 2018 to learn to identify complications that employees as stress management in their programs. might develop. All managers were trained on the new Performance Module, which The in-house clinic provides primary medical care for health consisted of: the model itself, how to give and receive feedback, problems and work-related diseases, in particular for shift-work writing a development plan and how to successfully evaluate team employees. It also conducts numerous preventive and screening members based on the new model, encompassing not only the campaigns: eyesight, hearing, blood pressure, blood sugar, accomplishment of Business Goals but also how each team cholesterol, complete annual checkups, screening for various member demonstrates BIC’s Core Values, Core Competencies and forms of cancer and tuberculosis, etc. Special well-being days offer Functional Competencies. employees an opportunity to participate in seminars on fitness, reflexology, etc. ❯ Progress made in 2018: employee services Reducing physical stress on the job in France An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) has been in operation in the United States (at BIC CORPORATION) and in France (the PASS In compliance with new regulations, an analysis of potentially program) for several years, and since 2016 in the Asia-Pacific strenuous working conditions was conducted at all sites. One key zone. Set up for the benefit of BIC employees and their families, point is the reduction in the number of jobs associated with this service offers a 24-hour helpline plus the possibility of strenuous conditions. The “job strain account” has been adopted, face-to-face meetings with professionals. integrating 12 criteria defined by law. In 2017, an EAP was launched in Latin America for employees of the BIC Consumer Products business, offering help in legal, Developing the social protection systems financial, medical and psychological matters. Building on this, in available to BIC employees 2018 monthly communications were generated about the EAP with In 2018, BIC Middle East introduced a life, total and partial disability a focus on specific topics by site. In addition, a 24/7 free telephone insurance policy for its team members in the UAE. This is a major assistance service was implemented for team members and their step in providing some financial security for members’ families in direct families. the case of events that significantly impact a team member’s well-being. ❯ Performance In 2018, BIC CORPORATION in the United States continued its In France, BIC had recorded 40 recognized cases of occupational partnership with OneExchange, a private healthcare exchange that diseases by the end of 2018. offers a broad range of plan choices in compliance with U.S. healthcare reform. The percentage of employees with health insurance linked to a healthcare savings account continues to rise. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 101 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] ABSENTEEISM (EXCLUDING ON-SITE ACCIDENTS AND MATERNITY) – ● learning from new professional experiences (70%): by BIC GROUP PERMANENT WORKFORCE(CELLO PENS EXCLUDED) promoting project management, BIC offers opportunities for employees to work in multi-functional teams; ● learning from others (20%): developing a feedback culture, 1.5% every employee has opportunities to receive and offer further 1.4% 1.4% feedback, either to build on a strong point or to strengthen a developmental point; ● learning from training (10%): by increasing access to the BIC University programs, as well as locally developed training programs. The Talent Development team makes this model available to all teams. It is for example used to structure BIC tools like the Taleo system and the People Acceleration Plan, etc. BIC Group’s competencies framework specifies the Core Competencies that all employees around the world must cultivate to ensure BIC’s success: “Displays strategic agility”, “drives for 2016 2017 2018 results”, “champions MPD” (Method, Precision, Discipline), “engages others”, “acts with courage” and “develops self and Absenteeism (excluding on-site accidents and maternity) remained others”. These core competencies are being embedded in all BIC stable. University training programs and are included in the pre-employment testing process. Absenteeism (including on-site accidents and maternity) is globally in 2018 1.4% (excluding Cello Pens, it is stable and equal to 2.4%, as in 2017, while for Cello Pens, it is 0.5% in 2018). ❯ Progress made in 2018 Numerous actions were undertaken to encourage the use of the 70/20/10 model. Some examples are given below. 3.4.6. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Learning from new professional experiences (70) New Performance Review Model rollout ❯ Challenges All leveled Team Members were trained on the new Performance Model, which has specific criteria evaluating both the WHATs of The values of Responsibility and Ethics at BIC go hand in hand with performance as well as the HOWs. The HOWs reflect how well a the implementation of programs to cultivate its employees’ skills team member demonstrates BIC’s Core Values, Core Competencies and employability. and Functional Competencies. During this training, Team members Employee development is a crucial issue, in that it facilitates: reviewed the 70/20/10 model and were encouraged to seek out relevant professional experiences as part of their development ● achievement of the economic goals set by the various BIC plan, thus addressing areas of opportunity in the HOW of entities; performance. ● definition of internal succession plans to ensure the continuity of the Group’s activities; BIC enjoyed another successful year of Executive Mentoring, offering identified Key Talents a formal approach for the ● raising the level of its employees’ skills and expertise; development of their Core and Functional Competencies. ● maintaining an above-average market level of engagement; In 2018, BIC Group launched a global “Performance Management” ● development of the internal and external employability of training program worldwide to help employees understand the every man and woman who works for BIC. changes made to BIC’s Performance Management process. The goal of the training was to build skill in the fundamentals of ❯ Approach Performance Management (goal setting and development planning) and introduce the qualitative assessment of HOW. Regardless of function, level of responsibility, and type and length Continuous feedback via Touch Points was also introduced and is of contract, all BIC employees will be given opportunities to essential to ensure that team members are on track with goal and increase their external and internal employability. That is the development plans set in the beginning of the year. The retraining employability commitment of BIC to its employees. of the entire organization allowed BIC to drive a stronger adoption To achieve its commitment to employee development, BIC aims at of the process and deliver higher performance for the business. being a learning environment for its employees based on the 70/20/10 model, which boosts development by combining three dimensions: 102 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] Mobility and succession plans In 2018, the internal promotion rate went down by 62% for the four The “Open Positions Review” sessions facilitated by the Group top manager levels. Talent Development Team are designed to facilitate the mobility For all managers’ categories, the internal promotion rate was also process. During these meetings, open positions are discussed decreasing to 44% in 2018, while it was at 51% in 2017. along with role requirements and potential matches suggested in an effort to offer team members the best options for their own Learning from others (20) development and for the business. Open positions are shared globally in an effort to make optimal use of the available talents. In In 2018, BIC University implemented Mentoring@BIC, a program addition to the Open Positions Review discussions, BIC conducts a that offers Team Members the experience of being mentored by formal detailed review of high potential employees and potential leaders at BIC to identify developmental needs and take succession to key positions. appropriate action within an agreed-upon development plan. BIC University also structured the coaching program under ❯ Performance Coaching@BIC, which offers team members support from trained INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT MOVES AND PROMOTION RATE coaches to help them recognize ways they can improve the effectiveness of their performance and their impact in the business. 36% Learning from training (10) 31% 30% 30% The programs developed by BIC University 25% Created in 1998, the mission of BIC University is to “Develop and evolve learning solutions that meet business needs and for building the workforce for the future.” With plants and sales teams in 53 countries, it is critical for BIC to make training accessible to everyone, everywhere in the world. In order to achieve this challenge, BIC University has a team of five dedicated people based in France and North America as well as a ND network of 12 BIC University Ambassadors all over the world. The 2016 2017 2018 community of Ambassadors promotes, leverages and delivers BIC University solutions. In addition, BIC University relies on an internal BIC Group, Cello Pens excluded network of more than 71 internal trainers, subject matter experts BIC Group, Cello Pens included with a passion for knowledge sharing. Since its creation, BIC University has developed numerous training This indicator measures the number of manager and non-manager programs that serve as vehicles for developing the core positions filled internally, compared with the total number of competencies that must be shared by everyone in the Group. For positions filled within the Group over the same period. It includes example: promotions (level change) and developments (change of position, ● The BIC U Curriculum – which contains training in main topic geographic zone or entity). areas such as Personal Effectiveness, Business Skills for Tomorrow and People Manager Development – is available RATE OF INTERNAL PROMOTION AMONG MANAGERS (LEVELS 3, 4, 5 everywhere in various forms: facilitator-led training, AND 6) – BIC GROUP webinars, e-learning modules, simulation exercises, etc. 69% 62% ● In 2018, the Recruiter@BIC and Managing Other programs were completely redesigned to better adapt to the Group’s current business and team organization. BIC University’s online portal, BICUonline, contains a catalog of curated resources available to 5,300 team members worldwide. The BIC U Curriculum and the BICUonline portal were refreshed in 2018 for simpler navigation and access to learning opportunities. All resources are mapped by Core Competencies and main topic areas, making it easy to identify the right training opportunity to 38% meet each team member’s developmental needs. 31% This portal also hosts all of the Group’s compliance training (BIC Group Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy). 2017 2018 Internal recruitment External recruitment • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 103 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] Increasing BIC University’s impact ❯ Performance BIC continues to invest in its organizational capacities in order to In 2018, 11,459 employees received training (or 68% of headcount make BIC University’s training available to everyone everywhere. present on December 31, 2018) with an average of three days per “BIC U everywhere for everyone”: in 2018, the implementation of employee. BIC University at BIC-Cello (India) continued with the identification and development of internal and external resources (training for NUMBER OF TRAINING DAYS – BIC GROUP – PERMANENT trainers and selection of external service providers) plus greater AND TEMPORARY WORKFORCE visibility of BIC U through BICUonline. 27,517 “BIC U aligned with business priorities”: in 2018, the BIC Performance Management process was completely revamped and BIC University trained all team members and people managers impacted by the new process. 2,967 people were trained by 21,020 20,414 71 trainers. 19,511 17,732 “Quality first”: in 2018, the impact of the programs for the Company was evaluated by employees, using the ForMetris tool, at a rate of 75%. This is above the market average, confirming the ForMetris levels of the past several years. “BIC U remains a melting pot for BIC”: the ProChange program, for example, uses a BIC toolkit developed and evolved by internal experts from all categories and all continents. Technical/functional training ND The technical training for BIC’s specific industrial operations is 2016 2017 2018 developed locally: each entity invests in a program to build the technical and functional skills it needs. BIC Group, Cello Pens excluded BIC Group, Cello Pens included For the past several years the Group has been striving to perpetuate its key technical skills. For example, in Tarragona (Spain), the Lighter category is recruiting new employees through NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS (PER THEME) – BIC GROUP 2018 – apprenticeship programs in partnership with two schools. In PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY WORKFORCE France, the “Training for Industrial Professionals” (TIP) program trains young people in the technical functions of mechanics, tool 13,905 setting and plastics technology, for which there is a shortage on Wellness the labor market. 23,738 BIC culture Since 2016, 13 apprentices have been recruited as part of this program in those three categories, and 10 trainees have completed their training in Tarragona (Spain) and at Violex (Greece). 27,827 Leadership In Manaus (Brazil), BIC University enables employees to receive skills training and earn certification. In addition, the Manufacturing School has been relaunched with the objective of developing technical skills and competencies for team members in technical careers. The main changes were: a new training matrix was 154,564 created taking into account the needs per job, new content was Technical training created to meet those needs, and 10 internal voluntary facilitators were certified with the appropriate methodology and competencies to multiply knowledge and train others. The School’s primary goal is to be recognized as a key program for professional and technical career growth, relying on BIC know-how and the facilitators´ 3.4.7. THE REMUNERATION SYSTEM knowledge and experience. 40 team members across categories were enrolled in the first module, which focused on Problem Solving. A new Languages Program was also launched in 2018 in ❯ Challenges and approach order to improve English skills across categories and support BIC seeks to develop a fair and motivating remuneration system areas. Individual assessments were carried out to identify that can make the Group both competitive and appealing to proficiency levels and organize the classes. There are now five potential employees. classes for 36 team members running at BIC after work, in BIC Group’s remuneration policy is determined every year by the partnership with an English business school. Human Resources Department in agreement with the Leadership Team. It is based on three principles: ● pay for individual and/or collective performance; ● internal equity; ● external competitiveness. 104 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] The acknowledgement of the performance of the individuals and 3.4.8. PROMOTING DIVERSITY the teams is an essential element in BIC Group’s remuneration policy. Thus, for managers, salary increases reﬂect individual merit (except in certain countries where legal obligations require general ❯ Challenges, risk and opportunities increases). As an international company, BIC considers diversity to be an In 2018, variable remuneration relating to performance intrinsic part of its corporate culture, as well as a key factor for its represented an average of 13% of ﬁxed remuneration for Group sustainable growth, in addition to legal or ethical considerations. employees (excluding Cello Pens). This growth is explained by the Group’s development in new subsidiaries, notably in the Middle East and Africa, and also by the For non-managers, BIC guarantees an appropriate remuneration anchoring of the diversity policy in the Group’s recruitment and respects minimum salaries determined by local laws and processes. which is inspired by local and international companies locally.. Diversity also contributes to making the Group more attractive to Human Resources teams worldwide are responsible for its consumers and partners and to team members who prefer to implementing BIC Group’s remuneration policy and for ensuring work for a responsible company that tries to reflect the society that that it is adhered to. it serves. The BIC Group has identified “discrimination related to gender” as ❯ Performance one of the major CSR (1) risks resulting from its operations. The average annual cost (including payroll taxes) of each employee totaled 33,854 euros in 2018, increasing +5.6% versus 2017, at ❯ Policy, approach and measures implemented actual exchange rates. The BIC Charter of Diversity, which was signed by the CEO and the Analysis using constant exchange rates shows an increase of Group’s Human Resources Director in 2011, demonstrates BIC’s +9.7% compared with 2017. Overall, this variance in the average desire to take action to promote diversity. It is shared by all of the annual cost of each employee is due to: Group’s entities worldwide and has been translated into the main ● a +8.8% increase in average fixed remuneration; languages spoken in the Group. It is now being reformulated in order to fine-tune the definition of BIC’s position on diversity and ● a +14.6% increase in variable remuneration compared with integration. 2017; ● a +10.2% increase in payroll taxes and other benefits. As part of its approach, BIC takes all different types of diversity into account: gender diversity, disabled employees, minorities, seniors Excluding Cello, the average annual cost is stable. and younger workers, etc. Actions are organized locally every year Information on Senior Management remuneration is provided on to address these topics, depending on local contexts and initiatives. pages 150 to 168. An analysis of the external competitiveness of BIC managers’ base ❯ Progress made in 2018 and performance salaries is conducted on a regular basis in about 50 countries. This To cultivate even greater diversity, BIC formed a working group in competitiveness analysis conducted at end-2017 shows that, on 2017 comprising employees from the various categories and average, BIC managers’ base salaries are positioned at their local geographic zones. The group also reflects the Company’s diversity, market median. uniting different nationalities, age brackets, responsibility levels, genders, etc. In 2018, this working group focused on the definition COMPARISON OF MANAGERS’ SALARIES WITH THE MARKET of a roadmap that includes: expressing the Group’s vision for – STATISTICAL BREAKDOWN OF COMPARISON RATIOS (IN 2017) promoting diversity all the way to the highest level of the Company, 114 defining a Group-wide commitment, introducing training on unconscious bias at all hierarchical levels, and establishing a 101 network of Diversity & Inclusion correspondents. 91 In 2018, the topic of diversity and inclusion was added to the Group engagement survey. In Argentina and Chile, typical meals from various countries were served at lunch during Diversity Week, increasing employees’ understanding and appreciation of other culinary cultures. The mentoring program in the Africa Middle-East zone seeks to ensure gender equality in the targeting of talents. Quartile 1 Median Quartile 3 The difference in pay between team members reflects responsibilities, experience, performance, potential and considers the characteristics of local markets. (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 105 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] Male/Female equality NUMBER OF DISABLED WORKERS ON THE PERMANENT WORKFORCE – BIC GROUP PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN THE PERMANENT WORKFORCE – BIC GROUP 247 49% 53% 36% 152 148 134 135 41 % 32% 47% 45% 42% 40% 42% 33% 37% 37% 38% 20% 13% 13% 13% 14% 40% 40% 40% 30% ND 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2018* BIC Group, Cello Pens excluded * Cello Pens included Non managers BIC Group, Cello Pens included Managers BIC levels 1 to 6 (20% of permanent staff) Managers BIC levels 2-3-4-5-6 (10% of permanent headcount) In 2018, disabled workers at the Group’s largest sites totaled 148 Managers BIC levels 3-4-5-6 (4% of permanent headcount) (excluding indirect jobs associated with outsourcing). They numbered 53 in Europe, 22 in North America, 49 in Latin America Managers BIC levels 4-5-6 (1.1% of permanent headcount) and 24 in the rest of world (Middle East, Africa, Oceania and Asia). Leadership Team Managers Board of Directors Intergenerational equity % Groupe The aging of the population and its consequences will be a major issue in the years to come, especially in regions like Europe and the U.S. To ensure the transmission of skills and continuity of the In 2018, women accounted for 49% of permanent employees in the Company’s know-how, an analysis of the age structure and Group: 35% of the workforce in Europe, 41% in North America, 48% seniority has been made in the Group’s factories. in Latin America and Asia, 47% in Middle East – Africa, 62% in India In this context, BIC seeks to promote: and 43% in Oceania. ● cooperation among generations; Compared with 2017, the proportion of women in the headcount ● professional motivation for seniors, and their employability remains globally stable. throughout their careers; ● the transmission of knowledge and skills. Disabled employees BIC Group is committed to promoting employment for the disabled. ❯ Perspectives Its entities conduct short-term and long-term initiatives in this direction at the local level. Based on the proposals of the Diversity & Inclusion working group, BIC plans to set specific goals and launch pilot initiatives in this The commitment of BIC in favor of diversity is reflected particularly area in 2019. by local training and employment assistance for disabled workers. 106 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our social responsibility to our employees [NFPS] 3.4.9. SOCIAL DIALOGUE strives, insofar as its resources allow, to improve working conditions by offering wages above the legal minimums, through superior employee benefits, or through investments to improve the ❯ Challenges working environment. BIC Group strives to use all the means available to engage in dialog These types of social progress are a subject of prior dialog, and the with its employees. In this spirit, it sets up the initiatives on employees and their representatives are kept informed to ensure listening to employees mentioned on page 97. To maintain its optimal communication. employees’ engagement and remain attentive to their expectations, the Group strives to cultivate a high-quality social dialog, either directly with the management or with the employees themselves, ❯ Progress made in 2018 their representatives, or labor union representatives at unionized The topics discussed in the negotiations are related either to local sites. obligations or to the previously mentioned management points. For example, many mechanisms to promote safety and health in the ❯ Approach workplace have been initiated through social dialog. In every country where the Group has operations, it complies with all applicable collective agreements. In addition, each subsidiary The following table gives a few examples of such agreements. Perimeter Topic Spain – BIC Iberia A contract was signed between unions and the employer guaranteeing the Company’s independence from branch or field agreements, ensuring ongoing discussions and negotiations with internal team members who know the local and internal context. The contract offers team members better conditions than the steel union branch agreement while corresponding more closely to BIC’s needs. It ensures better follow-up and analysis of absenteeism, with the possibility of a corrective action plan, and confirms the update in 2018 and 2019 of job families, jobs descriptions and job mapping. United States A three-year agreement with the United Steelworkers union has been signed that will improve employees’ financial conditions while giving the Company greater flexibility. Clichy (France) Negotiation of a new optional profit sharing agreement based on criteria linked to operations in order to improve individuals’ impact on the Group’s shared profits. An agreement on gender equality that integrates new benefits for employees while ensuring across-the-board equality of women and men in terms of human resources and careers. ❯ Performance effectiveness, communication, remuneration and engagement. The Leadership Team is also questioned in order to highlight any An audit conducted in 2014 showed that at the end of that year, convergences or gaps that might arise between the two groups. nearly 63% of Group employees were covered by a form of Action plans are then defined to address the critical points thus employee representation through Works Councils or committees, identified. This project was launched for the Lighters category in Health and Safety Committees, trade unions and collective 2017, and in 2018 the participation rate among employees in the agreements or equivalent. This representation takes place through Shavers category was 100%. regular meetings for explaining the monthly or annual financial results, describing the Company’s strategy, answering questions, etc. ❯ Perspectives Employees in Manaus (Brazil) can make their observations and This culture of remaining attentive to its personnel and taking expectations known through the “HR & You” program. This new collective requests into consideration is vital for the Group and will communication channel allows employees to dialog with human be maintained in the years to come through contacts with both resources staff via a questionnaire focusing on leadership labor unions and employee representatives. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 107 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] 3.5. OUR SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY [NFPS] In September 2015, the United Nations adopted a new Sustainable Development Program comprising 17 worldwide goals for combating poverty, inequality and injustice. These goals emphasize the crucial role of universal access to education and hygiene. The Group strives to meet these challenges through its local economic presence, with about four million points of sale offering BIC® products worldwide, and through its global presence: BIC manufactures and distributes its products in 160 countries, supplying the most developed marketplaces as well as some of the most impoverished ones (see page 82). The societal challenges undertaken by BIC also include respect for ethics and Human Rights in the workplace and the fight against corruption. To meet these challenges, BIC’s operations and subcontracting activities integrate its Code of Conduct, Code of Ethics and, since 2016, its Anti-Corruption Policy. Lastly, BIC seeks to support local communities through the development of philanthropic policies that favor involvement at both the Group and the individual level. 3.5.1. FULFILLING OUR RESPONSIBILITY ❯ Policies, approach and measures implemented ACROSS OUR ENTIRE VALUE 3.5.1.1. Writing the Future, Together – CHAIN #4 Proactively involving suppliers BIC has set the goal of involving its suppliers proactively and has ❯ Challenges, risks and opportunities codified this ambition in the following commitment: by 2025, BIC The vast majority of BIC® products, representing 92% of the Group’s will work responsibly with its strategic suppliers to ensure the net sales, are produced in BIC factories. BIC’s corporate most secure, innovative and efficient sourcing. organization prevents it from diluting its responsibility when it In 2018, BIC reached the first milestone in fulfilling this calls upon subcontractors: all purchased or subcontracted commitment by conducting a comprehensive review of its system, products and their suppliers are subject to stringent prior based on its longstanding approach of ESG evaluations of strategic qualification processes in terms of quality, safety and social suppliers and audits of contract manufacturers. criteria. In 2018, the BIC Group’s purchasing teams were mobilized to In the course of its operations, BIC works with about define the ambition of the purchasing strategy, namely: to 2,000 suppliers and subcontractors. For the Group, being a maximize purchasing’s contribution to the creation of value for BIC, responsible company means maintaining control over the entire its suppliers and subcontractors by: value chain. To this end, the Purchasing Departments analyze all risks: stock levels, diversification of suppliers and sourcing zones, ● securing the created value (ensuring continuous supply and risks associated with the country and the rarity of the resource. BIC consistent quality, consumer safety, regulatory compliance, also strives to extend the high standards that it applies in its own brand protection); operations, in terms of quality, respect for the environment, ethics ● increasing the created value (performance and costs, and Human Rights, to all the parties involved in the production and manufacturing processes, the development of new customer distribution of its products. Its demands encompass factors like benefits with no technological or material disruption); compliance with deadlines, cost control, quality and innovation, but ● creating additional value (innovation that benefits also include adherence to the Group’s values and commitments in consumers, overhaul of the processes). terms of sustainable development. A complete review of the supplier database has been carried out in The BIC Group has identified the following risks as major CSR order to identify suppliers that are considered strategic for the BIC risks (1) resulting from its operations: Group based on four criteria: ● “human rights (child labor, ILO standards)”; ● representing high volumes of purchases for BIC; ● “fair practices (corruption).” ● continuity of operations if the supplier ceases to function; The risks identified by the BIC Group in its supply chain are detailed ● single-source supply; in section 2.3 of the registration document, “Vigilance Plan.” ● a significant impact on BIC’s growth. (1) The main CSR risks related to the activities and use of BIC Group’s goods and services are presented in the chapter “Risks” on pages 44 to 48. 108 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] As a result of this review, the BIC Group has identified 346 strategic ❯ Perspectives suppliers among the 15,000 suppliers in its database. 2019 will be devoted to defining a roadmap based on purchasing’s An evaluation of the CSR risks related to its suppliers was carried contribution to the creation of value for BIC, its suppliers and out, the results of which are presented in the Group’s Vigilance subcontractors. The implementation of this roadmap will then be Plan (see page 49). monitored by the indicator “% of strategic suppliers concerned by Lastly, a review was carried out of the risk control tools already in at least one responsible purchasing action”. In addition to this place within the Group. To meet the requirements of its roadmap for controlling major risks related to purchasing, BIC is Responsible Purchasing Charter (see box), BIC currently relies on pursuing its program of social audits of contract manufacturers. three main tools: ● compliance with the Code of Conduct (see page 110); 3.5.1.2. Ensuring respect for Human Rights ● audit programs (see page 110); in the workplace ● ESG evaluations by EcoVadis. From 2011 to 2017, BIC used ❯ Challenges the EcoVadis tool to evaluate the performance of its strategic raw material suppliers based on environmental, social and BIC’s reliance on contract manufacturing is relatively low. Overall, governance (ESG) criteria. 92% of the Group’s net sales are generated by products made in its own factories. 87% of these factories are located in countries with Furthermore, the “Transport Community” uses the tools made no Human Rights risk according to Freedom House (1). available by the Group to help its transport service providers make progress in sustainable development. In 2013, the BIC Code of BIC works with subcontractors primarily for stationery products in Conduct was amended to make it applicable to transport carriers the Consumer business and for Advertising and Promotional and was shared everywhere the Group has operations. In Brazil a Products. Subcontracting gives the Group greater flexibility. booklet presents the Code of Conduct to transport contractors. The “Packaging Community” works with its suppliers in a similar PERMANENT WORKFORCE BY CATEGORY OF COUNTRY IN RELATION TO HUMAN RIGHTS RISK (1) IN 2018 – BIC GROUP way. In particular, paper and cardboard packaging suppliers are encouraged to obtain SFI, FSC or PEFC certification or to supply 2% Not free countries packaging containing recycled materials (see page 84). The cross-identification of risks and the review of the risk control 11% Partly free countries programs resulted in the drafting of an initial list of recommendations for improving control over risks related to strategic suppliers and implementing the strategy for maximizing the contribution to the creation of value. 87% These recommendations concern the use of each tool in the Free countries system, its perimeter of application, internal responsibilities and roles, and the possibility of implementing additional tools in the future. The Responsible Purchasing Charter GLOBAL CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS BY COUNTRY IN RELATION The Group seeks to cultivate long-term commercial relationships TO HUMAN RIGHTS RISK (1) IN 2018 – BIC GROUP with its suppliers, establishing responsible relations with them and upholding its commitment to Responsible Purchasing. BIC’s Responsible Purchasing Charter, finalized in 2014, codifies the 31.5% Group’s relations with its suppliers in keeping with its five shared Free countries Values: Ethics, Responsibility, Teamwork, Simplicity and Ingenuity. This charter applies to relations with suppliers and contract 60.5% manufacturers involved in the production or shipping of BIC® Not free products. countries 8% Through the Responsible Purchasing Charter, the Group reminds Partly its suppliers and subcontractors that all of the commitments that free BIC has made concerning its own operations apply to their countries activities as well. This charter is submitted to all suppliers and subcontractors to whom it is applicable. (1) Source: “Freedom in the World 2018”, a study by the non-governmental organization Freedom House. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 109 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] ❯ Approach Products). Regular audits are conducted every two years to verify that standards are maintained at a satisfactory level. An approach guided by the BIC Group Code of Conduct ● Audits are carried out by third party Auditors. In 2014, BIC To ensure respect for Human Rights in the workplace, BIC has Group introduced a new tool called the Workplace Condition implemented a Code of Conduct. This document comprises a set of Assessment (WCA) platform. Considered the next generation professional and social principles derived from the standards of in social auditing, the WCA gives brands and manufacturers the International Labor Organization (ILO). The Group is committed improved performance measurement tools and more to upholding socially responsible behavior in all its operations. The meaningful results, while helping improve workplace principles in this document are applied at all production facilities, conditions. This assessment tool is based on national laws, whether owned by the Group or operated by contract integrating ILO standards and existing best practices, and is manufacturers, and BIC conducts audits to ensure its consistent with the BIC Group Code of Conduct. The WCA implementation. comprises more than 180 evaluation criteria covering a range of topics: child labor, forced labor, discrimination, The Code of Conduct is based on the following 10 principles: harassment, freedom of association, working hours, salaries, ● a safe and healthy work environment; employment contracts, health and safety and environmental responsibility. ● fair wages and reasonable working hours; Contract manufacturers are audited and rated on each ● no child labor; criterion and then given an overall score. This platform allows ● no forced labor; the Group to closely monitor a contract manufacturer’s ● no discrimination; performance in relation to each indicator. Deficiencies in each ● freedom of association; evaluation criterion are rated as major, moderate or minor, thus allowing the implementation of targeted corrective ● legal compliance; action plans where needed. It also includes global ● no animal testing; benchmarks for each country and each Group business ● environmental responsibility; sector. ● publication of the Code. All contract manufacturers producing BIC® products are This Code of Conduct applies to BIC factories, which are mainly audited over a two-year cycle, during which improvement located in South Africa, Brazil, Spain, the U.S., France, Greece and programs will be implemented based on deficiencies Mexico. It also applies to contract manufacturers, which are identified during the assessment. primarily located in China, Brazil, Vietnam. BIC sees social responsibility as a partnership that requires shared values. In this spirit, BIC favors a common The social audit program commitment to improvement rather than breaking off relations with a partner. The box below explains the main Compliance with the Code of Conduct is verified by an audit steps in the evaluation of contract manufacturers. program covering all the factories where BIC® products are manufactured. BIC has had a specific audit program in place for ● Self-assessments were conducted by all BIC factories from more than 15 years to ensure worldwide compliance with its Code 2006 through 2016. The Group was thus able to acquire a of Conduct by contract manufacturers. The program applies to both thorough understanding of the risks and to develop corrective global contract manufacturers and contract manufacturers under action plans in cooperation with the Human Resources local contracts producing BIC® products for local markets for BIC Department. Consumer Products and BIC Graphic (Advertising and Promotional THE SIX STEPS FOR EVALUATING CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS 1. The BIC contract manufacturer signs the BIC Group Code of Conduct. 2. An independent external monitoring agency conducts an initial assessment of the contract manufacturer. 3. BIC presents a corrective action plan (CAP) to the contract manufacturer. 4. The contract manufacturer implements the CAP within an agreed upon, reasonable time frame. 5. The Auditor conducts follow-up assessment(s) to conﬁrm implementation of the CAP. 6. Ongoing assessments are conducted every two years. 110 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] SA 8000 CERTIFICATION FOR THE BIC AMAZONIA FACTORY In 2010, the BIC Amazonia factory obtained SA 8000 social benchmarking certification on a voluntary basis. In 2013 and in 2016, this certification was renewed for a further three-year period. Examples of results achieved include: improvement in relations between management and employees; greater transparency in the HR process, in relation to internal recruitment, training and skills development; and the rollout of best practices to subcontractors working directly at BIC sites. ❯ Progress made in 2018 and performances ● The facility has comprehensive employee safety processes and procedures in a written manual that support adherence to In 2018, 25 contract manufacturers (for Consumer Products or BIC social compliance requirements but they are not all being Graphic) were audited, representing 33% of our active contract properly implemented : 5%. manufacturers at year end. The audits directly requested and ● The facility has comprehensive emergency preparedness managed by BIC, revealed 1 zero tolerance, 18 major, 133 moderate and 145 minor deficiencies, and 28 corrective action processes and procedures in a written manual that support plans were implemented. The four biggest areas of deficiency were adherence to social compliance requirements but they are not found in management systems, health & safety and wages & hours: all being properly implemented : 5%. ● Total overtime hours exceeds allowable limits under ● The facility has comprehensive working hour and wages applicable law or agreement : 4% management processes and procedures in a written manual that support adherence to social compliance requirements Overall, under BIC two-years-cycle of social audits, 74% of the but they are not all being properly implemented : 6%. contract manufacturers were audited. The contracts manufacturers that were not audited during this cycle (especially for operational reasons) will be early 2019. SOCIAL AUDITS IN THE ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONAL PRODUCTS BUSINESS BIC Graphic Europe joined the SEDEX platform in 2012. SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business practices along the supply chain. Being a member of SEDEX provides the added benefit of having a confidential platform for sharing social compliance audit reports and related information and participation in working groups. The SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) standard combines several reputable standardization programs including the ILO Convention, ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative) Base Code, SA 8000 and ISO 14001. In 2018, the Tarragona factory (Spain) was audited according to the WCA criteria and earned a score of 100%. The Mexican factories and Conté (France) factories were also audited. ❯ Perspectives Since 2007, the BIC Group Code of Ethics has defined the fundamental ethical principles that the Group asks all of its In the years to come, the BIC Group plans to pursue its social audit employees to follow under all circumstances and everywhere in program, which will be incorporated in the BIC strategy Writing the world. The objective is to build and sustain an authentic the Future, Together and its commitment #4, Proactively involving corporate culture of integrity, honesty and fairness. The Code of suppliers (see 3.5.1.1). Ethics comprises: ● 14 standards covering the following aspects: respect for 3.5.1.3. Ethics and the fight against fundamental Human Rights, respect for the environment, corruption compliance with the law, listening and communicating, and the prevention of any form of active or passive corruption; ❯ Challenges ● 13 principles governing the behavior of BIC employees to BIC generates 32% of its sales in countries where the risk of control risks arising from conflicts of interest, the protection corruption is considered high or very high (Brazil, Mexico, India, of the Group’s assets, professional commitments, and Italy and Argentina) and 68% in countries with a medium or low relationships with its stakeholders; risk of corruption according to Transparency International, ● a Guide listing the questions that all BIC employees must ask including France, the United States and Spain. themselves to assess their level of compliance with the Code of Ethics and facilitate its understanding and implementation. ❯ Approach The Code of Ethics, as approved by the Board of Directors and the Compliance with ethical principles and the fight against all forms CEO, and its guide are available in 15 languages. The text of the of corruption, active or passive, are stipulated among the Code is available to all employees on the Group Intranet. standards of the BIC Group Code of Ethics and BIC Group Anti-Corruption Policy. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 111 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] Since 2016, the BIC Group Anti-Corruption Policy has defined the Anti-Corruption Policy through e-learning sessions for employees appropriate conduct mandatory for all BIC personnel, including in Africa, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific zone. employees, Directors and administrators, and for all parties acting on the Group’s behalf: subsidiaries, affiliate companies, partners under contract, wholesalers, consultants… The Policy describes ❯ Perspectives how business must be conducted with third parties to protect In the coming years, further training will be extended to cover against corrupt practices and avoid their occurrence. BIC Group additional aspects of compliance. Year after year, the Group will does not tolerate any kind of corruption or bribery and has made a continue to bolster its mechanisms for upholding ethics and commitment to fight corruption in all of its forms. The fighting corruption. Anti-Corruption Policy covers the following topics: ● interactions with government officials, private entities and persons who are not government officials; ● gifts, corporate gifts and sponsorship; 3.5.2. SUPPORTING THE LOCAL ● relations with stakeholders; ECONOMY AND PROMOTING ● donations, contributions to communities and political parties; SOLIDARITY ● conflicts of interest; ● monitoring, record keeping and reporting of any breaches of 3.5.2.1. Generating and maintaining jobs anti-corruption laws. Employees are offered training on the Code of Ethics and the fight ❯ Approach against harassment. BIC Group participates directly and indirectly in the local economy in every region where it has operations. “BIC Speak Up,” the Group’s anonymous and confidential reporting system, is accessible by telephone and Internet to all current and Every time it starts operations in a new region, BIC’s policy is to former BIC employees 24 hours a day and is available in more than favor local hiring over expatriation. As a result, the Group has a 200 languages. total of only 88 expatriated employees today (0.64% of permanent employees). BIC thus contributes directly to local economies by BIC is committing to ensure the confidentiality of the information generating jobs. gathered as well as to ensure that no sanction is taken against an employee who reported in good faith a breach of the BIC Group Historically located in Europe, BIC has been developing and Anti-Corruption Policy or to the Group Code of Ethics. maintaining industrial jobs in this region, in particular in France, Spain and Greece, for several decades. The Group promotes “Made The alert hotline will be accessible to third parties from 2019. in France” and “Made in Europe” products in its catalogs, thus This alert mechanism aims to prevent the actions or conducts that contributing to the creation of value and jobs in these countries, would be contrary to integrity, honesty or equity. which have been especially hard hit by the economic crisis that It is the responsibility of the entities’ CFOs or equivalent Officers to began in 2008. assess the entities’ tax positions and manage all tax filings. The BIC BIC values the local manufacturing of its products so that it Group Tax Department provides broader support to all entities. In contributes to local economic development and includes the local 2018, the internal control procedures did not detect any case of tax communities in the value chain. The Group has strongly localized evasion linked to the activities of the Group. its manufacturing operations, especially via a network of six licensed factories solely for the Middle East-Africa zone. This local partnership approach has brought BIC® products closer to its ❯ Progress made in 2018 consumers, making them more affordable and minimizing In 2018, BIC carried out an evaluation of its risks related to third transportation costs. There are multiple benefits for the partners parties. The Group continued to strengthen its ethics program and and the communities alike, especially in local job creation, efforts to fight corruption, expanding its mandatory training on the technology sharing and transfers, and enhanced product competitiveness. ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY ON THE BIC FACTORY IN MANAUS (BRAZIL) A pilot study conducted in 2004, and discussed in detail in the BIC Group 2005 Sustainable Development Report, provides a better understanding of the impact of the activities of a BIC site on the local economy in a developing country. The findings showed that in the city of Manaus, which is located in a very remote region (the Amazon) where industry is concentrated in just a few sectors, only a quarter of the site’s expenditures remained locally in Manaus, with the remaining expenditures going to the rest of Brazil and foreign countries. In terms of employment, the study showed that each direct job at BIC Amazonia generated up to three local jobs and indirectly supported as many as 10 people just in the city of Manaus. Since 2004, Brazil has opened its economy to more foreign investment and improved its economic and transportation infrastructures. As a result, the findings of this study would no doubt be somewhat different today, but Manaus remains a remote, isolated site. 112 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] 3.5.2.2. Writing the Future, Together – The Group acts through three channels: #5 Improving lives through ● actions undertaken by the BIC Corporate Foundation; education ● philanthropic actions (donations of products, funding and skills) undertaken by local entities for the benefit of their ❯ Challenges communities (detailed in section 3.5.2.3 below); The UN Sustainable Development Goal no. 4 is “to ensure inclusive ● coaching actions to help improve learning conditions, and equitable quality education and to promote lifelong learning including awareness of the benefits of writing by hand in the opportunities for all.” It underlines the two key challenges learning and memorization processes. regarding education: access to education and equity in learning. At the end 2018, the year in which this goal was launched, the The latest UIS (1) report shows that today: BIC Group estimated the number of children whose learning ● access to education remains a major problem: 263 million conditions have been improved at 15 million through direct actions school-age children do not have access to primary or with children or through actions with teachers and parents. secondary education. Access to primary education has not increased in the past decade, with 9% of all children of The BIC Corporate Foundation primary school age remaining outside of the scholastic The BIC Corporate Foundation was born out of the Group’s desire system since 2008; to promote its civic activities and structure its philanthropic ● the quality of the instruction is a critical problem: more than approach while bolstering its employees’ sense of pride and 617 million children and teenagers fail to acquire minimum belonging. Its mission is to support access to education and good skills in reading and mathematics, even though two-thirds of quality instruction, putting the emphasis, over the long term, on the them are in school. funding of social entrepreneurship and innovation in education. It focuses on two main fields, namely reducing the school dropout ❯ Approach rate and promoting equal access to education for boys and girls, as well as the advancement of environmental education. Through its activities of designing, manufacturing and distributing writing instruments, BIC Group has long been involved in the The BIC Corporate Foundation Board of Directors consists of nine promotion of education. Firmly convinced that education is crucial members, six from BIC Group plus three external experts: for the development of free will and independence, and to combat ● Runa Khan, founder and President of the NGO Friendship; poverty, BIC has in particular been an active advocate of writing by ● Marine de Bazelaire, Head of Sustainability Continental hand, even before its importance in the structuring of children’s Europe, HSBC; thought processes was proven. BIC has set the goal of Improving lives through education and has codified this ambition in the ● Jean-Marc Guesné: Associate, Azao Consulting. following commitment: By 2025, BIC will improve learning conditions for 250 million children, globally. (1) Unesco Institute for Statistics. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 113 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] The BIC Corporate Foundation takes action in three different ways to fulfill its mission: Beneficiary Description of the project Projects funded directly by the Foundation Sport dans la Ville (France) Construction of a center called “But en Or” (“Golden Goal”) to encourage children and young people to engage in various sports activities. events, excursions and summer camps. The “L dans la Ville” program helps girls unlock their potential through sports, mentoring, cultural activities and professional development. The “Job dans la Ville” program helps young people define their professional orientation and career objectives. Friendship (Bangladesh) Funding of a school in the Chars region, which is under constant threat from natural disasters and suffers from a chronic shortage of educational structures. The school offers pre-primary and primary education with a focus on ethics, environmental awareness and improved personal hygiene, along with more traditional teaching (English, mathematics, etc.). A center for adults has also been opened to improve literacy among mothers of Friendship pupils and other adults. Carolina for Kibera (Kenya) Kibera is Africa’s largest shantytown. Most of its residents subsist on less than one dollar per day. The Foundation sponsors ICT training for girls as well as the Kiva Loan program, which offers startup capital for entrepreneurial ventures by Kibera residents. It also finances a program for education through sports specifically for girls, and a scholarship program covering 100% of the beneficiaries’ school expenses for four years. BIC Citizens In Action Project Life Project 4 Youth (LP4Y) A worldwide program launched by the Group in 2008, based on a shared commitment by employees and the Corporate Foundation, with the goal of protecting the environment and helping local communities. At the global level, matching fund campaigns: the employees are mobilized through fundraising drives and the Group matches the amount of money collected. All BIC subsidiaries around the world participate in these campaigns. In 2018, BIC employees contributed 62,000 euros, which was doubled by the BIC Corporate Foundation to reach a total of 124,000 euros. These donations went to the NGO LP4Y (Life Project 4 Youth) to support a youth center project in Chhattisgarh, India, called “A New Center, A New Start.” The center offers high-quality training to develop young people’s social and professional skills, along with sessions to build awareness of sustainable development, and will be an economic development driver for the region. The goal is to help 600 young people between 2017 and 2020. At the local level, “BIC Citizens in Action” also encompasses numerous volunteer projects around the world, in which BIC employees donate their time, energy and resources to help local associations and organizations. Winners of the call for in-house projects Laboratoria (Mexico) This initiative, proposed by BIC Mexico, offers a six-month “boot camp” program in computer coding for women from underprivileged backgrounds. Croix Rouge (Spain) This initiative, proposed by BIC Graphic Europe (Spain), allows 132 children in danger of educational exclusion to receive scholastic aid for three years, along with assistance for their families. In 2018, the Foundation continued to expand its operations and ● initiatives in schools in a number of countries (South Africa, defined the basis of methods for measuring the impact that it aims Cameroon, Egypt, Spain, India, Morocco, Nigeria, the to have. This will enable the Foundation to monitor its activity and Philippines, etc.) such as: building awareness of the the benefits that it provides. importance of education and writing, the production of written materials or workshops to offer teachers resources that they Awareness and coaching actions can use in class; In the learning process, writing by hand is a basic skill that helps ● for the first time in 2018, a special week was dedicated to structure the thought process. For this reason, writing instruments education. Called “BIC Global Education Week” (October 1-5), are indispensable tools for advancing the improvement of learning the event offered all BIC employees the opportunity to donate conditions. In recent years, BIC teams have taken action to support a day of their time to improving learning conditions in their and facilitate handwriting and promote its importance in children’s local community. development, especially through: ● the launch and development of the BIC® Kids range, created in ❯ Perspectives cooperation with psychomotor specialists, ergonomists and In 2019, BIC will pursue its efforts, continuing to work with key teachers specifically to help prepare children to learn people to promote successful education, as well as pupils and handwriting, in particular the proper way to hold and use students, teachers and parents. The Group plans to open its first writing instruments; training institute in India and to host another “Education Week.” 114 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] 3.5.2.3. Philanthropic actions by BIC Group In order to contribute to the development of pupils and teachers and its subsidiaries and to uphold its commitment to promoting education in the country, BIC Mexico funded the renovation of a classroom in a ❯ Approach school damaged by the earthquake of September 19, 2017. The philanthropic actions of BIC Group and its subsidiaries can take three forms: monetary gifts, the donation of products, and Examples of philanthropic actions by BIC Group volunteer work/skills sponsorship. The BIC Group and its subsidiaries in 2018 subsidiaries favor operations that benefit local populations near its Around the world, BIC employees are taking action for the benefit sites. of local charities. A few examples: In the United States, since 2009 BIC Consumer Products USA has Major philanthropic actions and charity products to supported Susan G. Komen for the Cure®, contributing to the fight promote education against breast cancer through the sale of stationery products. Each year, BIC develops and markets charity-linked products, For the past several years, BIC employees in Greece have taken some of which are useful in education. For the consumer, these action through the annual MediBIC operation, which renovates products offer the possibility of spending the same amount of medical dispensaries in remote regions of the country, usually in money while making a humanitarian gesture, because part of the villages. Each project includes the renovation of the village’s health purchase price is donated to a charitable organization. The center, including the building, furniture and supply of medical organization in turn can diversify its funding sources and benefit instruments, to provide the local population with a complete from additional publicity. And for BIC, it is an opportunity to medical infrastructure. In 2018, the operation mobilized an underline the Group’s civic commitment and boost sales. organizational team of 10 members plus 10 volunteers who helped In 2018, BIC South Africa renewed its large-scale “Buy a Pen, with the day-long installation. Donate a Pen” charity products campaign. South Africa is a country In Morocco, BIC participated in an international day for the that faces enormous educational challenges: more than 2 million handicapped organized by “20 Août” Hospital in Casablanca. The of its citizens are illiterate and its unemployment rate exceeds event aimed to draw the attention of health professionals and the 27%. For this campaign, for each product purchased, BIC South public to the situations of persons suffering from cerebral palsy, Africa donates one pen to the NGO READ Educational Trust, which primarily to promote their inclusion in ordinary living distributes them to underprivileged children. As in previous years, environments. BIC contributed to the event by offering coloring the operation was a huge success, with 1.2 million pens once again products and organizing activities for children. donated, bringing the overall total to 8.5 million pens in seven years. ❯ Performance In France, as it has every year since 2008, BIC supported the AFEV association with a financial donation. AFEV (Association de la In 2018, product donations and financial aid worldwide Fondation Étudiante pour la Ville) was founded in 1992 to combat represented 2.2 million euros (internal valuation), primarily in inequality among children and young people who are experiencing education (1), health and emergency aid. These two sectors social or scholastic difficulties. represent 82% of BIC’s community activities in number and 94% in financial value. In the United States, BIC is a national sponsor of the Kids In Need Foundation, a non-profit organization whose goal is give every child the opportunity to learn and succeed in school, providing school supplies free of charge to those most in need. For the BIC Group objective achieved: 16 million children living in conditions of extreme poverty, obtaining school supplies can be a determining factor in their the contribution toward communities future success. Every year, KINF helps more than 200,000 teachers is more than 0.50% of pretax profit. and 6.2 million pupils in the U.S. In its 23 years of existence, KINF has distributed more than $1 billion (in retail value) worth of school supplies to children who have no other way to obtain them. In Morocco, the BIC Group gave its support, through the donation of writing products, to INSAF, an association that combats the 244 philanthropic projects involving exploitation of underage girls working as domestic help. INSAF volunteer work, product donations regularly monitors the social and scholastic progress of the girls it and financial aid carried out worldwide helps and organizes awareness actions at the local and national in 2018 (all fields combined). levels involving children, families and institutional and social leaders. In 2018, BIC’s donations were used to help schoolgirls in poor neighborhoods. (1) For this indicator, all philanthropic actions in favor of education, including those carried out under commitment # 5, are considered. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 115 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Our societal responsibility [NFPS] FINANCIAL BREAKDOWN OF ACTIONS – BIC GROUP – 2018 BREAKDOWN OF ACTIONS BY FIELD – BIC GROUP – 2018 Education 82% Education 58% 24% Health & emergency aid 12% Health & 18% emergency aid Other (environment, sport, 6% emergency aid…) Other (environment, sport, emergency aid…) 116 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] 3.6. MILESTONES [NFPS] 3.6.1. EXTRA-FINANCIAL RATINGS 3.6.3. PERIMETER AND SELECTION OF INDICATORS In 2018, BIC was listed on the following socially responsible investment indexes: The reporting period covered by the present report is from ● The 2018 CDP A list (see page 90); January 1 to December 31, 2018. ● The Supplier Engagement leader board by CDP ● The Euronext Vigeo index: Europe 120; 3.6.3.1. Perimeter ● The Euronext Vigeo index: Eurozone 120; Regarding the indicators that refer to human resources, the ● The FTSE4Good Index; reporting perimeter encompasses all permanent employees of all French and foreign operational units within the Group, with the ● The Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence Investment exception of information on training and the disabled, for which Registers; temporary employees are included. In 2018, the activities of Cello ● The Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe; Pens have been included in the reporting perimeter for these ● The STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index. indicators. The environment indicators concern the operations that have a significant impact, namely the industrial activities owned by the Group. These indicators therefore concern BIC factories that produce finished or semi-finished products, as well as its 3.6.2. AWARDS RECEIVED engineering units and packaging operations of more than 50 employees or whose operations are regulated by government ● Recognized for “best information on corporate social directives such as SEVESO (EU), PSM or RMP (U.S.). Other sites are responsibility in response to Article 225” by the high council of included on a voluntary basis. Group headquarters with more than the Ordre des Experts Comptables (French chartered 200 permanent employees are also included in the reporting. accountants association); For health and safety indicators, all BIC sites (offices or industrial ● Ubicuity™: sites) are included in the perimeter. • Plas Eco for Ubicuity™; winner of 11th Sustainable In 2018, the sites of BIC Sport activities and BIC La Granada are Development Trophies 2018, organized by Caux Seine Développement and Caux Seine Agglo; recognition of the excluded from the reporting perimeter for environment and health partnership between BIC and Plas Eco for the development and safety indicators. of an integrated, perennial recycling system, HACO Industries Kenya entity is excluded from the perimeter for all • Finalist at the Plastic Recycling Show Europe: recycled indicators. plastic product of the year dedicated to consumers’ lifestyle, 3.6.3.2. Indicators • Finalist for the Prix Entreprises & Environnement in the The published indicators are chosen to best represent BIC’s main circular economy category, organized by Ademe and the social and environmental challenges. French Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition; ● Grand Prix de la Transparence 2018: best reference The inventory of BIC's activities for the benefit of communities is document by an SBF 120 company; compiled from information and data sent annually by the management of each subsidiary. This reporting is an estimate in ● BIC South Africa was named Best Employer 2019 by the Top projects number and value. Employer’s Institute certification program; The financial indicators, those referring to Human Resources, ● At the PSI Sustainability Awards 2018 (European network of workers’ accidents and the environment are compiled using the promotional products industry), BIC Graphic Europe was several data collection systems that give preference to the use of awarded: dedicated Intranet tools, under the responsibility of their respective • 1st prize in the “Social Initiative” category for the “School departments. The consistency of the data is verified before success” project in partnership with the Spanish Red Cross consolidation. and the BIC Corporate Foundation; Concerning environmental and health and safety reporting, and for • 3rd place in the “Environment Initiative” category for the packaging data, to ensure that the published data is more reliable, Ubicuity™ project. information from previous years may be corrected or fine-tuned when necessary. Concerning environmental indicators, the classification of the type of waste treatment is based on the sectors to which they are directed. Concerning the reporting of greenhouse gases emissions, the conversion factors for scope 1 are from are from the French Environment and Energy Management Agency ADEME (2010). Conversion factors for scope 2 “location based” emissions are those proposed annually by the International Energy Agency (IEA). • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 117 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] Unless otherwise indicated, the indirect emissions correspond to packaging (pouch, blister, cardboard box), outer/inner, scope 2 emissions using a location-based approach. shrink-wrap, lighter displays, etc. It is calculated on material weight and concerns the products of the three main categories In addition, to ensure transparency, some indicators have been (excluding PIMACO, BIC Ecuador, BIC Nantong and Cello Pens more specifically detailed below: activities). Greenhouse gas emissions related to purchase of raw materials Percentage of air freight This indicator includes the main raw material used in the products The scope of this indicator is the inter-site shipping, i.e. all the of the three main categories, including Cello (since 2018) and the factory to factory and factory to warehouse shipments Stationery activity of BIC Sport (France) and in the packaging (BIC factories and warehouses, contract manufacturers; inter and reported in the indicator “Percentage of responsible materials for intra-continental). It is expressed in tons/kilometer and concerns packaging” for the three main categories (excluding PIMACO, BIC all Group activities. In 2018, the activities of Cello Pens have been Ecuador, BIC Nantong and Cello Pens activities). included in the reporting perimeter for this indicator. Emission factors are issued from the French Environment and Percentage of BIC® products with at least one Energy Management Agency: ADEME (2007). environmental benefit BIC has defined environmental benefits for its products by Percentage of contract manufacturers being audited complying with at least one of the following criteria as follows: The indicator applies to all contract manufacturers of finished ● light and long lasting (writing instrument ≤ 3 g per km; products. The rating system measures the level of performance of correction tape ≤ 1.8 g per m; lighter ≤ 8 g per 1,000 flames; each contract manufacturer based on the social indicators of the shaver ≤ 1 g per shaving); BIC Group Code of Conduct. This indicator concerns all Group activities except Cello Pens. ● made from alternative materials (recycled, vegetable origin, etc.); Writing the Future, Together – #5 Improving lives through ● refillable; education ● ecolabeled (NF Environnement, etc.). The number of children whose learning conditions have been This indicator is calculated on the number of units and concerns improved by BIC is an estimation of children reached by direct the products of the three main categories (excluding PIMACO and actions and/or impacted through actions towards teachers, deans Cello Pens activities). For the Lighters category, only lighters are or parents. considered. For Stationery and Shavers categories refills are This number is a minimum because some of the actions carried by considered in the calculation. BIC may not be reported. Percentage of responsible materials for packaging The present report follows the methodological recommendations ® of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI indicators used in This indicator includes all packaged BIC products delivered to the the report are referenced in the cross reference table for Group’s customers all over the world (except pallets): consumer environmental and social indicators (page 318). 118 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] 3.6.4. INDICATORS TABLE Environmental indicators Unit 2016 2017 2018 Management systems of factories Factories with environmental and health & safety management systems (or with implementation under way) % 91.5 84.0 83.0 Energy consumption Annual energy consumption Gigajoules 1,199,734 1,190,167 1,176,465 Share of electricity of renewable origin % 24 23 68 Annual energy consumption normalized to production Gigajoules per ton 12.02 11.98 12.14 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Total amount of annual GHG emissions tCO2eq 100,539 102,681 98,283 • Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) tCO2eq 9,057 8,637 9,813 • Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) tCO2eq 91,483 94,043 88,470 Total amount of annual GHG emissions GES (market based) tCO2eq 64,202 68,524 58,646 Total amount of annual GHG emissions normalized to production tCO2eq/ton 1.007 1.033 1.014 GHG emissions related to raw material purchase tCO2eq 276,000 316,000 GHG emissions related to intra-company transport* tCO2eq 67,000 37,000 Water consumption Annual water consumption m3 500,992 542,290 515,296 3 Annual water consumption normalized to production m per ton 5.02 5.46 5.32 Waste production Annual waste production Tons 26,945 21,430 20,515 • Non-hazardous waste Tons 23,729 18,171 16,908 • Hazardous waste Tons 3,216 3,259 3,607 Annual production of waste normalized to production Tons/tons 0.270 0.216 0.212 Recycled waste % 68 64 64 Recovered waste (recycled or incinerated with energy recovery) % 83 79 78 Transportation GHG emissions related to intra-company transport* tCO2eq/ton 0.768 0.536 0.345 Intra-company transport operated without air freight % 97.71 98.08 99.07 Products Number of products certified with the French NF Environnement ecolabel 22 19 19 Number of products that have at least one environmental benefit** % >50.0 >50.0 >50.0 Packaging BIC cardboard packaging from a certified and/or recycled source % 94.02 94.34 94.16 BIC plastic packaging PVC free % 83.46 88.46 87.90 Other Indicators Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks (b) Million euros Compensation paid during the fiscal year under court order Million euros * Excluding BIC Graphic (Advertising and Promotional Products). ** Excluding BIC Graphic (Advertising and Promotional Products) and BIC Sport. (a) Investment budgets related to short and long-term improvement programs to prevent or minimize environmental consequences are an integral part of the factories’ budgets. (b) Guarantees received regarding the environment are listed in Note 26 “Off-balance sheet commitments: sureties, deposits and guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the year. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 119 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] Social indicators Unit 2016 2017 2018 Group workforce (excluding Cello Pens) Total workforce (full-time equivalent) 20,630 18,848 16,955 • Permanent employees 17,362 14,936 13,664 • Temporary workers 3,268 3,912 3,291 Voluntary turnover % 8* 8 14 Permanent workforce by region Permanent workforce by geographical area • Europe % 24.0 26.9 30.0 • North America % 13.5 5.4 5.0 • Developing countries % 62.5 67.7 65.0 Permanent workforce by activity Percentage of permanent workforce by activity • Manufacturing and R&D % 63* 77 75 • Distribution, marketing et G&A % 18* 11 13 • Sales force and customer service % 19* 12 12 Training, career management and engagement Percentage of employees that have received training % 95* 75* 68 Number of training days days 21,020* 20,414 27,517 Number of training days per employee days 2.1* 2.2 3.0 Number of training hours per theme hours 168,163* 141,859 220,042 • Technical training hours 120,732* 91,189 154,564 • Leadership skills hours 18,498* 16,985 27,827 • BIC culture hours 22,730* 27,110 23,738 • Health & Wellbeing hours 6,203* 6,575 13,905 Internal promotion rate among managers (highest levels: 3 to 6) • External recruitment % 35* 31 38 • Internal recruitment % 65* 69 62 Participation rate in surveys % 83.1* NA 93 Internal development moves and promotion rate % 31* 30 25 Diversity Percentage of women in management and workforce % 45* 40* 49 • Board of Directors % 30* 40* 40 • Leadership Team % 14* 13* 14 • Managers (highest levels: 3 to 6) % 30* 29* 32 Safety Incidence rate of workers’ accidents – BIC workforce (accidents Number/million hours with temporary or permanent incapacity) worked 1.87 2.09 Incidence rate of workers’ accidents – BIC workforce and temporary workers (accidents with temporary or permanent Number/million hours incapacity) worked 1.80 2.14 Number/thousand hours Severity rate of workers’ accidents – BIC workforce worked 0.08 0.08 Absenteeism Absenteeism rate (excluding on-site accidents and maternity) % 1.5* 0.8 0.8 * Excluding Cello Pens. 120 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] Societal indicators Unit 2016 2017 2018 Respect for Human Right in the workplace Net sales from BIC® products manufactured in its own factories % 90 90 92 BIC permanent employees working in countries with no Human Rights risk (a) % 82 80 87 (a) BIC factories located in countries with no Human Rights risk % 89 91 87 Contract manufacturers located in countries with no Human Rights risk (a) % 20 36 32 Net sales in countries with no Human Rights risk (a) % 88.1 84.9 84.0 Sponsorship Contribution to communities (percentage of the Group’s pretax profit) % >0.5 >0.5 >0.5 (a) Source: Freedom House. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 121 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] 3.6.5. REPORT OF ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT PUBLISHED IN THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Société BIC ● the company’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, particularly with regard to the duty of Société Anonyme vigilance, anti-corruption and taxation; 14 rue Jeanne d’Asnières ● the compliance of products and services with the applicable 92611 Clichy Cedex regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2018 Nature and scope of procedures To the Shareholders, We performed our work in accordance with Articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code defining the conditions under In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of BIC SA, appointed as which the independent third party performs its engagement and independent third party and accredited by COFRAC under number the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of 3-1048 (scope of accreditation available at www.cofrac.fr), we Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial statement comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000 for the year ended December 31, 2018 (hereinafter the (Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical “Statement”), presented in the reference document including the financial information). Group management report pursuant to the legal and regulatory provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of We conducted procedures in order to assess the Statement's the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). compliance with regulatory provisions, and the fairness of the Information: We familiarized ourselves with the Group’s business activity, Company’s responsibility ● the report on the main social and environmental risks relating The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a Statement to this activity and the impacts thereof with regard to the pursuant to legal and regulatory provisions, including a respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and presentation of the business model, a description of the main tax evasion, together with the subsequent policies and their extra-financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented results. with respect to these risks as well as the results of these policies, ● We assessed the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their including key performance indicators. The Statement was relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, prepared by applying the company’s procedures (hereinafter the taking into account, where appropriate, best practices within “Guidelines”), summarized in the Statement and available on the the sector; company’s website or on request from its headquarters. ● We verified that the Statement covers each category of information stipulated in section III of Article L. 225-102-1 Independence and quality control governing social and environmental affairs, the respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion. Our independence is defined by Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics for Statutory ● We verified that the Statement includes an explanation Auditors (Code de déontologie). In addition, we have implemented a justifying the absence of information required by paragraph 2 system of quality control including documented policies and of section III of Article L. 225-102-1. procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, ● We verified that the Statement presents the business model French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory and the main risks relating to the Group’s business activity, requirements. including, where relevant and proportionate, the risks generated by its business relations, products or services as well as policies, measures and outcomes, including key Responsibility of the statutory auditor performance indicators. appointed as independent third party ● We verified that, when relevant to the main risks or policies Based on our work, our responsibility is to express a limited presented, the Statement presents the information stipulated assurance conclusion on: in section II of Article R. 225-105. ● the compliance of the Statement with Article R. 225-105 of the ● We assessed the process of selecting and validating the main French Commercial Code; risks. ● the fairness of the information provided pursuant to part 3 of ● We inquired as to the existence of internal control and risk sections I and II of Article R. 225-105 of the French management procedures set up by the company. Commercial Code, i.e. the outcomes of policies, including key ● We assessed the consistency of the results and key performance indicators, and measures relating to the main performance indicators used with regard to the main risks risks, hereinafter the “Information.” and policies presented. However, it is not our responsibility to provide any conclusion on: 122 • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY Milestones [NFPS] ● We verified that the Statement covers the consolidated scope, Means and resources i.e. all companies within the consolidation scope in accordance with Article L. 233-16, with the limits specified in Our work engaged the skills of eight people between September the Statement. 2018 and March 2019. ● We assessed the collection process set up by the entity to To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to our corporate ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information. social responsibility and sustainable development experts. We ● For the key performance indicators and other quantitative conducted around a dozen of interviews with people responsible outcomes(1) that in our judgment were of most significance, for preparing the Statement. we carried out: • analytical procedures that consisted in verifying the correct Conclusion consolidation of collected data as well as the consistency of Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that cause changes thereto; us to believe that the non-financial statement does not comply with • substantive tests, on a sampling basis, that consisted in the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken verifying the proper application of definitions and as a whole, is not fairly presented in accordance with the procedures and reconciling data with supporting Guidelines. documents. These procedures were conducted for a selection of contributing entities(2) and covered between 15% and 52% of the consolidated data for the key Comments performance indicators and outcomes selected for these Without qualifying the conclusion expressed above and in tests; accordance with Article A. 225-3 of the French Commercial Code, ● We consulted documentary sources and conducted interviews we make the following comment: to corroborate the qualitative information (measures and ● as mentioned in the methodological milestones of the outcomes) that in our judgment were of most significance(3); non-financial statement, the reporting perimeter is limited for ● We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement in some indicators (including those related to packaging and to relation to our knowledge of the company. the products that have at least one environmental benefit). We believe that the procedures we have performed, based on our professional judgment, are sufficient to provide a basis for a limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Paris-La Défense, March 15th, 2019 One of the statutory auditors, Deloitte & Associés François Buzy Julien Rivals Partner Partner, Sustainability Services (1) Progress of the Writing the Future, Together program in 2018: Share of electricity of renewable origin (commitment #2), Incidence rate of workers’ accidents for BIC workforce and Incidence rate of workers’ accidents for BIC workforce and temporary workers (commitment #3), Estimated number of children whose learning conditions have been improved (commitment #5). Other quantitative information: Products and packaging: Percentage of BIC® products with at least one environmental benefit, Percentage of recycled plastics used in the Stationery category, Percentage of cardboard packaging from a certified and/or recycled source, Percentage of plastic packaging PVC free; Environment: Annual water consumption normalized to production, Annual energy consumption normalized to production, Percentage of intra-company transport operated without air freight, Direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions (location-based and market-based), GHG emissions related to intra-company transport (scope 3), GHG emissions related to raw materials purchase (scope 3), Annual production of non-hazardous and hazardous waste normalized to production, Percentage of recovered waste (recycled or incinerated with energy recovery); Safety: Severity rate of workers’ accidents for BIC workforce; Human resources: Workforce as of December 31st, Percentage of women managers, Number of recruitments and terminations, Percentage of employees that have received training, Absenteeism rate. (2) BIC Violex (Greece), BIC Corporation Milford (United States), Shelton office (United States), Dubai office (United Arab Emirates), Cello Pens (India), BIC Bizerte (Tunisia), BIC Ecuador (Ecuador). (3) Progress of the Writing the Future, Together program in 2018: Evaluation of the environmental and/or societal footprint of products (commitment #1), Responsible sourcing involving strategic suppliers (commitment #4); Other qualitative information: Using alternative materials and developing refillable products, Evaluation of indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) measures to limit these emissions. • BIC GROUP 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • 123
