United Nations Global Compact 2019 Communication on Progress UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 201 9 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Trojan Recruitment Group became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in March 2012. We submit this update on our progress in 2019 and our on-going initiatives to further the Global Compact’s principles. I am pleased to confirm that Trojan Recruitment Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We instil in our own people – as well as the consultants we place with client organisations – the importance of integrity, quality and, most importantly, humanity in the workplace. Yours Sincerely, Peter Melki Chief Executive Officer Trojan Recruitment Group December 2019 UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 2 of 16 ABOUT TROJAN RECRUITMENT GROUP Trojan Recruitment Group is an Australian recruitment company with expertise in specialised recruitment, consulting services and recruitment process outsourcing. We help our clients and our candidates succeed by leveraging our expertise, deep industry and market knowledge, and proprietary assessment tools and techniques. With offices located across Australia, and relationships with large numbers of specialised professionals across numerous industries, we bring an unparalleled ability to match talent with opportunities by assessing, recruiting, developing and engaging the best and brightest people for our clients. We combine a broad geographic presence, outstanding talent solutions and a tailored, consultative approach to help businesses and professionals achieve higher performance and outstanding results. Trojan has never claimed to be the biggest recruitment company, but always strives to be the best and prides itself on always doing the right thing. More information is available at trojanrecruit.com.au. OUR PHILOSOPHY Trojan exists to share our customers’ workload and to solve their business problems using people and their skills. By doing this we add value to every customer’s business. We focus on our strengths in industry sectors, growing our customers through the right mix of sales, service and safety, and helping all our people maximise their potential with us. Ultimately, we’re about people. People who don’t just do a job, but live their role as an expression of who they are. People who are not just productive, but who achieve extraordinary results. We attract, manage, develop and motivate people to provide a ‘precision fit’ within the organisations they work with. OUR VALUES We are Real. We are Determined. We are People Focused. We act with integrity and We take the initiative. We make We want the best for all our honesty at all times. We things happen without waiting to customers’ business. We take don’t play games. We aim be asked. We’ll take full time to clearly understand their to give you better long term responsibility for every project goals and issues, so every solutions, by looking beyond the we work on with you. We go candidate we place with is a immediate problem to above and beyond normal precise fit. We want the best for the underlying business service standards, because we our candidates too. People are need. We’re straight talking and take pride in a job well done — our stock of trade, so we greatly have our feet on the ground. and because we want to keep value their skills and Many of the people your business in a fiercely capabilities. We also want the at Trojan have joined us after competitive market. We get the best for ourselves. We inspire working in industries like yours. job done. We’re resourceful and and support each other to bring In short, we get you! organised and do what it takes out the very best in every Trojan to see things happen. employee. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 3 of 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 4 of 16 SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights – Assessments, Policy & Goals Every human being is entitled to basic human rights – that is, freedom, equality, justice and the right to life. Trojan Recruitment Group (Trojan) is committed to supporting all aspects of human rights, and actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is our policy to ensure that such rights are implemented for employees at all levels of our processes and activities, by promoting a culture of respect of all members within our organisation and with others with whom we interact. Trojan abides by all legislation relating to human rights protection in Australia, where Trojan conducts all of its business. Trojan is also committed to ensuring it partners with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility. Trojan’s policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights include: Work, Health and Safety Policy Trojan has extensive Work Health and Safety (WHS) policies and processes in place that protect all employees, whether they are based in a Trojan office or on a client site. We have strict incident management and reporting procedures in place, and conduct regular site visits to ensure our contractors are properly protected.  Work, Health & Safety Policy Our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics As a provider of human resource solutions, Trojan is committed to the protection of human rights among employees and consultants based on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. These comprehensive document describes conduct that is based on our core values, reinforces our policies and practices, and enforces legal and regulatory compliance. It outlines the company’s expectations of employees to ensure lawful and ethical behaviour. Policies include:  Employee Code of Conduct  Business Principles  Code of Ethical Business Practice Supplier Code of Conduct Trojan works closely with a wide range of suppliers in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line with its commitment to corporate responsibility, it chooses to partner with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility.  Supplier Code of Conduct Privacy rights: Protection and appropriate use of customer data Trojan’s Privacy Policy details governance and procedures protection and the appropriate use of customer data. Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion at Trojan means we recognise and respect qualities which are unique to individuals such as gender, language, ethnicity, age, religion, disability and sexual orientation. We believe in treating all UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 5 of 16 people with dignity and respect and is committed to employing people with “best in market” skills and that are the right cultural fit.  Workplace Gender & Diversity Policy  WGEA Letter of Compliance Reasonable Adjustment Policy Implementing reasonable adjustments is designed to eliminate barriers so that a person with disability can perform the requirements of the job, have equal opportunity in employment (including promotion) and participate in organisational life on an equal basis.  Reasonable Adjustment Policy and Guidelines Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining We respect the right of all employees to join any legally recognised employee associations and comply with any laws relating to employee representation. Wherever there is an employee representative body, we strive to maintain an open dialogue with these delegations at all times and maintain a relationship based on mutual trust. Remuneration and Recognition Trojan remunerate according to the skills, performance and experience of our employees based on local competitive conditions and to share in the success of the company. We offer benefits in accordance with local market practices. Trojan aims to provide recognition and rewards which attract, motivate and retain employees to achieve its purpose and overall objectives. Trojan uses a range of different remuneration elements to effectively reward employees. Any variable pay and performance-based components of remuneration are designed to encourage behaviour that supports our long-term financial soundness and our risk management framework. Trojan also continues to actively listen to the needs of its employees through our employee engagement survey. Human Rights – Implementation Actions taken by Trojan Recruitment Group to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights related concerns include: Providing safe and healthy working conditions In order to reduce the risk of injury to our people, Trojan make sure that the workplaces where we place our workers are safe and that our workers remain safe during the duration of their assignment. Identification of risks and hazards is completed during the Clients WHS Profile Audit and Client Workplace Assessment Job Safety Analysis (JSA) which are both conducted pre-placement of workers, and Monitoring Job Site Inspection Record which is conducted during routine client visits (throughout contacted period). Awareness training for all employees on Human Rights Tool Box Meetings are conducted on site to consult, train and inform Human Rights with our workforce. Internally, Trojan Employees are required to complete Human Rights courses via our online training system – Trojan Learning Hub. Implementation of an online form – ‘Report it’ “Report It” is Trojan’s way for employees, suppliers and clients to confidentially raise issues about misconduct in the workplace such as unsafe, unethical or illegal practices. These issues are revised by top management and discussed immediately. Point of Contact for Human Rights Breaches Trojan Human Resources department has been allocated as the first point of contact for the respect and support of Human Rights within Trojan. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 6 of 16 Policy Audits All policies are reviewed at least once per year to ensure that they remain relevant to both the business and all stakeholders. External audits for certifications conduct annually. Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment Policy Trojan Recruitment Group employs a diverse workforce and is committed to creating a positive work environment where employees are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. Trojan Recruitment Group has zero tolerance to behaviours which are contrary to this, such as unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying, victimisation and vilification are not tolerated. Trojan Recruitment Group seeks to ensure that its employees are provided with workplaces free from any form of harassment and / or bullying. The aim of the policy is to create a working environment which facilitates a culture of respect for others and personal responsibility free from any form of harassment and bullying.  Equal Opportunity & Anti-Discrimination Human Rights – Measurment of Outcomes Trojan continues to build a culture which values and respects all employees and their opinions. We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive culture. Trojan has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Trojan has complied with all Australian legislation relating to human rights protection. CSR Memberships / Compliance For the fifth year in a row, Trojan has received the highest certification gold level from EcoVadis, an independent rating agency on Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility. The EcoVadis methodology is at the core of our CSR analysis system, covering 21 criteria across four themes of Environment, Fair labour practices, ethics/fair business practices, and supply chain. In December, Trojan resubmitted the EcoVadis questionnaire for our sixth recertification. EcoVadis is now analysing our answers and documentation, and Trojan is awaiting our results. Quality Certification / Compliance Trojan is ISO 9001 certified and adheres to all requirements regarding this certification. We have periodical external and internal audits ensuring that the requirements are continuously refined and updated when and where necessary. WHS Certification / Compliance Trojan is AS 4801 certified and adheres to all requirements regarding this certification. We have periodical external and internal audits ensuring that the requirements are continuously refined and updated when and where necessary. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 7 of 16 Australia Government Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) As part of Trojan’s commitment to Diversity & Equal Opportunity, Trojan participated in reporting through the Australia Government Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA). Trojan’s annual compliance report for the period 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019 was submitted to WGEA, and following assessment Trojan received compliance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Labour Principles – Assessment, Policy & Goals Trojan recognises its employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining (Principle 3) and recognises the importance of having a well-balanced team through our policies that support diversity and non-discrimination (Principle 6). Trojan opposes all forms of forced and compulsory labour (Principle 4). The nature of Trojan’s work means that the labour-related risks referred to in Principles 5 on child labour is not applicable to Trojan. Trojan is committed to upholding the principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) core instruments in all our operations. As a wholly Australian owned and operated company, Trojan complies with Australian laws and regulations relating to labour rights. As a talent solutions company, we demonstrate our commitment to supporting the UNGC labour principles by helping our clients make fair and informed decisions about their people strategies and also adhere to all applicable laws governing labour and employment. These principles also apply to our own efforts to attract, develop and retain the right people. Written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights include: Sustainable Procurement Policy Trojan aims to ensure that its suppliers meet material standards with respect to both the conduct of their business and their management of social and environmental issues. Trojan’s goal is for its suppliers to abide by the company’s business conduct principles, including demonstrating business integrity and respecting the principle of free and fair competition. These transparent and non-discriminatory conduct standards are based on Trojan’s Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and the other policies related to Human Rights, Environment and Business Governance.  Sustainable Procurement Policy Diversity & Equal Opportunity As a global company, our employees, contractors, clients and suppliers come from diverse backgrounds and cultures. By valuing diversity and equal opportunity, we connect with the richest spectrum of experiences, skills, expertise and perspectives for all of the markets we serve. This philosophy is also reflected in our own recruiting process – we recognise that a diverse workforce fosters creativity, innovation and better business practices. Trojan’s policies, procedures and corporate values ensure compliance with all legislation and regulations relating to recruitment and employment, these include: Workplace Gender & Diversity Policy  WGEA Letter of Compliance Trojan is committed to maintaining EEO recruitment practices that are fair and equitable and has strategies in place to integrate employees from all backgrounds and assist clients in accessing the maximum number of candidates. All of our business activities are required to be conducted without discrimination based on race, colour, genetics, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability or age. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 8 of 16 Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment Policy Trojan Recruitment Group employs a diverse workforce and is committed to creating a positive work environment where employees are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. Trojan Recruitment Group has zero tolerance to behaviours which are contrary to this, such as unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying, victimisation and vilification are not tolerated. Trojan Recruitment Group seeks to ensure that its employees are provided with workplaces free from any form of harassment and / or bullying. The aim of the policy is to create a working environment which facilitates a culture of respect for others and personal responsibility free from any form of harassment and bullying.  Equal Opportunity & Anti-Discrimination Work, Health and Safety Policy Trojan has extensive Work Health and Safety (WHS) policies and processes in place that protect all employees, whether they are based in a Trojan office or on a client site. We have strict incident management and reporting procedures in place, and conduct regular site visits to ensure our contractors are properly protected.  Work, Health & Safety Policy Employee Assistance Program Trojan offers an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to support employees in dealing with issues at home or work. The EAP is a professional and confidential counselling service provided to employees on a voluntary basis to assist them in managing the demands of their job, personal issues, and to increase their overall wellbeing.  Employee Assistance Procedure Supplier Code of Conduct Trojan works closely with a wide range of suppliers in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line with its commitment to corporate responsibility, it chooses to partner with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility.  Supplier Code of Conduct Ten National Employment Standards (NES) The Fair Work Act 2009 provides all employees with a safety net of minimum terms and conditions of employment through the National Employment Standards (NES). The NES comprise 10 minimum standards of employment. A copy of the NES is given to every new employee at Trojan. Labour Principles –Implementation Trojan Recruitment Group is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to providing a workplace which encourages good workplace relations and an environment which is free from discrimination. Based on our commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights we have set up policies in relation to Equal Opportunity, Discrimination, Bullying and Harassment to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners. Trojan also has extensive Work Health and Safety (WHS) policies and processes in place that protect all employees, as well as Professional Development and Training Program to help employees develop their skills and to help workers advance in their chosen careers. Contract of Employment All new Trojan employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 9 of 16 Labour Rights & HR Policy – Awareness and Training Tool Box Meetings are conducted on site to consult, train, inform and review work procedures and labour rights with our workforce. Labour Rights and HR topics include (but not limited to) Harassment & Bullying Free Workplace, Workplace Issue & Grievance Resolution, Internally, Trojan Employees are required to complete courses via our online training system – Trojan Learning Hub. Courses include (but not limited to) Equal Opportunity & Anti-Discrimination, Diversity in the Workplace, Harassment & Anti-Bullying, Disability Awareness, Union Right of Entry Guidelines and National Employment Standards. Work Health and Safety – Awareness and Training Tool Box Meetings are conducted on site to consult, train, inform and review work procedures and safety issues with our workforce. Safety topics include (but not limited to) Fatigue Management, Noise Safety, Sun Safety, Confined Spaces, Working at heights, Electrical Safety and Manual Handling. Internally, Trojan Employees are required to complete courses via our online training system – Trojan Learning Hub. Courses include Hazards in the Workplace and Mental Health. Professional Development & Training Trojan is dedicated to employees’ professional development to hone their skill levels and advance with the company. Training content is developed internally for Trojan-specific training needs and purchased externally for universal content. Australia Government Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) As part of Trojan’s commitment to Diversity & Equal Opportunity, Trojan participated in reporting through the Australia Government Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA). Trojan has been reporting to WGEA since 2014. Trojan Recruitment Group’s annual compliance report for the period 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019 was submitted to WGEA, and following assessment Trojan received compliance with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. Supply chain When partnering with new suppliers, Trojan researches and consults with all key contacts to review their approach to a range of corporate responsibility indicators. Point of Contact for Labour Rights Breaches Trojan Human Resources department has been allocated as the first point of contact for the respect and support of Labour Rights within Trojan. Policy Audits All policies are reviewed at least once per year to ensure that they remain relevant to both the business and all stakeholders. External audits for certifications conduct annually. Labour Principles – Measurement of Outcomes The true value of our business lies in our people. We take pride in working with the best talent in the industry. Trojan attracts agile and adaptable people, capable of effectively dealing with and responding to rapidly changing circumstances. We challenge them to perform to the best of their ability and seize the opportunities a multinational company can offer. We challenge ourselves to provide our employees with an open and inclusive climate, which engages and fosters development. Employee Satisfaction Survey Trojan employees are invited to participate in our employee engagement survey, which is designed to generate feedback about Trojan as a place to work. The results each survey are compared against company benchmarks and prior results. A focus group is then established, facilitated through HR, to design and implement plans to address any issues identified through the survey. The next Employee Satisfaction Survey is set to run in 2020. Workers / Candidates Satisfaction Survey All Trojan candidates/workers are invited to respond to our satisfaction surveys, designed to formally gauge our performance and capture feedback across all areas of our business. The responses from these surveys UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 10 of 16 allow us to consider how we can modify or enhance our current procedures so as to meet the needs of all candidates/workers. Overall Satisfaction Rate = 80% Trojan’s Work Health & Safety Performance We are proud of our safety performance over the past decade, recording a significant reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and Medically Treated Injury Frequency Rate (MTIFR) during this time. Our objective is zero harm and we have consistently improved our performance by reducing injuries in the work place. During the past year, Trojan Recruitment Group has delivered a strong national safety performance, with both MTIFR and LTIFR improving on last year’s statistics. FY18-19 LTIFR = 3.70, MTIFR = 30.85. Diversity Trojan’s gender diversity profile for FY18-19, as reported to Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) are shown in the table below: Gender Diversity in FY18/19 Board (including Chairman) Female 50% Male 50% Executive (Including CEO) Female 46% Male 54% Non-managerial employees Female 26% Male 74% Employees Female 27% Male 73% CSR Memberships / Compliance For the fifth year in a row, Trojan has received the highest certification gold level from EcoVadis, an independent rating agency on Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility. The EcoVadis methodology is at the core of our CSR analysis system, covering 21 criteria across four themes of Environment, Fair labour practices, ethics/fair business practices, and supply chain. In December Trojan resubmitted the EcoVadis questionnaire for our sixth recertification. EcoVadis is now analysing our answers and documentation, and Trojan is awaiting results. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 11 of 16 WHS Certification / Compliance Trojan is AS 4801 certified and adheres to all requirements regarding this certification. We have periodical external and internal audits ensuring that the requirements are continuously refined and updated when and where necessary. Response to Labour Standard Violations There have not been any reported possible breaches of Labour Standards during 2019. Our Human Resources Departments have not reported any breach of any Labour principles for 2019. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environmental Principles – Assessment, Policy & Goals Trojan is committed to upholding the principles of environmental stewardship. We understand that our environmental impact extends beyond our own operations to include the products and services we provide and procure as well as the investment decisions we make. Trojan’s tradition of responsibility to the communities we serve means that we conduct our business with respect and consideration for the environment. As a service organisation, our operations are entirely officebased, with the nature of our operations making Trojans environmental impact relatively small. The environmental impact of recruitment is instead mostly indirect, via clients, businesses and suppliers. Our environmental impact primarily takes the form of energy used in our offices, and business travel to deliver our services. Whilst our environmental impact is small compared to that of manufacturing and industrial companies, office based businesses have the opportunity to impact the environment in a positive way. Environmental Policy Trojan is committed to minimising its own ecological footprint by pursuing environmental best practice and the prevention of pollution in office management and general operations. Through a process of continual improvement Trojan aims to lead the Recruitment Industry in efficient and effective environmental office practices, providing a role model for others to follow.  Environment Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Trojan works closely with a wide range of suppliers in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line with its commitment to corporate responsibility, it chooses to partner with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility.  Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainable Procurement Policy Trojan prefers to partner with suppliers who demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility. Our expectations of, and how we work with, our suppliers with regard to environmental management is outlined in Trojan’s Sustainable Procurement Policy. Trojan aims to ensure that its suppliers meet material standards with respect to both the conduct of their business and their management of social and environmental issues. Trojan’s goal is for its suppliers to abide by the company’s business conduct principles, including demonstrating business integrity and respecting the principle of free and fair competition. These transparent and non-discriminatory conduct standards are based UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 12 of 16 on Trojan’s Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and the other policies related to Human Rights, Environment and Business Governance.  Sustainable Procurement Policy Environmental Policy – Implementation As a socially and environmentally responsible organisation, we believe in contributing in many different ways to the communities we serve, and in having a positive impact on all our stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and society as a whole. Trojan promotes and maintains environmentally responsible practices for the benefit of our clients, employees and the communities in which we operate. We conduct and develop our business in a manner that is environmentally responsible having due regard for protecting the environment and complying with all relevant environmental legislation and regulations. Trojan is committed to:  Complying with applicable regulations and standards to which we subscribe  Preventing pollution, reducing waste and consumption of resources such as materials, fuel and energy and commit to recovery and recycling, as opposed to disposal wherever feasible  Sharing environmental solutions with all stakeholders  Giving emphasis to preventative rather than corrective action  Regular monitoring of technology to reduce consumption of resources  Reviewing our activities to develop objectives and targets to minimise the impact of the business on the local environment and develop appropriate programs to achieve these objectives Trojan policies to enhance its commitment to the environment and to corporate social responsibility include: Environmental Policy Trojan is committed to minimising its own ecological footprint. Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility include:  Sensor lights in bathrooms  Shower/Bathroom Amenities – water conserving devices  Low VOC products – (Volatile organic compound) – vinyl flooring, paint, non-toxic carpet,  Fluorescent/LED lighting – energy sufficient lighting which indirectly consumes less power  Phones/Data – combined to save power (less use of copper wire)  Acoustic ceiling tiles – more insulation which saves on air conditioning – (natural fibre tile) Other office environmental initiatives include:  Dimeo Waste Recycling used for: Aluminium cans, Plastic milk & juice containers, Plastic soft drink bottles & jars, Steel cans  Dimeo Waste Recycling used for: Paper, paper products and Cardboard boxes  Ricoh Consumables recycling program Return our used consumables to Ricoh for reuse. Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct Trojan expects that all its suppliers meet material standards with respect to both the conduct of their business and their management of social and environmental issues. Suppliers are expected to adhere to a Code of Conduct whereby at a minimum they comply with all relevant laws and regulations regarding corporate governance and ethics, workplace health and safety, environmental management, employment practices, diversity and risk management. Trojan expects that suppliers commit and communicate their environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices internally with their staff and throughout their supply chain to ensure full compliance with the highest standards and principles. These principles should apply to all suppliers within the supply chain that work towards the provision of goods and services to Trojan. Awareness Raising and Training for Employees on Environmental Protection Tool Box Meetings are conducted on site to consult, train and inform Environmental practices with our workforce. Internally, Trojan Employees are required to complete Environmental practices courses via our online training system – Trojan Learning Hub. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 13 of 16 Environmental Policy – Measurement of Outcomes Trojan has already made significant inroads to reduce its paper consumption in FY18-19. Trojan has developed an online timesheet system which reduces the need for paper timesheets, which is a significant step towards becoming paperless. All the paper which Trojan uses is 100% Australian made, certified carbon neutral and accredited by the Australian Forestry Standard, a not-for-profit organisation promoting responsible forestry practices throughout the entire supply chain. Trojan is also looking into ways of reducing more paper usage across all branches with the investment into further online technologies. Trojan continues to request information from all potential suppliers in regards to their economic, social and environmental impacts, which assists in the decision-making process when selecting suppliers. CSR Memberships / Compliance For the fifth year in a row, Trojan has received the highest certification gold level from EcoVadis, an independent rating agency on Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility. The EcoVadis methodology is at the core of our CSR analysis system, covering 21 criteria across four themes of Environment, Fair labour practices, ethics/fair business practices, and supply chain. In December, Trojan resubmitted the EcoVadis questionnaire for our sixth recertification. EcoVadis is now analysing our answers and documentation, and Trojan is awaiting our results. ANTI‐CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Trojan Recruitment Group is firmly opposed to corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Trojan’s objective is to compete in the marketplace on the basis of competitive services and prices. Under no circumstances is it acceptable to offer, give, solicit or receive, any form of bribe, kickback, improper or illegal inducement. Trojan is committed to the protection of its employees and customers and to maintaining the integrity of the company’s operations and reputation. To this end, we have policies and systems in place to protect against corruption, fraud, crime or serious misconduct within the organisation. Trojan is committed to complying with all relevant Australian legislation and codes to prevent corruption. Trojan has a number of policies and procedures to prevent instances of corruption and these are reviewed and updated every year. Trojan supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and will not operate with organisations that are corrupt. Our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics As a provider of human resource solutions, Trojan is committed to the protection of human rights among employees and consultants based on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. These comprehensive document describes conduct that is based on our core values, reinforces our policies and practices, and enforces legal and regulatory compliance. It outlines the company’s expectations of employees to ensure lawful and ethical behaviour. Policies include:  Employee Code of Conduct  Business Principles  Code of Ethical Business Practice UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 14 of 16 Supplier Code of Conduct Trojan works closely with a wide range of suppliers in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line with its commitment to corporate responsibility, it chooses to partner with suppliers which demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility.  Supplier Code of Conduct “Report It” program. “Report It” is Trojan’s whistleblower program and is a way for employees, suppliers and clients to confidentially raise issues about misconduct in the workplace such as unsafe, unethical or illegal practices. The type of actual or suspected inappropriate conduct include things such as corruption, bribery, abuse of authority, wilful breaching of legislation, unsafe work practice and health risks, bullying or harassment and wilful breaching of internal policies, among other things. We rely on people to speak up whenever they feel there is a breach of Trojan’s Business Principles or that they, their colleagues, our clients and suppliers, our business or our reputation might be at risk in accordance with the Trojan’s Policies.  Report it Anti-Corruption Principles – Implementation Our value system emphasises integrity and trust at all levels of the organisation. To ensure our company is managed with integrity and in our stakeholders best interests, we have put in place policies and practices that maintain high ethical standards of conduct and comply fully with applicable laws and governmental regulations. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics gives clear guidelines for the company’s expectations of employees to ensure lawful and ethical behaviour. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics covers such areas as:  Reporting violations and ensuring compliance  Corporate opportunities and conflicts of interest  Compliance with securities laws  Antitrust and competition law compliance  Financial and accounting practices  Political contributions  Lobbying and legislative contacts  Business with governments and officials  Governmental investigations  Gratuities and gifts To ensure transparency and adherence to quality standards, Trojan’s consolidated financial statements and the effective operation of internal control over financial reporting are subject to external quarterly reviews and an annual audit. Corporate Governance Our Code of Conduct and ethics promotes honest and ethical conduct throughout the organisation, as well as provides a mechanism to report unethical conduct to help preserve the culture of honesty and accountability throughout the company. Trojan Recruitment Group is a model of good corporate citizenship. We are well-known as a trusted advisor, supplier, employer and community member nationwide. We say what we mean and do what we promise. We attempt to be clear and transparent. Our leaders focus on both the what we do and how we do it. This is not new to Trojan nor is any of it just superficial. These traits are part of our culture, reflected in our leadership charter. Together we are a mission based organisation with shared values:  We are Real  We are Determined  We are People Focused We demonstrate responsible business practices:  Ethical  Effective  Profitable UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 15 of 16 We provide leadership by intention and example:  Governance  Inclusiveness  Transparency We assess and manage risk responsibly:  Risk avoidance and ‘zero tolerance’ approach Risk Management The Board is responsible for approving and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and risk management. To strengthen the relationship between risk management and strategic and operational planning, the Chief Executive Officer – Peter Melki, through the Executive Leadership Team, has principal responsibility for risk management. Anti-Corruption Principles – Measurement of Outcomes Trojan Recruitment Group has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. CSR Memberships / Compliance For the fifth year in a row, Trojan has received the highest certification gold level from EcoVadis, an independent rating agency on Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility. The EcoVadis methodology is at the core of our CSR analysis system, covering 21 criteria across four themes of Environment, Fair labour practices, ethics/fair business practices, and supply chain. In December, Trojan resubmitted the EcoVadis questionnaire for our sixth recertification. EcoVadis is now analysing our answers and documentation, and Trojan is awaiting our results. UNGC Communication on Progress 2019 December 2019 Page 16 of 16
