CSR REPORT WESTPACK A/S 2018/2019 1 CONTENTS CEO Statement ........................................................ 03 UN Global Compact ................................................. 05 ENVIRONMENT ....................................................... 07 Electricity ............................................................... 08 One Tree Planted .................................................... 09 Sustainability of Product Materials ... .................. 10 SOCIAL .................................................................. 12 Etnia Barcelona Foundation ................................... 13 Open School .......................................................... 15 Westpack in Asia .................................................... 17 HUMAN RIGHTS ..................................................... 20 Humanium Metal ................................................... 21 ANTI CORRUPTION ................................................. 23 United Against Corruption ....................................... 24 APPENDIX ............................................................... 25 2 CSR REPORT WESTPACK A/S 2018/2019 CEO STATEMENT Welcome to Westpack’s new CSR report. The 2018-19 report is the 5th of its kind. The design is significantly different. The structure is significantly different. Is the content different too, some may ask? The answer is yes, significantly different! Over the years, Westpack has been working on becoming more fact oriented in our CSR documentation. Our goal has been to better measure CSR efforts and CSR results. Therefore, we have invested in a system that enables us to have a more fact-driven approach to CSR. The reader will find the result of this work in our new CSR report. This naturally does not mean our efforts have concluded. Over the years, we have constantly endeavored to improve our CSR activities and the way we report them. The bar is constantly raised. After all, that is the spirit of CSR. Since our last report, we have joined the UN Global Compact. With this initiative, Westpack is committing to reporting CSR activities and results according to internationally recognized standards. A reporting method that matches that of some of the absolute frontrunners within CSR, and which enables our partners to better compare Westpack with competitors in terms of CSR. With the UN Global Compact, we commit ourselves to annually reporting our CSR efforts and results within: n Environment n Social impact n Human Rights n Anti-corruption Each of these areas have some basic principles to follow. Westpack has therefore decided that these principles should be an inseparable part of any strategy, policy or procedure in Westpack. They are already a natural part of the values that exist in Westpack, and the culture we have all been formed by. 3 For each of the above four areas, Westpack will also describe the strategy, risk, action, goals, results and evaluation. With all these initiatives, we ensure that Westpack meets both the pledge and intent of the UN Global Compact. We have also continued our efforts to integrate the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) into our CSR activities. As a reader you will therefore be able to follow our work with selected SDGs, where we believe that Westpack can make a positive impact. In addition to the SDGs and the UN Global Compact, you as readers will be able to recognize our usual CSR activities in both Europe and Asia and, not least, a lot of good stories about the collaborations we have established with NGOs and our customers around the world. I hope you enjoy reading this report, and as always, please feel free to contact me directly relating to CSR or any other queries. Morten Dalsgaard, CEO Westpack E-mail: mda@westpack.com Phone: +45 4171 7581 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT At Westpack we have made a strategic decision to support the UN Global Compact initiative and ensure that we follow the fundamental principles of responsible business management. After having already worked proactively with CSR for several years we decided to join the global and well recognized initiative. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, policies and procedures, we believe that we are not only upholding our basic responsibilities to people and the planet, but also setting the stage for our long-term success at Westpack. Strategy Westpack wants to be a part of the movement towards a solution to some of the main problems that the world is facing today and to contribute in creating a better world for everyone. In order to focus our efforts we have joined together with various partners as we believe this to be the best way for Westpack to contribute on a global scale. We have made it a strategy to team up with people and organizations that are dedicated to solving some of the specific problems which are also highlighted in the UN Global Compact charter. In this report you will find examples of our partnerships with organizations such as Fairtrade®, FSC®, One Tree Planted®, Humanium Metal to name a few. We put partnerships at the center of our approach to the UN Global Compact initiative. Risk The world is facing major challenges in areas such as poverty, inequalities, environment and climate. It is therefore essential that we act on a global scale. 5 Action Westpack has joined the UN Global Compact in order to engage in partnerships on various SDG’s. Goal By joining the UN Global Compact and teaming up with various partners Westpack shall make their contribution to create a better world for all. Result Westpack only recently joined the UN Global Compact but we see a large increase in sales of environmentally friendly products. We have also been involved in various partnerships that have been proven to be beneficial to many people and that compliment the particular SDG’s on which we place special emphasis. Evaluation Westpack will continue to develop environmentally friendly products and to participate in relevant projects that have a positive impact on communities and on the lives of people. Westpack puts partnerships at the center of our approach to the UN Global Compact initiative. Furthermore we have selected four of the SDG’s which we will put special focus on while at the same time including and respecting all of the SDG’s in our business. 6 ENVIRONMENT 7 ENVIRONMENT ELECTRICITY About 5 years ago Westpack invested substantially in an upgrade of our electric installations. Most significantly we invested in new heat pumps with lower energy consumption and a complete replacement of all our light bulbs and fixtures from conventional lightbulbs to LED lighting. These initiatives helped us to reduce our energy consumption significantly. This year we have planned another round of energy consumtion analysis in cooperation with consultants from our energy provider Jysk Energi. Furthermore, we will examine the feasibility of changing our energy supply to sustainable energy which means that the source of the energy will be wind and/ or solar energy. Strategy Westpack wants to continuously lower our electricity consumption and to use more “Green electricity” from renewable sources. Risk As the global population continuous to rise, so will the demand for cheap energy, which is found by relying on fossil fuels. This increases the greenhouse gas emissions significantly, unless we start investing in renewable energies. SDG #7 Action Westpack has invested in energy efficient solutions in lighting and production equipment and will continue to pursue more solutions to reduce electricity consumption and to use more renewable energysources. Goal By minimizing our electricity demand and by using renewable energy sources Westpack aspires to take part in the global efforts to decrease the emission of greenhouse gasses. Our goal for next year is to keep our electricity consumtion at the same level despite expansion of production and warehousing facilities. Result Our demand for electricity is approximately 20 percent lower in this financial 8 year compared to the year before despite an expansion of our production facilities. Evaluation We can see that our efforts to minimize our electricity consumption are successful and we will continue to explore ways to further reduce it in cooperation with our energy provider. ONE TREE PLANTED For the third year running we have been planting trees in Kalimantan (Indonesian Borneo) in partnership with the NGO One Tree Planted. As our engagement in Indonesia increases in terms of production, so does our commitment to leaving a positive mark on the country’s environment. Apart from ensuring full compliance with the European Union’s Timber Regulation, we also partner up with One Tree Planted to plant trees in Borneo. We have planted one tree for every feet of products we ship out of Indonesia i.e. for every 20’ container we have planted 20 trees. This year again our donation has increased substantially. This year it has increased by an additional 50%. Quote from Diana Chaplin, Marketing Director at One Tree Planted: “We are proud to work with business partners who are focused on sustainability. Westpack’s contributions to our reforestation project in Indonesia have helped make a positive impact for nature, biodiversity, and local communities. Such beneficial involvement is exactly the kind of support we need more of to create a more sustainable global marketplace.” Strategy By supporting the NGO One Tree Planted we want to promote the idea of creating a balance in nature so that, for example, if we remove trees to make paper then we should ensure that new trees are planted. Risk To combat the risks to the environment, we aim to protect, restore and promote the use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. SDG#15 Action Westpack has committed to planting a minimum of one tree per container-foot shipped from Indonesia. 9 Goal By joining the initiative of One Tree Planted Westpack aims to support the development of forest in Borneo and to restore the natural habitat of various endangered animal species. Result In this financial year we planted 357% more trees than we did in the first year (2016/17). Evaluation Westpack will continue to support the One Tree Planted organization in 2019/20 and we will increase the number of trees planted. SUSTAINABILITY OF PRODUCT MATERIALS Westpack works continuously on providing as large a selection as possible of materials that are environmentally friendly. Apart from our FSC® certified products, we also offer fabric of 100% organic material which is also Fairtrade certified. “Certified organic” means that no pesticides have been used in the production of the cotton crop. This material is ideal for making fabric pouches and similar products. Our supplier base in Asia has also seen an increase of FSC® certified suppliers the past year. Four of our regular suppliers have been certified in the past year. This year has been yet another year with a lot of focus on the EU Timber Regulation and FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade), not least with regards to our EUTR Due Diligence program. Westpack Asia has held an internal seminar again this year on the regulation and Westpack will continue to hold EUTR related meetings with our partner factories as well as conduct random inspection of EUTR compliance. The understanding of the regulation is key to ensuring compliance amongst our cooperating suppliers. Our experience is that our suppliers are increasingly responsive to the task at hand and the understanding of the importance of protecting our forests is also increasing. 10 In order to make our environmentally friendly products easier to spot on our web site we have created a separate label for these products. “ECO” is Westpacks own label. A product can be labelled with the ECO brand for various reasons related to the protection of our environment. A product is typically qualified for our ECO brand if the raw materials used are FSC® or Fairtrade certified, organic, bio degradable or recycled. Our ECO brand is usually placed so that it is clearly visible on our products as this helps our customers to promote the principle of a sustainable environment. Strategy Westpack wants to participate in promoting the use of sustainable materials. Risk Reducing our environmental impact by changing the way we produce and consume goods and resources, is essential to achieving economic growth and sustainable development. This can range from efficient management of our shared natural resources, the way we dispose of toxic waste and pollutants, to recycling and reducing waste. SDG #12 Action Westpack is actively developing more products under our ECO brand. Goal By launching more products and actively promoting our ECO brand, Westpack wants to increase the sales of products which are made from environmentally sustainable raw materials. Our goal is to add five more products under the ECO brand in the coming year. Result The sales of our ECO products was higher than ever before last year. In the past 2 years we have launched 10 new products in the ECO brand. Evaluation Westpack will continue to expand the ECO range by introducing new products and by converting products made from conventional raw materials into eco-friendly products. Although we have already introduced many new ECO products we still have plans to introduce a lot more as we can see that there is a high demand from our customers. 11 SOCIAL 12 ETNIA BARCELONA FOUNDATION For several years we have had a fruitful collaboration with our Spanish customer Etnia on CSR activities in Africa, specifically the town of Tambacounda, Senegal. Over the past 3 years, we have supported our customer and partner in their efforts to help children in Senegal with eye examinations, vision tests and subsequent distribution of glasses in protective packaging. Last year, this activity was expanded to also support local women’s start-ups of eyewear businesses in the city of Zinguinchor. The project serves several purposes: to spread the practice of eye examinations, visual health education and training of staff, distribution of glasses and to provide financial support for starting up small businesses that will eventually strengthen the local economy and the families in this area. Profit from these small eyewear stores must go to other social activities in the immediate area. Also, in this project Westpack participates as a loyal sparring partner for Etnia. The plan is to continue the project in Senegal a minimum of 2 years and with Westpack as one of the donors. Quote from Aitana Modolell, Executive Director at Etnia Barcelona Foundation: “We are very grateful that Westpack is still a faithful and valuable support in our CSR activities in Africa, Senegal. Our activity in Senegal is growing year after year, and it’s great Westpack always supports our CSR activities with great confidence and with great enthusiasm. We consider our cooperation as part of UN’s Sustainable Development Goal no. 17 on “Partnerships for the Goals” a goal both Westpack and Etnia have in their CSR program” Strategy Through partnerships with our valued and long-term customers we want to actively support initiatives that enables communities in developing countries to improve the living conditions and to grow healthy businesses which will be the foundation for their further development. Risk Poverty and lack of access to proper medical equipment and treatment for children remains one of the greatest challenges in the world today. SDG#3 Action Westpack is working with Etnia and supporting their project to provide examinations and eyewear to local communities in Senegal. Goal By supporting Etnia in the project we shall ensure better quality of life for children 13 with reduced eyesight and improve the living standard in local communities in Senegal by providing aid to small eyewear shops. Result During the 3 years that the foundation has existed Etnia has donated 23.047 eye-wear frames to organizations which are involved in similar project as the Etnia Barcelona Foundation. A total of 9.152 eye examinations have been provided to people, primarily to children. And a total of 1.572 prescription glasses have been donated predominantly to school children. A continuous evaluation will take place and more examinations and glasses will be provided. Westpack will provide the packaging for those glasses. Evaluation Westpack will continue to offer their support as a partner in the project to help local communities in Senegal provide eye examinations and support local small businesses. 14 OPEN SCHOOL Together with Holstebro Municipality, we have continued our work on project Open School, which was launched last year and discussed in last year’s report. It is an activity where Westpack opens its doors to 75 students, who for more than a week can use the facilities at Westpack in their learning about relevant topics. Besides opening our doors, Westpack also makes 15-20 employees available as coaches and mentors in the process. It all culminates in a big fair, where the students demonstrate the knowledge they have acquired in a week of business-related practical learning. Last year this project was a huge success, and at the time of writing, a similar event has just been planned for autumn 2019. During Open School, the students deal with topics such as sustainability, environment, CSR, cultural understanding, and more mercantile topics such as sales, marketing, language and mathematics. It is a corporate and socially relevant education which is a great benefit for everyone involved. We are already looking forward to this autumn when a lot of new students will be part of the Open School project again. Quote from Teacher and Project Coordinator, Ms Karina Haugaard at Rolf Krake School in Holstebro: “The cooperation with Westpack has enabled the students to connect the theory they bring from the classroom with a professional reality. The students have met a lot of highly committed and competent employees at Westpack, who have been willing to help our students in the most enthusiastic way. This cooperation has provided our students with an insight into the diversity and complexity of an international company and they have learned how many different jobs and functions there are and how important they all are. The students have been given the opportunity and space to develop their innovative and communicative skills in a context where there was a clearly defined audience besides the school and classroom. We have truly appreciated the support from Westpack and we look very much forward to continue our cooperation with them” Strategy Westpack want to be a visible and important part of the local community through participations in various relevant initiatives. 15 Risk A relevant, theoretical as well as practical education is highly important for both individuals and communities in order to address the challenges we face on a national and global scale. Challenges such as the environment, global warming, sustainability etc. SDG#12 Action Westpack is cooperating with Holstebro municipality and have opened their doors for the students to come and have a first-hand look at the factory and offices. As part of the project Westpack has selected a case based on an anonymous customer inquiry and has given the students full access to all details. Furthermore Westpack has made 15-20 of our employees available to the students for questions and guidance in their projects. Goal By participating in this initiative Westpack enables students within the local community to have a relevant and business-oriented education which also focuses on innovative and sustainable production. Result As the statement from Ms Karina Haugaard clearly expresses, the event in 2018 was a very big success and as a result of that Westpack and Holstebro Municipality have agreed arrange a similar event in the autumn of 2019. Evaluation Westpack will continue to support the local community and education of the young generation. 16 WESTPACK IN ASIA CSR EFFORTS IN ASIA Doing business in Asia comes with extended responsibilities. Doing ethically sound business in Asia requires a level of diligence and prudence that is not necessary in Europe where most of our customers are based. True to the core values of Westpack, we go to great lengths to ensure a sustainable impact on the countries we operate in. As stated in our Code of Conduct, workers’ rights and respect for the individual are central to our CSR program. However, we have also placed an increased focus on sustainability in the past couple of years as will be described in the following. CSR audit program In our program we seek to ensure that the suppliers that produce Westpack’s goods are conducting their business in a proper way. As stated in Westpack’s Code of Conduct we lean heavily on the principles of SA8000 when auditing and counseling our suppliers. To ensure expertise and to avoid potential conflicts of interests, Westpack has entered in a cooperation with Bureau Veritas (B.V.) which assists Westpack in the CSR program and counsels in matters relating to CSR. When auditing, B.V. is responsible for issues pertaining to Child Labor, Forced and Compensatory Labor, Freedom of Association, Discrimination, Disciplinary Practices, Working hours and Remuneration. This way no supplier can claim conflict of interest as B.V. will be handling documents of a sensitive and confidential nature. The Westpack Quality Control team includes one certified SA8000 internal auditor who is responsible for issues relating to Formalities, Health and Safety, Management System and Environment. Initial audits will always be attended by Westpack management together with the Westpack CSR auditor and B.V. In addition to the audits commissioned by Westpack, several of our customers commission audits in their own program, which we believe to be an advantage. When looking at the general industry of packaging, Westpack can be seen as a relatively small player, however, we work closely with our customers who have their own CSR programs and, in this way, we maximize efforts on all levels to conform to social accountability. Therefore, when customer commissioned audits are conducted by a recognized auditing company, we will incorporate these audits into our program and follow up on the corrective action points on a par with our own audits. 17 Westpack has a realistic approach to CSR, however, it is imperative that the supplier shows a sincere determination to improve their CSR performance. In other words, the will to improve the performance is just as important as the initial performance level. Status of the program In the five years of structured audits we have conducted a total of 30 audits. The 30 audits have been divided among 15 suppliers. 14 audits have been commissioned by Westpack and 16 audits have been customer commissioned. All customer commissioned audits have been conducted by SGS. After the audits were conducted, Westpack were able to continue our cooperation with each of the customers and all the factories that were audited. This demonstrates a good alignment between the audits which are conducted on request of our customers and the audits Westpack initiates ourselves. And it also tells us that Westpacks system of audit and evaluation of suppliers is successful in selecting the suitable factories as our partners. The 15 suppliers audited are the equivalent to 25% of our active suppliers in Asia. As audits have been prioritized mainly by volume, these 15 suppliers cover 70% of Westpack’s purchasing volume in Asia. This is slightly higher compared to last year. Plans and Targets for 2019/20 The coming year we have yet again planned an active year n 2 Westpack commissioned audits n 2 Westpack commissioned re-audits n Additional customer commissioned audits Our target for 2019/20 is to increase the audited volume share to a minimum of 80% so we continue to raise the bar in our CSR performance. Sustainability of product materials Westpack in Asia is also continuously working on providing as large a selection as possible of materials that are especially environmentally friendly. Apart from our FSC® certified products, we also source fabric of 100% organic material which is also Fair Trade certified. Both categories saw substantial grown in this financial year. Our supplier base in Asia has also seen an increase of FSC® certified suppliers the past year. Four of our regular suppliers have been certified in the past year. From 2015 to 2019 our purchase of FSC® certified products has increased by 5%. In light of our intensified focus on sustainable products we expect the increase to be much greater in the coming year. As high as 10% can be expected. EUTR/FLEGT This year has been yet another year with a lot of focus on the EU Timber Regulation and FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade), not least with regards to our EUTR Due Diligence program. Westpack Asia has held an internal seminar again this year on the regulation and we continue to hold EUTR related meetings with our partner factories as well as conduct random inspection of EUTR compliance. The understanding of the regulation is key to ensuring compliance amongst our cooperating suppliers. Our experience is that our suppliers are increasingly responsive to the task at hand and the understanding of the importance of protecting our forests is also increasing. 18 Staff welfare Apart from all legal requirements regarding unemployment, health and housing insurance we also prioritize a good working environment for our staff in Asia. We always keep an open environment with high flexibility for a reasonable work-life balance. As an example, our staff in China has 50% more annual leave than the legal requirement. We also prioritize the physical working environment highly in which we have been investing heavily in the past couple of years. Most recently we have begun phasing out the conventional stationary desks with ergonomically safe height-adjustable tables. The steps we have taken to ensure a good working environment has also resulted in a very low staff turnover as we are able to keep our employees motivated and satisfied in their assignments. Strategy Westpack aims to ensure that our suppliers conduct their business in a safe, legal and environmentally friendly manner. Risk Environmental hazards and workers’ rights and safety is a global issue that needs to be carefully mitigated. In this regard it is essential for Westpack that we can trust the suppliers that we work with in Asia and ensure that they adhere to the same principles as Westpack and our customers. SDG#8. Action Westpack has engaged in a close partnership with our suppliers in order to share knowledge and experience. Furthermore, we have invested significant resources in procuring the services of Bureau Veritas as we are conducting an increasing number of audits. Goal By investing in our suppliers, we shall improve the conditions of workers and ensure that the environment is protected. In the next year we will conduct 4 Westpack audits and re-audits as well as any customer commissioned audits. In terms of sustainable production, we aim to increase our purchase of FSC certified products by 10% in the coming year. Result We have conducted approx. 30 audits in the past 5 years and as a result of these audits our suppliers have implemented a lot of improvements for their workers and the environment. Evaluation Westpack will continue to cooperate closely with our suppliers in order to improve further on the workers’ conditions and the environmental impact of industries in Asia. 19 HUMAN RIGHTS 20 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMANIUM METAL Throughout 2018-19 Westpack has supported the project Humanium Metal via a monetary donation. The organization 1M, which is behind the project, aims to reduce the number of illegal firearms in the world. A purpose that supports UN’s Sustainable Development Goal no. 16, which deals with Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. The aim of Humanium Metal is collecting illegal handguns and melting them into metal that can be used for peaceful purposes. Such a peaceful purpose could, for example, be the production of watches, which is how Westpack originally came into contact with Humanium Metal. Last year Triwa, one of Westpack’s regular customers, launched a watch series made of metal extracted from illegal firearms and thereby supporting the Humanium Metal project. Early in the process, Westpack decided that we would join this project. Every time Triwa sells one of these watches, they are delivered in a box from Westpack. Westpack subsequently donates a cash amount to the Humanium Metal project per sold Triwa box. By supporting this good cause, we also support our customer in their CSR efforts which falls under the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal no. 17, Partnerships for the Goals. The collaboration on this humanitarian project has now been ongoing for a year. The evaluation of the project has given a very clear conclusion; It makes a difference! Therefore, Westpack is eager to continue supporting Humanium Metal in the new year. Quote from Ludvig Scheja, Co-founder & Creative Director at Triwa: “Triwa is grateful that Westpack supports us in our contribution to achieving the UN Global Goal no. 17. It is only possible to achieve this important goal by engaging in such loyal partnerships. The fact that it is successful, can be seen by the amount of attention our project has achieved. Triwa and Westpack have made a significant contribution to Humanium Metal’s important work in collecting illegal firearms. Triwa continues along with Westpack! We are also very proud that Humanium Metal’s patron visited Sweden recently. Here, an auction was held on the iconic sculpture “The Gun with the Knot” produced by Humanium Metal. The surplus went directly to Humanium Metal’s work” Strategy Through partnerships with long-term customers we want to support humanitarian projects that create value for all participants and make the World a more decent place to live in. 21 Risk Armed violence and insecurity have a destructive impact on a country’s development, affecting economic growth, and often resulting in grievances that last for generations. SDG#16 Action Westpack has teamed up with TRIWA to support the Humanium Metal project where confiscated weapons from developing countries are melted to create e.g. watches. Part of the profit goes to 1M’s work in the affected countries. Goal By participating in the Humanium Metal project we shall create awareness among our customers, employees and other stakeholders of the problems and consequences of violence, which is especially prolific in the developing countries. Result As we started our participation in 2018 it is still too early to make any conclusions on the effect. Evaluation Westpack will continue our commitment to the Humanium Metal project in 2019. It is our intention in 2019 to work with KPl’s which can measure the effect of our participation. 22 ANTI CORRUPTION 23 ANTI CORRUPTION At Westpack anti-corruption measures are something we take very seriously. We have a clearly defined policy statement which is made known to all our business partners in Asia. All of Westpacks regular suppliers have signed the “Westpack Code of Conduct” in which it is clearly stated that Westpack has a zero tolerance on all offenses related to bribery and corruption. Our anti-corruption policies also include an open approach to communication channels. Westpack management, both in Denmark and Asia, can always be contacted, also anonymously if preferred, by all staff and business partners. 24 APPENDIX ENERGY All electricity consumption has been procured through our local energy provider Jysk Energi. In the past ﬁve years we have seen a decline in our energy consumption through various initiatives. We want to sustain the downward trend through various energy saving initiatives. The goal is to keep decreasing our energy consumption in relative terms. TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER WIDTHDRAWN FROM THE FOLLOWING SOURCES (G4 EN 8) 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016 2016 / 2017 2017 / 2018 2018 / 2019 Municipal water supplies or other 139,92 445,35 546,37 556,620 538,03 water utilities Comments The water consumption at M3 West pack is relatively low 1,000 and stable. Our goal is to stay at the same level and not increase our 500 consumption of water. 0 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 25 ENERGY ENERGY CONSUMTION – HEATING (G4 EN 3) 2014 / 2015 2015 / 2016 2016 / 2017 2017 / 2018 2018 / 2019 Energy consumption – heating – 662,03 195,42 315,14 292,60 MWh 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 26 27 © 2010 Westpack Denmark Westpack is a registered trademark +45 70 80 93 33 sales@westpack.com www.westpack.com b2b.westpack.com Our FSC license number is FSC®C112509. The mark of responsible forestry. www.fsc.org. 28
