CATTINI & FIGLIO S.r.l. Communication on Progress for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact 1 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • SUMMARY: • Continuous commitment to the UNGC and its principles. • 2019 Status. • 2020 Targets. 2 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT TO THE UNGC AND ITS PRINCIPLES: This year we proudly celebrate the 10th anniversary of our voluntary participation to the UNGC and we are delighted to confirm our commitment to the UNGC’S 10 universal principles. After two booming years, 2019 will be remembered as a year of transition, when not only the market demand is softening but, also, when the paradigm of business is changing to a more short-term focused view. This change creates a serious challenge to every Organization operating in our segment but we believe that, with our full set of values and the guidance provided by the UNGS’S principles, we can win this challenge and be ready for the next evolution of our business model. Casarile, December 12, 2019 Lorenzo A. Cattini – Chairman, C.e.o. 3 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio never tolerated and never will tolerate any kind of abuse in respect with the universal known human rights. • There has been no reported case of inobservance of any human rights since the e-mail anonym hotline has been established in 2010. • Cattini & Figlio will endlessly continue to stress the importance of respect of human rights throughout its entire organization and to all stakeholders including Suppliers. 4 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (2): • Health and safety issues are covered by periodical meetings between employees and management representatives as well as by procedures included in the management model according to legislative decree 231, recognized by the Italian government. • Employees are represented by a serious and competent committee. • Cattini & Figlio has appointed a management representative for health, safety and environment duly empowered to act. • Plenary health and safety session is held annually. • The totality of employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements. 5 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio recognizes the right for all employees to associate to unions and confirms that the unions are not subject to any kind of discrimination. Year 2019 Total employees 241 Associated to unions 41 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 6 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (2): • The use of child and/or forced labour in Cattini & Figlio’s plants as well as in our Suppliers facilities has never and will never be tolerated; no person will be enrolled under the minimum age permitted by the Italian law. Age employees from 15 to 20 years 0 from 20 to 35 years 68 from 35 to 50 years 133 from 50 to 60 years 40 above 60 years 0 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 7 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (3): • One of Cattini & Figlio’s maior objectives is to take care of its human resources and to endlessly develop their potential through appropriate business climate, training, job rotation and other universally accepted practises. • During selection and recruitement of new personnel, only job specific issues are taken into account to identify the best possible candidates for the position. • Cattini & Figlio takes into account each person’s attitudes and performances only without making any gender, racial or other kind of discrimation. 8 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • ENVIRONMENT STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio takes care to minimise the impact to the environment as much as possible taking into consideration the inevitable constrainsts due to the fact that materials and manufacturing methods are specified by its Customers. • In FY 2019 we renewed our environmental certification to the international standard ISO 14001:2015. • In FY 2019 we decommissioned many old machines in favour of more efficent manufacturing systems. 9 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • ENVIRONMENT STATUS (2): • In FY 2019 we installed a significant portion of new high insulation glass for better comfort and environmental efficiency. • In FY 2019 we installed an energy absorbtion system to monitor the quantity of electric energy used for each group of production machines. • We use 100% synthetic lubricants to reduce consumption and emissions or, whenever technically possible, we use no lubricant at all. 10 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • ANTI-CORRUPTION STATUS: • Corruption has never and will never be tolerated by Cattini & Figlio: so far, no non compliance to our policy has been reported to the top management ouf our Company. • Our Code of Ethics has been updated and published on our website; it is extremely clear about non-ethical issues and our Company will stop or not enter into business relations with any third parties responsible for such painful acts. 11 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • STATUS 2019: WHAT WE HAVE DONE 1. We’ve been audited to verify the effectiveness of the voluntary management model according to the legislation act 231 with excellent results. 2. We’ve completed an important training program throughout our Organization to enrich the quality of our Associates and make them more responsible and co-operative for the future. 3. We’ve installed many top-of-the-range production systems with improved quality and reduced environmental impact. 12 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2019 to the UN Global Compact • TARGETS FOR 2020 1. Continue to spread the UNGC principles throughout our supply chain and within our association; 2. Complete investments in infrastructure for better comfort and safety of all Associates; 3. Prepare for health and safety certification within FY 2021. 13 CATTINI & FIGLIO S.r.l. END OF COP FOR YEAR 2019 Thank you for your attention! 14
