A LEADING BRAND HIGH TECHNOLOGY STRONG PRODUCTION 2018 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT CONTENTS 01 FROM THE MANAGEMENT 04 WORK ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS 4 Message from the Chairman of the Board of 42 Economic and sector overview Directors 46 Risks, opportunities and Çimsa’s Approach 6 Message from the General Manager 10 Board of Directors 05 2018 PERFORMANCE 11 Senior Management 52 Economic Performance 54 Investments 02 ABOUT ÇİMSA 55 R&D and Innovation 14 Corporate Profile 59 Corporate Development and Human Resources 16 Çimsa At A Glance 67 Occupational Health and Safety 18 Domestic Facilities 70 Climate and Energy 19 International Terminals 74 Environmental Management 20 Milestones: Çimsa’s 46 Year Journey Of 78 Corporate Communication Success 06 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 03 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS 82 Prepared With Respect To Communiqué No: 24 The Strategy of Çimsa and Value Creation Series: II-14.1 Process 1 January 31 December 2018 Annual Report of the 28 The Business Model of Çimsa Board of Directors 30 The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives 32 The Business Model 2018 Performance 07 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS&INDEPENDENT AUDIT REPORT 34 Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication 122 Independent Auditor Report and Consolidated Financial Channels of Çimsa Statements 36 Prioritization Analysis and Matrix 124 Profit Distribution Suggestion and Results 38 Sustainable Development Goals and Çimsa 39 Sustainability Management at Çimsa 08 APPENDICES 214 Performance Tables for Çimsa 2017-2018 220 Independent Assurance Declarations 224 ÇİMSA GRI Standards Index 231 UN Global Compact 2018 Communication on Progress COMMUNICATION To access the PDF copy of Çimsa’sT2018 Integrated Annual Report, scan the QR code in your browser. Legal Disclaimer Çimsa 2018 Integrated Annual Report (“The Report”) was prepared by Çimsa Çimento San. ve Tic. A.Ş. (Çimsa) in accordance with the requirements of informing stakeholders, Turkish Code of Commerce (TTK), Capital Markets Board of Turkey (SPK), UNGC Progress Report, CSI, IIRC and the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting principles. All the information, opinions and considerations which are included in this Report and do not qualify to be complete, were provided by Çimsa and were not independently verified for the purposes of this Report. This report is for information purposes only and does not constitute any foundation for any investment decision, nor it is intended to influence investors in any decisions they may make. The information contained in this Report does not constitute any proposal, part of proposal, or invitation for a similar sales process regarding sales of Çimsa shares, and the publication of this report can not be deemed as the establishment of such a legal relationship. As of the preparation date of this report, it is believed that all the information and the related documents included in the report are accurate, and the information is disclosed in good faith and depends on reliable sources. However, Çimsa does not make any statements, guarantees or commitments regarding this information. The report also reflects the views of Çimsa Management, including forward-looking expectations in line with the predicted events in the future, as well as information and analyses about the company. Although it is believed that the information and analyses provided here are accurate and the expectations are realistic, the outcomes in the future may deviate from the predictions herein depending on the changes in the underlying factors. In this context, neither Çimsa, its affiliated companies, subsidiaries, main company/holding nor their members of board of directors, executives, consultants, employees or other related parties can be held responsible for any direct or indirect losses and damages suffered as a result of any information disclosed within the scope of this Report, the use thereof, or for issues based on the information herein or not included in this Report. The contents of this report cannot be copied, changed or distributed without an open written consent of Çimsa. All rights of Çimsa are reserved. ABOUT THE INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT QUALITY, PERIOD AND EXTENT OF PUBLICATION OF THE REPORT Performance notifications were 01 THE REPORT Ensuring that the integrated annual generally presented in the scope of the With this report, Çimsa reviews the report is accessible by all stakeholders GRI Standard indicators, as well as the 02 current output of its activities and its is crucial and a top priority for Çimsa. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) future plans and goals in the scope of Within this framework, the report was development reporting principles, which 03 the capital framework proposed by the produced under an environmentally Çimsa signed up to in 2013, and IIRC (International Integrated Reporting friendly perspective and was shared the principles of the World Business 04 Council) of which it has been a member electronically. The report can be Council For Sustainable Development 05 for 5 years; the company also views, accessed from the www.cimsa.com. (WBCSD)’s Cement Sustainability analyses and reports to its stakeholders tr website and through the link on Initiative (CSI) were also taken into 06 from an integrated perspective. Sustainability and Investor Relations, as consideration. well as through Çimsa’s sustainability 07 This integrated annual report website: www.cimsadasurdurulebilirlik. The 2018 Integrated Annual Report covers the period from 1 January org. of Çimsa, whose shares are publicly 08 31 December 2018. traded on the Borsa Istanbul Exchange, COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION is also in accordance with the minimum All information in the Integrated Annual AND THE REGULATORY annual reporting requirements of the Report, which also includes the Annual FRAMEWORK Turkish Code of Commerce and the Report of the Board of Directors, refers This report complies with the Capital Market Law. to the end of 2018 unless otherwise International Integrated Reporting stated. Framework suggested by the IIRC. AUDIT The financial statements presented Financial and non-financial data The report was prepared in accordance in Çimsa’s 2018 Integrated Annual pertaining to Afyon Çimento Sanayi with the core option of the GRI G4 Report were audited by Güney Bağımsız T.A.Ş., a 51% owned affiliate of Çimsa, Reporting guidelines published by the Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci are included to the figures presented in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. (Ernst&Young). this report. contents of the report were gathered Independent Assurance Declarations on the principles on the determination concerning other matters are This report also proves that Çimsa of report content described in the GRI presented on Page 220. has adopted integrated thinking and Standards Guideline, especially on the sustainability on an end to end basis principle of prioritization. 1 in all of its business processes. This approach strongly supports Çimsa’s efforts to conduct its business in the most appropriate way, both for the society it belongs to and for our world. The Turkish language version of this report has been published on March 27, 2019. GRI 102-46 “Within the scope of our Group’s future vision, Çimsa continues to generate permanent value for its stakeholders, to consolidate shareholder value and to contribute to the Turkish economy by unwaveringly carrying out its growth strategy.” Dr. Tamer SAKA Chairman of the Board of Directors ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report “In a year marked by volatilities in the global and national economy, Çimsa not only achieved its financial and operational targets, but also continued 2 to move forward with determination which is important for shaping its future.” Ülkü ÖZCAN General Manager 01 02 03 04 We created 05 06 lasting value by 07 08 managing the dynamics of 2018 with our agile and rational strategy. 3 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN CAPITAL SOCIAL AND NATURAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CAPITAL MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS As a publicly traded company, Çimsa has adopted the developmenat of shareholder value as one of its main targets. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Çimsa’s sustainable growth journey, which started 46 years ago, reached a new stage in 2018. 4 Dear stakeholders, more evident in 2018. Çimsa’s vision has enhanced our business export performance has improved with its guidance, as we are in the IN ADDITION TO GENERATING ADDED with added momentum, as we process of activating a cultural and VALUE FOR ITS STAKEHOLDERS, have continued to generate added technological transformation in all OUR COMPANY HAS SUCCESSFULLY value with high market efficiency in of our processes, taking important PRESSED AHEAD WITH ITS different countries. Meanwhile, the steps towards achieving these steps. STRATEGIC STEPS. investments undertaken by Çimsa Our pioneering position in the Turkish America our affiliate in the United Thanks to this approach, which cement industry has advanced further States have continued in line with prioritizes innovation and higher with the strategic steps we have our strategic plan with the facility added value production, we continue taken in 2018. In a year in which we approaching its completion. to move forward with determination, achieved major breakthroughs for aiming to do our best for the country, the future, we achieved a healthy and WE ARE READY FOR THE FUTURE the Sabancı Group and for our sustainable financial and operational WITH OUR POWERFUL AND stakeholders. performance with our commercial AMBITIOUS CORPORATE IDENTITY. activities in the cement industry. As one of the leading companies Based on the same understanding, in the Turkish industrial sector, we will continue to pursue and As a distinguished member of the Çimsa distinguishes itself with evaluate potential opportunities which Sabancı Cement Group, Çimsa its high predictive power, sound will contribute to our growth in the continues to generate permanent financial structure, ability to adopt to domestic market as well as in other value for its stakeholders, transformation and its professional regions of the world. consolidating shareholder value and human resources. contributing to the Turkish economy FURTHER STRENGTHENING by unwaveringly pursuing its growth We are taking the important steps SHAREHOLDER VALUE strategy within the scope of our with determination, which will carry As a publicly traded company, Çimsa Group’s future vision. Çimsa to the future, in line with has accepted the development of our vision of a ‘Sabancı of the New shareholder value as one of its The steps taken towards “becoming Generation’ which has been adopted main targets. The investments a global player” the most important by the Group on an end-to-end basis. we undertake in Turkish industry component of this vision became The ‘Sabancı of the New Generation’ represent as important a contribution GRI 102-14, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 to our brand and shareholder value 01 as our operational and financial performance. 02 The tremendous importance we 03 attach to R&D and our strategic steps and projects in digitalization 04 are key factors in advancing our 05 Company’s total value and prestige on a global scale, as well as setting the 06 direction of our development. 07 We think that the coming period in 2019 and beyond will be marked by 08 volatility both at a global level and in the national economy. Against such a backdrop, Çimsa is strategically entering new regions as well as focusing on consolidating its traditionally strong domestic presence, managing the risks correctly and advancing our brand to the future with a healthy financial structure. As a widely renowned and pioneering player in the cement sector, and indeed a major component in the vision of the new Turkey, our Company will continue to deploy its Accomplishing its investments 5 competencies tirelessly in order to generate permanent value and with a belief in the boundless to increase its contribution to the national economy. potential of the national market, As a member of Sabancı Group, which accomplishes its investments Çimsa looks to the future with and projects with a long term approach and a belief in the confidence. boundless potential of the national market, we look to the future with confidence. On behalf of myself and our Board of Directors, I would like to pay my respects to all of our stakeholders, especially our employees, our customers and international business partners, and I would like to thank them for their warm support for the Çimsa brand. Dr. Tamer SAKA Chairman of the Board of Directors GRI 102-14, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER The Turkish cement industry successfully maintains its position of being Europe’s leading cement producer, while ranking in the top 5 in ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report the global league. In 2018, Çimsa continued its investments and strategic steps to further consolidate its competitive edge and position in the global market, generating permanent value for its stakeholders. 6 Dear stakeholders, emerging economies during the same The rebalancing process in the period. Based on the Global Outlook Turkish economy, which became THE GLOBAL ECONOMY CONTINUED report published in January, the IMF evident in the final quarter of 2018 TO GROW, BUT DOUBTS HAVE forecasts that the global economy will with declining industrial production EMERGED OVER FUTURE GROWTH grow by 3.5% in 2019. and imports, is expected to continue According to IMF estimates, the in the first half of 2019, while there world economy grew by 3.7% in As well as less abundant global are gathering hopes of a moderate 2018. liquidity in 2018 as a result of the recovery and return to growth from steps to normalization taken in the second half of the year. An analysis of the global growth the monetary policies of developed trends in 2018 clearly demonstrates countries, the Turkish economy RANKING AMONG THE TOP FIVE IN that the contribution from developed was also affected by geopolitical THE GLOBAL CEMENT INDUSTRY, countries to the global economy developments in neighboring regions. TURKEY MAINTAINS ITS LEADING gained strength, with a slowing After the vigorous growth in 2017, POSITION IN EUROPE IN TERMS OF tendency in developing countries, the Turkish economy recorded 2.6% CAPACITY. particularly China. Although global growth in 2018. The Turkish cement industry growth maintained its positive successfully maintains its identity as momentum in 2018, a number Exports were the most powerful Europe’s leading cement producer, of developments have called anchor of the Turkish economy in while ranking in the top five in the the sustainability of this strong 2018, increasing their weight in the global league. Based on figures performance into question. growth composition. This was one provided by the Turkish Cement positive development in the economy Manufacturers’ Association, a total of The tightening in monetary policies in 2018, helping to balance the trade 54 integrated cement plants and 18 under the leadership of the world’s deficit and current account deficit. grinding facilities are in operation in major central banks, the increase The annual foreign trade deficit Turkey. in funding costs, the deterioration decreased from USD 77 billion in in the inflation outlook and the 2017 to USD 55 billion in 2018, The cement industry in Turkey, in emergence of trade wars all point while the current account deficit which production and sales are to risks to future growth, as seen in decreased from USD 47 billion to directly related to economic growth, the weakening in portfolio flows to USD 28 billion. has a competitive structure, with GRI 102-14, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 new capacities coming on stream in the industry almost every year. In One of the world’s top three 7 our opinion, our sector will continue to benefit from the economic growth brands in the white cement potential of our region by maintaining its strong position. sector, Çimsa is truly an A STRONG PERFORMANCE FOR ÇİMSA IN 2018. international cement producer In a year marked by significant volatility in the global and national with its international structure. economy, Çimsa not only achieved its financial and operational targets, but Our gross profit ratio was 24% with Çimsa is truly an international cement also continued to move forward with an EBITDA margin of 23% and a producer with its international determination, taking the vital steps consolidated net profit of TL 154.9 structure. to shape its future. million. We generated a Return on Equity of 11% and a Return on It brings me great pleasure to note Established in 1972, Çimsa is Assets of 4%. that our Çimsa Americas investment, one of the leading players in the which we are about to bring onTurkish industrial sector. The WORKING TO BRING OUR ÇİMSA stream, will further strengthen our Company continued its production AMERİCAS INVESTMENT ON Company’s presence and help stake activities in all of its factories without STREAM. its claim in the global league. As interruption, meeting its customers’ In addition to grey cement, Çimsa Çimsa Americas starts production, product and service needs in a leads the industry in terms of R&D we aim to achieve strong advantages complete and timely manner with its and innovation with its value-added in terms of logistics, product quality market-oriented approach and wide products such as white cement and and customer satisfaction in the US distribution network. calcium aluminate cement. market, where we have been active for many years. Our total sales of cement surpassed Ranking among the top three global 6.4 million of tons in 2018, reaching brands in white cement production, a turnover around TL 1,700 million. GRI 102-14, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER We view our human resources as a key component in achieving our future goals. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 8 Within the context of our strategic »» energy efficiency, It goes without saying that another plan, we aim to bring our Çimsa »» generation of economic value important area is our human Americas investment into operation in through environmentally beneficial resources. The satisfaction of our the first half of 2019. investments, employees, which we deem to be »» human development and riskthe architects of our future, is of the OUR FAR-REACHING GROWTH opportunity management greatest importance to us. Çimsa’s STRATEGY IS BECOMING MORE commitment in human resources “CONCRETE” WITH EVERY STEP The successes we have achieved is to maintain, and improve upon, a WE TAKE, CONSOLIDATING OUR support our growth in the medium business environment where universal STRENGTH TO GENERATE VALUE to long run, and enable us to add employee rights are protected, FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS. sustainable value to the welfare of full compliance with the legislation Çimsa works to an unwavering target all our stakeholders, primarily our regulating work life is maintained, of sustainable, profitable growth in human resources, our customers capabilities are developed and where the short, medium and long term. and our shareholders. there is full equality of opportunity Sustainability, technology, innovation for men and women and the highest and human resources are the basis In 2019, we will accelerate our standards in OHS. and power axes of our strategy, while efforts on digitalization, an area which we seek a win-win perspective in all of we place the highest priority to in Believing human resources are a our activities. the context of our growth strategy. major component in the success While digitalization remains the most needed to achieve our future goals, By uncompromisingly implementing important field where our vision of our Company will continue to develop its strategy, Çimsa notched up new the future becomes concrete, we will its human resources and invest in its successes in 2018 in the fields which also place priority on opportunities competencies by maintaining its focus adopted as the main value creation and collaborations that create higher in this area. axes. These fields are; value as well as the entry into new »» economic performance, markets. »» new products and new market development through R&D and innovation, GRI 102-14, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 We are committed to 01 02 investing in the Turkish 03 04 economy, to produce and to 05 06 contribute to the construction 07 08 of a better future. 9 IN 2019… We are going through a conjuncture We have a strong conviction dominated by volatility in the market and competitive conditions. that we have much to add to the Based on the strong foundation built over almost half a century, Çimsa will achievements we have built over press ahead in its progress in the cement and building materials sector the last 46 years. carefully, being risk-driven but strong and determined. added-value production strength is On behalf of myself and Çimsa better understood than it ever has management team, I would like to It is our strong conviction that been. extend my sincere thanks to you, our we have much to add to the stakeholders, for your contribution achievements we have built over the In the coming period, we will continue and the support you given us for our last 46 years. to work with determination, stability efforts in building a more sustainable and motivation and to further world. Having always acted under the consolidate our leading position in the principle of profitable growth and sector while reinforcing our global Ülkü ÖZCAN building a future worth living in all and local achievements. General Manager circumstances, the Çimsa family has created added value for the Despite fluctuations and stagnations national economy with the production in the short term, we strongly believe it carries out, the employment it in the potential of our country and creates, the taxes it pays and the our surrounding region. We are exports it makes. It gives us great committed to investing in the Turkish pleasure to see that the value of our economy, producing and contributing to building a better future. GRI 102-14, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 10 Dr. Tamer SAKA Barış ORAN Nazmi AKDUMAN Chairman Member Independent Member Serra SABANCI Dilek YARDIM Gökhan EYİGÜN Deputy Chairman Independent Member Member See page 87 for CV information. GRI 102-18 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 11 Ümit ÇETİN Eren MANTAŞ Caner TÜRKYENER Vice General Manager Vice General Manager Vice General Manager (Supply Chain) (Finances and Financial Altairs) (Technic) Ülkü ÖZCAN Tuğba ÇÖRTELEKOĞLU Hüseyin ÇAĞLAR General Manager Vice General Manager Vice General Manager (Human Resources) (Sales and Marketing) See page 87 for CV information. GRI 102-18 02 ABOUT ÇİMSA ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 12 14 Corporate Profile 16 Çimsa At A Glance 18 Domestic Terminals 19 International Terminals 20 Milestones: A 46 year Journey of Success Strong Added Value 01 02 03 Çimsa continues to create value for all of its stakeholders with its 04 continuously developing product portfolio, competent and qualified 05 employees and more than 45 years of experience in the market. 06 07 08 13 ABOUT ÇİMSA Corporate Profile ACTING AS A PIONEER IN ITS In addition to grey cement, Çimsa SECTOR FOR A FUTURE WORTH also produces special products LIVING. such as white cement and calcium Having commenced its operations aluminate cement. In the readyin 1972 at the Mersin Plant, Çimsa mixed concrete sector, Çimsa boasts today operates with five integrated Turkey’s largest ready-mixed concrete plants in Mersin, Eskişehir, Kayseri, facility network, with 19 ready-mixed Niğde and Afyonkarahisar, as well as concrete facilities. one grinding facility in Ankara, the Marmara terminal and its Malatya ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Cement Packaging facility. With its wide distribution network, Çimsa meets the product and Established in 1972 service needs of its customers entirely and promptly, providing living environments for future generations as well as the materials needed for their infrastructure. Çimsa, a Sabancı Holding One of the top three brands of white affiliate, commenced its cement in the world, Çimsa is truly operations in 1972. an international cement producer with its terminals in Hamburg (Germany), Trieste (Italy), Seville 14 and Alicante (Spain), Famagusta PRODUCTION POWER (TRNC), Constanza (Romania) and Novorossiysk (Russia). GRI 102-6 Çimsa will carry its leading 01 position in the sector to the future 02 03 by evaluating new business opportunities. 04 05 06 07 08 Çimsa continues to move forward in its stable growth process backed by its longstanding experience in global and local markets, its know-how, its R&D work which shapes the sector and its identity as a reliable partner for its employees and stakeholders. Exporting white cement and special Çimsa’s shareholding structure as of products to more than 65 countries, the end of 2018 was as follows. 15 mainly to markets in the Middle East, Europe, North Africa and the Shareholders Share (%) United States, Çimsa increases Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 54.54 the recognition of its brand on Akçansa 8.98 international platforms as well as Others 36.48 increasingly contributing to its sector and the Turkish economy. Shareholders Structure AIMING FOR CONTINIOUS GROWTH BY MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN ITS INDUSTRY. Çimsa continues its stable growth 36.48% process backed by its longstanding 8.98% experience in global and local markets, its know-how, its R&D work which shapes the sector and its Hacı Ömer Sabancı identity as a reliable partner for its Holding employees and stakeholders. 54.54% Others Operating in a market dominated by Akçansa continuously changing competitive conditions and customer expectations, Çimsa aims to carry its leading position in the sector to the The shares of Çimsa are traded in Stock Exchange Istanbul. future by evaluating new business opportunities with its market-oriented approach. Çimsa is included in the Borsa İstanbul Sustainability Index. GRI 102-5, 102-6 ABOUT ÇİMSA Çimsa at a Glance 27.4 TL MILLION Environmental Investment ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 20,776 TONS CO2/YEAR Emission Savings 16 A leading player in Turkey’s cement industry, Çimsa launched its 40,529 PERSON HOURS operations in 1972. Total Training 5.8 MILLION TONS 20.2 USD MILLION 388 TL MILLION Cement Total EBITDA Production Investments* * Kapasite yatırımları hariç GRI 102-6 01 02 03 04 05 65 6 6 More than 06 07 08 Export Plants International Destinations Terminals EXPORTING WHITE CEMENT AND MERSİN, ESKİŞEHİR, KAYSERİ, NİĞDE CIMSA CEMENT SALES NORTH GMBH SPECIAL PRODUCTS TO MORE THAN AFYONKARAHİSAR (GERMANY) 65 COUNTRIES, MAINLY TO CIMSA ADRIATICO S.R.L (ITALY) THE MIDDLE EAST, EUROPE, NORTH ANKARA CEMENT GRINDING AND CIMSA CEMENTOS ESPANA S.A.U. AFRICA AND THE UNITED STATES PACKAGING FACILITY (SPAIN) MARMARA TERMINAL CIMSA CEMENT FREE ZONE LTD. MALATYA CEMENT PACKAGING (TRNC) FACILITY CİMSAROM MARKETİNG DİSTRİBUTİE S.R.L. (ROMANYA) OOO CIMSA RUS CTK (RUSSIA) 17 Product Range »»Gray cement Grey cement standard and special products »»White cement www.cimsa.com.tr/cimento »»Calcium aluminate cement White cement standard and special products »»Special products formulunadi.com/tr/anasayfa/ »»Ready-mixed concrete Çimsa continues to develop innovative products and to One of the top 3 white offer customized solutions to meet the different needs of its customers by following technological and scientific cement producers in the developments in the ready-mixed concrete sector. world Ready-mixed concrete standard and special products www.cimsa.com.tr/hazir-beton GRI 102-6 ABOUT ÇİMSA Domestic Facilities ESKİŞEHİR PLANT AFYON PLANT A cement facility with the highest rate of substitute fuel Production facility equipped with modern technologies consumption in Turkey Grey cement 1,865,000 tons per annum Grey cement 1.2 million tons per annum Established in 1957 White clinker 450,000 tons per annum Became operational in 2012 Established in 1957 Became operational in 2005 ANKARA CEMENT GRINDING FACILITY Portland cement grinding 85 tons/hour ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report KAYSERİ PLANT capacity The cleanest industrial plant in Turkey Grey cement 204,000 tons per annum Established in 2002 Grey cement 1,098,000 tons per annum Became operational in 2005 Established in 1992 Became operational in 1995 MARMARA PACKAGING FACILITY Installed horizontal silo MERSİN PLANT 6,000 tons capacity Grey, white and calcium aluminate cement production Bagged and bulk cement from the same premises packaging/loading 100 tons/hour Grey cement 1.25 million tons per annum capacity White clinker 1.22 million tons per annum Rented in 2008 Calcium aluminate 45,000 tons per annum 18 cement MALATYA PACKAGING TERMINAL Established in 1975 Processing and packaging 60,000 tons per annum Became operational in 1975 unit capacity Cement silo capacity 900 tons NİĞDE PLANT Established in 1996 Çimsa’s greenest plant where wildlife is protected Grey cement 817,600 tons per annum Established in 1957 Became operational in 2007 GRI 102-4 International Terminals 01 02 03 CIMSA CEMENT SALES NORTH GMBH (GERMANY) ÇIMSA CEMENT FREE ZONE LTD. (TRNC) Acquired by Çimsa in 2014, Cimsa Cement Sales North Çimsa has been operating in the Turkish Republic of 04 GmbH carries out the marketing of white and calcium Northern Cyprus (TRNC) since 2005 with its terminal 05 aluminate cement in North and Western Europe under with a storage capacity of 5,000 tons of grey cement the Çimsa brand, with its bulk cement silo of 9,000 established in the Famagusta Free Port and Zone. 06 tons. The Company’s registered office is located in Hamburg and provides services in Germany and the CIMSAROM MARKETING DISTRIBUTIE S.R.L. 07 Netherlands with various packaged product warehouses (ROMANIA) and recycling facilities. Directly accessing the markets Serving Romania’s Constanza market, the company 08 of Germany and neighboring countries with its own markets Çimsa white cement and ISIDAÇ 40 to brand, Çimsa is one of the most popular brands thanks Romanian and surrounding markets. to its product and service quality. OOO CIMSA RUS CTK (RUSSIA) CIMSA ADRIATICO S.R.L (ITALY) Having entered the Russian market in 2008, Çimsa has A Çimsa brand, Cimsa Adriatico SRL serves the Italian a terminal in Novorossiysk, with a 7,000-tonne silo. The cement market the third largest consumer of white company supplies white cement and ISIDAÇ 40 to the cement in Europe after Spain and Germany with Russian market. four silos each with a capacity of 5,000 tons at the Trieste Port. With its advantageous location, the CIMSA AMERICAS CEMENT MANUFACTURING AND terminal also offers access to the Slovenian, Croatian, SALES CORP. (USA) Bosnia and Herzegovinian, South East German and Çimsa founded Cimsa Americas Cement Manufacturing Austrian markets, all of which offer high potential for and Sales Corp. with a capital of US$ 14 million in the development. In addition to white cement storage and United States in 2017. The company’s field of activity packaging, the terminal is suitable for the storage of is defined as cement production, sales and marketing. grey cement, as well as providing ISIDAÇ 40 (calcium Work is still ongoing ahead of the launch of production aluminate cement). activities. 19 CIMSA CEMENTOS ESPANA S.A.U. (SPAIN) Çimsa has been operating in the Spanish market since 1996. The company has two terminals in the country, one in Seville with two 5,000-tonne silos, and the other in Alicante with a 10,000-tonne silo. It also has a facility where white cement-added flooring material is produced, and packing lines with modern structures, as well as a logistics structure. The Alicante Terminal, one of Spain’s most modern cement terminals, has been marketing Çimsa white cement for customers in Alicante, Murcia, Valencia, Catalonia, Toledo, Madrid and Gijon since 2011. USA, Germany, Italy, Spain, the TRNC, Romania, Russia GRI 102-4 ABOUT ÇİMSA Milestones 1972 2010 Çimsa was founded in Mersin. Çimsa published its first sustainability report covering the 2007 2010 period. 60% of the shares in MEDCON, which owns the Trieste terminal, were purchased in 1975 February 2010. Çimsa started producing the Super Bims Started production with a capacity of 1 million tons/year. Cement. 1988 2011 Entered the ready-mixed concrete sector. The HotDisc (Waste Feeding and Waste Energy Recovery) investment was completed at the Eskişehir ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Plant. 1990 The world’s first interchangeable grey/ white clinker production line which operates on a request basis was 2012 introduced. A 51% stake in Afyon Cimento Sanayi ve T.A.S. were purchased on 31 May, 2012 from PARCIB S.A.S, an Italcementi Group company. The Denizli Üçler Ready1995 Mixed Concrete Facility and Agrega Operations were A milling/packaging facility was purchased in Kayseri. purchased in December 2012. 1996 The Malatya packaging terminal was purchased. A new 2013 Became the first and only Turkish company to join the white clinker line with a 600,000 tons capacity was Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI), and signed up to the introduced in Mersin. With the addition of this production Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. facility, Mersin became the world’s biggest white cement plant in terms of capacity on the same premises. 20 2014 The decision was taken on 21 November 2014 to renew 2002 the Afyon Cement Plant with an investment budget The first Calcium Aluminate Cement was produced in of USD 165 million. The Eskişehir Plant received the Turkey. TS10002 Customer Satisfaction Management System certificate. 2005 The Northern Cyprus terminal was purchased. The Kayseri Plant’s clinker line was introduced. Standard 2015 Çimsa was handed the “Social Gender Equality at the cement was purchased (Eskişehir Cement Plant and Workplace Award” by the Department of Labor of the Ankara Cement Grinding Facility). Turkish Ministry of Labour and Social Security. Çimsa announced its USD 55 million white cement investment 2006 at the Eskişehir Plant. The Romania sales office was established. 2016 2007 In a ground-breaking development in the Turkish cement Çimsa acquired the Oysa Niğde Plant. sector, Çimsa was placed in the Acategory and won the “CDP Turkey 2016 Climate Leader” Award, on the basis 2008 of its Climate Change Report results. The second line at the Eskişehir plant entered operation. With the purchase of Bilecik Ready-Mixed Concrete, 2017 Çimsa became Turkey’s biggest producer in the readyWith the celebration of Çimsa’s 45th year of operation, mixed concrete sector in terms of its number of facilities. 2017 was the year when the new foundations of the company’s future growth were laid. The Afyon Plant was 2009 moved to its newly-built modern and green compound The Russia terminal entered operation. equipped with state-of-the-art cement production technology. The capacity increase investment at the Niğde Plant was completed. 01 02 03 A 46 year Journey of Success 04 05 2018 06 07 Çimsa received the highest score 08 in the Turkish cement industry in the CDP climate change and water reports. Integrated with Çimsa, the Afyon plant obtained the ISO 14046 Water Footprint 21 certificate. The production line at the Eskişehir Plant, which produces both grey and white clinker and cement, entered operation. 03 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 22 24 Çimsa’s Strategy and Value Creation Process 28 Çimsa Business Model 30 The Value Produced by Çimsa and Objectives 32 Business Model-Performance of the Year 2018 34 Çimsa’s Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication Channels 36 Prioritization Analysis and Matrix 38 Sustainable Development Goals at Çimsa 39 Sustainability Management at Çimsa An Integrated Perspective 01 02 03 The integrated perspective, behavior and execution style enables 04 Çimsa to maintain its competitive production clout, maintain its 05 growth and create value; and helps it reach its short, medium 06 and long-term goals. 07 08 23 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Çimsa’s strategy serves as guidance for all operations carried out in domestic and international markets. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report ÇİMSA’S PRIMARY THEMES BEING PEOPLE-ORIENTED CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND MARKET FOCUS 24 A STRONG SUCCESS BASED ON ECONOMIC STRATEGY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY Çimsa’s Strategy Strategic Operational focus Profitable growth Market focus Inorganic growth excellence Energy Efficiency, Alternative Fuel and Raw Materials, Emissions and Sustainability Water Management, Stakeholder relations, Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic Establishing an innovative, dynamic and institutional organizational Human infrastructure to support company strategies / Development and basis Resources Change Management Technology and Technological developments in product and production process through innovation R & D studies Çimsa’s Strategy and 01 02 Value Creation Process 03 04 05 06 07 08 Çimsa accepts sustainability as an In the framework of value creation ÇİMSA’S PRIMARY THEMES important component in its journey elements, Çimsa has defined the »» Being people-oriented to reach its strategic focus and all of main targets that will shape its »» Customer satisfaction and market its activities are carried out with this success in the short, medium and focus perspective. long term, and has set out the »» Success based on economic performance indicators it specified performance Çimsa’s strategy serves as guidance within these main targets for a period »» Sustainability for its decision taking processes at all of up to 5 years. levels in all of its operations carried Çimsa integrates these capital out in the domestic and international This framework ensures the execution components into its corporate markets. of Çimsa’s value creation chain that strategy and executes a balanced serves Çimsa’s 6 different capital business model which goes beyond A strong financial and operational elements and which is aligned with financial sustainability. 25 performance is only a part of Çimsa’s the company’s strategy and business total output. Çimsa also considers the model, in a manner that promotes Six different capital groups point to outputs derived from the interactive the participation of all departments the channels through which Çimsa’s relationship which it has built with with a team spirit. In the scope of the strategy generates long-term added its stakeholders and its impact on work carried out based on holistic value for its stakeholders. society in the widest sense. integrated governance principles, the expectations and needs of This integrated perspective, behavior Çimsa’s primary stakeholders are and execution style enables Çimsa to taken into consideration, ensuring maintain its competitive production the sustainability of the activity cycle clout, maintain its growth and create based on a win-win approach. value; and helps it reach its short, medium and long-term goals. In line with its master strategy and the priorities it has set out for 2017 and 2018, Çimsa has determined the following topics as “main value creation elements”: »» Economic Performance »» New Product and New Market Development Through R&D and Innovation »» Energy Efficiency »» Creation of Economic Values Through Environmentally-Friendly Investments »» Human Development »» Management of Risks and Opportunities STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Çimsa considers people to be the highest value. During Çimsa’s business model constitution process, parallel priorities have also been fixed along with the six value creation components. In this context, Çimsa’s ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report primary themes have been gathered under four main banners. »» Being people-focused »» Customer satisfaction and market focus »» Success based on economic performance by developing new products that will are spread to all processes of the »» Sustainability meet the needs and expectations of company, hence reinforcing its customers. image as a company that pursues The company conducts studies for its presence in the cement sector each priority in the framework of the Çimsa places priority on achieving with outstanding applications and operation model it has established, economic performance-based a strong stance. Çimsa strives for and creates value for the relevant success. In this context, the company environmentally friendly management stakeholder group. integrates its studies of excellence to which is fully aligned with the law and 26 all of its activities and adopts efficient is aware of the danger of climate THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN financial management, working change. ÇİMSA’S FOUR PRIORITIES WITH THE capital management, production VALUE PRODUCTION CYCLE management and purchasing and An R&D and innovation-oriented Çimsa considers people to be of the logistics management as tools to add approach is the main source of highest value. In terms of employees value. strength from which Çimsa manages and suppliers/subcontractors its customer satisfaction and focuses who constitute the company’s Under the banner of sustainability, on the market. primary stakeholders, creating and Çimsa ensures that all adequate maintaining a work environment management-audit-control principles which is in line with occupational health and safety requirements and based on communication and development-oriented management principles represent our main goals. The competence, knowledge and skills of employees are enhanced through development programs; as such, all Çimsa employees participate in Çimsa’s journey towards reaching its goals. An R&D and innovation-oriented approach is the main source of strength from which Çimsa manages its customer satisfaction and focuses on the market. Çimsa aims to manage customer service processes in such a way as to ensure superior product and service quality 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 27 An R&D and innovationoriented approach is the main source of strength from which Çimsa manages its customer satisfaction and focuses on the market. STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Çimsa Business Model Our Values Our Priorities Human Development EASON FOR BE ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report URR I NG Being Human-Oriented O New Product and New Market OUR GOAL Development Through R&D To become an international cement and Innovation Customer and construction materials company Satisfaction and which leads the industry for a habitable Being Marketfuture oriented OUR MISSION Economic 28 To create value for all our stakeholders as Performance a company that swiftly producers solutions which will meet the differing needs of our Success Based customers and employees in an everon Economic changing world with the products and Performance services we have developed together with Creation of Economic Values our business partners in order to Through Energy ensure sustainability of growth Efficiency and Environmentallyprofitable Investments Sustainability Management of Risks and Opportunities 01 02 03 Our Operation Main Stakeholders 04 Model We Provide Benefit The Value We Create 05 06 07 Increase competency, knowledge and 08 skills of employees through development Management Based programs on Communication and Development A work environment and culture in line with Occupational Health and Safety requirements Development of new products that will R&D and Innovation satisfy the needs of customers Approach Management of operation and Customer Technical customer support processes so as to Support Units ensure superior quality of products and services 29 Effective financial management Effective net working capital management Operational Excellence Efficient production operations and management Effective purchase and logistics management A company profile that preserves itself in the cement industry with outstanding applications and a strong stance. Management-AuditControl An environmental management in line with legal regulations and sensitive to climate change. Çimsa’s Stakeholders Customers (Dealers and Users) Shareholders and Investors Local People and Public Opinion Personnel Suppliers and Subcontractors Public Institutions STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS The Value Produced by Çimsa and Objectives The Value Related Priority Capital Main Target Factor Ensuring that Çimsa gains new development models and that all personnel benefit from all A, D, E training and development opportunities available within the scope of their career plans. Being HumanReaching zero occupational accidents level through programs aimed at increasing and ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Oriented A, D, E improving the OHS Culture Harmonizing the OHS Management Systems of suppliers and subcontractors with Çimsa’s A, D, E system Development and dissemination of the Children of Summer Project organized for children as D, E part of Çimsa’s main social responsibility project focus: children Development of non-available new products according to customer and market needs and A, B, D, E leading the industry with new products. 30 Customer Satisfaction and Being Marketoriented Ensuring the organizational diffuseness of know-how information developed through the R&D A, B, D, E center so as to run all Çimsa business processes in a way that will satisfy customers and be market-oriented. Management of operation and customer support processes so as to ensure superior quality A, B, D, E of product and service A, B, D, E Conducting joint projects with Çimsa stakeholders (universities, NGOs and customers) Improvement of energy and environmental performances with new technological facility A, C, E investments Success Based on Economic Performance A, B, E Ensuring sales and profitability maximization with white cement and other special products Optimization of production costs with the use of alternative fuels and raw materials, reduction A, C, D, E of natural resources consumption E, C Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emission Sustainability E Possession of footprint certificates of international standards GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2, 204-1, 416-1 Çimsa’s Value Factors 01 A Ekonomic Performance C Creation of Economic Values Through Energy E Management of Risks and Opportunities Efficiency and Environmentally-profitable Investments 02 B New Product and New Market Development Through D Human Development R&D and Innovation 03 04 Key Performance Indicators 2018 Performance X + 5 Target/Project In line with the strategic priorities, the New Term Leader 05 Development Program and Career Kitchen trainings were not organized in 2018, instead a Leader Development Program was designed with the slogan “Born To Be Leader”. 06 % Completion Rate of Çimsa Management Path and The program aimed to improve the effective leadership 100% Career Kitchen trainings competencies and skills of the managers working in managerial 07 positions. In the program consisting of 5 modules, 1,472 man hours of training was conducted on leadership and management issues. 08 »» Reducing the rate of accident frequency Accident Frequency Rate: 5.99 with day loss below 3 Rate of accident frequency and severity Accident Severity Rate 0.1407 »» Reducing Çimsa’s accident severity rate below 0.15 »» Reducing the rate of accident frequency Accident Frequency Rate 5.99 with day loss below 3 Rate of accident frequency and severity Accident Severity Rate 0.1407 »» Reducing Çimsa’s accident severity rate below 0.15 In 2018, the Çimsa Yaz Çocukları project was launched in Kayseri as well as in Niğde and was completed with the In the next 5 years, implementation of the Rate of implementation of the project in provinces where participation of approximately 30 children. Having started in project during at least one term in provinces Çimsa operates 2011, the project reached 863 children in 3 provinces in total where Çimsa operates at the end of its 8th year. »» UPCEM Work on developing high performance gray cement is ongoing and the first phase of the project has been completed. Trial works for processing iron ore in blast kiln and design works for chemical additives will be continued in 2019 in the. »» INOVACEM The development of a new type of cement that can be cured with carbon dioxide has been completed. The product has been tested in METU curing system. »» Ironman – Development studies for Ca Flux, a special »» Production of planned special cement types »» Number of cement types developed melting and purification material for the iron and steel »» Developing alternative application methods »» Number of cement types commercialized industry, has been finalized and a an import substitution 31 that will expand cement usage areas product for Turkey has been achieved. »» Rapcure – Work aiming to increase production capacities of customers by reducing the fast pre-curing time through replacing gray cement used in the gas concrete industry with the Inspira white cement has been completed. »» The transition to white cement production at the Eskişehir Plant was completed. Industrial trial production of high early strength white cement was performed. »» A project tracking interface was created for customer work »» Development of a portal accessible by all Çimsa and process support, and reports, more than 500+ pages, members were issued. Systematizing internal / external customer R »» Number of publications created by R&D in the portal »» 10 monthly articles were shared. & D trainings »» Number of monthly R&D sharing meetings » » 18 study and research inquiries were reported and finalized in due manner. »» Number of customer visits throughout the year »» Number of customer technical support expectations »» In 2018, 95 customer visits were made. Systematizing customer trainings under met »» More than 500 technical support calls were made. customer technical support services »» Number of complaints solved with R&D support »» Number of common projects with universities 104 different competitor analyses were performed to Increasing the number of projects carried out »» Number of projects realized with NGOs determine customer, product and service needs. jointly with domestic and foreign stakeholders »» Number of common projects with customers »» Number of investments carried out as a result of a R&D project aimed at decreasing specific electrical and thermal energy consumption and rate of improvement reached Since Afyon Çimento is newly integrated into the metering »» Number of investments carried out as a result of Decrease of specific electrical and thermal system, 2018 is considered as the base year. Performance projects aimed at decreasing pollution load and rate energy consumption by 5% measurements will also be made in 2019. of improvement reached »» Number of investments carried out as a result of a R&D project aimed at decreasing carbon footprint value and rate of improvement reached »» Rate of increase in demand of special products Increase of use of special products in national resulting from improvements In 2017-2018, the sales volume of special products increased and international markets by developing new »» Rate of decrease of costs of special products by 2% and its share in EBITDA rose by 13%. application areas resulting from improvements Alternative fuel utilization rate: 6.8% Completing the required investment needs »» Alternative fuels consumption rate Alternative raw material utilization rate: 3.78% and meeting at least 10% of the total thermal »» Alternative raw materials consumption rate (Including Afyon Çimento) power of Çimsa plants with alternative fuels Rate of reduction in the CO2 emission generated for Once the Emission Trading System or carbon tax system is Reduction of greenhouse gas in accordance each ton of product activated in Turkey, the performance evaluation will be done. with legislation Ensuring the continuity of the ISO 14046 Water Obtaining the ISO 14064 Carbon Footprint Obtained for all factories including Afyon Çimento. Footprint Certificate and of necessary verification studies Certificate GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2, 204-1, 416-1 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Business Model-Performance of the Year 2018 Financial Capital »» Operating cost of 127 million TL »» Cost of sales 1,293 million TL MISSION ATE GOVERNA RPOR NC CO E ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Manufactured Capital »» Use of 8.8 million tons of natural raw material »» Conventional energy consumption input of 19,996 TJ »» 20.2 million USD worth of cement plants investment expenditure »» 0.6 million USD worth of ready-mixed concrete facility investment expenditure Intellectual Capital Inputs »» 26 R&D employees »» 4,147,211.90 TL worth of R&D expenditure »» 3 new patent applications during 32 reporting period »» 1 ongoing Horizon 2020 Project Human Capital »» 1,130 total employees »» 68 female employees STRATEGY VA LU ES MAIN Strategy Demand Order Delivery PROCESSES Formulation Management Social and Relationship Capital Sales and Marketing »» 1,601 local suppliers »» 22 memberships in local and Teknical international intiatives Finance and Financial Affairs IT and Digitalization Supply Chain Human Recources Natural Capital Support Processes »» 369,237 tons alternative raw material consumption »» 82,245 tons alternative fuel consumption »» 6.8% rate of alternative fuel consumption Human IT Finance Operational Recources Excellence GRI 102-7 01 02 03 Financial Capital 04 »» 1,700 million TL of net sales income 05 »» 154.9 million TL of net profit »» 388 million TL of EBITDA 06 »» 315 million TL of working capital »» 67 million TL of dividends 07 »» 869 million TL of export (gross sales) Risk and 08 opportunities Manufactured Capital »» 4.5 million tons of grey cement production »» 1.2 million tons of white cement production »» 30.7 thousand tons of calcium aluminate cement production »» 5.7 million tons of clinker production »» 2.7 million m3 of ready-mixed concrete production »» 44,016 MWh/year of electrical energy production from thermal waste Production and Trade Cycle Outputs Intellectual Capital »» Procurement of 1 patent »» 8 new R&D projects 33 »» 3 overseas publications Macroeconomic and Sectoral Environment Human Capital »» 40,529 man x hour total training »» 26,512 man x hour OHS training Social and Relationship Capital Support After Sale »» Participation of 863 children to the Çimsa Yaz Çocukları Kampı »» Donation of 50 electric wheelchairs during the Mersin Week for the People With Disabilities (161 in the last 4 years) Natural Capital »» Saving of 20,776 tons of CO2/year thanks to the production of electricity from waste heat »» Material recovery of 2,570 tons of non-hazardous waste, energetic recovery of 40 tons of non-hazardous waste »» 27,4 million TL environmental investment »» 720 people x hours of environmental training »» 32,178 m3 water recovery »» Rate of packaging waste recovery: 56% Non-Production »» Zero environmental penalty Purchasing GRI 102-7 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Çimsa’s Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication Channels Çimsa’a primary stakeholders are its employees, its shareholders and investors, its customers, local people and the general public, suppliers and public agencies. Çimsa pursues its activities through interactive communication and cooperation with its stakeholders. Stakeholder communication, which for the most part takes place in the context of the daily trade and service cycle, offers an ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report extremely valuable platform for Çimsa where it can understand, assess and evaluate the demands and expectations correctly. In addition to its group of primary stakeholders, Çimsa is also in close communication with academic institutions, the media and other various stakeholders. PRIMARY STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Priorities Communication Channel Occupational health and safety Values and rights given to employees and employee satisfaction Encouraging the 34 recruitment of women Integrated annual report, corporate policies, periodicals, suggestions system, SA-Ethics Principles, collective labor agreement, employee training, Equality at work occupational health and safety committees, internal notifications, social Employees Career and media, the Company website, social activities development planning Training and development opportunities Economic performance of the Company The Economic performance of the Company Profitability and Integrated annual report, corporate periodicals, interim activity reports, dividend payout general meetings, acknowledgments and material disclosures, investor presentations, meetings and interviews, teleconferences, SA-Ethics principles, Shareholders Company sustainability social media, e-mail bulletins, the Company website and Investors Corporate Governance Company profile and brand reputation Customer satisfaction Product and service guarantees offered to Integrated annual report, corporate periodicals, product brand-market customers research studies, meetings and training programs, dealers’ meetings, Customers Product diversity and periodic visits, interviews, product tags, SA-Ethics Principles, social media, (Dealers and customer expectations Company website, social activities Consumers) R&D and innovation Fair market conditions GRI 102-12, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Çimsa’s Stakeholders 01 Customers (Dealers and Consumers) Shareholders and Investors Local People and Public Opinion 02 Employees Local People and Public Opinion Kamu Kurumları 03 04 05 06 Stakeholder Priorities Communication Channel 07 Environmental impact 08 Climate Change Biodiversity and Ecosystem Development Activities Recruitment (direct/ indirect) Integrated annual report, social development projects, meetings and Local People Social Impact (SRPinterviews, social media, Company website, sponsorships and Public social responsibility Opinion projects, etc.) Educational Contribution (internships, awareness raising, etc.) Occupational Health and Safety Fair market conditions 35 in terms of price and Integrated annual report, corporate periodicals, SA-Ethics Principles, payment meetings and training programs, corporate policies, social media, website, Sustainable service Suppliers and social activities, stakeholders’ meetings Subcontractors relationship The Economic performance of the Company Environmental Management Annual report, sustainability report, meetings and interviews, audits, technical OHS management reports, Company website, social activities, sponsorships Public Institutions Employee Rights OTHER STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder Communication Channel Integrated annual report, meetings and interviews, common projects, Company website, Academic Institutions sponsorships, technical visits Integrated annual report, corporate periodicals, meetings and interviews, common Group Companies projects, social media, Company website Integrated annual report, interim activity reports, meetings and interviews, Company Financial Institutions website NGOs, Sectoral Institutions Integrated annual report, social development projects, memberships, meetings and and Professional interviews, common projects, social media, Company website Organizations Integrated annual report, press conferences and releases, meetings, interviews and Media meetings, social media, Company website GRI 102-12, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Prioritization Analysis and Matrix ANALYSIS PERIOD METHODOLOGIC APPROACH In terms of methodology, inputs Çimsa is in touch with its The stakeholder analysis of Çimsa is such as feedback, suggestions, stakeholders on a periodical basis based on a methodological approach complaints and requests notified within the scope of its production which takes account of both to Çimsa through the interactive and commercial cycle. Additionally, qualitative and quantitative elements. communication process developed ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report the Company undertakes with the stakeholders through the stakeholder analysis on a regular In the first phase, the stakeholders different channels are taken into basis. The stakeholder analysis which Çimsa collaborates with are consideration when determining the studies are repeated every two reviewed and top priority stakeholders level of importance of the priorities years. and matters are designated through throughout the activity period. determining key components of the The framework and the content value creation process. Çimsa’s goal is to ensure that the of this report was based on the prioritization process is carried out as output of the stakeholder analysis Surveys are conducted when deemed part of a systematic process which and prioritization work carried out in necessary and data is collected from stakeholders will participate directly 2017. a sufficient number of samples. in. The prioritization matrix Çimsa also takes the IIRC’s six capital As a company engaged in heavy presented in the 2017 Report components into consideration in industry, the priority analysis was comprehensively examined designating priorities. published by Çimsa in this report has 36 by the Çimsa Sustainability been determined in alignment with Committee on the basis of our Members of the Sustainability the company’s strategy, business 2018 activities, impact areas Committee have assessed and ranked model and main targets. and stakeholder groups, and its the importance of each topic for the validity was confirmed. In addition stakeholder group concerned, just as Due to the requirements of its to the Committee Members, they had for Çimsa. The Committee sector, Çimsa handles its priorities Çimsa’s division managers also considers both quantitative and in a dynamic fashion and carry out participated in the meeting in which qualitative data together in the modifications to these priorities in the assessment of the prioritization study process. This twin pronged accordance with the changes taking matrix was carried out by the assessment observed while place in its actives in the coming Sustainability Committee. revealing the prioritization matrix periods. graphic ensures the appropriate determination of Çimsa’s focal points. GRI 102-46, 103-1 01 02 03 04 05 06 PRIORITIES 07 Financial Capital Manufactured Capital Intellectual Capital 08 2 Profitability and Divident 4 Customer Satisfaction 8 Product range and customer 3 Company’s Economic 14 Product and Service Guarantee expectations Performance Offered to the Customer 11 R&D and Innovation 18 Fair Market Conditions (Price and 15 Ethics and Corporate Payment) Management Social and Natural Capital Human Capital Relationship Capital 1 Occupational Health and Safety 7 Company Profile and Brand 5 Climate Change 6 Values and Rights Attributed Reputation 9 Environment Management to Employees and Employee 16 Recruitment (direct/indirect) 10 Environmental Impact Satisfaction 19 Social Impact (SRP-social 17 Biodiversity and Ecosystem 12 Equality at Work responsibility projects, etc.) Development Activities 13 Career and Development Educational Contribution Planning (internships, awareness-raising, 37 etc.) 20 Promoting women’s employment High 2 1 4 3 13 12 IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS 14 6 7 18 10 15 8 19 16 9 5 20 11 17 Low Low High IMPORTANCE FOR ÇİMSA The priorities in the matrix are defined by the color codes of the capital groups icons. GRI 102-46,102-47, 103-1 STRATEGY AND STAKEHOLDERS Sustainable Development Goals at Çimsa The “Transforming Our Earth: The Çimsa believes that the Sustainable communication with our stakeholder 2030 Sustainable Development Development Goals will contribute groups, our Leadership Team Agenda” Agreement, adopted by the to the further development of identified the Goals stated below as United Nations’ 193 member states cooperation on different levels, as priorities for Çimsa, and added them on 25 September 2015 consists of well as stepping up environment to our strategic agenda. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 17 Sustainable Development Goals protection efforts, the efficient use and 169 sub-goals. of natural resources, enhancing the As part of the company’s business value produced and a deepening in cycle, activities considered to be The 17 Sustainable Development stakeholder relations in all aspects. contributing to the SDGs have been Goals (SDGs) have introduced a much covered in detail in different parts of broader sustainability agenda and Based on findings from the report. have gone beyond the Millennium ongoing regular and interactive Development Goals. The goals aim to find solutions to the main causes of poverty and to ensure development as a universal necessity for all. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have introduced a much broader sustainability agenda and have gone beyond the The global consensus reached around Millennium Development Goals. 38 the SDGs has pointed to an important milestone in orienting our globe to a more inclusive and sustainable growth policy. Çimsa an active participant of the UNGC and member of the Board of Directors of its Turkish Network who closely monitors developments on both a global and national scale recently updated its sustainability agenda in order to adopt the Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainability Management at 01 02 Çimsa 03 04 05 06 Çimsa’s sustainability policy is to turn The aim of the Committee is to model and the matrix of priorities its sustainability approach into a part achieve its corporate goals by are assessed throughout the year 07 of the institutional culture and to managing sustainability on the axis by the Sustainability Committee and 08 integrate it into the decision-making, of feedback from stakeholders, improvements are closely monitored. implementation and operation in-house performance and global At Çimsa, performance indicators processes of individuals, teams and and local trends. The company’s pertaining to sustainability have been stakeholders through products and business model, the main targets included in the tracking system and services. determined based on the business have become an indispensable part of sustainability management. ÇİMSA SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION The management of sustainability Management of sustainability at Çimsa is under the responsibility of the Sustainability Committee, at Çimsa is under the responsibility which gathered at regular intervals throughout the year under the of the Sustainability Committee. leadership of the CEO. The Sustainability Committee consists of the following functions; 39 »» Operations and Investments, »» Environment, Alternative Fuels and Alternative Raw Materials »» Financial Activities, »» Human Resources, »» Purchasing and Logistics, »» Sales, »» Ready-Mixed Concrete, »» Strategy and Work Improvement, »» Sustainability and Process Control, »» Corporate Communication 04 THE OCCUPATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 40 42 The Outlook for the Economy and the Sector 46 Risks, Opportunities and Çimsa’s Approach A Balanced Approach 01 02 03 Based on the IMF’s World Economic Outlook Report published in 04 January 2019, the world economy notched up a growth rate of 3.7% 05 in 2018, maintaining the growth recorded in the previous year. 06 07 08 41 THE OCCUPATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS The Outlook for the Economy and the Sector DEVELOPED AND EMERGING year, the world economy managed On the other hand, the trade COUNTRIES SEE A SLOWDOWN IN to maintain a growth rate of 3.7% war between the US and China, THEIR RATES OF GROWTH IN 2018. in 2018, based on the IMF’s World which escalated in 2018 before After having started the year with Economic Outlook Report published in being suspended temporarily while positive expectations, 2018 turned January 2019. negotiations took place, had a ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report out to be a year when the risk of an negative impact on the Chinese escalating trade war was used as Although the Euro zone maintained its economy, which had shown some a policy tool in relations, primarily previous year’s growth performance signs of recovery. between the US and China, and in 2018, there was some slowdown increasing geopolitical risks adversely from the third quarter of the year. In 2019, the policies to be followed affected global economic activity, In addition to the uncertainties by the central banks of developed particularly in the second half of the surrounding the Brexit process, countries and global liquidity year, at the same time resulting in a some issues such as the yellow vest conditions will have an important slowdown in the growth rates of both demonstrations in France and the bearing on emerging countries. developed and emerging countries. budget crisis in Italy had a negative Assuming that liquidity conditions Nevertheless, despite falling slightly impact on the markets. tighten gradually, however, developed short of the initial growth forecasts countries’ central banks are drawn up at the beginning of the expected to act broadly in line with the forecasts, with no significant hot money outflows from emerging 42 markets, with 2019 being a year of moderation. In 2019, the policies to be followed by the central banks of developed countries and global liquidity conditions will have a key bearing on emerging countries. GDP was recorded 01 02 at TL 3,701 billion in 2018. 03 04 05 06 Increase in exports 7% 07 08 By the end of the year, exports increased by 7% to reach USD 168 billion. FOR TURKEY, 2018 WAS A YEAR the production method increased by deficit in 2018. By the end of the WHERE THE POLITICAL AND 19.1% in 2018 to TL 3,701 billion at year, exports had reached USD 168 43 FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT WAS current prices. billion, an increase of 7% YoY. The DOMINATED BY A FAST-MOVING slowdown in domestic demand and AND VOLATILE AGENDA. A YEAR OF HIGHER INFLATION. the fall in the value of the Turkish Major developments shaping the The upward movement in oil prices, Lira led to a decline in imports, with markets in 2018 were Operation the 37% increase in the value of the imports declining by 4.6% YoY to Olive Branch, the transition to the currency basket against the TL, and USD 223 billion. Hence, the export new presidential system following the the high course of food prices led coverage ratio increased from 60% June 24 presidential election, the to a dramatic increase in inflation in 2017 to 83.8% as of December downward revisions in credit ratings during the year. In December 2018, 2018. of the country and banking sector, the Consumer Price Index fell back the renewed sanctions against Iran, by 0.40% compared to the previous A TIGHT MONETARY POLICY STANCE the CBRT’s interest rate hike and the month, taking the annual rate of CPI FROM TURKEY’S CENTRAL BANK IN announcement of a program to tackle inflation to 20.3%, with a 12-month 2019. inflation following the announcement average rate of 16.33%. Despite a partial recovery in recent of New Economic Program. months, the CBRT (Central Bank In December 2018, the Domestic of the Republic of Turkey) decided Following the 7.4% economic growth Producer Price Index fell by 2.22% to maintain a tight monetary in the first quarter of 2018, the compared to the previous month, policy stance amid ongoing risks turmoil in domestic financial markets but on an annual basis, the increase to price stability, until a significant in August weakened confidence in stood at 33.64% when compared to improvement was achieved in the economy and took its toll on the same period of the previous year, the inflation outlook. In the short consumption and investment demand. with a 12-month average of 27.01%. term, the main factor which could As a result, growth came in at 1.8% lead to change in monetary policy in the third quarter of the year, EXPORT COVERAGE REACHES decisions would be the emergence contracting by 3% in the final quarter 83.8%. of a downward trend in the inflation when compared to the same period Based on figures provided by the outlook that could be deemed of a year ago, resulting in a 2.6% Turkish Statistical Institute, there permanent. annual rate of growth at the end of was a decrease in both the foreign the year. Gross Domestic Product by trade deficit and the current account THE OCCUPATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS The Outlook for the Economy and the Sector Under the guidance of the New An analysis of production statistics (51 of which are members of the Economic Program announced in finds that India is the world’s second TÇMB) and 18 grinding facilities (15 September 2018 and in accordance largest cement producer, followed by of which are members of the TÇMB) with the soft landing scenario, a the US. are operating in Turkey. consensus that higher quality growth ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report will be achieved in 2019 is beginning TURKEY RANKS 5TH IN THE GLOBAL The Turkish cement market, where to emerge among market players. LEAGUE. cement production and sales are The balancing in the economy is Construction and infrastructure directly correlated to economic expected to continue in the first half investments constitute the main growth, has a competitive structure, of the year before a recovery kicks in areas of consumption for the cement and continues to contribute to the later in the year thanks to base effect sector. Such investments are usually Turkish economy with a strong export and the contribution of the tourism concentrated in developing countries performance. sector. with rapidly increasing populations. According to figures published by the GLOBAL CEMENT SECTOR OUTLOOK Global demographic trends, TÇMB in 2018, the total cement Based on estimates published by urbanization, the emergence of new production capacity of the cement international sector associations, super-powers in production, climate plants in Turkey stands at 90 million total production stood at 4.6 billion change, changes in the cement tons/year. tons in 2017. industry business model and rising energy costs are considered as mega Based on the TÇMB’s findings, 44 Single-handedly accounting for trends that will shape the global cement production in Turkey between 52% of global production, China outlook the cement industry. January and December 2018 is estimated to have continued to declined by 9.94% compared to the consume more than half of the THE LEADING COUNTRY IN THE previous year, to materialize at 75.5 world’s cement in 2018. On the EUROPEAN CEMENT INDUSTRY. million tons. other hand, economic growth in Turkey is Europe’s leading cement China which has been deliberately producer and ranked in the top While the volume of cement sold slowed down through government 5 in the global league. According to the domestic market reached measures -will directly affect the to figures provided by the Turkish 64.4 million tons, with a decline of balance of global cement production Cement Manufacturers’ Association 10.89%, the surplus of capacity over and consumption. (TÇMB), 54 integrated cement plants the level of domestic demand was exported. Cement exports reached 7.5 million tons between JanuaryDecember 2018. Total clinker production maintained its 2017 level Based on estimates published at 70.3 million tons in 2018, while in the same period, clinker exports by international sector increased by 18.68% to 5.9 million tons. associations, total production The US, Syria, Israel, Colombia, and Western African countries appear to stood at 4.6 billion tons in command the lion’s share in terms of the composition of exports. 2017. An analysis of sales in the domestic market in 2018 finds that the Aegean region was the only region to realize an increase in sales. 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Growth Expectation 2-3% The TÇMB expects the cement sector to grow by 2-3% in 2019. 45 The sector started 2019 with a THE TURKISH CEMENT INDSUTRY Changing the public procurement strong performance, with Turkey’s SUPPORTS THE ZERO WASTE legislation and providing municipalities total cement export volumes more PROJECT. with the opportunity to secure than doubling and increasing by 85% Around 800,000 tons of nonlong term (40-50 years) contracts YoY in value terms in January 2019, recyclable industrial waste are will serve as an important step in according to figures announced by disposed of in cement factories increasing the cement sector’s the TÇMB during the press meeting each year in Turkey, significantly contribution in the disposal of wastes. held in February 2019. contributing to the efforts to protect the environment. The TÇMB expects the cement sector to grow by between 2-3%, in line Using waste-derived fuels in the with the projection of 2.7% economic cement sector does away with the growth for 2019 as set out in the need to import around 3 million tons New Economic Program. Having of coal, contributing USD 300 million declined by 2.4% in 2018, housing to the current account balance. sales are expected to rebound in Efforts to further develop this method 2019, with the construction sector are expected to reduce the amount of expected to recover in the third and stored waste by up to 60%. fourth quarter of 2019. THE OCCUPATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS Risks, Opportunities and Çimsa’s Approach Taking value drivers into consideration, Çimsa has determined the six topics mentioned below as risk factors that have or may have an influence on Çimsa’s activities at different levels in 2018. In order the minimize the possible impacts of these risk factors on the company’s operations, Çimsa ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report has elaborated and implemented elimination policies and act ion plans for each risk category. RISKS Relevant Value Definition of Risk Çimsa’s Approach Creation Factor Effective use of monetary market Exchange rate volatility tools A Sabancı Group company, Çimsa has been in close contact with all banks and financial institutions both within and outside the Group and has effectively used by-products such as 46 forward contracts and swap contracts throughout the year. In the scope of Turkey is a net energy importer and is procuring the this collaboration, trends in exchange majority of its energy supply with foreign currency. rates and global conditions have The cement industry is a business line which depends been closely monitored. Opportunities on high levels of energy. The industry is affected by presented by monetary markets have the impact of exchange rate volatility on energy and been evaluated in a proactive fashion; Economic electricity prices, which are the main inputs for the the negative effects of exchange rate Performance sector. The negative impact of exchange rate volatility volatility have been managed through is also seen on the cost of machinery, equipment and the use of monetary market tools, thus engineering/maintenance services purchased from keeping the pressure from exchange abroad. In short, exchange rate volatility affects product rate volatility on costs to a minimum. costs. Çimsa's strong export performance and balanced revenue structure play a key role in eliminating the potential negative impacts of exchange rate volatility on the Company’s financial health. GRI 102-15 01 02 03 04 05 06 Relevant value 07 Definition of Risk Çimsa’s Approach creation factor 08 Continuous improvement in purchasing and logistics Volatility in commodity prices competence, and operational excellence Backed by its team of experts, skilled in the areas of purchase and logistics, Çimsa is able to neutralize this change taking place in the market. In addition to the suppliers who are active in the global and national markets, movements in input prices are also monitored at first hand and relevant necessary actions are taken. In order The recovery in the global economy and increase in to manage changing fuel expenditures, demand on a global scale have led to a rise in raw Çimsa ensures cooperation between material prices. On the other hand, prices of inputs the various functions. As well as 47 such as fuel, spare parts used in the maintenance of managing the purchase prices of Economic machinery and equipment have a tendency to rise in existing fuels, the company carries out Performance parallel with market conditions and increased demand. adaptations to integrate other national These changes influence product costs and, indirectly, and international-generated fuels into competitive conditions. its processes. The company focuses on the purchase of raw materials, equipment and technical services from a vast pool of suppliers, working to the principle of cost efficiency. In addition, Çimsa also enhances its operational excellence on a continuous basis with a wide array of projects and digitalization activities. Fluctuations in interest rates in global and Management of interest rate risks in domestic markets a proactive and cost-oriented fashion Çimsa is closely following interest trends nationally and globally and focuses on the management of interest rate risks in the most appropriate conditions. In this framework, the company has closely collaborated with banks and Volatility in interest rate in global and national markets financial institutions both nationally and Economic result in risks related to the debts taken on by the internationally and deployed its Eximbank Performance company for purposes such as investment. loans to the best advantage by using its advantage of being an exporter. Preferential TRY-cost loans have been provided by building foreign banks’ SWAP structures in different foreign exchanges. GRI 102-15 THE OCCUPATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS Risks, Opportunities and Çimsa’s Approach Relevant Value Definition of Risk Çimsa’s Approach Creation Factor A wide product mix and flexible Domestic and foreign competition conditions ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report marketing approach The total cement production capacity in Turkey exceeds Çimsa is a global producer in grey Economic the demand in the domestic market. Despite this, and white cement. The diversity of its Performance new plant and capacity-increasing investments are product range serves to strengthen continuing. This results in fiercely competitive conditions its presence in both domestic and New Product for producers. On the other hand, this incentivizes foreign markets. Çimsa’s diversified and New Market Turkish cement producers to operate in export markets product range offers it the opportunity Development where they can compete on a level playing field with to quickly overcome any possible Through R&D and global competitors. constriction in a given segment. Innovation The objective of developing leading New legislative conditions applications in the areas of the environment and OHS Energy Efficiency New environmental and OHS legislation and regulations Çimsa is focused on leading practices 48 Creation of were recently introduced in Turkey with the aim of in terms of the environment and OHS. Economic harmonizing the cement industry with international The company is constantly following Value Through environmental and labor standards. These new legal legal requirements, implementing Environmentallystandards require cement producers to undertake new relevant investments accordingly and Friendly investments in the areas of environment and OHS as supporting its human resources with Investments well as new training programs for staff in order to meet training and development activities that the new legal regulations. are in line with the new regulations. Human Development The goal of operating in Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) accordance with international OHS standards In cooperation with its highly specialized OHS Team and various According to the legislation, the cement industry professional partners, Çimsa is is deemed to be in the “very dangerous” category. Human conducting projection projects Construction and mechanical installation operations Development at international standards to be conducted during cement production and relevant implemented in all of its plants in the Management investments are deemed to be high risk operations. On long term, thus enhancing its OHS of risks and the other hand, because of the negative results they culture and awareness. OHS ranks opportunities may cause to the industry in the long run, health risks near the top of Çimsa’s priorities are also considered as risk components. matrix and is considered the common responsibility of all employees. GRI 102-15 01 02 03 04 05 06 OPPORTUNITIES 07 Opportunity Çimsa’s Approach 08 Developments in domestic and foreign demand Sustainable growth supported by healthy margins conditions Çimsa has around half a century of know-how and The cement industry has recently served as a driving experience under its belt in white cement and specialized force of the growth in the Turkish economy. In the same products, with a strong R&D presence. process, government authorities have applied incentives in a bid to revive demand in the real estate sector and As one of Turkey’s leading grey cement producers, Çimsa have supported many projects. is one of the top three players in the world in the white cement segment. In Turkey, many infra and superstructure investments are also continuing simultaneously. This paves the way for Çimsa has a wealth of expertise in the white cement strong and steady progress in demand for cement. product group, consolidating its competitive power. The investment carried out in USA will contribute strongly to Although the domestic market changes periodically and Çimsa’a power in this field. 49 regionally, progress in demand is set to maintain its course. With its capacity to export to global markets, its strong marketing network and an increasing white cement On the other hand, demand for special products in capacity thanks to recently-implemented investments, foreign markets particularly white cement maintain an the Company is focused on expanding its activity in the increasing trend. domestic market as much as in the foreign markets, as well as growing with healthy margins. Operations carried out with company identity that adopts CO2 emission trading system and carbon tax sustainability The CO2 Emissions Trading System, or carbon taxation in Turkey, has not yet come into effect. This places cement manufacturers in Turkey in a more competitive position With its identity as a manufacturer which has adopted compared to their European counterpart, reflecting sustainability as a principle and accepted preservation advantageously to cement sales prices. of the environment and natural sources as a permanent objective, Çimsa evaluates business opportunities offered Due to the Emission Trading System or tax, European by the markets. manufacturers reflect the additional costs to their sales prices. GRI 102-15 05 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 50 52 Economic Performance 54 Investments 55 R&D and Innovation 59 Corporate Development and Human Resources 67 Occupational Health and Safety 70 Climate and Energy 74 Environmental Management 78 Corporate Communication Steady Steps to the Future 01 02 03 In 2018, Çimsa further strengthened its positioning in the 04 domestic market, while maintaining its leading position, 05 particularly in white cement and the specialized products 06 segment in global markets. 07 08 51 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Economic Performance INVESTMENTS IN ESKİŞEHİR AND USA TAKE THE LIMELIGHT AT ÇİMSA IN 2018. Having completed the Eskişehir Plant modernization project in 2017, the ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report first production line used to produce grey clinker was transformed to produce both grey and white clinker. With the completion of the investment, production of white clinker got underway. Çimsa started producing grey clinker at the 1st production line of the Eskişehir Plant in May 2018 and has completed the studies to bring the packaging facility into operation by constructing additional cement silos. Çimsa pressed ahead with its Cimsa 52 Americas investment in 2018. With financial debt/EBITDA ratio reached ANOTHER YEAR IN WHICH ÇIMSA this investment, which is expected 3.2. Çimsa’s EBITDA grew by 1% WAS A GLOBAL PLAYER IN THE come on stream in the first half of in 2018, but due to the increased SECTOR. 2019, a white cement grinding facility indebtedness, increased amortization As an innovative company of the will be established in Houston, Texas, costs on the back of investments Turkish cement sector, Çimsa’s sales which will include a stock hall, mill, coming on stream and increased revenues reached TL 1,700 million in cement silos, and packaging units financial expenses of non-capitalized 2018, marking an increase of 14% capable of storing 50,000 tons of investments, Çimsa’s net profit came YoY. clinker and 7,500 tons of ingredient in at TL 155 million, TL 73 million materials. The facility is planned lower than in the previous year. Maintaining its position as a to have a capacity of 305,000 global player in its sector, Çimsa 350,000 tons of cement per annum. In 2019, Çimsa aims to increase commanded a strong export its cash flow on the back of its performance in 2018, improving its These investments increased completed investments, thus reducing export channels. Accordingly, the Çimsa’s net financial debt position its debt position. company generated TL 870 million to TL 1.263 billion while its net in exports in 2018 and secured more than 50% of its operating profit (EBITDA) from international operations in 2018. GRI 201-1 01 02 03 04 05 06 THE VALUE WE PRODUCE Çimsa’s sales revenues Increase in Exports 07 reached TL 1,700 million in Contribution to the Turkish economy through exports 08 2018, implying an increase of 14% YoY. RELATED STAKEHOLDERS WORKING CAPITAL MANAGEMENT clinker balance meetings and planning AT ÇİMSA for the coming months is carried out. Working capital is crucial for a business as it allows it to expand its Thanks to the effective management business volume, to reduce risks, of working capital, Çimsa has so far »» Macroeconomic assumptions, avoid financial difficulty in emergency managed to balance the ratio of net »» Sales and production quantity situations and to carry out its working capital/net sales at a level projections, which are reviewed at operation profitably and efficiently. below the sector average, at around the beginning of each month, 53 A shortage or surplus of business 20%. »» Projections of sales prices and capital may have an adverse effect maturity days, which are reviewed on the profitability and efficiency of Proactive cost management at the beginning of each month, businesses, regardless of their type One of the company’s most important »» Purchase price and maturity of financing. cost items is energy purchases. estimates, Energy supplies are dealt with in the »» Investment expenditure Çimsa is aware of the vital monthly Energy Committee meeting, assumptions, importance of net working capital with the attendance of the General »» Main assumptions that will affect management. The Credit Risk Manager, and electricity and fuel are the results of operations from Committee meetings held at Çimsa supplied at the most optimal prices. other segments that are deemed on a monthly basis at the General Çimsa manages its costs under a necessary. Manager level ensure that the proactive approach. Company’s trade receivables are On the other hand, the Company’s tracked separately from each Another important cost factor main borrowing and deposit policy customer and that trade receivables concerns raw materials purchases, may be reviewed throughout the risk is actively managed. and Çimsa is focused on evaluating year, taking operating results, cash the most suitable raw material mines flow expectations and potential With the contribution of effective for production. developments in financial markets management, the rate of Çimsa’s into consideration. receivables which became bad debt ÇİMSA’S TREASURY POLICY recoveries in the company’s total Çimsa’s decisions on borrowing and Treasury transactions carried out trade receivables remained low, at deposits are based on cash flow at Çimsa are reported in the Board less than 4%, in 2017. projections covering a period of at meetings held every 2 months. least 9 months and at most 12 The company addresses inventory months. While preparing cash flow In the scope of its treasury management another component of projections, Çimsa closely monitors management activities, Çimsa also working capital during the monthly the following assumptions and uses tools such as balance sheet and meetings. Clinker stock levels, which internalizes them in its decisions; exchange rate conversion differences, constitute the largest item in the cash flow and balance sheet inventory, are scrutinized during receivables/debt positions hedging tools. GRI 201-1 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Investments THE VALUE WE PRODUCE Focusing on growth by USD 20,2 million creating long term Contribution to the economy by investments value, Çimsa is consolidating its ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report leadership in the sector with its investments. RELATED STAKEHOLDERS INVESTMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN 1st PRODUCTION LINE CLINKER REALISED WITHIN THE SCOPE OF AND CEMENT PRODUCTION LINE ÇİMSA’S STRATEGIC GOALS; AT ESKİŞEHİR PLANT, ADDITIONAL The goals are; FACILITIES ESKİŞEHİR COHERENCE LINE »» Further consolidating the The Eskişehir Plant’s modernization The existing line for the shipment company’s strong position in the project was completed in 2018. of manufactured products at the cement sector, Eskişehir Plant was renewed and 54 »» Achieving sustainable growth The 1st line of the Eskişehir Plant an additional railway line was and profitability through energy which used to produce only grey constructed. efficiency, clinker and cement, was transformed »» Meeting the changing needs into a design to produce both grey USD 0.6 MILLION INVESTED IN of customers and employees and white clinker and cement. The READY-MIXED CONCRETE FACILITIES in evolving global and domestic plant started to produce white clinker Çimsa also pursued its investments market conditions, and cement in January 2018, and in ready-mixed concrete facilities in »» Improving its product and service grey clinker and cement in May 2018. In this context, a total of USD range. 2018. Moreover, additional cement 0.6 million was invested in readysilos were constructed and work was mixed concrete facilities. USD 20.2 MILLION OF INVESTMENTS completed to bring the packaging UNDERTAKEN IN 2018. facility into operation. EXPECTATIONS FOR 2019 Determining its investmentneeds meticulously in reaching its strategic CIMSA AMERICAS goals, Çimsa realized a total Çimsa has continued work on the investment of USD 20.2 million in construction of a white cement 2018. These investments were grinding facility in Houston, Texas, spent on sustainability, environment including a stock hall, mill, cement and occupational health and safety silos, and packaging units to store projects carried out at Çimsa’s 50,000 tons of clinker and 7,500 facilities. tons of ingredient materials. The facility is planned to have a capacity of 305,000 350,000 tons of cement per annum. The White Cement Grinding Facility is expected come onstream in the first half of 2019. R&D and Innovation 01 02 03 04 05 06 THE VALUE WE PRODUCE functions. At the same time, the R&D article and patent sharing R&D Center works to the objective presentations have been carried 07 TL 4.1 million of becoming a solution partner for its out regularly every month, with Contribution to the company 08 customers with the innovative support open participation at all Çimsa and our sector through provided for the applications of Çimsa locations. The presentations, which R&D investments products. include trends, new products and technological developments, As well as the competencies are aimed at sharing up-to-date offered by the Construction information with employees in order Chemicals Laboratory, the Concrete to improve the technical literature Laboratory, the Grinding Process level of Çimsa employees. and Chemicals Laboratory, the New RELATED STAKEHOLDERS Product Synthesis Laboratory and R&D ACHIEVEMENTS AND the Mechanical Laboratory, the SUCCESSES IN 2018 Çimsa Research and Application In addition to new product Center continues to serve the development activities, Raw Material cement and concrete industries Processes, Clinker Processes and As one of the leading companies in by developing advanced analysis Cement Processes are examined the cement industry which is investing methods. These advanced analytical under different headings at the R&D continuously in innovation, Çimsa tools include Rietveld Analysis Center. A process report extending opened the cement industry’s first 55 with an X-Ray Diffractometer, to over 500 pages was prepared in R&D Center in Turkey back in 2000. XRF oxcide composition analysis, 2018 and could be accessed on the polarized microscope examinations Çimsa joint common portal. ÇİMSA’S CEMENT RESEARCH AND and Fourier Transform Infrared APPLICATION CENTER Spectrophotometer (FT-IR) With the first and only cement examinations. research and application center in Turkey to be certified by the Ministry of Science, Industry & Technology, R&D and innovation have become indispensable parts of the company culture at Çimsa. Working to the target of developing special products with high profitability and to offer them to the market, or to further develop existing products, Çimsa’s Cement R&D and Application Center works on a project basis structure. At the Center, projects are carried out to increase productivity in all processes from raw materials to final products with the specialized and wellqualified R&D personnel which are supported on a project basis by the technical personnel working in other OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 R&D and Innovation In order to institutionalize information, Pool + the R&D Center tab was added to the Featuring water isolation, a white corporate intranet system Çimsa cement based pool plaster has Point where all users could access Number of New been developed with colored the studies. A systematic process Projects natural aggregates, recycling glass 6 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report was put in place where users could aggregates and colored glass pebbles request subjects to be researched in designs. the R&D center through the portal. Rapcure R&D AND INNOVATION PROJECTS IN To reduce the total amount of cement 2018 Six new projects consumption in the gas concrete Work on the Horizon 2020 European were launched in sector and increase capacity in the Union Project for the Advanced production process, studies were February 2018. Material and Process Development conducted to locate special product to Increase Geothermal Systems’ Inspira in the gas concrete sector. Underground Thermal Stocking and Cost Efficiency started in May 2017. UpCem Undersecretariat Air Force within This project was carried out to the scope of the TUBITAK 1007 In the framework of the project, analyze and improve the production Public Institutions Research and 100% funded by the European Union, process of grey cement in the Mersin 56 Development Projects Support studies for carrying out flexible, Plant in order to obtain more added Program. environmentally sensitive, fluid mortar value products for the ready-mixed design with high thermal conductivity concrete sector. Work on the project Having been initiated in 2017, six were initiated jointly with our partner, will continue in 2019 as well. projects, which were approved by the Sabancı University. With this project, Republic of Turkey Ministry of Industry which will last 42 months, Çimsa’s BeySade and Technology, were successfully R&D Center will have completed its Structurally exposed white concrete completed in January 2018. Six new first Horizon project. with heat insulation properties projects were launched in February has been developed with different 2018. Summary information on these Within the context of Horizon 2020, lightweight aggregates. projects is summarized below: an application was placed for the ICEBERG project, which aims to Duro Inovacem create innovative, circular economy This product provides purification Studies were carried out for the solutions for the use of end-of-life specific for the iron and steel product, which brings the features of building materials. If the application sector. Having completed the hardening and binding through being for this project is accepted, Çimsa’s commercialization phase, the product cured with carbon dioxide in order to responsibility will be to develop and is now in the sale process. reduce carbon dioxide emissions. produce pilot Portland Cement with the CSA. Rego A synthetic aggregate resistant to Within the context of Horizon 2020 chemical wastes and temperature Era-net an application was placed for extremes, which has been developed the FlexCCS project in a consortium, and adapted to the concrete system. where studies will be carried out to develop retention and disposal. methods for CO2. The 2nd round project proposal was given for the project for quick repair methods of runways, to be developed for the Defense Industry 01 02 03 04 05 06 THE VALUE WE PRODUCE 07 R&D and Innovation Projects 08 Multi-faceted contribution to our sector, employees and consumers RELATED STAKEHOLDERS COLLABORATIONS BETWEEN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND forms the basis of Çimsa’s product INDUSTRY AND ACADEMIA PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY responsibility understanding. The Civil Engineering Department of Customers are one of the key Middle Eastern Technical University stakeholders of Çimsa’s sustainable An indispensable element of product 57 provides literature and laboratory structure. The Company has responsibility is to provide detailed assistance to Çimsa within the scope developed a perspective to meet all information on the products to of a consultancy agreement for work of the expectations and needs of its customers and end users. To on special products. Furthermore, customers in a timely manner, at the ensure that, Çimsa conducts requests from universities throughout highest possible highest level. product information activities and the country are responded to and an provides training programs aimed at exchange of information takes place. Çimsa aims to establish sincere customers and end users, to provide In addition, Çimsa provides sample and trusting communication with the necessary information. support free of charge for Master’s customers by maintaining its All Çimsa products contain a Material degree students carrying out their relationships through a range of Safety Information Form (MSDS) thesis, with its special products. different channels. prepared in accordance with the norms laid out in the regulations, A Cement Technologies and Çimsa undertakes extensive activities and these are shared with each Applications Course has been to ensure and improve customer customer. provided by employees at the Çimsa satisfaction such as joint R&D R&D Center at Sabancı University studies, technical assistance both Tags containing information on since 2016, where students before the sale and on an after-sales products are located on the can learn about innovations and basis, activities involving craftsmen, packaging of bagged products. No applications in the cement industry. a Building Chemicals Seminar, which illegalities with respect to the labelling is organized every year, technical of Çimsa products were found; there INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS bulletins and social activities in has been no noncompliance issues Three beneficial model applications addition to periodical visits carried out with regulations as regards the were made in 2018: by the field teams. marketing conditions of products, »» High Performance Hydraulic and no penalties or sanctions were Binder For Construction Chemical Çimsa’s product responsibility imposed. Applications Producing highly reliable and »» Hydraulic Binding Substance with excellent products in line with local Çimsa is also responsible for High Reactivity and international standards to meet the confidentiality of customer »» High Shelf Life Hydraulic Binder customer needs, and to ensure information. No complaints were with a High Alumina Ratio constant customer satisfaction, received regarding any violation of privacy during the reporting period. GRI 102-44 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 R&D and Innovation CUSTOMER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE in Turkey. Technical assistance and needs and reporting was carried out. ACTIVITIES IN 2018 market development activities were Support activities were conducted In order to maintain customer carried out on a global scale in the for the technical documentation and satisfaction in the after-sales process US, Australia, South Africa, the UK, application brochures for the newly and improve customer loyalty, Çimsa Germany, Israel, Qatar, Belgium, developed products. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report offers high added value technical France, Italy and Spain. assistance to its domestic and More than 500 customers received foreign customers through Customer In order to evaluate customer remote technical assistance in 2018, Technical Assistance Unit. feedback and offer solution-oriented with 35 Customer joint projects results, meetings continued to be conducted. Consisting of experts employed in held on a regular basis with the various segments such as building Quality, Sales and Operation teams, THE 4TH ÇIMSA BUILDING chemicals, precast and refractor, with comprehensive solutions CHEMICALS SEMINAR Çimsa’s Customer Technical provided and reporting carried out. The 4th Construction Chemicals Assistance Unit offers reliable Seminar was held under the solutions from the end product to White cement and calcium aluminate leadership of Çimsa Formülhane at implementation. cements, which are developed under the Sabancı Center on September a segment-oriented approach, were 18, 2018. In 2018, the Customer Technical brought into the customer processes, Assistance Unit carried out more with final product studies concluded During the seminar, some 58 than 100 customer visits in 7 regions which would be in line with customer of the industry’s leading local and international academics provided information on technical developments and innovative In 2018, more than 100 customer applications in construction chemicals products. visits were conducted by the Customer Technical Assistance Unit in seven regions throughout Turkey. Corporate Development and 01 02 Human Resources 03 04 05 06 Çimsa’s Human Resources vision is “to create a high performance The preparation and organization of 07 culture”, while its mission is “to ensure organizational change and necessary training and development programs, the formation of the 08 development”. rotation plans and the creation of tools to develop competencies are HUMAN RESOURCES WHICH FIT DESIGNING TRAINING AND carried out by Human Resources ÇIMSA’S ENTREPRENEURIAL, DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS WITH Department at Çimsa. INNOVATIVE AND PIONEERING AN APPROACH TO IMPROVE THE STRUCTURE. COMPETENCIES OF ÇİMSA’S HUMAN Achieving absolute success through Çimsa human resources vision RESOURCES. the right use of the opportunities is “to create a high performance Çimsa runs several internal training offered by the Management Support culture”, while its mission is “to and education programs aimed and Human Resources Department ensure organizational change and at enhancing and increasing the depends on the initiative of the development”. Its human resources capabilities and skills of its employees. employees. activities are conducted within the These programs are designed by framework of this vision. taking into account the needs of Training programs provided in 2018; employees within the framework of White collar employees 9,402 man predetermined principles and policies. hours of training Çimsa’s goal in terms of human Blue collar employees 31,126 man resources is to ensure the The training and education programs hours of training 59 continuation of a fair and egalitarian are designed for Çimsa and are tailorIn total 40,529 man hours of training workplace where employee rights are made for all employees within Çimsa. protected, which hones their talents, Furthermore, Çimsa employees which While a total of 26,512 man hours where there is no discrimination, offer high potential are also able of training were offered in the area of which provides equal opportunities to to benefit from the annual Sabancı Occupational Health and safety, the both men and women and where the Holding development programs. amount of OHS training per person best standards are applied in terms was 24 hours. of occupational health and safety. Employees are also offered management competency By thoroughly designing employee Çimsa focuses on increasing the development programs, need-oriented development programs leadership qualities, knowledge and occupational health and safety to support the future organization, the skills of its employees at all levels; training, foreign language courses, Çimsa collaborates with the best regularly measuring the organizational personal development and career domestic and international companies environment and establishing advancement training and in the preparation of the training organizational and human resources professional knowledge development programs. infrastructure which will support the training programs. In addition, company’s strategies in terms of employees are given opportunities A total of 19 managers graduated human resources practices. to improve themselves with from Çimsa’s Leader Development Management Support as well as Program in 2018. assignment in different functions and through rotation. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Corporate Development and Human Resources Çimsa became a member of the Global Apprenticeship Network THE VALUE WE PRODUCE (GAN) in 2015. 40.529 manxhour training WEPs ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Initiated in 2018 with the motto of A ÇİMSA CLASSIC THE POLE STAR “Liderlik Harcımızda Var” (we have PROGRAM leadership in us), Çimsa’s Leader Çimsa initiated “The Pole Star” Development Program aims to program in order to support the improve the effective leadership newly hired employees in their competencies and abilities of first weeks. The program offers RELATED STAKEHOLDERS employees serving in managerial an effective guidance service to positions. Implemented for the first newcomers to the company so time, 19 managers were graduated that they can quickly adapt to the from the program which consists company culture and their new jobs, of Flow Leadership, Constructive access the information they need in increase their skills and recruitment, Leadership, Change Leadership, an accurate and effective way and to especially through on-the-job training Coaching Leader and Strategic fully acquant them with the company opportunities. Leader modules. organization. Another aspect of the Pole Star program is that it Çimsa carries out trainee programs 60 THE ÇİMSA CAREER KITCHEN offers volunteers among company that are included in the GAN Developed in cooperation with employees the opportunity to provide undertakings. While implementing the Manager Development Unit support in all areas to newcomers to internship programs, Çimsa aims at Sabancı University, training the company during their orientation to train a qualified workforce for programs are developed in the Çimsa period. the company, supporting local Career Kitchen with a wide range of employment, providing sectorial content including training on human THE PROCESS IMPROVEMENT professional experience and work management processes, motivation ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT experience and increasing the rate of and engagement, communication PROGRAM employment in this field. with a deeper dimension, professional Once new graduates are recruited image, the competitive perspective, at Çimsa, the engineers who will be In the scope of this program, strategic thinking models, business trained on technical subjects such job opportunities are offered to law processes and financial value as cement production, maintenance, candidates who have had professional orientation. quality and the environment training and who are certified and undergo training in the New Çimsa competent, but who have not yet had THE NEW ÇİMSA EMPLOYEES Employee Program and “The any work experience. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Process Improvement Engineering Aiming to create employment Development Program” to learn about PERSONAL PERFORMANCE opportunities for young college the cement process in its entirety. MANAGEMENT SYSTEM graduates, Çimsa carries out Fresh White collar employees are evaluated Graduate Recruitment Projects. GLOBAL APPRENTICESHIP NETWORK in the framework of the individual With the aim of ensuring a high and (GAN) performance management system at sustainable level of efficiency in the Çimsa became a member of the Çimsa. workplace, specialization opportunities Global Apprenticeship Network (GAN) are offered to new graduates who in 2015. Every year, Organizational Success have just started working for Çimsa, Plans are prepared for employees to optimize their work in their chosen Founded in 2013, the GAN is for engineering, specialist or higher area. an initiative supported by the level posts and back-up plans are set International Labour Organization up. Personal development plans are (ILO). The GAN encourages youth also prepared and tracked for other participation in the business world to employees. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 The Happy Employee Experience at 01 02 Çimsa 03 04 05 06 Çimsa aims to reduce the environmental impact of its production 07 processes through measures such as energy savings, waste 08 reduction, reuse and recycling, limiting or eliminating harmful chemicals. 61 Çimsa runs several internal training and education programs aimed at enhancing and increasing the capabilities and skills of its employees. OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Corporate Development and Human Resources A performance assessment system is also applied for blue collar employees. All white collar and blue collar Çimsa employees were subject to performance assessment carried 2018 Female Employment Proportion of Women 23 7% ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report out at the end of the 2018 reporting period. Human resources management, business ethics, coordination of human resources processes, and 23 female employees The ratio of women the protection and promotion of were hired in the in Çimsa’s Executive human rights in the workplace are company in 2018. Board stood at 7%. key components of Çimsa’s business culture. With a business culture that has preserving and upholding human Çimsa encourages the employment of women in business and rights in the workplace at its heart, supports female participation in management. Çimsa resolutely endorses the 62 provisions of the UN Global Impact which it ratified, the relevant ILO agreements and specifications signed The syndication membership rate declarations and the Universal with subcontractors in order to among all employees stands at Declaration of Human Rights. guarantee alignment in this areas, 58%. Relationships based on trust while suppliers are audited through and dialogue are established with Employee performance is measured visits. the syndicates in order to maintain in equal conditions and evaluated a peaceful workplace environment, fairly in human resources processes During the reporting period, all and syndication issues are managed and applications at Çimsa, with an current and new suppliers were effectively without dispute. objective and systematic approach. audited based on workforce and Equal opportunities are offered to all human rights criteria, but no “EQUALITY AT WORK” employees regardless of their age, instances of non-compliance were Applying the “Equality at Work” gender, race, language, religion, found. principle in all of its processes, Çimsa ethnic background or other personal offers equal opportunities to both qualities, with no discriminatory RESPECT FOR THE RIGHTS OF male and female employees. The total treatment. COLLECTIVE LABOR AGREEMENTS bonus amounts, compensation and AND ASSOCIATION. benefits packages for both men and All topics on discrimination and Çimsa attaches importance to the women working in similar positions at employee rights are managed by the creation and efficient pursuit of a the same levels were structured in Corporate Development and Human healthy professional relationship accordance with the Equality At Work Resources Unit, the SA-Ethics Rules between the management and principle. Counsellor and the Disciplinary employees. In this respect, Çimsa Committee. ensures that its employees are Personal Performance Management able to use their collective labor assessments are performed in Çimsa does not allow practices such agreement and enjoy freedom of equal conditions for male and female as working under force or duress association. employees and are reflected at equal or child labor in its operations and levels in the business results. expects its suppliers to also adhere A total of 660 blue collar Çimsa to these principles in their operations. employees were within the scope of Çimsa encourages the employment of The required working conditions the collective agreement at the end women in business and supports their are clearly set out in the service of 2018. participation in the management. GRI 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 01 02 03 04 05 06 A total of 23 women were hired by the company in 2018. Çimsa joined the “Global 07 The ratio of women in Çimsa’s Compact Turkey Women 08 Executive Board members stands at 7%. Empowerment Work Group” Çimsa believes that its suppliers and subcontractors should also in 2015. increase the recruitment of women in their operations. In this context, the Equality At Work commitments EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION The Flexible Benefits Program, which and relevant provisions have also THROUGHOUT THE ORGANIZATION was put into effect in 2015 and been included in the supplier and Employee Representative meetings which aims to address the changing subcontractor service purchase are held regularly at Çimsa’s facilities needs of employees and give them agreements since 2014. in order to reach employees in freedom of selection, was also all locations and to provide them continued in 2018. PROUD TO BE COMMITTED with the opportunity to share their TO WOMEN EMPOWERMENT views and suggestions with the THE IDEA FABRIC PRINCIPLES (WEP) management. Çimsa places importance on 63 Çimsa joined the “Global Compact employees’ suggestions and focuses Turkey Women Empowerment Information sharing meetings enable on development. Work Group” in 2015 in order to employees from all functions in all encourage social gender equality Çimsa plants to come together with The Idea Fabric suggestions system initiatives in the private sector the Company General Manager. is a system through which Çimsa through inter-company learning employees are able to convey creative processes. Field Human Resources model; With ideas and thoughts they might have this model, regular meetings are on the company’s activities and In 2016, our company signed the held every week with employees in which support their participation in Women’s Empowerment Principles their working environments and their development activities. (WEPs) published by the UN Global questions are answered. Meanwhile, Çimsa’s Suggestions System, with Compact, and undertook to develop this model is also used as a tool to its brand name of “Idea Fabric”, and implement company policies get together with employees during is the system through which all which will improve social gender various events such as meetings, suggestions from employees equality. These principles offer rules training programs and seminars. Field concerning innovation, development and suggestions which will serve as employees come together in groups and improvement on topics such as guidance on the empowerment of at the breakfast events organized by OHS, customer service, quality and women in the workplace, the markets the Field Human Resources team on efficiency are collected, evaluated, and in society. a regular basis. rewarded and implemented. Çimsa became one of the 53 Turkish The Pigeon Post, Çimsa Family The ideas which are accepted and companies to sign the WEPs among Magazine and Çimsapoint intranet implemented receive a score based more than 1,100 companies joining pages and communication boards are on the criteria of innovation and worldwide. Despite operating in a platforms used to inform employees originality, expansion, contribution sector with few female employees of developments concerning the and economic return. and where there are limits to the company. recruitment of women, thanks to its supportive practices Çimsa has been able to set an example for industrial institutions and other sectors where the majority of employees are men. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Corporate Development and Human Resources Number of Suggestions 259 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Niğde Learning Organization Team Kayseri Continuous Team VOICE 3S1’İZ; Without compromising OF CEMENT; All risks at the Goods on OHS rules and environmental Division were analyzed through the L A total of 259 sensitivity, the team achieved 100% Type Matrix. As a result of the study, suggestions made success in reaching the vision of all high-level risks identified with a risk to the Idea Fabric in establishing, implementing and score of 15 or higher were reduced 2018. ensuring the sustainability of the to a acceptable level, ensuring 3S systematic in the cement mill. A continuity. total of 5,106 m2 was painted in the ‘There Is Painting At the Neighbour’ Çimsa’s goal is to review the Idea event. Fabric process in light of employee feedback and to ensure its continued 64 dynamism. To that end, periodical Idea Campaign applications are also carried out in order to gather Adana-Mersin Ready-Mixed feedback from employees on certain Concrete Learning Organization subjects. Eskişehir Learning Organization Team CONVERSION EFFECT; The Team 3S-ES; The 3S systematic was team ensured the use of 100% of A total of 259 suggestions were planned and implemented in the field the waste water produced in the submitted to the Idea Fabric in 2018. and became a role model for other Yenihal Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant facilities at the field from the 2nd as recycling water. The amounts THE LEARNING ORGANIZATION AND Facility Raw Meal Mill feeding bands of recycled water could then be ITS ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 up until the Clinker Transportation reported and recorded. The Learning Organization Line. Application Team programs at Çimsa aim to bring permanent solutions to problems with a holistic Programs with a holistic perspective while strengthening team collaboration and team spirit. perspective During the Learning Organization activities, teams consisting of strengthening team collaboration employees from different work levels collaborate on projects which will and team spirit. improve business processes. The teams carry out their activities in line with the principles described in the Five Disciplines of the Learning Organization philosophy. The 2018 activities of the Learning Organization Teams are outlined in this section. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Kayseri Learning Organization Team Mersin Learning Organization Team Afyon Learning Organization Team BLUE FLAMA; all work within the COMPASS; The 3S systematic WIND; The team ensured the rotary kiln revision plan was exposed was applied on a 100% basis at implementation and sustainability of to risk analysis through the L Type the number 1 and 2 Cement Mills the 3S systematic at the Refractor Matrix. The study identified 1,370 and the Grey Packaging area, with and Homogenization Region, and risks, while 63 of the 67 risks found implementation of case studies for furthermore ensured that all to have a score of 15 or above were other departments. With the 3S employees adopted the “My Field” reduced to an acceptable level and substances integrated in the mobile philosophy all employees. measures were implemented during checklist, instant notifications were the revision period. carried out and the faults were eliminated more rapidly. 65 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Corporate Development and Human Resources Çimsa became one of the 53 Turkish companies to sign the WEPs among more than 1,100 companies joining worldwide. HUMAN RESOURCES ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Total workforce 2016 2017 2018 (persons) Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Direct placement 58 1,071 1,129 58 1,096 1,154 68 1,062 1,130 Contracted Company 60 1,239 1,299 75 1,442 1,517 64 1,072 1,136 Employees Total 118 2,310 2,428 133 2,538 2,671 132 2,134 2,266 Total Workforce as per Category 2016 2017 2018 (persons) Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Blue Collar 644 644 671 671 660 660 White Collar 58 427 485 58 425 483 68 402 470 66 Total 58 1,071 1,129 58 1,096 1,154 68 1,062 1,130 Total Workforce by 2016 2017 2018 Education (person) Primary School 83 79 67 High School 558 573 584 University Degree and 488 502 479 Above Total Workforce by 2016 2017 2018 Age Group (person) 18-25 63 72 67 26-35 480 472 452 36-45 447 468 474 46 and above 139 142 137 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-1 Occupational Health and Safety 01 02 03 04 05 06 THE VALUE WE PRODUCE A total of 26,512 worker26.512 hour OHS 07 hours of training training Contribution to employees 08 were provided in Occupational Health and Safety in 2018. Aware that its most valuable asset THE OHS STRUCTURE AT ÇİMSA RELATED STAKEHOLDERS is its employees; Çimsa’s unwavering At Çimsa, the operational objective is to keep anticipated responsibility of OHS management is risks under control in terms of assumed by the senior management. Occupational Health and Safety, and In this framework, all activities aimed to ensure that Çimsa’s employees at raising awareness of Occupational return home every day “without being Health and Safety, all decisions taken OHS targets and performance exposed to any accidents”. and the operational responsibility for results are periodically monitored the management of Occupational and evaluated in OHS committees Çimsa operates in an industry where Health and Safety is represented at as part of the agenda. A total of 67 cement production is classified as the highest management level in the 132 members serve in six Çimsa “very dangerous”, and ready-mixed company. OHS committees, 14 of whom are concrete operations as “dangerous”. employee representatives. In this perspective, Çimsa, closely OHSC Board Meetings are held on follows the legal regulations set by a monthly basis in line with the Job The collective labor agreements international standards as well as Security Training Program. Çimsa signs with syndicates also the legal regulations on Occupational include OHS topics. Precautionary Health and Safety set out in Law No. OHSAS 18001 IMPLEMENTED IN measures, reporting of illnesses and 6331 issued by the Turkish Ministry ALL ÇİMSA FACILITIES. injuries and work safety rules to be of Labour and Social Security. With the exception of the Afyon followed are regulated in the scope of Cement Plant, all Çimsa plants and the collective agreements. In the area of OHS, Çimsa ready-mixed concrete facilities are implements policies to ensure that; OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health CONTINUOUS TRAINING TO RAISE »» The main employer and and Safety Management System OHS AWARENESS subcontractor employees are certified. One target Çimsa places special informed, priority on is ensuring safety and »» Amendments in legislation are The OHSAS 18001 system is protecting the heath of its employees, shared with the organization though constantly supported through service providers and those visiting effective communication, training, information, audit and the facilities. New practices are »» OHS metrics are always included in improvement activities, while the developed within this scope to raise the company and employee goals, structure of OHS committees, the awareness of OHS in all units »» Audit, near-miss reporting and the assignment of employee within the Company, and employees nonconformity amount values are representatives, OHS specialists and are supported through continuous accepted as key performance on-site doctors along with internal training programs. indicators, inspections, risk analyses, fire drills »» OHS is internalized such that it and contingency action plan topics Çimsa organized 26,512 hours of becomes part of the corporate are managed in accordance with legal OHS training in 2018 in order to culture with regular reporting regulations. raise knowledge and awareness practices. of Occupational Health and Safety among its employees and subcontracted employees. GRI 102-11, 103-1, 403-1, 403-2, 403-4 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Occupational Health and Safety Between 1 January 31 December »» engineering/design, 2018, a total of 38 work accidents »» failure to conform to work with lost days occurred and 38 regulations, or a lack of adequate employees were reported as victims regulations, of such accidents. As a result of »» lack of training, ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report accident analysis carried out at »» inadequate risk analysis Çimsa’s facilities, the main causes of After these factors were determined, the accidents which took place during necessary improvements were put in the cement production processes place. were as follows; AT ÇİMSA, OHS TAKES ON THREE DIMENSIONS SYSTEM, FIELD AND PEOPLE. CONSTANTLY IMPROVING THE System Field SAFETY OF THE WORKING ENVIRONMENT AND MOVING 68 TOWARDS A “ZERO WORK ACCIDENT” OBJECTIVE. At Çimsa, the OHS system is Çimsa’s vision is to reach a “Zero defined as a company strategy in For Çimsa, the OHS field is Work Accident” target. The X+5 which the identification of risks, made up of cement factories, year target set in 2017 was to supervision and management ready-mixed concrete plants and reduce the work accident frequency are all given importance. The road vehicles. In Çimsa fields, rate to below 3 and the accident OHS Management System, which risk analysis is performed on a severity rate to below 0.15. is developed after identifying regular basis and inspections are proactive development areas, conducted in order to eliminate Systematic field audits are deemed has been supported with training, the potential causes of damage to be one of the most important information, supervision and and injury. tools in reaching this goal. On improvement studies. the other hand, respecting OHS regulations, notifying all kinds of work accidents, risky and near-miss At Çimsa, people are at the core situations have been determined as of OHS. Çimsa aims to make its the primary duties of all employees. employees aware and cautious of Furthermore, annual internal audits, risks at all times with its peopleexternal audits of certification focused approach. Past practices institutions, third party audits, have catalyzed a change of behavior Sabancı Holding external insurance for workers, their families and the audits and OHS performance are whole community with respect to constantly monitored. occupational health and safety. Thanks to the systematic activities conducted by Çimsa in the scope of OHS, the rate of accidents has decreased in all of its operation facilities. People GRI 102-11, 103-1, 403-1, 403-2, 403-4 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Ready-Mixed Cement Plants Concrete Facilities Injury Rate Çimsa Employees 8.73 3.95 69 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 9.15 4.04 Contractor Employees 1.74 10.04 Occupational Illness Rate Çimsa Employees 5.16 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 5.41 0.00 Contracted Employees 0.43 0.00 Loss Day Rate Çimsa Employees 188.06 355.66 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 197.23 363.74 Contracted Employees 12.59 246.57 Absenteeism Rate Çimsa Employees 1,614.75 0.00 Female 980.62 0.00 Male 1,645.70 0.00 Contractor Employees 716.29 0.00 Mortal Injury Çimsa Employees 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 Contractor Employees 0.00 0.00 GRI 102-11, 103-1, 403-1, 403-2, 403-4 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Climate and Energy ÇİMSA CONSOLIDATES ITS THE VALUE WE PRODUCE The list of measures to carry out to CONTRIBUTION TO THE CEMENT achieve this goal is as follows; INDUSTRY WITH ITS ENERGY TL 27.4 million »» To follow production processes with RECOVERY STRATEGIES AND Contribution climate action energy efficiency measurements, POLICIES. through environmental »» To improve process efficiency, ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Climate change, which makes its investments »» To increase the cement content impact felt in many areas, has ratio, become one of the most important »» To use alternative energy problems facing the world. The resources. business world has increased its sensitivity to the risks presented by ÇİMSA’S ALTERNATIVE FUEL & RAW climate change. RELATED STAKEHOLDERS MATERIAL STRATEGY Çimsa aims to continuously increase In the current period, reducing the the use of alternative fuels and consumption of natural resources alternative raw materials in order to has been the main focus in tackling realize its cement production with a climate change. In this context, more ecological approach by taking the cement sector provides energy Material Producers (İMSAD), Çimsa into account the social factors as recovery with Combined Combustion contributed to the Sustainability much as economic factors. using alternative fuels, which have Committee. 70 calorific value, instead of primary »» The Climate Change and Water In order to achieve alternative fuel fuels (such as coal and petrocoke). report is published within the targets, the Company undertakes context of the Carbon Disclosure necessary work to use household Contributing to the national economy Project (CDP). waste (to produce fuel from through its energy recovery projects, »» The Industrial Symbiosis household waste RDF, Refused Çimsa consolidates its contribution to Applications Presented at the Derived Fuels, generated as a result the cement industry with its energy Turkey Material Marketplace recovery strategies and policies. Platform of the Business World and Sustainable Development In drawing up its strategies and Association. policies, Çimsa also receives support from the entities which it is a WORKING TOWARDS A LOW member of. The activities carried out CARBON FUTURE… within this scope are listed below: Çimsa is preparing for the low carbon future with its Climate »» Support received from sources of Change Strategy, Alternative Fuel & technical information through its Raw Materials Strategy and Waste membership of the Global Cement Policy set up within the concept of and Concrete Association. sustainability activities in 2018. »» Joint studies are carried out with the sector through Environment ÇİMSA’S CLIMATE CHANGE and Climate Committee STRATEGY membership under the Turkish Çimsa’s climate change strategy is Cement Manufacturers’ Association to perform annual greenhouse gas (TÇMB). emission calculations in accordance »» Through its membership of with greenhouse gas inventory TÜSİAD, Çimsa contributed to the studies, to designate goals for future Attitude Document published by projections and to develop solution TÜSİAD on Zero Waste. methods to reduce emissions. »» Through its membership of the Association of Construction GRI 102-11, 103-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 01 02 03 04 05 06 of the installation of Mechanical and Çimsa’s 2018 performance in ENERGY EFFICIENCY Biological Pre-processing Facilities the main targets of its Energy Energy management is a priority issue 07 on municipality landfill areas) to management at Çimsa along with its sustainability 08 be produced from solid wastes of strategy. The Company has invested metropolitan municipalities in the CONSUMPTION OF ALTERNATIVE in low carbon technology over the last provinces where the plants are FUELS couple of years in an effort to improve located, at the rotary kilns in addition In the 2nd kiln of the Eskişehir Cement its environmental sustainability to hazardous or non-hazardous Plant, the co-incineration rate of performance at the Afyon, Niğde industrial alternative fuels. To this household waste (Waste-Derived and Eskişehir plants, with the aim of end, the Company liaises with Fuel) increased to 38.81%. In order achieving low energy consumption. metropolitan municipalities through to increase the use of alternative The Company’s 2018 environmental the Turkish Ministry for Environment fuels and reduce greenhouse gas performance indicators found that and Urban Planning. emissions, Çimsa included the Afyon efficiency was achieved in Scope 2 Plant in the 2018 assessment specific energies. On the other hand, Çimsa uses through consolidation with Çimsa’s alternative raw materials from Integrated Factories. With the investment to convert waste factories from other sectors within gas into electricity at the Mersin the context of industrial symbiosis, Çimsa’s grey production coCement Plant in 2012, savings were instead of natural raw materials. incineration rate stood at 6.8% in achieved in terms of recovery, which The Company further develops 2018. The Company submitted a constitutes an important share of 71 its contacts with other sector waste incineration license application energy efficiency. enterprises in the regions where the in 2018 for the Afyon Plant, and the plants are located for the sake of process is continuing. permanent sustainability. ÇİMSA’S WASTE POLICY With the designated waste policy, Çimsa targets; Last 2 Years’ Data of the Mersin Plant’s Waste Gas Heat Facility »» to provide waste management solutions by using waste, to be a (MWh/year) solution partner, Electricity Generation from Waste Heat »» to ensure a clean environment by using waste, 17 44,086 »» to add value to its main operations by using waste, 18 »» to protect the health of its employees by eliminating and managing waste through 44,016 contemporary methods, (Tons/year) »» to guarantee the quality of the CO2 Saving production while using waste, »» to comply with the relevant 17 20,808 regulations in the use of waste and to implement best practices within the framework of the laws and 18 ethical values, »» to monitor and check inputs, processes, products and emissions 20,776 while using waste GRI 102-11, 103-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Climate and Energy CONSUMPTION OF ALTERNATIVE Industrial Simbiosis RAW MATERIALS Reductions in the use of natural resources in the cement sector, which is characterized by the ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report intensive use of raw materials, is NATURAL PRODUCT essential in achieving sustainability RESOURCE in the use of resources and sustainability of economic cycles. WASTE Including project based studies, RESOURCE Çimsa increased the use of alternative raw materials in 2018 when compared to previous years. Work is ongoing to extend the NATURAL PRODUCT “Industrial Symbiosis Applications”, RESOURCE which were initiated at the Eskişehir Plant, to the other facilities as well. INDUSTRIAL SYMBIOSIS annum over the last 3 years, 72 APPLICATION The objectives of the project: and thus avoiding the disposal Industrial symbiosis is defined as the »» To create symbiosis between of 362,514 tons of waste per exchange of substances and energy industrial enterprises annum, while enabling sustainable between two independent industrial »» To reduce clinker and cement costs production. enterprises which are similar in »» To protect raw material core »» Socially; the recovery of substances nature. resources was provided at the Eskişehir »» To achieve operational excellence Cement Plant by using alternative Industrial symbiosis involves long»» To reduce the use of natural raw raw materials, helping alleviate term partnerships and working materials and CO2 emissions industrial based environmental in solidarity to enhance both as part of efforts to achieve a issues. environmental performance and sustainable environment competitive power, by gathering two GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS or more industrial establishments The implemented project is also Çimsa is moving towards a low which would, preferably, be physically assessed in the sustainability reports, carbon future to reduce emissions close to each other, but working contributing to the environmental of CO2, a greenhouse gas which can independently of each other. Industrial and economic dimensions of the cause climate change. symbiosis involves bringing together Company’s strategy. independent enterprises within the Çimsa uses the methodology framework of a more sustainable The following achievements have developed by the World Business and innovative resource utilization been realized by using alternative Council for Sustainable Development approach. raw materials instead of natural raw (WBCSD) and the Global Cement materials; and Concrete Association (GCCA) Our mission: Within the mission of »» Economically; industrial symbiosis in its calculations of greenhouse being respectful to people and the practices were stepped up with gas emissions generated by the environment, to increase the use of different sectors, providing processes in its cement plants. alternative raw materials and protect improvements in sustainable our natural resources by using resource efficiency. After its greenhouse gas emissions alternative raw materials suitable »» Environmentally; the natural habitat are verified by an independent audit for our business processes, under a was preserved, saving 362,514 company, Çimsa submits the reports sustainability approach. tons of natural resources per to the GNR database of the GCCA GRI 102-11, 103-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 within the framework of “Assurance Declaration”. To this end, Çimsa is Çimsa achieved the highest 01 able to compare itself with other GCCA member countries to assess rating in the Turkish cement 02 its own performance. 03 industry in the 2018 04 ÇİMSA ACHIEVED THE HIGHEST RATING IN THE TURKISH CEMENT INDUSTRY IN 2018 CDP CLIMATE CDP climate change 05 CHANGE AND WATER REPORTS. Çimsa participates in the climate and water reports. 06 and water programs of the Carbon 07 Disclosure Project (CDP), an initiative Climate Change Report and a BROTARY KILN EMISSIONS developed by the international 08 rating in the Water Report in 2018, In the cement production process, investment community in the effort Çimsa ranked among the best dust and gas is also emitted to tackle climate change. Within scoring companies in the Turkey from rotary kilns in addition to this context, Çimsa prepares the cement sector ranking. the greenhouse gas emissions. CDP Climate Change and Water Measured by accredited laboratories Report each year, which includes its Çimsa submits the Climate Change at periods determined under implementations and targets to tackle and Water Reports online to the continuous measurement systems the global water crisis in addition to CDP portal every year, which include and related regulations, dust and gas work on combatting climate change its strategy on greenhouse gas emission values have remained below works and targets. emissions, risk and opportunity the threshold values specified in the analysis, performance and results. regulation, and thus complied with Çimsa has included the water Data on the Company’s greenhouse the legislation. footprint calculations in the CDP gas emissions are published every Water Report, the first time it was year within the framework of carried out in the cement sector. “Assurance Declaration” after being Receiving a B rating in the CDP verified by an independent auditor. 73 Pollutant Emissions 2017 2018 Total Dust Emissions (tons) 93.09 87.53 Specific Dust Emissions (gr/ton clinker) 19.89 15.11 Total NOx Emissions (tons) 7,942.77 7,346.66 Specific NOx Emissions (gr/ton clinker) 1,696.82 1,268.32 Total SO2 Emission (tons) 67.51 Specific SO2 Emission (gr/ton clinker) 11.66 Total Toxic Heavy Metal Emission (tons) 0.28 0.22 Specific Toxic Heavy Metal Emission (gr/ton clinker) 0.06 0.04 Total Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emission (tons) 138.61 117.98 Specific Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emission (gr/ton clinker) 29.61 20.37 Total Dioxin-Furan Emission (gr) 0.03 0.02 Specific Dioxin-Furan Emission (µgr/ton clinker) 0.01 0.003 Total Mercury Emission (tons) 0.01 0.01 Specific Mercury Emission (gr/ton clinker) 0.03 0.002 Total Cd+TI Emission (tons) 0.05 0.05 Specific Cd+TI Emission (gr/ton clinker) 0.01 0.01 Total HCI (ton) 0.39 0.34 Spesific HCI (gr/ton clinker) 0.19 0.06 Total HF (ton) 0.39 0.83 Spesific HF (gr/ton clinker) 0.19 0.14 GRI 102-11, 103-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Environmental Management Environmental sustainability is a key component of Çimsa’s agenda. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 74 The operations of Çimsa are based on the life cycle, economic cycle, sustainable development and continuous improvement principles. 01 02 03 04 05 06 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Environmental management teams THE VALUE WE PRODUCE IS AN IMPORTANT COMPONENT OF work to maintain full compliance with 07 ÇİMSA’S AGENDA. legal regulations in terms of process Environmental Policy and Standards 08 Çimsa has undertaken major and performance on environmental investments at its Afyon Plant, Niğde management issues. Contribution to climate action Plant and Eskişehir Plant over the last couple of years in order to improve Thanks to the proactive approach their environmental sustainability followed, no incidents of nonperformance. The investments compliance with environmental laws undertaken in this field and their and regulations during the reporting details are shared with stakeholders period were recorded and no legal every year in the Integrated sanctions or penalties were imposed. RELATED STAKEHOLDERS Annual Report and through other communication channels on the basis ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND TS EN of transparency and compliance with ISO 14001:2015 ENVIRONMENTAL ethical principles. MANAGEMENT SYSTEM STORED IN CORPORATE MEMORY WITH QDMS Çimsa’s commitment within the AUTOMATION. framework of its environmental Çimsa’s policies, strategies, WATER MANAGEMENT AT ÇİMSA policy is to continuously improve its procedures, working instructions and ISO 14046 WATER FOOTPRINT 75 environmental performance and to regulatory activities are included in STANDARD UPDATED WITH provide sustainable contributions the corporate automation system, INREGRATION OF THE AFYON PLANT. to its activities and society. The QDMS. As such, documents may Well water and public water supplies Company’s operations are based be recorded, so all operations to be are used as sources of water, which on the life cycle, economic cycle, carried out can be monitored. is largely used for cooling, de-dusting sustainable development and and irrigation processes. Various continuous improvement principles. The main approaches given measures are implemented to reuse importance to in Çimsa’s processes; the natural spring water consumed in PROCESSES THAT ARE »» approaches to minimize the all facilities. FULLY ALIGNED WITH THE environmental impact and ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND preventive approaches, To this end, a “Water Footprint THE TS EN ISO 14001:2015 »» compliance with legislation and all Inventory Report” is prepared each ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT applicable regulations, year in order to summarize and SYSTEM ARE CONSTANTLY »» prioritizing clean technologies, validate the systematic work carried MONITORED AND IMPLEMENTED. applying the best available out to achieve the objectives. Within the context of the TS EN techniques, ISO 14001:2015 Environmental »» sustainability approach, Management System, internal audits »» efficient and effective use of are carried out and improvement resources and investment work is conducted »» measurement to reduce the with action plans where needed. corporate water footprint. Legal compliance is a prerequisite in environmental management. GRI 103-1, 303-1, 303-3, 304-1, 304-3, 304-4, 306-1, 306-2, 306-5 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Environmental Management The Water Footprint Inventory Report is aimed at the following: »» Entering the list of leaders with the CDP Water Report »» Providing necessary equipment for ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report the production-based measurement of the water consumed in all factories (tons of water/tons of clinker) »» Reducing the consumption of natural resources »» Compliance with the discharge limits specified in the Regulation on Water Pollution Control Each year, Çimsa updates its ISO 14046 Water Footprint certificate through an audit process carried water but also reduces water essential to prevent the formation of out by an independent auditor. This consumption. packaging wastes, to give priority to certificate was updated in 2018 »» The wastewater produced at the reusing and to recycle for use as a 76 Mersin Plant is processed at the source of energy. with the integration of Afyon Cement Plant. biological waste water purification facilities before being transferred A waste storage area supervisor is The Water Footprint Inventory Report to the receiving bodies once on duty in every facility so waste can is prepared for internal use within the the quality of the wastewater in be handled at each facility without company and the results of the report the discharge section reaches problems. All waste produced in the required limits and the each facility is defined and the are used in the CDP Water Report. environmental permits are secured. frequency and amount of the waste The water footprint study sets out »» At the Niğde Plant, household is determined. Çimsa determinates the volume of water consumed and wastewater is directly connected to which wastes are subject to which the volume of water that has been the city sewer. In the Ankara Plant, legislation, the method and the polluted. wastewater collected in the septic frequency of waste collection, and the tank is transferred to the municipal transportation, temporary storage In a bid to reduce household and treatment system. and maximum storage period of the industrial water consumption and waste. Hazardous waste is sent to increase the quality of the water WASTE MANAGEMENT AT ÇİMSA’S to disposal facilities depending on removed from the enterprise, planned FACILITIES the waste type and codes while studies have been carried out, some A waste management system is combustible wastes are burned of which are listed below: implemented at Çimsa for hazardous together in facilities which hold a »» Household type wastewater and non-hazardous wastes produced waste license to provide energy produced at the Çimsa Eskişehir, in the course of the plants’ production recovery. Kayseri and Afyon plants are activities. reused as gas coolant water after ÇİMSA’S MINING ACTIVITIES AND purification. This method not only In order to ensure production in BIODIVERSITY prevents the discharge of purified line with the principles of preserving Raw Materials of Cement Production natural resources, environmental »» limestone, sustainability and sustainable »» clay, development, and to reduce the »» shist volume of waste to be stored, it is and similar materials. GRI 103-1, 303-1, 303-3, 304-1, 304-3, 304-4, 306-1, 306-2, 306-5 01 02 03 04 05 06 Çimsa initiates studies on preventing any negative impact 07 on natural life and minimizing 08 the environmental impact 609.62 17.73 of mining operations before bringing mining fields into operation. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process is carried out following As of 2018, relevant Between 2015 and 2018, the designation of the mining public authorities approved restoration activities on field. With this assessment, Ecological Recovery Plans the entire 17.73 hectares all potential environmental and social impacts, including for 609.62 hectares of of mining sites where the impacts on biodiversity, Çimsa’s land. operations had been wound are identified and necessary up were finalized. measures are put in place. “Ecological Recovery Plans” are prepared with the approval of public institutions to carry 77 out mining operations which have environmental, social and economic impacts, in a manner which will respect the natural environment and restore land where mining has taken place to its original state. GRI 103-1, 303-1, 303-3, 304-1, 304-3, 304-4, 306-1, 306-2, 306-5 OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Corporate Communication SUPPORTING STRONG AND A MEMBER OR SUPPORTER OF continued its steadfast work in TRANSPARENT COMMUNICATION MANY INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL this area in 2018. Planning and WITH STAKEHOLDERS ORGANISATIONS implementing its corporate social In 2018, Çimsa maintained its Çimsa is a member of a number responsibility activities with a long corporate communication activities of domestic and international term perspective and with the aim ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report unwaveringly. associations and initiatives that of creating lasting value, Çimsa is carry out activities in areas related involved in projects which focus on Ensuring strong and transparent to its strategy, operations and the environment and on people, and communication with all of its objectives. Within the scope of these which aim to raise the welfare levels stakeholders, Çimsa carried memberships, in which the Company of both individuals and society as a out a wide array of activities in undertakes active duties, the whole. various fields from press activities, Company shares its experience in the advertising and sponsorships field of sustainability and participates TURNING THE SPOTLIGHT ON to events and corporate social in cooperation platforms. EDUCATION AND CHILDREN WITH responsibility activities throughout ITS CSR PROJECTS. 2018. In 2018, Çimsa maintained its Çimsa defines education as an area contributions to the associations and requiring corporate support and In 2018, Çimsa actively carried similar organizations of which it is contribution in Turkey, and attaches out press communication activities a member. Also during 2018, the tremendous importance on projects to highlight its achievements, the Company became a member of new that support children. 78 projects it carried out and its associations and organizations which activities. The content of the press would contribute to its missions. The Company also carries out social releases and news concerning the responsibility projects in areas such company published in the media was CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY as health, the environment, arts and shared on the corporate web site, Çimsa supports enduring social culture and sports. which was kept up-to-date. responsibility activities which create value for society. The Company aims ÇİMSA YAZ ÇOCUKLARI PROJECT Aiming to be in 360 degree to carry out its corporate social ENTERS ITS 8TH YEAR communication with its stakeholders, responsibility projects with a longAiming to contribute to the Çimsa also actively uses social term approach in a comprehensive development of children through media channels such as LinkedIN, and systematic model. Çimsa is education, Çimsa Yaz Çocukları Facebook and Twitter in addition to its also focuses on ensuring more corporate social responsibility project corporate web site, providing updates people benefit from access to these was initiated in Niğde in 2011 with and announcements to its followers by expanding the scope of these the participation of 32 children. through these channels. projects. First realized with the participation of the children of employees working https://www.linkedin.com/company/cimsa/ PROJECTS FORMED WITH A LONG at Çimsa’s Niğde Plant, the project https://www.facebook.com/ TERM APPROACH expanded its scope to include children CIMSACEMENT/ Apart from producing economic from nearby villages in the following https://twitter.com/cimsacement?lang=en value, companies in a globalizing years. Reaching its 8th year, the world contribute to society through project was held in Mersin in 2016 social responsibility projects targeting and 2017 before moving to Kayseri the improvement of society and of for the first time in 2018, where a individuals. total of 27 children participated in the project in Kayseri. As of the end As an organization aware of the of 2018, a total of 863 children importance and value of providing had participated in the Çimsa Yaz benefits to society through corporate Çocukları project. social responsibility projects, Çimsa 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 opened for the 17th time with The total number of children who Çimsa’s assistance to support social development. participated in the Çimsa Yaz 79 Within the context of the project, Çocukları corporate social which took place at the Abdullah Gül University in Kayseri, 24 students responsibility project had reached produced original works with cement and concrete provided by Çimsa 863 as of the end of 2018. at the end of an intensive program based on the theme of 2018: “Being Concrete, a Morphogenetic As part of the project, two-week-long Meanwhile, since 2016, the Approach”. programs were given to children Company has been participating in aged between 7 and 12 by the the Plastic Lid campaign run by The Students had the opportunity psychologist, drama teachers and Spinal Cord Paralytics Association to recognize soil and concrete, physical education trainers. During of Turkey (TOFD) through the and young people, who produced project, children were involved in a collection of plastic bottle lids. drawings of the projects, also had the series of entertaining activities such Within the context of the support chance to create prototypes, finding as arts, drama, music and sports, as extended to the campaign, the the opportunity to produce their work well as exercises in communication, company contributed to the purchase from planning to implementation empathy, problem solving, perception of battery-operated and manual during their time in the summer development, creativity, basketball, wheelchairs for disabled individuals school. volleyball and coordination. through the income generated from the recycling of the lids. THE 1ST TURKEY ENERGY AND STEPS TOWARDS A LIFE WITHOUT MINING FORUM DISABILITY ALSO ADDING VALUE TO SOCIETY Çimsa provided support to the 1st During the Disability Week in 2018, THROUGH SPONSORSHIPS. edition of the Turkey Energy and Çimsa contributed to the provision of The BETONART 17th Architecture Mining Forum, held at the Istanbul 50 electric wheelchairs to disabled Summer School Lütfi Kırdar International Convention individuals in collaboration with the Organized by the Turkish Cement and Exhibition Center, under the Mersin Metropolitan Municipality. Manufacturers’ Association (TÇMB) auspices of the Turkish Republic A total of 161 electric wheelchairs to gather architecture students Ministry of Energy and Natural were presented to those in need throughout Turkey, the BETONART Resources. during the 4-year-long project. Architecture Summer School was OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2018 Corporate Communication ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Gathering all stakeholders of the industry together, Turkey’s strategic importance in the field of energy was underlined and investment opportunities, which arose in 2018, 80 were brought to the agenda during the first Turkey Energy and Mining Forum. 11TH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUMMIT Çimsa supported the 11th Corporate Governance Summit held in 2018 by the Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD). Çimsa held activities aimed at DEALER AND BUSINESS PARTNERS with municipalities in five cities where ensuring effective stakeholder MEETINGS Çimsa’s plants are located. A total engagement and interaction. Çimsa continued to meet international of 18,500 individuals attended the dealers and business partners in Iftar events in five cities. Çimsa’s WORLD OF CONCRETE (WOC) 2018 2018, which it deems to be the key managers and business partners Çimsa participated in the International elements of the value chain. Held in shared the blessings of Ramadan Construction Fair World of Concrete Morocco between 8-11 March 2018 with local people in the Iftar events, (WOC) 2018, which was held in Las and in Montenegro between 24-27 held in Kayseri, Niğde, Mersin, Vegas on 23-26 January 2018 with April 2018 with the participation of Eskişehir and Afyon. the participation of 55,000 visitors Company management, dealers and and 1,500 companies. business partners, developments THE FOURTH CONSTRUCTION in global and local cement markets CHEMICALS SEMINAR At the fair, Çimsa presented its were examined in these meetings, Organized by Çimsa, the 4th wide range of products under the which offered a valuable forum for the Construction Chemicals Seminar roof of the “Name of the Formula” participants to share their ideas. was held on September 18, 2018. to the appreciation of the leading Trends affecting the cement industry representatives of the American IFTAR EVENTS GATHERING 18,500 were discussed during the event, market. INDIVIDUALS which was attended by local and In 2018, Iftar events were organized international experts, attracting for the general public in cooperation great interest from Çimsa’s business partners. Çimsa was selected as the most 01 successful company in the construction 02 03 category of the Platin Global 100 Index. 04 05 06 ÇİMSA MANAGEMENT MEETING Sabancı Holding and Çimsa managers 07 gathered at the Çimsa Management 08 Meeting held on 1-2 November, 2018. The meeting gave managers a chance to evaluate the events of 2018 along with expectations of 2019. Çimsa’s work continued to win acclaim and awards in 2018. THE MOST SUCCESSFUL COMPANY IN THE PLATIN GLOBAL 100 INDEX Çimsa was selected as the most successful company in the construction category of Platin Global Corporate Memberships 100 Index Organized in cooperation with Platin Magazine and independent Business Council for Sustainable Development (SKD/TBSCD) market research company, Ipsos, Turkish Green Building Council (ÇEDBİK) 81 the event determines which firms Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) contribute the most to Turkey. Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (TURMEPA) Undertaking strategic studies with Cembureau The European Cement Association (CEMBUREAU) the vision derived from the ‘Sabancı Turkish Association of People Management (PERYÖN) of New Generation’ and information know-how to be a part of the digital Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) transformation, Çimsa once again Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association (TÇMB) proved its contributions to the Turkish Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) American/Turkish Council economy and the development of the American/Turkish Council (ATC) industry with this award. Turkey Ready-Mixed Concrete Association (THBB) Chamber of Mechanical Engineers ONE OF THE TOP THREE EXPORTERS Chamber of Mining Engineers Çimsa once again demonstrated Mediterranean Exporter Associations (AKİB) its leadership in white cement and Central Anatolia Exporters Associations (OAİB) special products in the global market, as well its contribution to the Turkish Commerce and Industry Associations economy. At the Exports Champions Mersin Industry and Business Association (MESİAD) Awards organized within the context Turkish Investor Relations Society (TÜYİD) of 25th Ordinary General Assembly of Global Compact Turkey the Turkey Exporters Assembly (TİM), Integrated Reporting Turkey Network (ERTA) Çimsa was ranked as one of the top YANINDAYIZ Association three exporter in the cement, glass, Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA) ceramic and soil products sector, with exports of USD 103.8 million. in cooperation between the Turkey ranking among the top 10 companies Exporters Assembly (TIM) and the in the Innovation Organization and RANKED IN THE TOP 10 AT international management consulting Culture category of the InovaLİG INOVALIG -INNOVATION AWARDSfirm IMP3rove Academy, Çimsa Awards, where 971 companies Ranked among the companies to broke further ground in the cement competed on the basis of innovation have proven their success in the industry. Çimsa was awarded the competencies. field of innovation during the 4th Outstanding Achievement Certificate, InovaLİG program held this year, GRI 102-13 YÖNETİM THE BOARDKURULU OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT FAALİYET RAPORU 06 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 82 Serial: Prepared with Respect to the Communique Numbered II-14.1 1 January – 31 December 2018 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 83 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 84 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 85 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. SERIAL: PREPARED WITH RESPECT TO THE COMMUNIQUE NUMBERED II-14.1 1 JANUARY – 31 DECEMBER 2018 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1 Accounting Period of Report 01 January 31 December 2018 1.2 Trade Name of the Company Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Trade Register Number of the Company İstanbul Ticaret Sicil Müdürlüğü, 708500 MERSIS (Central Trade Registry System) 0257 0035 2450 0014 Website of the Company www.cimsa.com.tr ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 1.3 Capital The Company is subject to the registered capital system, the registered capital ceiling is TL 200,000,000, and the paid up capital is TL 135,084,442. 1.4 Shareholding Structure The capital structure reflecting the company’s shareholding structure is as follows. Shareholder Share Ratio (%) Share Amount (TL) Number of Shares (Item) HACI ÖMER SABANCI HOLDİNG A.Ş. (*) 54.54 73,674,200.73 7,367,420,073 AKÇANSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ A.Ş. 8.98 12,130,560.00 1,213,056,000 86 PUBLICLY TRADED PART 36.48 49,279,681.27 4,927,968,127 General Total 100.00 135,084,442.00 13,508,444,200 (*) Adana Çimento Sanayi T.A.Ş. sold our Company’s share certificates with the nominal value of TL 6,908,993, of which it owns at the ratio of 5.11%, to Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. on 06 April 2018. 1.5 Privileged Shares and Voting Rights There is none. 1.6 The Board of Directors Tamer SAKA Chairman (As of 01 April 2018) (*) Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Chairman (Until 31 March 2018) (*) Serra SABANCI Deputy Chairman Gökhan EYİGÜN Member Barış ORAN Member Fatma Dilek YARDIM Independent Member (As of 27 March 2018) Mehmet Nazmi AKDUMAN Independent Member (As of 27 March 2018) Hasan Cihat ERBAŞOL Independent Member (As of 27 March 2018) Mehmet KAHYA Independent Member (As of 27 March 2018) (*) The Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU resigned with effect from 31 March 2018, and Mr. Tamer SAKA was elected in lieu, to hold the office for the remaining period and to be presented to the approval of the shareholders at the first General Assembly to be held. During the Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2018, the election for membership to the Board of Directors was held as the term of office of the members expired. Their term of office was determined as three years, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2021, in which the results of activities in 2020 will be discussed. GRI 102-18 01 02 03 During the meetings held for the re-appointment of the Board of Directors, Tamer SAKA was appointed as the Chairman and Serra SABANCI was appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors. 04 05 As also stated in the Company Articles of Association, the Board of Directors consists of six members elected in accordance with the Turkish Code of Commerce and the Capital Market Law. There are two independent members 06 among those who were elected at the General Assembly. 07 The Chairman and the Members of the Board of Directors are vested with the duties and authorities designated in the Company Articles of Association and in the relevant articles of the Capital Market Law and Turkish Code of Commerce. 08 Members of the Board of Directors Tamer SAKA Chairman (as of 01 April 2018) Tamer SAKA graduated with a Bachelor’s degree, a Master’s degree and a doctorate degree from the Business Administration Faculty at Istanbul University. He served as a Manager and Senior Manager in charge of the Risk Management Consulting services at Arthur Andersen and Ernst Young respectively. Tamer SAKA joined Sabancı Holding as the Risk Management Director in 2004. He undertook a duty as the Managing Director in charge of business development activities for nearly 20 countries, including Turkey, at Willis in London in 2010 and 2011. As of December 2011, he undertook the duty of Strategic and Business Development Coordinator at Kibar Holding. As of May 2012, Tamer SAKA was continuing to serve as the President of Automotive and Corporate Functions Group and as Board Member at Kibar Holding. He has served as the CEO of Kibar Holding since 2014. As of 1 April 2018, Tamer SAKA was appointed as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Chairman (until 31 March 2018) 87 Mehmet Hacıkamiloğlu was born in Ankara in 1969. After graduating with a Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from Boğaziçi University, he completed an International Business Administration Program at Istanbul University and the Executive-MBA program at Sabancı University. Mr. Hacıkamiloğlu then joined Sabancı Group as the Plant Manager at Betonsa, and continued his career as the Investment and Planning Specialist within the same company at the Group. He then worked as the Strategic Development and Planning Manager at Akçansa between 1997 and 1999, and as the Company Manager at Agregasa between 1999 and 2001. After holding office as the Financial Coordinator at Akçansa for two years, Mr. HACIKAMİLOĞLU joined Çimsa as the Deputy General Director (in charge of Finances and Administrative Affairs). Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU was appointed the General Manager of Çimsa on 1 July 2006. He then resigned from his position as the General Manager of Çimsa on 1 September 2014 and was appointed as the General Manager of Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. on the same date. On 17 February 2016, he was appointed as the President of the Sabancı Holding Cement Group as well as the Chairman of the Çimsa Board of Directors. He resigned from his position as Chairman on 31 March 2018 and left the office. Serra SABANCI Deputy Chairman Serra Sabancı was born in Adana in 1975, and completed her undergraduate studies at the University of Portsmouth and at the Department of Economics at Istanbul Bilgi University, where she graduated as the top student. Serra Sabancı worked at Temsa and took trainings on Company Acquisitions and Board of Directors Memberships at the Institute of Directors in London. Serra Sabancı continues to hold office as the Member of the Board of Directors at the Sabancı Holding as well as various group companies, and as the Member of the Board of Trustees at the Sabancı Foundation. Since 18 December 2009, she has been holding office as the Member of the Board of Directors of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. She was appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors at Çimsa as of 31 March 2017. GRI 102-18 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT Barış ORAN Member Born in Çanakkale in 1973, Barış Oran graduated from the Department of Business Administration of Boğaziçi University, and completed an MBA degree at the University of Georgia. He began his career as an Auditor at Price Waterhouse Coopers in 1995, before joining Sara Lee Corp. Chicago IL, first working on auditing and later in finance and treasury/capital markets between 1998 and 2003. He held office at Ernst and Young between 2003 and 2006, first at Minneapolis, MN, before serving as the Senior Manager in charge of the Europe, Middle East, Africa and India Regions. Mr. Oran started working for Kordsa Global in 2006, and he held positions as Audit Director, Global Finance Director and then as the CFO. In 2011, he was appointed as the Finance Director of the H.Ö. Sabancı Holding and in 2012, he was appointed as the Manager of the Planning, Reporting and Finance Department. Since 2016, he has ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report been serving as the Head of the Finance Group of the H.Ö. Sabancı Holding. He has been serving as the Member of the Board of Directors of Brisa, Enerjisa, Teknosa, Carrefoursa, Yünsa, Avivasa, Temsa and Akçansa. Mr. Oran is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). He was elected as the Member of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.’s Board of Directors as of 16 October 2015. Gökhan EYİGÜN Member Mr. Eyigün graduated from the Istanbul Technical University, the Department of Management Engineering in 1998 with honours. He completed the MBA degree at the Rotterdam School of Management between 2002 and 2004 and underwent several executive trainings at the Harvard Business School. Throughout his career, that has spanned over 20 years, Gökhan EYİGÜN has worked as a manager in the projects and operations particularly in the fields of corporate finance, strategy and corporate business development, encompassing many different industries. He began his career at Arthur Andersen and worked as a consultant mainly in the field of Corporate Finance. He went on to take part in the establishment of the Corporate Financing and M&A Consultancy Department at PricwaterhouseCoopers and took office as the manager of this department. Since 2007, Gökhan Eyigün has worked 88 as a manager at different levels in Sabancı Holding and is currently serving as the Director in charge of Strategy and Business Development. He has also been holding office as the Member of the Board of Directors at several companies of the Sabancı Holding since 2010. Mr. Eyigün was appointed as a Member of the Board of Directors of Çimsa on 31 March 2017. Fatma Dilek YARDIM Independent Member (as of 27 March 2018) Fatma Dilek YARDIM was born in Istanbul in 1963. After graduating from the Sankt Georg Austrian High School, she graduated from the Department of Business Administration at Boğaziçi University. She completed the joint MBA program of the Manchester Business School & the University of Bangor. She began her career at Interbank in 1988. Between 1990 and 1999, she worked as the Manager at Bankers Trust A.Ş. She served as the Deputy General Manager at Deutsche Bank A.Ş. between 1999 and 2001, as the General Manager and the Member of the Board at Deutsche Bank A.Ş. between 2001 and 2007, as the General Manager and the Member of the Board at Credit Agricole Yatırım Bankası Türk A.Ş. between 2007 and 2012, as the General Manager and the Member of the Board at Standart Chartered Yatırım Bankası Türk A.Ş. between 2012 and 2016. Since 2017, she has been working as the Senior Consultant at Experian. During her career, she has undertaken roles in a number of NGOs such as YASED (International Investors Association), TUSİAD (Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association) and DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board). Fatma Dilek YARDIM is fluent in English and German. She was elected to the membership of the Board of Directors of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. in the Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2018. GRI 102-18 01 02 03 Mehmet Nazmi AKDUMAN Independent Member (as of 27 March 2018) 04 Mehmet Nazmi Akduman was born in İzmit in 1947. He graduated from the Istanbul Technical University as a Chemical 05 Engineer (MSc) in 1969. In the same year he started his career at OTASAN A.Ş. before leaving his position to carry out his military service in 1970. After 1972, he served as a Planning Supervisor, Logistics Manager, Purchasing 06 Director, Financial and Administrative Affairs Director and Deputy General Manager at Türk Pirelli Lastikleri A.Ş., and was appointed as CEO for Türk Pirelli Kablo ve Sistemleri A.Ş. in 1977 and as Chairman of the Board of Directors 07 for the Pirelli Cable Romania. After the Pirelli Group’s sale of the cable segment in 2002, he served as the Managing Director and General Manager at ÇİMENTAŞ A.Ş., a part of Cementir an Italian Group until 2012. Mr. Akduman 08 later served as the Board Member of ÇİMENTAŞ. During his career, he has undertaken roles at NGOs such as YASED (International Investors Association), TUSİAD (Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association) and DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board). Mehmet Nazmi Akduman is fluent in English and Italian. He was elected to the membership of the Board of Directors of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2018. Hasan Cihat ERBAŞOL Independent Member (until 27 March 2018) Erbaşol was born in Istanbul in 1944. He graduated from the Darüşşafaka Private High school in 1962 and the Washingtonpark High School in Racine/ Wisconsin in 1963. He then attended Istanbul University, where he graduated from the Faculty of Law in 1967. Erbaşol started his career as an attorney at the Marshall Paint Industry. He then worked as the Legal Consultant at the Man Truck Industry. He worked at the Kordsa Lassa (Brisa) – Beksa companies, which are part of the Sabancı Holding group, as well as the Head of Law Department at the Sabancı Holding. He has been working independently since 2000 and is a legal consultant. He was appointed as a Member of the Board of Directors of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. on 24 April 2012 and served in this capacity until 27 March 2018. 89 Mehmet KAHYA Independent Member (until 27 March 2018) Mehmet Kahya graduated from Yale University with undergraduate degrees in the Departments of Chemical Engineering and Economics. He completed an MBA in the fields of Finance, Marketing and Operational Research at the Kellogg Graduate School of Management. He then worked as a Supervisor of Management Services at Sasa, and as the President at the MKM International and Cybernetic. He served as the Vice President of the Sabancı Group’s Automotive Group, then as the Vice President and the President at Temsa before being appointed as the Vice President at Toyotasa. He also served as a Member of Sabancı Holding’s Planning and Steering Council and as a Member of the Board of Directors of Temsa, Toyotasa, Sasa and Sapeksa. He was the Managing Director and the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors at Carnaud Metalbox. He served as the President of the Uzel Machinery and the Executive Committee Member of the Uzel Holding and as the General Manager and Deputy President of the Paint Group at DYO. He was the Executive Committee Member of the Sarten Packaging. He served as the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gierlings Velpor and the President of Assan Aluminium. As the founder of Kronos Company, he has been providing consultancy services on strategy, restructuring, profitability transformation, growth, acquisition and merger processes. He is currently holding office as the Independent Member in the Boards of Directors of the Yaşar Holding, Altınyunus, DYO and the Viking Paper. He is also currently holding office as the President of the Risk and Audit Committee of Yaşar Holding, and as the Member in the Boards and the Executive Councils of the Viko and Kalibre Pipes companies. He was appointed as the Member of the Board of Directors of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. on 24 April 2012 and he served in this capacity until 27 March 2018. 1.7 Auditor Regarding the election of an auditor within the scope of the Article No. 399 of the Turkish Commercial Code, in accordance with the principles specified in the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 and Capital Market Law No. 6362, which were presented to the General Assembly with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, and the advice of the Board of Directors, Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. (Ernst & Young) residing in Istanbul was approved to be appointed for the audit of the financial reports of our company for the 2018 operating period and to perform other activities under the relevant regulations of the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 and Capital Market Law No. 6362 at the 2017 Annual General Meeting held on 28 March 2018. GRI 102-18 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 1.8 Senior Managers Ülkü ÖZCAN General Manager (as of 01 October 2018) Nevra ÖZHATAY General Manager (until 30 September 2018) Eren MANTAŞ Deputy General Manager (Finance and Financial Affairs) Ümit ÇETİN Deputy General Manager (Supply Chain) Caner TÜRKYENER Deputy General Manager (Technical) Hüseyin ÇAĞLAR Deputy General Manager (Sales and Marketing) (as of 01 November 2018) Tuğba ÇÖRTELEKOĞLU Deputy General Manager (Corporate Development and Human Resources) ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report (as of 02 January 2019) Bilgen ÇAĞLI Deputy General Manager (Corporate Development and Human Resources) (until 06 July 2018) Gürol ÖZER Deputy General Manager (Cement Operations and Investments) (until 30 November 2018) Önder KIRCA Deputy General Manager (Innovation, R&D and Grey Cement Export) (until 30 November 2018) Deputy General Manager (Grey Cement Sales and Marketing) Cem TALAY (until 31 July 2018) Ülkü ÖZCAN General Manager (as of 01 October 2018) After graduating from the Department of Business Administration (in English) at Marmara University, Ülkü Özcan began her career at Lafarge Turkey in 1999. She served as the Strategic Planning Specialist between 1999 and 90 2003, as the Strategy and Business Development Manager between 2003 and 2005, and as the Marketing Project Manager between 2005 and 2007. She began working at Çimsa as the Strategy and Business Development Manager in January 2010. She was appointed to the post of Strategy and Marketing Director on 1 April 2013. Ms. Özcan was then appointed to the newly established position of the Deputy General Manager for Strategy, Marketing and Sustainability on 7 February 2014 and then held office as the Deputy General Manager in charge of White Cement and Special Products from 1 January 2015,. Ms. Özcan has been the Deputy General Manager in charge of White Cement and Special Products Sales and Marketing as since 1 April 2015. She was appointed as the General Manager of Çimsa on 1 October 2018. Nevra ÖZHATAY General Manager (until 30 September 2018) After graduating with a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Boğaziçi University, Nevra Özhatay completed an MBA at Exeter University in the UK. She started working as the Finance Specialist at the Sabancı Holding Cement Group in 1994 and became the Management Support Manager at Akçansa in 1996, before being appointed as the Strategy and Business Development Specialist in 1998, the Planning and Control Manager in 2000, the Strategy and Business Development Manager in 2004 and the Logistics, Strategy and Business Development Director in 2008. Ms. Özhatay was appointed as the Financial Affairs Deputy General Manager of Çimsa on 1 January 2009 and as the Deputy General Manager in charge of White Cement and Special Products on 1 June 2013. She was appointed as the General Manager of Çimsa on 1 September 2014. She left her position on 30 September 2018. Eren MANTAŞ Deputy General Manager (Finance and Financial Affairs) After his graduation from the Department of Business Administration at Boğaziçi University, Mr. Mantaş completed an MBA program at the University of California. He started working at Arthur Andersen & Co. as a Senior Advisor in 1997 before going on to went for Actus Lend Lease LLC as the Project Finance Manager. He worked as the Strategic Planning Manager at Teknoloji Holding and as the Strategy, Planning and Finance Director at Brightwell Holdings BV. In 2012, he served as the Financial Planning, Analysis and Investor Relations Director at Sabancı Holding. Since 15 May 2017, Mr. Mantaş has been working as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Finance and Financial Affairs at Çimsa. GRI 102-18 01 02 03 Ümit ÇETİN Deputy General Manager (Supply Chain) 04 A graduate of Bilkent University’s Banking and Finance School, Mr. Çetin started his career at the French Embassy’s 05 Economic Mission. In 2007, he went on to work as the Consultant at Ernst & Young’s Corporate Risk Services Department. He worked as the Internal Auditor at Hayat Holding between 2008 and 2009 and at Olmuksa Sabancı in 06 2009 and International Paper in 2012. He started working for Çimsa in 2012, where he worked as the Internal Audit Manager until 2015. He was appointed as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Purchasing and Logistics as of 01 07 April 2015. Since 16 November 2018, he has been working as the Deputy General Manager in charge of the Supply Chain. 08 Caner TÜRKYENER Deputy General Manager (Technical) After graduating from the Department of Chemistry at the Middle East Technical University, Caner Türkyener began his career as a Chemical Engineer at the Çimsa Kayseri Plant in 2001. Mr. Türkyener was transferred to Çimsa’s Mersin Plant as an R&D engineer on 1 April 2002, where he also worked as a Production Engineer at the 2nd Plant Semi-Product, and a Semi-Product Production Supervisor at the 2nd Plant between 2002 and 2007. He worked as the Production Manager at Çimsa’s Eskişehir Plant between 2007 and 2012, and as Manager of the Çimsa Niğde Plant between 2012 and 2014. After working as the Manager of Çimsa’s Kayseri Plant for a short period, Mr. Türkyener was appointed as the Regional Director in charge of the Kayseri and Niğde provinces on 1 July 2014. He was appointed as the Regional Sales Manager for the Kayseri-Niğde provinces on 1 May 2015 and as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Ready-Mixed Concrete on 16 January 2017. Since 16 November 2018, he has been working as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Technical operations. Hüseyin ÇAĞLAR Deputy General Manager (Sales and Marketing) (as of 01 November 2018) Hüseyin Çağlar graduated from the Istanbul Atatürk Science High School in 1991 and the Department of Mechanical 91 Engineering at Boğaziçi University in 1996. Starting his career at Procter & Gamble in Turkey, Mr. Çağlar assumed roles in the sales and marketing departments at different levels in Turkey’s different regions over a period of 16 years. Following, He worked at the P & G European Headquarters in Switzerland for three years. In 2012, Hüseyin Çağlar was appointed as the Turkey Sales Director of the Vodafone Turkey, then he worked as the Sales Director for the Enerjisa Retail Companies since 2016. He was appointed as the Deputy General Manager in charge of the Çimsa Domestic and Foreign Sales and Marketing on 1 November 2018. Tuğba ÇÖRTELEKOĞLU Deputy General Manager (Corporate Development and Human Resources) (as of 02 January 2019) Tuğba Çörtelekoğlu graduated from the Department of English Language and Literature at Boğaziçi University in 1997 and completed a Master’s degree in Human Resources from the University of Leeds. Before joining Çimsa, Ms. Çörtelekoğlu worked at SAP Turkey, Doğan Yayın Holding, Arthur Andersen, Betek Paint and Toyota. Ms. Çörtelekoğlu worked as the Human Resources Director at Betek Paint between 2013 and 2018. She was appointed as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Human Resources at Çimsa on 2 January 2019. Bilgen ÇAĞLI Deputy General Manager (Corporate Development and Human Resources) (until 06 July 2018) Bilgen Çağlı graduated from the Department of Psychology at the Middle East Technical University in 1993, and completed a master’s degree from the Department of Business Administration at Istanbul University. She started her career at Ankara University as a Human Resources and Corporate Communications Specialist in 1993. Ms. Çağlı continued to work as the Human Resources Manager at the Akkök Group of Companies between 1998 and 2003, and worked as the Human Resources Manager in charge of the Vestel companies owned by the Zorlu Group between 2003 and 2007. Thereafter, she worked as the Human Resources Director in charge of the Anel Group of companies, as well as at Erdemir Demir Çelik A.Ş.; Ms. Çağlı then worked as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Corporate Development and Human Resources at Çimsa from 27 May 2013. She left her position on 6 July 2018. GRI 102-18 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT Gürol ÖZER Deputy General Manager (Cement Operations and Investments) (until 30 November 2018) Born in Tarsus in 1969, Gürol Özer graduated from the Department of Electrical and Electrical Engineering at the Middle East Technical University in 1991. He completed a master’s degree in the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering of the Çukurova University in 1996. He started to work at Çimsa in 1995 and served in various positions in the production and investment departments until he was appointed as the Automation and Control Systems Manager in 2007. He became the Information Technologies and Automation Manager in 2011, and the Technology Director in 2012. He was appointed as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Technical Operations on 01 July 2014. Mr. Özer underwent MBA training at the IEDC Bled School of Management. Since 1 April 2015, he worked as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Cement Operations and Investments. He left his position on 30 November ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2018. Dr. Önder KIRCA Deputy General Manager (Innovation, R&D and Grey Cement Export) (until 30 November 2018) Dr. Önder Kırca graduated from the Department of Civil Engineering at the Middle East Technical University in 1998 and completed master’s and doctoral degrees in the Department of Civil Engineering at the same university. He worked as a Research Assistant in the Department of Civil Engineering at the Middle East Technical University between 1998 and 2000. He started working as the Cement Research and Application Engineer at Çimsa in 2000. He worked as the Cement Research and Application Supervisor between 2002 and 2006, as the Marketing Manager between 2007 and 2011 and as the Central Anatolia Region Sales Director between 2011 and 2014. Dr. Önder Kırca worked as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Ready-Mixed Concrete between 1 July 2014 and 31 March 2016. He was the Deputy General Manager in charge of Sales and Marketing at Akçansa A.Ş. between 1 April 2016 and 16 April 2017. He was appointed to the position of Deputy General Manager in charge of R&D and Business Development at Çimsa on 17 April 2017 and has worked as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Innovation, R&D and Grey Cement Export since 1 January 2018. He left his position on 30 November 2018. 92 Cem TALAY Deputy General Manager (Grey Cement Sales and Marketing) (until 31 July 2018) After graduating from the Department of Finance at Anadolu University, Cem Talay started his career as the Sales Representative at Akçansa in 1994. In 2007, Mr. Talay completed an MBA program, which was jointly realized by the Sabancı University and Kavrakoğlu. At Akçansa, Mr. Talay worked as the Karçimsa Cement West Black Sea Regional Manager, the Regional Manager for the Cement in the Central Black Sea Region, and then as the Sales Regional Manager for the North-West Marmara Region between 1994 and 2014. He began working for Çimsa in 2014 as the Regional Director in charge of the Eskişehir and Ankara provinces. He was appointed as the Regional Sales Director for the Eskişehir-Ankara-Afyon provinces on 1 July 2015 and as the Deputy General Manager in charge of Grey Cement Sales and Marketing from 16 January 2017. He left his position on 31 July 2018. 1.9 Restraint of Transaction and Competition with the Company During the period, the members of the Board of Directors did not perform any actions that could be categorized as transactions with or competing against the company. GRI 102-18 01 02 03 2. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE REPORT 04 2.1. DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES 05 Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Hereon referred to as the “Company”) regularly conducts work in order to 06 comply with the “Corporate Governance Principles” issued by the Capital Markets Board. In this context, in accordance 07 with the Corporate Governance Communique (II-17.1), which was published on 3 January 2014 and put into effect, the work of compliance with the compulsory principles were completed and the other non-compulsory provisions are 08 complied with in majority. Compliance work continues for those parts, even where compliance could not be achieved with which due to the Company’s existing management structure and high costs. 2.2. SHAREHOLDERS 2.2.1. Investor Relations Department At our Company, assignments have been made in order to ensure the execution of the Shareholders’ General Meetings, the exercise of shareholding rights, share transactions and meeting shareholders’ information requests Within the context of conducting relations with the shareholders by following up capital market regulations, our personnel serve the duties such as capital increases, keeping records related to the shareholders, public disclosures within the scope of the legislation and meeting information requests of the shareholders about the Company, including the website. The shareholders’ questions on capital increases, dividend distributions, attendance to the General Assembly meetings are responded in verbal, written and digital forms (e-mail) with the exception of information that are trade secret or confidential. The Website was renewed so investors could obtain more regular information about the Company’s activities and to access to all kinds of data related to the Company. All written and/or verbal information requests from investors were responded to on time. Tasks in the aforementioned department are 93 fulfilled by the Financial Planning and Analysis Manager Özge ÖZCAN, and Tuncay KERTİŞ, who holds the SPL Level 3 Specialist License No. 214054 and Corporate Governance Rating License No. 702086, under the management of Eren MANTAŞ, who holds SPL Level 3 Specialist License No. 207668 and Corporate Governance Rating License No. 701434. Information may be obtained by e-mail from the address of e.mantas@cimsa.com.tr, o.ozcan@cimsa.com. tr, t.kertis@cimsa.com.tr, and by telephone from the following numbers: 0(216)554 70 16, 0(216) 554 70 64 or 0(216) 554 70 73. The company takes every measure necessary to guarantee the satisfaction of investors. Within 2018, a total of 51 one-to-one and group meetings were carried out, including domestic and international conferences and roadshows. Furthermore, a total of 60 shareholders applied to the department for information on issues relevant to the shareholders, in particular on dividend pay outs and attendance to the General Assembly meetings, and all of these applications were responded in verbal and written form. 2.2.2. Exercise of Shareholder Rights to Obtain Information Shareholders, who register their names on the attendance sheet of the latest General Meeting, those who reach us by e-mail or telephone and those who come to the Company in person are informed of financial and administrative issues. In order to expand shareholder rights to obtain information and provide a healthy exercise of their rights, the required information and documents alongside financial statements are offered to shareholders on our official website (www.cimsa.com.tr) in both Turkish and English in the compulsory declaration durations and they are kept updated. In 2018, requests for information pertaining to issues such as capital increases in previous period, dividend distribution information, stock changes and the transition to the registration system and general assembly were responded to by e-mail, telephone, fax and meetings carried out in person. Nine (9) shareholders were provided with information in written form concerning the withholding tax charged on dividends. In addition, fourteen (14) annual reports were requested and posted to shareholders. Shareholders may obtain up up-to-date information concerning the Company over the web site (www.cimsa.com.tr), material event disclosures submitted on the Public Disclosure Platform (www. kap.gov.tr) and newspaper announcements. There is no provision for the appointment of a special auditor in the Company’s Articles of Association. No requests were received from the shareholders on this issue in 2018. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2.2.3 General Assembly Meetings The Company issues the invitations of General Assembly Meetings in line with the Turkish Commercial Code, the Capital Markets Board legislation and Articles of Association. On 27 March 2018, the Annual General Meeting was held with a quorum of 73.96%. The results of the meeting were registered on 11 April 2018 and published on the Turkish Commercial Registry Gazette on 17 April 2018. The results of the Annual General Meeting were offered to shareholders on the Public Disclosure Platform (KAP), on our Company website (www.cimsa.com.tr) and on our Company’s page on the information portal of the Central Registry Agency (MKK). Interested stakeholders attended the Annual General Meeting either in person or electronically upon completing the ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report required formalities. The invitation for the Annual General Meeting was made in line with the Turkish Commercial Code and the Articles of Association and this was approved by the Representative of the Ministry. The announcement and the agenda of the Annual General Meeting were declared to shareholders on the Public Disclosure Platform (KAP), on our Company’s page on the information portal of the Central Registry Agency (MKK), in the Turkish Commercial Registry Gazette prior to the meeting. During the meeting, shareholders were given right to ask questions and provided with required information. The shareholders were also informed of donations amounting to a total of TL 129,065.55 made in the period (year 2017). The limit of donations to be made for the year 2018 was added in the meeting agenda as a separate article. The annual report was prepared and handed out to the shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting and the shareholders were provided with information on the activities of the previous year. Decisions which are qualified to be material with respect to the Turkish Commercial Code are submitted to shareholders in the Annual General Meeting for their approval. When the legal compliance of the Corporate Governance Principles is provided, all the material decisions that will be in the changing laws will be submitted to shareholders in the General Assembly for their approval. 94 In Article 1527 of the Turkish Commercial Code (TTK) numbered 6102 and dated 13 January 2011, it was concluded that participating, making suggestions, commenting and voting in the joint stock company general assemblies via electronic media bears all legal consequences of physical participation and voting. Additionally, the system of participation and voting in the general assemblies via electronic media has become compulsory for the companies listed on the stock exchange. “Regulation on the General Assembly Meetings of Joint Stock Companies to be Held via Electronic Media” (EGKS) issued by the Ministry of Customs and Trade in order to determine the code of practice of Article 1527 of the Turkish Commercial Code was published in the Official Gazette dated 28 August 2012 and numbered 28395. “Communique on Electronic General Assembly System to be Implemented in the General Assemblies of Joint Stock Companies” which regulates the procedures and principles regarding the establishment, operation, technical aspects and safety criteria of the electronic general assembly system was published in the Official Gazette dated 29 August 2012 and numbered 28396. Effective date of the said regulations was determined as 01 October 2012. Pursuant to the third sub-clause of the 5th article of the Regulation on the General Assembly Meetings of Joint Stock Companies to be Held via Electronic Media, participating, representative assigning, tabling suggestions, commenting and voting in the general assemblies, which are to be held by the companies listed on the stock Exchange, via electronic media is required to be carried out through the Electronic General Assembly System (EGKS) provided by the Central Registry Agency (MKK). Articles 415 and 417 of the Turkish Commercial Code prescribe material changes to participation in the general assembly meetings of joint stock companies, whose shares of are monitored and registered by the Central Registry Agency (MKK). Pursuant to the 13th article of the Capital Markets Law, the list of shareholders, whose shares are monitored and registered, and who can attend the general assembly, will be prepared in line with the “Table of Shareholders” which will be provided electronically by the CRA (MKK) via the EGKS in accordance with the first subclause of the article 417 of the Turkish Commercial Code. Real persons on this list who attend the meetings in person should provide an identity card and those who represent legal entities should provide a document of representation, in what is the only condition of attendance. 01 02 03 The 4th sub-clause of article 415 of the Turkish Commercial Code resolves that the right to participate and vote in the general assembly cannot be dependent on the condition of receiving a document proving shareholding or depositing the 04 share certificates in “advance”. The new TTK has terminated the blockage system that was previously implemented in 05 capital markets. 06 The system of granting proxy via notary, which was implemented in the previous TTK period, is preserved alternatively. Nevertheless, a legal novelty has been brought with the EGKS Regulation, which will make serious contributions to 07 the general assembly practice, such as assigning the proxy electronically over the EGKS. Electronically assigned proxy can participate in the general assembly meeting electronically, or physically as a proxy. The list that includes the 08 shareholders, which can be obtained by the Company from the MKK over the EGKS, shall also contain the information about proxy (such as proxy’s name), which is granted via the EGKS. A proxy electronically assigned via the EGKS is not required to present a physical proxy document. General Meeting procedure; The General Meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. If the Chairman is not present at the meeting, this duty is carried out by the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the absence of these persons, the person to chair shall be elected by the General Assembly by a majority decision. The Chairman shall determine the minutes of meeting clerk and the vote collector if he deems necessary, and thus, he/she establishes the team of meeting chairmanship. The Chairman of the General Meeting is obliged to ensure the compliance of the meeting with the Law. At least three weeks before the General Assembly, financial statements and annual reports are made available at the Company’s headquarters. It is ensured that General Assembly meeting announcements are made at least 3 weeks in advance. 95 After the notification of the financial statements to the Public Disclosure Platform (KAP) and after the publication of the Annual Report, all information and reports to be discussed in the agenda of the General Assembly are sent to the addresses of those requesting by mail, fax or e-mail, with the fastest delivery possibility. The most natural rights of the shareholders at the General Assemblies are to ask questions and to express their opinions about the subject by asking to talk. Therefore, the rights of the shareholders of the Company to ask questions at the General Assembly, to submit suggestions on the agenda items and to make speeches on their suggestions are provided by the Board duly. All information on financial statements and independent audit reports, profit distribution proposal and information and documentation regarding the General Assembly Agenda, the distribution of capital between shareholders and including the Corporate Governance Compliance Report, are available on the Company’s website. As per years, General Assembly Minutes of Meeting and the list of attendants can be accessed from the website and the Company Headquarters. These records are also available in the archives of the Turkey Trade Registry Gazette at the Istanbul Trade Registry Office. 2.2.4 Voting Rights and Minority Rights There is one voting right for each share at the General Assemblies and there is no privilege in voting right. Voting rights are exercised in accordance with the regulations on representation and voting procedure at the General Assembly (Articles 19 and 20 of the Articles of Association). The regulations of the Capital Markets Board regarding voting by proxy are observed. The Articles of Association do not contain any provisions for cumulative voting. With the thought that granting cumulative voting rights in existing shareholding percentages and shareholding structure would impair the harmonious management structure of the Company, such an arrangement has not been made. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2.2.5 Dividend Rights Dividend distribution of the Company is regulated in Article 26 of the Articles of Association. Accordingly, after the compulsory taxes are deducted from the gross profit, the dividends are distributed from the remaining net profit at the ratio to be proposed by the Board of Directors and to be approved by the General Assembly, within the framework set in the Articles of Association and by also considering the legal reserves and the CMB legislation. The dividend distribution of our Company is realized within legal durations. Our company has adopted the dividend distribution policy as “to distribute at least 50% of the distributable profit to the shareholders”. This policy may be annually reviewed by the Board of Directors depending on the national and global economic conditions, the projects that are on the agenda, and the status of the funds. There is no privilege in dividend distribution. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2.2.6 Assignment of Shares There are no provisions in the Articles of Association that restrict the assignment of shares. 2.3 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY 2.3.1 The Website of the Company and its Content It is under the authority and responsibility of the Board of Directors to monitor, supervise, and develop the public disclosure and information policy of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. The Disclosure Policy was created and approved by the Board of Directors within the framework of the CMB Corporate Governance Principles on 30 April 2009, and it was revised on 27 February 2017. It was declared to the public with a Material Event Disclosure and has been published on www.cimsa.com.tr since then. As required by this policy, the independently audited 6th and 12th month financial statements and the unaudited 3rd and 9th month financial statements are disclosed to the public. 96 The consolidated reports, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS-IAS) and the Turkish Accounting Standards/Turkish Financial Reporting Standards (“TAS/TFRS”) issued by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”), were disclosed to the public within the periods specified by the CMB. Disclosure of information regarding the Company is carried out throughout the year through press releases, e-mail messages, telephone communication, and interviews with media organizations and news agencies. Furthermore, it is possible to access such information over the website within the scope of the Disclosure Policy, as advised by the CMB Corporate Governance Principles. The company has a website (www.cimsa.com.tr). The content of our website is being developed in line with the Turkish Commercial Code, the Regulations on the Websites of Companies to be opened, the CMB’s Corporate Governance Principles, and the requests of users. The persons and institutions wishing to obtain information about our Company may access such information on our website. The reports and documents pertaining to the last 5 years, which we have also published on the Public Disclosure Platform pursuant to the Communiqué on Material Events of the CMB (II-15.1), can be found on the website in Turkish and English as follows, under the heading “Investor Relations”. »» Corporate Governance »» Consolidated Financial Statements »» Annual Reports »» Material Event Disclosures »» Information Society Services Under these headings; Company Information Shareholding Structure Senior Management Board of Directors 01 02 03 Board of Directors Committees General Assembly Information 04 Trade Registry Information 05 Articles of Association Corporate Governance Compliance Report 06 Disclosure Policy Dividend Distribution Policy 07 Remuneration Policy Donation and Aid Policy 08 Frequently Asked Questions Financial Statements Annual Reports The sections of the declarations of Material Event Disclosures. Our website also contains information such as Corporate Profile, Products and Services, Sustainability, Human Resources, and Contact. 2.3.2 Annual Report The information stated in Corporate Governance Principles was disclosed in the annual report prepared in December. 2.4 STAKEHOLDERS 2.4.1 Informing the Stakeholders Information is provided to all stakeholders in the form of periodical public disclosures and material event disclosures 97 over the Public Disclosure Platform (KAP), as required by the relevant legislation. Issues such as Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings and dividend distribution are declared in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette and on the Company’s website as required by relevant legislation and the Articles of Association of the Company. Moreover, information is provided also through press conferences, press releases, and the interviews made with media organizations. Furthermore, the Company employees are informed through the quarterly Company newsletter, information sent by e-mails and the in-house trainings provided, over the Çimsa Portal and through annual information meetings. Information is also provided through training and seminars organized, in addition to the annual meetings and promotions held for customers. The shareholders are informed simultaneously in an accurate and comprehensible manner, with the exception of information which is deemed to be confidential or contain trade secrets. The Company has established the necessary mechanisms in order to allow stakeholders to report any incidents which contravene legislation and ethically inappropriate transactions of the Company to the Corporate Governance Committee or the Audit Committee. 2.4.2 Participation of Stakeholders in the Management Meetings are held with employees at least once a year where activities of the previous year are evaluated and the targets for the following year are shared and feedback is received. Within the scope of business excellence, learning organization activities and the suggestion system, team work is encouraged and participation of project teams is ensured in matters concerning the Company such as target-setting, process improvement and investments. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT The participation of shareholders in the Company management is ensured through the Annual General Meeting and Extraordinary General Meetings. Participation of customers in the Company management is ensured through dealer meetings and the customer loyalty surveys conducted. 2.4.3 Human Resources Policy The Corporate Development and Human Resources vision of the Company is to create a culture of high performance, and its mission is to ensure the organizational change and development. In this context, an effective and regular ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report structural performance management is executed with individual work and competence targets, which are determined in line with the company strategy and company goals. Policies aimed at organizational change and development are planned and implemented in the scope of increasing the Company’s competitive clout and ability to meet changing needs. The issues concerning the employees registered with a union (in-scope) at the Company are managed within the scope of the Group Collective Labour Agreement in effect. Moreover, there are departments such as Employee Representation, Corporate Development and Human Resources, Corporate Communications, Code of Ethics Consultancy and Occupational Health and Safety within the organizational structure in order to conduct the relations with all employees, as well as detailed, written and up-to-date regulations and procedures that cover the arrangements and practices regarding work life. To date, there have been no complaints from Çimsa employees regarding discrimination in the Company. 2.4.4 Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility 98 2.4.4.1 Code of Ethics The Code of business ethics was established and implemented at our Company. The Code of business ethics has been published on the corporate website and announced to the public. Informing the employees on these rules is ensured by publishing them on the Company internal communications portal, handing out booklets to all employees and conducting information sessions. Moreover, the employees update their knowledge on the code of business ethics through an e-learning program at the end of each year and renew their commitment to the code of business ethics with the “Code of Business Ethics Compliance Statement”, which they fill in. The locations where Çimsa’s plants are situated have importance beyond being the physical locations of the plants. In these regions, Çimsa’s stakeholders and employees continue their lives, and new generations, who will be working with the Company in the future, grow. Being an active and respected member of the society is crucial for Çimsa. Çimsa is a leading employer in the regions where its plants are located. the regions, where the company operates, are directly and indirectly impacted by the operations. Çimsa is focused on correctly understanding the expectations of the society and meeting the needs and expectations of its stakeholders everywhere it operates. Çimsa’s Corporate Social Responsibility Approach In today’s ever-globalizing world, apart from producing economic value, companies contribute actively to society through social responsibility projects targeting the development of society and individuals. Çimsa continued its corporate social responsibility activities in 2018 as a brand that is aware of the importance and value of corporate social responsibility projects and providing benefit to society through these projects. Planning and implementing its corporate social responsibility activities with a long term perspective and with the aim of creating lasting value, Çimsa carries out projects which focus on the environment and people, and which aim at increasing individual and social welfare levels. 01 02 03 Education and children are at the core of the CSR activities that are carried out in a systematic and planned manner at Çimsa. Placing emphasis on providing a contribution to children in the field of education, which is one of the most vital 04 areas in our country, Çimsa also carries out social responsibility projects in the fields of health, the environment, arts 05 and culture and sport. 06 This project was initiated by Çimsa in Niğde in 2011 with the participation of 32 children, and was aimed at contributing to their development. The total number of children who participated in the Çimsa Yaz Çocukları Project 07 had reached 863 as of the end of 2018. In line with the project, one psychologist, three drama teachers and three physical education teachers provide two-week-long courses to children aged between 7 and 12. 08 In the first years, the project was realized with the participation of the children of the employees of the Niğde Plant of Çimsa. The project expanded to include children from nearby villages in the following years. The project, which has been ongoing for 7 years, was also realized in Mersin in 2016 and 2017. The project moved to Kayseri for the first time in 2018, and only 27 children participated in the project in one period from Kayseri. Due to the Disability Week, in 2018, Çimsa contributed to the provision of 50 battery run wheelchairs to disabled individuals in collaboration with the Mersin Metropolitan Municipality. A total of 161 battery run wheelchairs were presented as gifts in the project continuing for 4 years. A contribution was made to the Plastic Lid campaign that has been run by The Spinal Cord Paralytics Association of Turkey (TOFD) since 2011 through the collection of plastic bottle lids. With the support given to the campaign and through the income generated from the recycling of the lids, a contribution was provided to the purchase of battery run and manual wheelchairs for the disabled. Sponsorships 99 »» In order to support sustainability efforts of the IMSAD (Association of Turkish Construction Material Producers), Çimsa supported the sustainability report of IMSAD. »» Organized by the Cement Manufacturers Association of Turkey (CBT) and brings together architecture students from across Turkey, the 17th BETONART Summer School of Architecture was carried out by Çimsa’s support in order to support social development. Within the scope of the project realized at the Abdullah Gül University in Kayseri, the students became acquainted with soil and concrete. Young people who produced drawings of the work which they will implement went from the planning to implementation stages by prototyping their works of art and exhibited their work. Based on the theme of this year, 24 students, who participated in the summer school, created original works of art with the cement and concrete provided by Çimsa at the end of an intensive program. »» Çimsa provided support for the 1st Turkey Energy and Mining Forum held at the Istanbul Lutfi Congress Center under the auspices of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in 2018. At the 1st Turkey Energy and Mining Forum bringing together all stakeholders of the sector, strategic importance of Turkey in the field of energy was emphasised, and investment opportunities that increased in 2018 were taken into the agenda. »» Çimsa supported the 11th Corporate Governance Summit held in 2018 by the Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD). The board members and senior executives of leading companies of Turkey met at the “11th Corporate Governance Summit” held on 17 January 2018. During this important Summit, in which both Turkish and foreign expert speakers participated, and which was closely followed by the financial press, the latest developments in corporate governance were shared with the participants with the support of Çimsa. Events »» A Management Meeting was held on 2 November 2018 with the participation of the senior management of Çimsa and employees. »» On 18 September 2018, the 4th Construction Chemicals Seminar was held with the participation of the leading names of the sector. »» We attended the sector’s most prestigious International Building and Construction Fair the World of Concrete (WOC) on 23-26 January 2018. »» Iftar (fast-breaking) meals were organized in cooperation with the municipalities of 5 cities where Çimsa’s plants are located. A total of 18,500 people joined the iftar meals in the 5 provinces. »» On 8-11 March 2018, Çimsa met its dealers and business partners in Morocco, with similar meetings in Montenegro and Croatia between 24 and 27 April 2018. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT Awards »» Çimsa was selected as the most successful company in the ‘construction’ category according to the Platinum Global 100 Index conducted in cooperation with the Platinum Magazine and Ipsos, an independent market research company, which identifies the companies that contribute most to Turkey. »» Çimsa has once again proven its leadership in the field of white cement and special products in the global market and its contribution to Turkey’s economy. At the Export Champion Awards which was held within the scope of the Turkey Exporters Assembly (TIM)’s 25th Annual General Meeting, Çimsa took was ranked among the top three companies in the cement, glass, ceramic and soil products sector, with exports of around USD 103.8 million. »» Çimsa became the first cement company to be awarded the Superior Success Certificate by entering the top 10 at ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report the İnovaLİGthe Innovation Awards organized by the Turkey Exporters Assembly (TIM). Memberships Çimsa closely monitors national and international sustainability efforts. It supports social development activities unwaveringly through its collaborations. In addition to our existing memberships, Çimsa became a member of many new associations for the development of our sector and our country in 2018. The memberships entered into in 2018: »» GCCAThe Global Climate Change Alliance »» ATCThe American-Turkish Council »» DEIKThe Foreign Economic Relations Board »» The YANINDAYIZ (we stand by you) Association 100 2.5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.5.1 The Structure and Formation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors Tamer SAKA Chairman (From 1 April 2018) (*) Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Chairman (Until 31 March 2018) (*) Serra SABANCI Deputy Chairman Gökhan EYİGÜN Member Barış ORAN Member Fatma Dilek YARDIM Independent Member (From 27 March 2018) Mehmet Nazmi AKDUMAN Independent Member (From 27 March 2018) Hasan Cihat ERBAŞOL Independent Member (From 27 March 2018) Mehmet KAHYA Independent Member (From 27 March 2018) (*) The Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU resigned as of 31 March 2018, and Mr. Tamer SAKA has been elected in lieu, to hold the office for the remaining period and to be presented to the approval of the shareholders at the first General Assembly to be held. During the meetings held for the re-appointment of the Board of Directors, Tamer SAKA was appointed as the Chairman and Serra SABANCI was appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors. At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2018, the election for membership to the Board of Directors was held as the term of office of the members expired. Their term of office was determined as three years, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2021, in which the activity results of the year 2020 will be discussed. As also stated in the Company Articles of Association, the Board of Directors consists of six members elected in accordance with the Turkish Code of Commerce and the Capital Market Law. There are two independent members among those who were elected at the General Assembly. GRI 102-18 01 02 03 The Chairman and the Members of the Board of Directors are vested with the duties and authorities designated in the Company Articles of Association and in the relevant articles of the Capital Market Law and the Turkish Code of 04 Commerce. 05 2.5.2 Operating Principles of the Board of Directors 06 The Çimsa Board of Directors consists of 6 members who are elected by the General Assembly, as stated in the 07 Articles of Association. There are two independent members among those elected at the General Assembly. The members of the Çimsa Board of Directors are elected for a maximum period of three years as stated in the Articles 08 of Association of the Company, and the members whose term has expired may be re-elected. The members of the Board of Directors elect a Deputy Chairman to act as the Chairman’s deputy in their absence, as stated in the Articles of Association. The Board of Directors convenes at least once every three months (as required by the Articles of Association) to discuss the results of the monthly operations. The agenda of the Board of Directors meetings is determined and proposed by the General Manager of the Company. The Deputy General Manager for Finance and Financial Affairs undertakes the task of general secretariat and informs the members of the Board of Directors and provides their communication. The Board of Directors convened 23 times in 2018 and took 54 decisions. The quorum as stipulated by the Turkish Commercial Code is applied for the decisions and meetings of the Board of Directors. In the meetings held in 2018, there was no opposing opinions against the decisions taken by the members of the Board of Directors. No records were made since the members of the Board of Directors did not have any questions or different opinions. The members of the Board of Directors are not entitled to weighted votes and/or the right to 101 veto with regard to the said decisions. Moreover, there was no Board of Directors decision, which was submitted for the approval of independent members of the Board of Directors but not approved by the independent members, and submitted for the approval of the General Assembly, regarding relevant party transactions and transactions of material nature. 2.5.3 The Number, Structure and Autonomy of the Committees Formed in the Board of Directors An Audit Committee, a Corporate Governance Committee, and a Committee for Early Detection of Risk, which are affiliated to the Board of Directors, were formed from among non-executive independent members of the Board of Directors. The committee meetings of the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance Committee are held at least four times a year at a venue and date to be deemed suitable by the Committee Chairman. The committee meetings of the Committee for Early Detection of Risk are held at least six times a year at a venue and date to be deemed suitable by the Committee Chairman. In the execution of their activities, each Committee follows its own Charter on Meeting and Operation Principles. The committee members are elected from among independent members in order to benefit from their global experience and knowledge. Due to the limited number of independent members in the Board of Directors, the independent members of the Board of Directors had to be assigned to multiple committees. Since a separate Candidate Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee cannot be formed due to the structure of the Board of Directors, the Corporate Governance Committee also fulfils the duties of these committees. In 2018, there were no conflicts of interest associated with the existing member structures of the committees. 2.5.4 Risk Management and Internal Control Mechanism The main function of the Internal Audit Department is to provide independent, objective assurance and consultancy services to Çimsa Çimento San. ve Tic. A.Ş. by utilizing the International Internal Auditing Standards. Serving under the Audit Committee, which consists of the members of the Board of Directors, the Internal Audit Department conducts audits, investigations, and examinations in order to protect the rights and interests of the Company, and to develop GRI 102-11, 102-18 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT recommendations against risks inside and outside the Company. To that end, it performs the below-mentioned tasks in order to contribute to the Company’s growth, development, and institutionalization: a) Auditing the compliance of the internal control systems of all units within central and field organizations and the international terminals, warehouses, and establishments of the Company with the corporate governance principles and the code of ethics. Auditing the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management practices. Preparing audit plans and programs and implementing these according to a pre-prepared Schedule. b) Monitoring the practices related to the audit reports and ensuring that the operations and procedures are conducted within the framework of the agreement achieved and the instructions of the Headquarters. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report c) Conducting examinations, research studies and investigations related to the special tasks assigned by the Chairmanship of the Board of Directors, the Ethics Committee, the Audit Committee and the General Manager. Presenting the results to the relevant authority as a report. d) Supervising the implementation of Company regulations, procedures, circulars, and department-specific instructions, ensuring that they remain in effect and tabling suggestions on issues that need to be corrected. e) Ensuring that the operations and transactions of all departments are carried out in compliance with directives such as the decisions of the Board of Directors, plan and budget targets, legislation, regulations, procedures, circulars and instructions. f) Carrying out financial and economic analysis of the operations and transactions performed and developing suggestions to increase savings and efficiency. 102 g) Informing the Audit Committee continually of the audit activities and the adequacy of the internal control system. Implementing their requests and suggestions related on the topic. h) Providing consultancy and support services for the senior management and the Board of Directors by conducting advisory studies for the objectives that will create added value such as assisting the Company in achieving its goals, increasing the stock value, improving corporate processes and operations, enhancing the service quality and customer satisfaction, etc. i) Conducting Investigations and Examinations in response to inquiries received from the Ethics Committee and / or directly and preparing the relevant Investigation Report if deemed necessary, and sharing the findings with the General Manager and the Audit Committee. It was resolved by the Board of Directors that the Internal Audit Manager should report to the Audit Committee. Additionally, in line with the Corporate Governance Communiqué of the Capital Market Board (II-17.1), the Committee for Early Detection of Risk was formed for the early detection of all kinds of strategic, operational, financial and other risks that may endanger the Company’s existence, development, and continuity, for the implementation of the necessary measures and remedies for such risks, and for managing risks. 2.5.5 Strategic Goals of the Company The Primary strategic objectives are as follows: Achieving operational excellence: Setting targets in all functions of the value chain, starting from raw material procurement to production, sales and distribution and in the management processes, following up these goals through 01 02 03 key performance indicators; effecting continuous improvements in the performance process; establishing a corporate knowledge/data base; taking necessary precautions by closely following up the cash flow on the basis of scenarios; and 04 achieving operational excellence by managing all these activities with a “systems approach” discipline. 05 Becoming a sustainable company: Creating long-term value for both our stakeholders and for our company, 06 starting with the stakeholders, who are impacted most socially and environmentally from our activities, by effectively managing the communication with all our stakeholders in order to make such impacts more positive. Integrating the 07 understanding of sustainable development into everyday life of the entire Çimsa family, consisting of the customers, the suppliers and local neighbours, especially our employees. 08 Becoming customer-oriented and market-oriented: Listening to and understanding the needs and demands of customers by making the market and customers the focal point of the activities, thus creating added value for all customers and becoming a business partner preferred by the customers. Growing profitably: Growing sustainably by undertaking new investments in new and appealing markets that will create synergy with Çimsa’s existing operations in a way that will add value to the other primary goals of the company. 2.5.6 Financial Rights According to the Articles of Association, all kinds of rights, benefits, and remuneration granted to the members of the Board of Directors are determined by the General Assembly. A total (gross) payment of TL 165,000 was made to the members of the Board of Directors in 2018. In 2018, the Company did not lend money to any of the members of the Board of Directors and managers; did not disburse any loans; did not disburse loan to them through a third party under the name of “personal loan” and did not provide any guarantees for them such as bail in favour. The total sum of remuneration and similar benefits provided for the senior management such as the general manager, 103 deputy general managers in the current period amounted to TL 8,944,001. (31 December 2016 TL 7,283,063) 3. COMPANY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT STUDIES One of the world’s leading producers of special cements, Çimsa also continues its operations in innovation and customer support services in line with international standards. The 5th Center within Sabancı Holding and the 1st Center in the cement industry, an application for our R&D Center was submitted to the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology of Republic of Turkey as of January 2017. The Center obtained the status of the Ministry approved R&D center on 28 February 2017. Çimsa, one of the leading companies continuously investing in innovation in the cement industry, brought Turkey’s first cement R&D Center into operation in 2000. The Cement Research and Application Center located in the Mersin Plant has provided continuous technical support to both domestic and international customers for over 15 years. The basic functions of the Çimsa Cement Research and Application Center, which benefits from the high level of knowledge and skill of its staff in the cement product and in all areas it is used, are as follows: »» Preparing highly profitable new product development programs, which will make a difference in the cement sector and for the end users, »» Providing laboratory support to customers using Çimsa’s cement products both at home and abroad and developing joint projects by visiting their facilities, and creating added value for the development of the market and informing the users about the Çimsa products and developing new usage areas. »» Increasing efficiency, product quality and stability in new product studies by supporting operation in production stages. 3.1 New Product Development Activities The Çimsa Cement Research and Application Center’s new product development activities are based on two pillars. Çimsa’s primary objective is to both increase the prestige of Çimsa Cement in the world and to add products with high profitability into its product portfolio by developing pioneering cement types in the world. Within the framework of these THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT studies, in the past two years, Çimsa has managed to develop the Self-cleaning White Cement and the Antibacterial White Cement products, which were produced for the first time in the world. The second primary objective regarding innovation is to help customers produce special products by using the Çimsa Cement products. The innovative products developed for customers include white concrete traverse, white cement based pumice production and Calcium Aluminate Cement based tile. During the year, activities were carried out by R&D on four axes. These were basic research and development activities, application development activities, customer collaborations and production research and development activities. Six new projects, approved by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, were launched in 2018. One (1) European Union supported Horizon 2020 project began to be implemented in May, and laboratory work on the ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report project continued in 2018. At the end of the project, mortar with a high thermal conductivity coefficient and elasticity will be developed by the Formula House in cooperation with the Sabancı University in order to be used in geothermal heating systems. In 2018, the R&D competencies and the employment of qualified personnel were stepped up, the production studies started to be given weight, and a complete project based work system has been transitioned into with the development of the R&D center philosophy. Six of the seven projects initiated in 2017 were successfully completed. The European Union supported Horizon2020 project is in progress and the duration of the project has been defined as 42 months. The R&D projects completed in 2018: The projects were initiated in February 2018 and other projects were completed at the end of December 2018, except for UpCem. 104 1. INOVACEM: A new cement, which can harden with carbon dioxide, was developed for the first time in Turkey. It was baked at three different temperatures and the product with the desired phase properties was obtained by baking at 1,300 ̊ c, the most optimum value. The product was exposed to an aqueous medium but no hardening was observed. Due to its nature and structure, the product hardened in a concentrated CO2 environment and gained a resistance of 4.7 MPa in 4 days. Prevention platforms for the carbon dioxide emissions which will occur in the future were prepared in advance, and the product was produced. The preliminary preparation phase of the utility model has been completed. 2. POOL+: The aim of this project was to expand the use of white cement in Turkey and to create a new market for white cement. A type of pool coating material is used in the pool construction sector, but can only be supplied at high cost from abroad. A new type of pool coating material was developed by using domestic resources and adding additional performance properties. Formula studies were carried out for the new generation pool coating materials that offer water impermeability, low expansion, crack bridging properties, and which add value to pools visually and that are environmentally friendly with the use of recyclable coloured glass aggregates. Product and marketing materials were completed. 3. RAPCURE: Turkey does not use a different cement in the production of aerated concrete except for the gray Portland cement. Improvements were achieved with Çimsa’s special products, and physical, mechanical and thermal properties were improved. An aerated concrete product that saves money in the process is the innovative aspect of the project. By considering the pre-curing and cutting hardness parameters for the aerated concrete product, the final product was developed, which will benefit the product and process. With the new cement type used, the pre curing time was shortened in order to obtain a more economical product. White Portland Cement, which has the advantage of reducing the amount of cement use by 20%, reduces the density of the final product and a more insulated and lightweight aerated concrete compared to its competitors was obtained. 4. UPCEM: A gray cement project that will benefit the ready-mixed concrete sector. In the project, which is planned to reduce the concrete costs and improve the final product performance, both the kiln and mill operations were examined and characterization was made. Actions were taken with the discovery of intervention points. In the project, the iron ore trial, the 3-32 micron study and additive design studies are in progress. 5. BEYSADE: The project envisages the development of white concrete with insulation properties, and plans to develop the application areas of white cement. The study is planned to proceed from two branches. In the first step, structural exposed concrete was developed with different light aggregates. In the second step, it was observed that Inspira achieved a doze advantage compared to gray cement as a result of the experiments conducted with different precast companies. 01 02 03 6. IRONMAN: The aim is to develop the calcium aluminate flux (KAF) material that is used in the mining sector, especially in the iron and steel sector, for the efficiency of the combustion process and for the purifying purposes, 04 within Çimsa and to ensure the production of this material with domestic resources. With this project, Çimsa 05 entered a new segment. 120 tons of the product was obtained in industrial trials and the results of the analysis were shared with the iron and steel industry so it could try the product. The Calcium aluminate flux produced at 06 Çimsa was the first and only such production in the sector in Turkey. In the calcium aluminate flux produced, the phase (mayenite) target was established as well as the target chemical composition. The mayenite (C12A7) phase 07 was more than 75%. 7. Advanced Materials and Processes to Improve Performance and Cost-Efficiency of Shallow Geothermal Systems and 08 Underground Thermal Storage – Horizon2020 EU Project: The Horizon project, which is 100% supported by the European Union, got underway in May 2017. With the joint study conducted with our partner in Turkey, Sabanci University, to be used in geothermal underground heating systems, studies to design mortar with high thermal conductivity, which are elastic, environmentally sensitive and fluid got underway. With this study, which will last for 42 months, the Çimsa R&D Center will have completed the first Horizon project. The financial and technical reporting for the 18th month was completed. 8. The Development of Acid and Heat Resistant Concrete Systems Teydep 1501 Tubitak Project: The project is aimed at designing a concrete system which will maintain its integrity and concrete properties at temperatures of up to to 1250 oC and pH values as low as 3 by producing synthetic acid and heat resistant aggregate and using it with calcium aluminate cement. The project, which started in the 2nd half of 2018, had realized the project targets as of the end of December. In 2018, an application was tabled for 5 different project consortia within the scope of Horizon 2020. One project passed the first elimination stage and qualified for the 2nd Stage. We passed the first round in Tübitak’s 1007 Defence and Security Technologies project call, and the project proposal was submitted for the 2nd round. 105 3.2 Joint Project Activities with the Customer Within the framework of the Cement Application Center support activities, the Cement Application Center is also responsible for informing users of the gray cement and Calcium Aluminate Cement through planned visits concerning cements, and not only white cement users. Joint studies have been carried out with customers of precast and building chemicals. Joint activities performed with customers are listed below: In 2018: »» A total of 95 customer visits (Building Chemical, Precast, Refractory) were carried out in 10 countries during the year and common project ideas were discussed, »» The technical support team reached a total of 520+ customers, including 300+ precast/concrete customers and 220+ building chemical customers, and their suggestions and their support needs in technical matters were responded to, »» The quality and production departments carried out joint studies by providing complete support to each other for solutions and reporting for customer complaints. »» Competitive analysis studies are carried out for gray cement, white cement and calcium aluminate cement and customer, product and service needs are determined every year. A total of 104 different cements were evaluated within the scope of competitor analysis. »» The Mirror project was launched and the recipro series is intended to be compared internally in terms of products and applications, and the results of the comparison will be converted into comprehensive technical data sheets. Analysis was carried out with the samples taken from the production periodically. According to the expectations of the practitioners regarding the end product, a technical data sheet was prepared, which will facilitate the selection of a product in the Recipro series. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT In 2018, the titles of the topics covered in the technical bulletins prepared by the Formula House for our customers in the field of precast and building chemicals are listed below. »» Technical Advantages of Using White Cement in Prefabricated Manufacturing »» Application Areas of Ultra High Performance Concrete »» Performance of Alkaline Resistant Glass Fiber Reinforced Concrete »» The Effects of Calcium Sulfate Amount and Type on the Calcium Aluminate Cement Based Self-Leveling Screeds »» Investigation of the Relationship between Plasticizer and Retardant in Cemented Systems »» The Effect of Citric Acid and Lactic Acid Additives on Pressure and Flexural Strength in Triple Systems ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report A systematic is created on the eBA (work flow application) for the samples requested by the customer and the process is followed up. The process of supplying the products requested from the sample request system and the dispatch of the sample is carried out through the eBA and the order is completed with a cargo shipping number. 3.3. Production R&D Activities The scope of R&D activities was expanded in 2017 to include operations as well. Çimsa personnel, who are involved in the production function, were also included in the R&D projects by expanding the scope of R&D center personnel. Process improvement studies are ongoing at all plants and support is provided to analytical processes. The operational studies carried out in field processes are as follows. Raw material processes »» Effect of Flourite resources on Cement Production and Applications »» Redmud Analysis 106 »» Gypsum Analysis »» Use of Boron Waste »» Bauxite Analyses used by Çimsa Clinker processes »» Weekly Clinker Analyses »» Investigation of the Effect on Clinker Properties of Fuel SO3 in Clinker Production »» Investigation of the cause of Low Pressure Resistance (Kayseri) »» Investigation of the cause of Low Pressure Resistance (Kayseri)-2 »» Investigation of Change in Kiln Conditions »» White Portland Clinker Analysis »» The Akçansa Clinker and Cement Analyses Cement processes »» CEM I 42.5 R Competitor Cement Comparison Study »» CAC40 Hardening Start Duration Postponement »» Cake Formation, Agglomeration, Clumping Phenomenon »» Analysis of Cement with High Pack-Set Value »» The Eskişehir Mill Quality Work »» CAC 50 Product Comparison »» White Portland Cement Product Comparison »» Eskişehir Strength Optimization Study »» The Çimsa USA White Cement Production Specifications »» USA raw material, Semi-Finished Product, Final Product Analysis In 2018, studies on the product value chain were carried out. Raw material-process-clinker-cement-quality interactions were investigated and the following reports were prepared and then shared with the production teams. The reports were placed in the common access area to enable accessibility for all Çimsa personnel. »» Flourrite Sources and Usage in Cement »» Grinding Facilitator Chemical Additives and Cement Interactions 01 02 03 »» Kaolen Report »» Marmara Terminal Product Report 04 »» Afyon Cement Technical Analysis Report 05 »» CAC50 Raw Material and Phase Investigation »» CAC50 Product Report 06 »» CAC40 Product Report »» White Cement Product Report 07 »» CSA Cement Process, Product and Application Report »» Cement Transfer Problem 08 »» Use of Flux and Mineralizers »» Use of Boron Waste in Clinker »» Kayseri Flux Material Investigation »» Eskişehir White Processes In 2018, efforts to establish an R & D Work Request via eBA were completed. The search, analysis and reporting stages of a total of 18 requests coming from all Çimsa plants were completed. The requests can be opened by all Çimsa personnel, including both internal and external customer requests. After this request is assigned to the R & D personnel and the search and interpretation of the analysis is completed, the reults are shared with the personnel who opened the request. In 2018, in order to support production and to create infrastructure for process Improvement, current situation analyses were to be carried out for all Çimsa plants. For this purpose, critical process and product parameters were determined, aimed at determining the areas requiring improvement by comparing the proposed values with existing values. 3.4 Innovation and Special Products 107 »» Çimsa owns Turkey’s first and only Cement R&D Center. »» Çimsa succeed in obtaining international approval of the documents regarding the Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) for quantitative evaluation and the declaration of the environmental performance of the product for the Super White Cement (Çimsa Super White Cement) and Calcium Aluminate Cement products at the end of 2015. »» Çimsa notched up another proud achievement as the first Turkish company and the second company in Europe to be published in the cement class at the Eco-Platform established by the Construction Europe, European Association of Building Materials Manufacturers. »» Thanks to these certifications, the Calcium Aluminate Cement has become the world’s first EPD certified calcium aluminate cement, while the super white cement has become the world’s second EPD certified product in the field of white cement product. »» In addition, manufacturers of building products can also demonstrate environmental and sustainability sensitivity through declaration as a corporate responsibility. »» A patent application was made under the title of “Rapidly hardening Hydraulic binder” for one of our cement products which we developed. Certification was provided as a result of our application of the utility model for ‘Environmentalist Calcium Sulphoaluminate Cement’ which was produced as a prototype by using high volume of waste material. »» Collaboration between Industry and Academia was carried out, and joint studies were conducted with universities such as Sabancı University and the Middle East Technical University, and technically support was provided to students carrying out their master’s theses. »» Çimsa participated in relevant domestic and international events throughout the year and closely monitored technological and scientific developments. Çimsa contributed to these conferences with presentations and descriptions of the studies carried out by its R&D department. The 2018 conference and event participations: »» Colloquium on Refractories Different Types of Bauxite Effect on Calcium Aluminate Cement Phase Formation, Characterization and Investigation of Refractory Properties »» Dry-mix Conference Chicago Influence of Different Types of Cellulose Ethers and Cements on Cement Based Tile THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT Adhesive »» Dry-mix Conference İstanbul Minimizing the Aging Effect of Self-Levelling Underlayment through Calcium Aluminate Cement’s Mineralogical Phase Properties and Microstructural Development »» Concrete Roads18 Calcium Aluminate Cement Based Repair Concrete Roads »» ACE 2018 Technical Concrete Applications of Calcium Aluminate Cement: Novel Case Studies »» The 2018 Building Fair Thanks to its participation in these events, Çimsa had the opportunity to meet its domestic and foreign customers on a common platform and establish a communication network with academic circles. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report »» Collaboration with strong companies was realized in the field of construction chemicals and polymers and project ideas were created. »» Our application for the Horizon 2020 project, work on which started in 2017, was accepted. The project work supported by the European Union and internationally partners are carried out by our R&D Center. The first 18-month segment of the project was completed. »» Our invention of “Rapidly hardening Hydraulic binder” was granted the First Preference Utility Model Certificate. »» With these applications, the goal was the production of calcium sulfoaluminate cement solely by Çimsa Cement in Turkey and to sell it in the world with our own patent. »» Çimsa obtains consultancy services from the Department of Civil Engineering at the Middle East Technical University. The Head of the Civil Engineering Department, Mr. İsmail Özgür Yaman, provides literature and laboratory support within the scope of the consultancy agreement for the studies on special products. »» The Cement Technologies and Applications course started to be offered at Sabancı University in 2016, and the course continued to be offered in 2018. In this context, employees at the Research Center provide information on innovations and applications in the cement industry by participating in the courses. »» In addition, Çimsa provides raw material support, free of charge, to students carrying out their thesis for their 108 master’s degree with its special products. Requests are evaluated regardless of the university they are received from, and an exchange of information is carried out. »» Specialised academics in the field of Construction and Materials from prominent universities in Turkey were hosted by the Çimsa Cement Research and Application Center in June 2016, where we exchanged information on our special products and production system. Areas for joint study were identified and graduate and post-graduate students were directed towards these subjects. As a result of this meeting, post-graduate students were encouraged to carry out academic studies using Çimsa’s special products. In 2018, the studies with the subject matter of white cement and calcium aluminate cement have been observed to have increased. »» The Çimsa Research and Application Center continues to serve the sector in the fields of cement and concrete by adding advanced analysis methods to Construction Chemicals, Concrete, Grinding, Chemical and Mechanical Laboratories. These advanced analyses include polarized microscope examinations and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrophotometer (FT-IR) examinations. In the projects deemed necessary, SEM (electron microscopy) examinations are carried out at the Mersin University central laboratory. »» Our solution partners’ pool develops day by day, and we actively cooperate with other R&D centers in the sector. 3.5 Monthly Article and Patent Sharing As of December 2016, R&D article and patent presentations were made regularly every month with the active participation of Çimsa personnel both face-to-face and in real-time over Skype. The following subjects were addressed in these presentations; »» Clinker Grinding and Fineness-Performance Relationships »» Kiln Operations »» Triple Systems »» Plaster Optimization »» Hydration Parameters »» Mineral Phase Formations in Cement and Its Performance Effects »» Alternative Raw Material Consumption »» Effects of SO3 and MgO on Portland Clinker »» Minimizing the variations in clinker quality The developments in the sector have been closely monitored in patent and utility model sharing, and special products and new technological breakthroughs in the cement sector have also been examined and shared with internal participants. 01 02 03 3.6 Intellectual Property Rights 04 05 Patents and utility model applications and the certificates obtained are listed in the table below. 06 Application Type The title of invention Latest Situation Country First Preference 07 Hydraulic Binder with High Alumina Ratio and Long Shelf Life Application Stage TR Utility Model 08 First Preference Hydraulic Binder with High Performance that is Specialised For Application Stage TR Utility Model Construction Chemicals Applications First Preference Application Stage Hydraulic binding agent with high reactivity TR Utility Model First Preference The Document was Hydraulic binder that hardens rapidly TR Utility Model Obtained. Patent Mayenite phase containing calcium sulfoaluminate cement Application Stage TR Patent Mayenite phase containing calcium sulfoaluminate cement Application Stage EU 3.7. The eBA R&D Center Work Request Module Çimsa’s Formula House has taken an important step towards digitalization, and a module has been created for both the sales and operation units to deliver their work requests to the R&D Center over the eBA system. The process, completed by the R&D Unit, will be reported to the relevant person and submitted for the evaluation and feedback will be received. This system, which is accessible to all Çimsa personnel, aims to transfer to the digital environment by providing benefit to our customers’ processes and the cement production process. Thus, an important step was taken 109 towards institutionalizing information. 4. COMPANY ACTIVITIES AND KEY DEVELOPMENTS REGARDING OPERATIONS 4.1 Information on the Subsidiaries, Associates and Long-Term Securities of the Company: Company Location of Operations Share Ratio (%) Cimsa Cementos Espana, S.A.U. Spain 100.00 OOO Çimsa Rus CTK Russia 100.00 Cimsa Cement Free Zone Limited TRNC 99.99 Cimsarom Marketing Distributie S.R.L. RomanIa 100.00 Cimsa Adriatico Srl Italy 70.00 Cement Sales North Gmbh (CSN) Germany 100.00 Cimsa Americas Cement Manufacturing and Sales Corporation USDA 100.00 Afyon Çimento Sanayi Türk Anonim Şirketi Turkey 51.00 Exsa Export San.Man.Sat.ve Arş.A.Ş Turkey 32.88 Mesbaş Mersin Serbest Böl.İşl.A.Ş. (Mesbaş) Turkey 0.41 Anfaş Antalya Fuarcılık A.Ş. (Anfaş) Turkey 0.02 4.2 Information on the Company’s Own Shares Acquired Our Company did not acquire any of its own shares between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018. 4.3 Information on Annual/ Extraordinary General Meetings Held within the Period The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting for 2017 was held on 27 March 2018. The meeting results were registered on 11 April 2018 and published in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette on 17 April 2018. The results of the Annual General Meeting were published for the purpose of informing shareholders on the Public Disclosure Platform (PDP), on our company website (www.cimsa.com.tr) and on our Company page on the information portal of Central Registry THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT Agency (MKK). No Extraordinary General Meeting was held between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018. 4.4 Administrative or Legal Sanctions Imposed Upon the Company and the Members of the Managing Body due to the Practices against the Legislation Provisions No administrative or legal sanctions were imposed upon the Company or members of the managing body as a result of practices contravening the provisions of legislation between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018. 4.5 Lawsuits filed against the Company which could affect the financial situation of the company ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report As of 31 December 2018, in accordance with the opinions of legal advisers, the Group reserved a provision of TL 16,828,717 for lawsuits that may result in a verdict against the Group (31 December 2017: TL 14,930,295). 4.6 Donations Granted in the Period Between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018, donations amounting to a total of TL 270,930 in cash and in kind were granted to various public institutions and organizations. (31 December 2017: TL 129,066) 4.7 Information and Evaluations on whether or not the Targets set in previous periods have been achieved, whether or not General Assembly Decisions have been implemented, and where if Targets have not been achieved, or the Decisions have not been Implemented, Information and Evaluations on Reasons for the Failure to Achieve Said Targets or Failure to Implement the Said Decisions The production and sales amounts for 2018 were exceeded the targeted figures and the consolidated gross profit and 110 consolidated operating profit for 2018 stood at the level of targeted figures. The decisions taken at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 March 2019 were implemented. 4.8. Among all transactions carried out in 2018 with the controlling shareholder and affiliates of the controlling shareholder, cases where the transaction was performed or the measures taken, or avoided. In 2018, in all transactions carried out with the controlling shareholder and the affiliates of the controlling shareholder, In case that the transaction is performed or the measure is taken or it is avoided, according to the terms and conditions known to the Board of Directors, there is no appropriate measure of counter-action in any transaction and no measures taken or taken to prevent damage to the Company, or that is avoided to be taken, and within this framework, there are no measures required to offset. 01 02 03 5FINANCIAL STATUS 04 5.1 Measures under Consideration to Improve the Financial Structure of the Company 05 Under current market conditions, Çimsa conducts action plans aimed at the effective management of working capital, and carries out profit-increasing infrastructure and marketing and cost-reducing investments and activities. The 06 company manages its financial structure in accordance with procedures by planning current TL and foreign currency cash inflows and requirements. 07 5.2 Key Financial Ratios 08 Consolidated 31.12.2018 Consolidated 31.12.2017 Net Working Capital = Current Assets – Current Liabilities -496,439,293 -236,380,619 ILiquidity Ratios 1-Current Ratio = Current Assets / Short Term Liabilities 0.65 0.80 2Liquidity Ratio = Current Assets-Inventories-Prepaid Expenses – Assets Related to the Current Period Tax Other Current Assets / Short Term Liabilities 0.46 0.63 IIFinancial Structure Ratios 1Total Liabilities / Shareholders’ Equity 1.40 1.28 2Short Term Liabilities / Total Assets 0.41 0.37 3Long Term Liabilities / Total Assets 0.17 0.19 111 5.3 Revenues The total revenue for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 period stood at TL 1,700 million, increasing by 14% compared to the previous year. 6. RISKS AND ASSESSMENT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 6.1 Risk Management Policy that the Company will implement Against Predicted Risks, if any The company’s investment and working capital requirements are financed by short and mid to long-term export loans and loans denominated in Turkish Lira and foreign currency. While the exchange risks stemming from foreign-currency-based loans are naturally offset by export revenues, the appropriate financial instruments are additionally taken into account. Identification and monitoring of the probable risks that the company could encounter forms the basis of risk management. Corporate risk management practices are carried out in line with the risk management and practices procedure applied by group companies of Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş., one of our partners. The risks which the company could likely encounter were classified based on their priorities and critical risks are monitored by the senior management of the Company and the Board of Directors. The risks are insured under the local and global policies in accordance with Sabancı Holding’s risk policies in order to minimize the risks, which could directly impact the Company’s financial status, for all plants. The Corporate Risk Management Department operates in order to ensure effective execution of corporate risk management. Processes to be applied for effective risk management on a company basis have been developed and implemented within the Risk Management Department. With the Corporate Risk Management Department, the company systematically measures, assesses and prioritizes the operational, financial, strategic and external risks which could prevent the company from reaching its general strategy and goals, and the company regularly monitors the identified critical risks. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT The Corporate Risk Management Department reports its activities, whether or not the current actions had the desired impact and improvement on the risks, and the results obtained to the Corporate Governance Committee at meetings held throughout the year. Risk management activities and their effectiveness are assessed by the committee and shared with the Board of Directors. The Committee for Early Detection of Risk was established in line with the Capital Markets Board’s Communique on Corporate Governance, and the Committee and the Corporate Risk Management Directorate are expected to work in cooperation. The establishment of the Corporate Risk Management at Çimsa was intended to encourage the rolling out of the risk ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report management culture and perspective across all company units, the development of proactive approaches, the laying out of possible opportunities, the preservation and enhancement of company value, improvement in natural hedging and portfolio management and increasing the trust and confidence of the stakeholders. 7. AMENDMENTS MADE IN THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION DURING THE PERIOD There was no amendment to the Articles of Association between 1 January and 31 December 2018. 8. QUALITY AND AMOUNT OF ISSUED CAPITAL MARKET INSTRUMENTS IF ANY No capital market instruments were issued. 9DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SECTOR AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE SECTOR According to the data of the Turkey Cement Manufacturers Association (TCMA), cement production in the Turkey 112 market in the first ten months of 2018 declined by 4.7 % compared to the same period of 2017 and it stood at 63.29 million tons. In the same period, clinker production Increased by 5.06% and the total production stood at 61.05 million tons. In the said period, domestic cement consumption decreased by 5.34% and stood at 56.29 million tons considering the TCMA member plants. Similarly, total consumption fell by 5.0% and stood at 58.18 million tons, including non-TCMA members. An analysis of Turkey’s domestic regional market for the first ten months of 2018 indicates that there was significant 10.8% increase in cement consumption realized in the Aegean region. Cement consumption decreased by 1.56% in the Central Anatolia Region, by 4.2% in the Eastern Anatolia Region, by 6.3% in the South-Eastern Anatolia Region, by 8.4% in the Mediterranean Region, by 8.6% in the Black Sea Region and by 9.1% in the Marmara Region. The share of the Marmara region in Turkey’s total cement consumption stood at 25% in the first ten months of 2018. Turkey’s cement exports in the first ten months of 2018 decreased by 5.2% compared to the same period of the previous year to stand at 6.33 million tons. Clinker exports increased by 9.0%, with 4.70 million tons of sales realized. In particular, the sales to the United States, Syria, Israel, Colombia and West African countries form an important place within these exports. 10. THE POSITION OF ÇİMSA IN THE SECTOR WHERE IT OPERATES One of the leading organizations of the Turkish industry, Çimsa was established in 1972. Today, Çimsa continues its activities with its 5 integrated plants located in Mersin, Eskişehir, Kayseri, Niğde, and Afyonkarahisar, a grinding plant in Ankara, and the Malatya Cement Packing Plant. Çimsa is one of the world’s top three brands in the field of white cement and is an international cement producer with its terminals located in Hamburg (Germany), Trieste (Italy), Sevilla and Alicante (Spain), Famagusta (TRNC), Constanta (Romania), and Novorossiysk (Russia). Çimsa started to produce Ready-Mixed Concrete in Adana in 1988 with the Zeytinli Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant. With its 19 ready-mixed concrete plants operating in the provinces of Adana, Mersin, Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Nevşehir, 01 02 03 Aksaray, Karaman, Adapazarı, Bursa, Eskişehir, Denizli, Niğde, and Afyon, Çimsa has an extensive distribution network. 04 05 Çimsa meets the product and servicing needs of its customers completely and promptly with its market focused approach and wide distribution network. Çimsa provides required materials for the living environments that will extend 06 to future generations and their infrastructure as a reliable business partner for its stakeholders. Çimsa leads Turkey’s cement and construction materials sector in terms of innovation with its special products such as white cement and 07 calcium aluminate cement as well as the gray cement it produces. 08 Having created value for all of its stakeholders and focused on profitable growth, Çimsa aims to continue this trend into the future. 11. PROJECTIONS ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ENTERPRISE A member of the Sabancı Cement Group, Çimsa enriches the ordinary strategic planning process with the implementation of a scenario-based approach. In the most basic sense, the scenario-based strategic planning refers to developing the necessary strategic options in order to succeed in possible future scenarios. Thus, Çimsa will identify the best strategic orientation for each possible scenario that may emerge in the future, instead of a future-based planning established upon a single projection. This gives Çimsa flexibility in terms of preparation and planning for the future. 12. PRODUCTION UNITS AND PRODUCTION QUANTITIES OF THE COMPANY The Mersin Plant At the Çimsa Mersin Plant, gray clinker/cement, white clinker/cement, calcium aluminate clinker/cement are 113 produced from a total of four production lines. The gray clinker production capacity is 1.25 million tons/year, the white clinker production capacity is 1.22 million tons/year and the calcium aluminate clinker production capacity is 45,000 tons/year. Started production in 1975, the plant’s first production line has a double cyclone line pre-heated rotary kiln line without calcination, which has a diameter of 5.25 m and a length of 83 m. In 1983, it was modernized with the addition of coal grinding and burning systems in order to save on fuel costs. There are two crushers, one pre-homogenization unit, two raw meal mills with ball, two raw meal silos, and two closed clinker stock halls at the plant. With the modernization work completed in the first quarter of 2010, the existing planetary clinker cooling system was replaced and the FLS SF-Cooler type cross-bar cooling system was installed. With this investment, the production capacity reached 3,700 tons/day and the heat consumption required for clinker production was also reduced. In 2016, with the improvements in kiln feeding and kiln combustion systems, the capacity reached 3,750 tons/day. The rotary kiln with a 3.6 m diameter and 49 m length of the second plant’s production line, which can produce both gray clinker and white clinker, was commissioned in December 1989. The plant consists of a raw material mill with crushers and pre-homogenization systems, one coal mill, two raw meal silos, a rotary kiln and a clinker stock hall. The production capacity of this plant, which can produce both gray clinker and white clinker according to sales demand, is 1,845 tons/day for gray clinker and 1,470 tons/day for white clinker. In 2016, with the improvement work carried out on raw material, the capacity reached 1,515 tons/day. At the Çimsa Mersin Plant, waste gasses coming from the 1st and 2nd production lines of the plant are converted into electrical energy with the “Generating Electricity from Waste Gas Project” commissioned in April 2012, which aims to generate 50% of the electricity consumed at these two lines. In addition, the environment is protected thanks to the lower carbon emissions. Commissioned in December 1999, the Hacı Sabancı White Cement Production Plant (the Plant’s Third Production Line) has a rotary kiln with a 3.75 m diameter and a 57 m length and a production capacity of 2,000 tons/day. The plant consists of a raw material mill with a crusher and pre-homogenization systems, one coal mill, one raw meal silo, a rotary kiln and the clinker stock hall. In 2016, with the improvement work carried out on raw materials, the capacity reached 2,020 tons/day. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT This production line, operating as the Calcium Aluminate Cement Production Plant (abbreviated as the CAC Plant), was commissioned in 2002 with its kiln having a capacity of 15,000 tons/year. In 2007, the Çimsa Mersin Plant continued its production by growing with a second kiln with a capacity of 15,000 tons/year, a cement mill with a 9 tons/hour capacity and a packaging unit. With the packaging unit built in 2009, products started to be offered to customers in 25 kg bags, on pallets and in the 1.5 and 1.0 tonne big-bag type packages. A third kiln with a capacity of 15,000 tons/year was added to the system in 2013, thus increasing the total capacity to 45,000 tons/year. In 2014, the coal mill investment was implemented, bringing fuel costs down and increasing the performance of the kiln. In 2014, as required by the strategy of growing in the market, segmentation in products was implemented and a new product called CACSAND, which is a Calcium Aluminate Clinker Aggregate, was ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report introduced into the market. In 2018, CAC50 and the Flux product, which is often used in the iron and steel industry, were developed, and the domestic and national product was added to the product range. Paper Bag Facility Paper bags, which are produced at the paper bag facility at the Mersin Plant, are used in the Mersin, Kayseri, Niğde, Eskişehir and Ankara Plants. Three colours can be printed on the bag, and with the improvement carried out in 2017, six colour printed bags can be produced. Kayseri Plant The Çimsa Kayseri Plant was established in 1992 by Akçimento, a Sabancı Holding company, with a cement grinding and packing capacity of 1.6 million tons, and it was acquired by Çimsa in 1995. In 2005, a pre-crusher system was added to the cement mill in order to increase the cement grinding capacity and reduce energy consumption. In order to turn the existing facility into an integrated cement plant, the foundations of a clinker production line were laid on 9 114 October 2004, and following the completion of the construction, installation and commissioning operations, the first clinker production was realized on 26 December 2005. The facility uses state-of-the-art technology, and has an ILC type pre-calcination system with low NOx emission as the main unit, a five-stage cyclone pre-heater and a rotary kiln 55 m in length and 3.6 m in diameter. The plant, with a clinker production capacity of 2,500 tons/day also contains one raw material crusher, clay and limestone pre-homogenization facilities, one ball coal mill, one vertical raw meal mill and two ball cement mills. As a successful outcome of Çimsa’s approach of respect for the environment and sustainability, in 2012, the Çimsa Kayseri Plant was selected as Turkey’s cleanest industrial establishment and awarded the Environmental Certificate by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization at “Clean Turkey” events carried out within the scope of the 5th June World Environment Day. It was also selected as “The Cleanest Industrial Establishment in Kayseri” by the Governorship of Kayseri. In addition, the Çimsa Kayseri Plant received the Occupational Health and Safety Performance Award in 2009-2011-2012 and 2015 in the assessments carried out in the sector by the Cement Industry Employers’ Association (ÇEİS). The Eskişehir Plant The Eskişehir Cement Plant was commissioned in 1957 with a wet kiln of 3.6 m in diameter, 125 m in length, with a 150,000 tons/year capacity, and continued its production until 1987. The current first production line was commissioned in 1976 with a three stage pre-heater and a dry system kiln with a 3.6 m diameter and a 52 m length and a capacity of 275,000 tons/year, and thus, the total capacity was increased to 425,000 tons/year. The Eskişehir Plant was transferred from the Saving Deposits Insurance Fund (TMSF) to Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. on 27 December 2005. After being taken over by the Çimsa management, the clinker production capacity reached 1,750 tons/day in May 2007 at the first production line with the investments to add a dynamic separator to the raw material mill, the complete renewal of the existing clinker cooling system, the rotary kiln burner and dosage system, and the new electro-filter units added to the kiln line. In addition, a new closed circuit cement mill with a capacity of 85 tons/hour was commissioned. A completely new coal vertical mill system with a capacity of 40 tons/hour, which is able to serve both production lines, was commissioned in September 2007 and the previous coal systems were decommissioned. In January 2008, 01 02 03 the second production line with a capacity of 2,100 tons/day was commissioned and the total production capacity reached 3,850 tons/day. At the Eskişehir Cement Plant, which turned into a modern production facility with the raw 04 material crusher and raw material pre-homogenization system built together with the second production line in January 05 2008 and the cement silos built in 2009, three cement ball mills serve in the production of the final product. With a goal of becoming a leading company in Turkey in the area of waste disposal, Çimsa implemented the Hot Disc Project 06 at the Eskişehir Plant in 2012, thus bringing the kiln process operation and product quality under control. It continues its efforts to recover 39.9% of its total calorific consumption from wastes. 07 In 2015, Çimsa broke new ground in its sector when it was eligible to obtain the TSE ISO 10002 Customer Satisfaction 08 Management System Certificate. The Eskişehir Plant modification project, which was announced in 2015, was completed. The Gray Klinker White Clinker alternate production investment, carried out a cost of USD 55 million, consisted of raw material homogeneity and transmission lines, a raw meal mill, preheater and heat exchanger, calcination, rotary cooling, a clinker silo, a cement mill, silos and a packing facility. The white cement production part of the project was completed in 2018. The traveling crane system was removed simultaneously with this investment. The feeding systems of all the mills were changed into the dust-free system and the additive feeding stock hall investment will also work alongside with it. In addition, the 2nd cement mill was modernized and made suitable for producing white cement. The Niğde Plant Established in 1957, the Niğde Cement Plant started production in 1964 following the completion of its wet system production line with a capacity of 85,000 tons/year. The plant’s total production capacity was increased to 350,000 115 tons/year with the commissioning of its second production line with a dry system on 2 September 1976. In the following years, the wet system clinker line, which had completed the economic and technological life, was stopped and production continued with the rotary kiln with dry system. After the privatization of the plant, the capacity of the kiln increased from 850 tons/day to 1,200 tons/day following the investments undertaken at the rotary kiln unit in 1993, such as the upper cyclone replacement, modernization of transfer, and replacement of electro-filter. In line with the Competition Council’s decision to terminate the “Sabancı and Oyak” partnership, the Oysa Niğde Cement Plant was renamed as the Çimsa Çimento San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Niğde Cement Plant on 01 November 2007. It has been continuing its production under this name since then. After it was taken over by Çimsa, numerous improvements were carried out in order to increase production and energy recovery at the Niğde Cement Plant, which reached a clinker production capacity of 1,400 tons/day. In addition to the rotary kiln with a diameter of 3.8 m and a length of 52 m with a four-stage pre-heater and cross-bar cooler, the plant, which has a single production line, consists of one hammer crusher, one raw meal ball mill, one coal vertical mill, and one cement mill with a roller press crusher system. The Çimsa Niğde Plant was commissioned in June 2017 after its capacity expansion investment. With this investment, the cooling tower modernization, transforming the electrofiltration into bag filter, mantle change and building of new five-stage pre-heater, calcinator and tertiary line, the installation of a new vertical mill in pace of the raw meal ball mill and a clinker cooling capacity increase were realized at the plant. Afterwards, the semi-product main equipment was completed, and the plant reached a clinker production capacity of 2,250 tons/day. The Ankara Cement Grinding and Packaging Plant Work on the construction of the Ankara Lalahan Cement Grinding and Packaging Plant began in January 2001 and the plant was commissioned in July 2002. In 2005, it was included within the Çimsa group together with the Eskişehir Cement Plant. At the Ankara Plant, which does not have a rotary kiln, the clinker supplied from other Çimsa plants are grinded, turned into cement and sold. The Ankara Cement Grinding and Packing Plant has one raw material crusher, two cement silos and a packaging unit, as well as a cement mill with an 85 tons/hour capacity. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT The Malatya Cement Packaging Facility Established in 1996 adjacent to the Malatya Battalgazi Train Station, the Malatya Cement Packaging Facility has a processing and packaging capacity of 60,000 tons/year. There are three cement silos with a total capacity of 900 tons at the plant. The cement is sold both in packages and in bulk. The Afyon Plant The Afyon Cement Plant started production in 1957 with the commissioning of a wet system kiln with a 2.8 m diameter and a 69.5 m length and a capacity of 85,000 tons. In 1965, clinker production capacity was increased to 160,000 tons with the transformation of the kiln into the semi-wet system. The 2nd kiln, again built as a semi-wet ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report system, of 3.6 m diameter and 53.5 m length, was commissioned in 1966 and the production capacity of the plant was increased to 400,000 tons. The Afyon Cement Industry Turkish Joint Stock Company (Afyon Çimento Sanayi Türk Anonim Şirketi), 51% of the shares in which were purchased by Çimsa on 31 May 2012, has continued its activities as a subsidiary of Çimsa since this date. The Afyon Cement Plant, which was incorporated into Çimsa in 2012, has a new production facility equipped with modern technology and established with an investment of USD 165 million, with an annual clinker production capacity of 1,650,000 tons/year and a cement production capacity of 2,000,000 tons/year of in the village of Halımoru outside the city of Afyon. The plant started production and sales activities in April 2017. After the new plant was brought into operation, the old plant was decommissioned. Information on the Çimsa Plants Clinker Production Raw Meal Kiln Production Lines Cooler Type Mill Type Capacity (Tons/Day) Diameter (m) 116 Mersin Çimsa 1st Plant 3,700 grey clinker 5.3 Cross-bar cooler Ball mill 2nd Plant 1,845 grey clinker 3.6 Cross-bar cooler Roller mill or 2nd Plant 1,515 white clinker 3.6 Cross-bar cooler Roller mill 3rd Plant 2,020 white clinker 3.8 Rotary Cooler Roller mill 1. Isıdaç 40 55 Isıdaç-40 clinker 2. Isıdaç 40 55 Isıdaç -40 clinker 3. Isıdaç 40 55 Isıdaç -40 clinker Kayseri Çimsa Production Line 2,500 grey clinker 3.6 Cross-bar cooler Roller mill Eskişehir Çimsa 1st Production Line 2,250 grey clinker 3.6 Cross-bar cooler Ball mill or 1st Production Line 1,250 white clinker 3.6 Ball mill 2nd Production Line 2,300 grey clinker 3.6 Cross-bar cooler Vertical mill Niğde Çimsa Production Line 2,250 grey clinker 3.8 Line Vertical mill Afyon Çimento Sanayi Türk A.Ş. 1. Production Line 5,000 grey clinker 4.8 Line Roller vertical mill Mill Production Mill Cement Length Grinding Plant Capacity (Tons/Day) Mill Diameter (m) (m) Mill Type Ankara Çimsa 2,040 4.2 13 Ball mill 01 02 03 The 1 January-31 December 2018 Period Production Amounts 04 Clinker Production (Tons) Cement Production (Tons) 05 Grey clinker 4,474,379 Grey cement 4,530,479 White clinker 1,220,427 White cement 1,215,744 06 ISIDAÇ-40 clinker 30,790 ISIDAÇ-40 33,455 Sulfate Resistant Cement 64,972 07 Sulfate Resistant Cement 26,212 clinker 08 Total 5,790,568 Total 5,805,890 Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Çimsa Ready-Mixed Concrete started its production in Adana with the Zeytinli Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant in 1988. With a total of 19 ready-mixed concrete plants operating in the Adana, Mersin, Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Nevşehir, Aksaray, Karaman, Adapazarı, Bursa, Eskişehir, Denizli, Niğde, and Afyon provinces, Çimsa has an extensive distribution network. The Company closely follows technological and scientific developments and offers the developments to its customers as new products, new equipment pool and services. At the plants, with experienced employees, a total of 214 transmixers are used along with 59 mobile and 5 fixed pumps. With its distinguished customer-oriented approach, Çimsa offers special concrete products that meet the changing needs of its customers, as well as standard concrete. Most of the chemical additives used in the Çimsa ready-mixed concretes are produced at the Çimsa Additive Production 117 Plant, which is CE-certified in compliance with the TS EN 934-2 standard. The plant, which provides different products in line with demand, including super and hyper plasticizers, sets itself apart with its commitment to product quality. Çimsa’s 19 ready-mixed concrete plants, which are members of the Turkish Association of Ready-Mixed Concrete (THBB), hold Quality Assurance System (QAS) and G certification in compliance with the TS EN 206 standard. All of the plants undergo at least six product inspections and one comprehensive certification audit every year. In addition, Çimsa Ready-Mixed Concrete, which has held the ISO 9001:2008 International Quality Management System Certificate since 2003, has successfully maintained the continuity of its Quality Management System until 2018 thanks to its production, internal audit and customer satisfaction activities in compliance with the standards it maintains. Çimsa carries out its OHS activities at its ready-mixed concrete plants within the framework of a management system compliant with the TS 18001 standard, in order to raise occupational safety awareness, to monitor OHS risks and to define the requirements that need to be fulfilled for improving the OHS performance. All plants hold the TS 18001:2008 (OHSAS) and TS EN ISO 14001-2004 (ENVIRONMENT) certificates. GRI 102-4 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 13. INTERNATIONAL CONNECTIONS AND TERMINALS ABROAD Cimsa Cement Sales North GmbH (Germany) Cimsa Cement Sales North GmbH, which was established in 2000 in partnership with German Cement Terminals North GmbH and fully acquired by Çimsa in 2014, carries out white cement and Calcium Aluminate Cement marketing activities in the North and West Europe with its 9,000 tonne capacity bulk cement silo. As well as marketing white cement and calcium aluminate cement in bulk to Germany, France and Benelux countries, it also realizes sales to Norway, Denmark, Switzerland, Austria, and the Czech Republic. The Company is headquartered in Hamburg, Germany. It carries out its operations with an administrative and sales office in Hamburg and warehouses for various packaged products and cycling facilities in Germany and the Netherlands. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report The white cement market in Germany and the neighboring countries are among the most important in Europe, together with the Spanish market. The calcium aluminate cement market in Germany and neighboring countries is the most important market in Europe in this field. Çimsa, which has realized sales to the market through the terminal channel since 2000, reaches the customers in these markets directly with its own brand, and is among the preferred actors in the market both in terms of its product quality and its service quality. Cimsa Adriatico S.R.L (Italy) With the acquisition of a majority stake in the Medcon Company on 9 February 2010, Çimsa became the majority owner of the terminal with four 5,000 tonne silos located at the Trieste Port. The title of the company was changed as Cimsa Adriatico SRL on 26 April 2010. The terminal enables access to the Italian market, which is Europe’s third largest white cement consumer after Spain and Germany, with the Çimsa brand. The terminal, with its advantageous location, is located in a position to sell not only to Northern Italy, but also to the developing Slovenia, Croatia, BosniaHerzegovina, South Eastern Germany, and Austria markets. The terminal is suitable not only for storing and packing 118 white cement but also for storing gray cement, and it also supplies ISIDAÇ 40 (Calcium Aluminate Cement). Cimsa Cementos Espana S.A.U. (Spain) With its terminal located at Sevilla since 1996, Çimsa reaches Spanish white cement consumers directly and thus increases the effectiveness of marketing activities of its cement. The white cement, produced at the Mersin Cement Plant, arrives at the Sevilla Port in bulk by means of vessels. It is transported via cement trailers from the port to the two 5,000 tonne silos owned by Çimsa Cementos. Besides the packaging facility with a 125 tonne/day capacity located at the terminal, there is also a facility producing white cement mixed flooring material at the terminal. Çimsa Cementos has been marketing Çimsa’s white cement in the Seville, Madrid, Cordoba, and Granada markets since 1996. In addition, ISIDAÇ 40 (Calcium Aluminate Cement) is transported from Turkey in bags and is again sold from the terminal. The Alicante Terminal was built on an area of 6,877 m2 at the Alicante Port, with the aim of increasing the focus on the consumers in Spain, which is Europe’s most important white cement market. The white cement produced at the Mersin Cement Plant arrives at the Alicante Port in bulk in vessels. From here, it is transferred to the 10,000 tonne capacity silo at the Alicante Terminal with the help of a pneumatic Kovako through underground pipes. The delivery of the cement stored at the silos to the packaging machine and bulk filling building is carried out automatically by means of pneumatic conveyors and elevators. Cement is offered to the customer via the sieves, placed in these areas before filling, with the removal of foreign materials and clods, which may have been mixed during transportation. There is one rotary type packaging machine at the Alicante Terminal with a capacity of 1,050 bags/hour and one palletizer with a capacity of 2,240 bags/hour. The packing machine is equipped with an electronic weighing system and transports the bags within the predetermined weight limits (± 25 kg) to the palletizing unit via a conveyor. Dust that may be generated during the filling process is collected by the filter system and automatically returned to the packaging machine. The operational status of the machine equipment is checked on monitors with visual and audible signals. The Alicante Terminal, which is one of the most modern cement terminals in Spain, consists of three main units, including 127 m2 of office space, a 1,232 m2 packaging building and the bulk filling building. The Alicante Terminal has been in operation since 2011 and caters to the Spanish market, the most important white cement consumer in Europe. The terminal has been marketing Çimsa’s white cement in the Alicante, Murcia, Valencia, Catalonia, Toledo, Madrid and Gijon markets since June 2011. GRI 102-4 01 02 03 Çimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. (TRNC) 04 Çimsa has been serving this market since 2005 with a terminal which has a storage capacity of 5,000 tons of gray 05 cement, established at the Famagusta Free Port and Zone in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC). 06 Gray cement produced by Çimsa at the Mersin Cement Plant is transported to the Cyprus Famagusta Port from the Mersin Port by sea, and pumped to the Çimsa Cement Free Zone silos from the vessels through unloaders. Cement is 07 sold in bulk from the silos according to the level of demand in the market. For customers who demand bagged cement, the bagged cement is imported from the Çimsa Mersin Plant and the marketing activities are carried out. 08 Cimsarom Marketing Distributie S.R.L. (Romania) The Company was established at the port of Constanta to serve the Romanian market, which has been developing rapidly after accession to the European Union. It markets the Çimsa white cement and ISIDAÇ 40 (Calcium Aluminate Cement) to mainly Romania and the surrounding markets. OO Cimsa Rus CTK (Russia) In order to meet the demand in the rapidly growing Russian market, Çimsa built a terminal at Novorossiysk in 2008 and the establishment procedures of the Company were completed in July 2008. The white cement packing plant, with a 7,000 tonne silo capacity, has been operating since 2008 and meets the demands of customers in the Russian market. Cimsa Americas Cement Manufacturing and Sales Corp. (USA) 119 Çimsa participated in the company, named Cimsa Americas Cement Manufacturing and Sales Corp., in the United States founded with a capital of USD 14 million in 2017 as a 100% founding partner. The Company’s field of activity has been determined as cement production, sales, and marketing. The company started investment activities and the investment process is still ongoing. 14. PERSONNEL MOVEMENTS AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ADMINISTRATION 14.1 Number of Personnel A total of 1,179 personnel were employed at the Çimsa group workplaces included in the consolidation (including Çimsa terminals abroad and Afyon Çimento) as of 31 December 2018. In the 1 January 31 December 2018 period, a total of 134 personnel left their positions while 117 personnel were employed at the Çimsa group workplaces included in consolidation. 14.2 Collective Bargaining Administration Practices The Collective Bargaining Agreement was signed for 2 (two) years in a way to cover the period between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2019 with a consensus achieved during the collective bargaining negotiations between the Union of Cement Employers (ÇEİS) and T. Çimse-İş Union held in February 2018. 14.3 Compensation and Fringe Benefits for Personnel The personnel categorized as out-of-scope (white collar) are provided with a total gross remuneration package consisting of 12 gross salaries and 4 gross bonuses paid in March, June, September and December. As defined in the relevant Company procedures, white-collar employees may receive fringe benefits, such as private life insurance, private health insurance, an employer-contributed private pension plan, a corporate mobile phone line, a corporate smartphone device, a company car, a meal card, personnel transport service depending on the scope of the work and the position. The personnel categorized as in-scope (blue collar) are provided with a total gross remuneration package consisting of 12 gross salaries and 4 gross bonuses paid in March, June, September and December. In addition to payment of gross social benefits provided for 12 times a year and hour-based shift premiums related with night work, other social GRI 102-4 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT benefits are provided in such situations such as marriage, moving, birth, and death. Also, a seniority incentive bonus may be provided within the scope of the Collective Bargaining Agreement that is in effect. 15. CENTRAL AND OFF-CENTRAL ORGANIZATIONS Address Contact Information Kısıklı Cad. No:4 Sarkuysan Ak İş Merkezi S Blok Telephone: (216) 651 53 00 ÇİMSA HEADQUARTERS Altunizade/İstanbul Fax: (216) 651 14 15 CEMENT PLANTS Telephone: (324) 454 00 60 Çimsa Mersin Toroslar Mah. Tekke Cad. Yenitaşkent/Mersin ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Fax: (324) 454 00 75 Telephone: (352) 712 16 07 Çimsa Kayseri Malatya Karayolu 35. Km Bünyan/Kayseri Fax: (352) 712 16 90 Telephone: (222) 411 32 00 Çimsa Eskişehir İstanbul Karayolu 22. Km Çukurhisar/Eskişehir Fax: (222) 411 31 31 Telephone: (312) 865 23 96 Çimsa Ankara Karşıyaka Mah. Fırat Cad. No: 3 Lalahan/Ankara ax: (312) 865 23 95 Telephone: (388) 232 36 30 Çimsa Niğde Hacı Sabancı Bulvarı, Niğde Fax: (388) 232 36 34 TCDD Yanı Çimento Dolum Tesisi Battalgazi Telephone: (422) 841 36 77 Çimsa Malatya Terminal Malatya Fax: (422) 841 32 30 Çimsa Çimento San. ve Yalçın Alaybeyoğlu Bulvarı Parkur İş Merkezi Ofis Telephone: (324) 233 47 65 Tic. A.Ş. / Mersin FreeNo:209 Serbest Bölge/Mersin Fax: (324) 233 47 66 zone Branch 120 Tel : 444 80 03 Afyon Çimento Sanayi Halımoru Köyü Almacık Mevkii (272) 220 80 00 T.A.Ş. 03030 MerkezAFYONKARAHİSAR Fax: (272) 214 72 09 READY MIXED CONCRETE AND AGGREGATE PLANTS Zeytinli Ready Mixed Adana Mersin Yolu Üzeri 17. Km Kestel Mevkii Telephone: (322) 441 19 01/(3hat) Concrete Plant Zeytinli Seyhan/Adana Fax: (322) 441 18 99 Misis Ready Mixed Hacı Sabancı Organize Sanayi Bölgesi 6. Cadde Telephone: (322) 394 34 20/21 Concrete Plant Misis Yüreğir/Adana Fax:(322) 394 34 22 İncirlik Ready Mixed Güzelevler Mah. Girne Bulvarı Bossa – 2 Fab. Yanı Telephone: (322) 346 02 39 Concrete Plant Yüreğir/ Adana Fax: (322) 346 02 49 Osmaniye Ready Mixed Tüysüz Beldesi Yolçatı Mevkii D-400 Karayolu Telephone: (328) 633 24 59 Concrete Plant Üzeri Toprakkale/Osmaniye Fax: (328) 633 24 60 Kahramanmaraş Ready Kayseri Yolu Üzeri 2. Km Galericiler Sitesi Bitişiği Telephone: (344) 234 13 10 Mixed Concrete Plant Kahramanmaraş Fax: (344) 234 13 11 Kozan Ready Mixed Telephone: (322) 529 20 21 Kozan Organize Sanayi Bölgesi İçi Kozan/Adana Concrete Plant Fax: (322) 529 20 22 Anbar Ready Mixed Ankara Karayolu Üzeri Ambar Mevkii Bölge Trafik Telephone: (352) 326 92 43 Concrete Plant Arkası/Kayseri Fax: (352) 326 92 46 Nevşehir Ready Mixed Telephone: (384) 232 83 95 Niğde Yolu Üzeri 7.Km. Göre/Nevşehir Concrete Plant Fax: (384) 232 82 62 Yenihal Ready Mixed Bahçelievler Mah. 1097 sok. No:2 Yenihal Yolu Telephone: (324) 235 73 14 Concrete Plant Yalınayak Kasabası/Mersin Fax: (324) 235 73 17 01 02 03 Address Contact Information 04 Tarsus Ready Mixed İşyerinin Adresi Çamlıyayla Yolu, Eshab-ı Kehf Yol Telephone: (324) 627 27 97 Concrete Plant Kavşağı, Tarsus/Mersin Fax: (324) 627 17 57 05 Silifke Ready Mixed Telephone: (324) 714 42 66 Kabasakallı Köyü Gökçeboyu Mevki, Silifke/Mersin 06 Concrete Plant Fax: (324) 714 42 66 Aksaray Ready Mixed Telephone: (382) 266 21 16 07 Organize San. Bölgesi Aksaray Concrete Plant Fax: (382) 266 21 18 Karaman Ready Mixed Telephone: (338) 224 10 26 08 Organize San. Bölgesi Karaman Concrete Plant Fax: (338) 224 10 92 Ereğli Ready Mixed Telephone: (332) 710 00 51 Konya Yolu Üzeri 3. Km. Ereğli/Konya Concrete Plant Fax: (332) 710 00 52 İnegöl Ready Mixed Cerrah Kasabası Kalburt Mevkii Dereboyu Telephone: (224) 714 22 00 Concrete Plant İnegöl/Bursa Fax: (224) 714 22 03 Adapazarı Ready Mixed Telephone: (264) 373 72 00 Orta Mah. Plevne Cad. No: 31 Sakarya Concrete Plant Fax: (264) 373 72 11 Osmaneli Ready Mixed Camikebir Mah. Çörektepe Mevkii Osmaneli/ Telephone: (228) 469 21 32 Concrete Plant Bilecik Fax: (228) 469 21 31 Bilecik Ready Mixed 1. Organize Sanayi Bölgesi 8. Cadde No: 3 Telephone: (228) 216 00 23 Concrete Plant Merkez/Bilecik Fax: (228) 216 00 22 Eskişehir Ready Mixed Telephone: (222) 321 28 12 Muttalip Yolu 500. Metre – Eskişehir Concrete Plant Fax: (222) 321 18 72 Çukurhisar Ready Mixed Bursa yolu 20. km Çukurhisar/Eskişehir Telephone: (530) 668 95 23 (Gsm) Concrete Plant Kütahya Ready Mixed Telephone: (274) 224 19 87 (Gsm) 121 Kütahya Balıkesir Yolu 1. Km – Kütahya Concrete Plant Fax: (274) 224 19 88 Denizli Üçler Ready Mixed Telephone: (532) 383 73 91 (Gsm) Hacı Eyüpü Mah.3125 Sok.No:5 Üçler/Denizli Concrete Plant Telephone: (388) 313 15 13 Bor/Niğde Ready Mixed Ahmet Kuddusi Mahallesi Mehmet Bıyık Caddesi (388) 313 15 15 Concrete Plant No:184 Bor/Niğde Fax: (388) 313 15 45 Uşak Halaçlar Ready Halaçlar köyü Çoban pınarı mevkii Banaz/UŞAK Telephone: (533) 154 80 56 (Gsm) Mixed Concrete Plant Afyon Organized Afyonkarahisar Organize Sanayi Bölgesi Mah. 4 Industrial Zone Ready Telephone: (530) 151 43 50 (Gsm) Cad.2 Sk.No.1 Merkez/Afyonkarahisar Mixed Concrete Plant OVERSEAS TERMINALS Cimsa Cementos Espana Carretera de la Esclusa S/N, Darsena del Batan Telephone: (34 95) 427 50 68 S.A.U – Spain Notre, 41011 Puerto de Sevilla, Spain Fax: (34 95) 427 19 36 CSN Cement Sales North Telephone: (49 40) 70 20 93 14 NesserlanderStrasse, 5 Emden, Germany GmbH -Germany Fax: (49 70) 20 93 20/22 Çimsa Cement Free Zone Telephone: (90 392) 365 49 80 Free Port, Famagusta/TRNC Ltd – K.K.T.C. Fax: (90 392) 365 49 81 Cimsarom Marketing BdMamaia, OficeNr 5, Nr 251 Et 4, Constanta, Telephone: (40 241) 585 333 Distributie S.R.L. Romania Fax: (40 241) 585 333 Romania Cimsa-Rus Cement 353960 Krasnodarskiy Krai Svoboda Str 1/ Telephone: (8617) 67 20 31 Trading Company LimitedCemdolina Novorossiysk, Russia Fax: (8617) 67 20 32 Russia Cimsa Adriatico S.R.L. Telephone: (39 40) 282 09 18 Riva Alvise Cadamosto, 8 34147 Trieste, Italy -Italy Fax: (39 40) 282 09 23 Cimsa Americas Cement 2425 West Loop South, Suite 200 Telephone: (1 713) 335 5529 Manufacturing and Sales Houston, Texas 77027 Fax: (1 713) 297 8864 Corporation USD 07 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 122 122 ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Financial Statements for the Period of 1 January 31 December 2018 Together With The Independent Auditor’s Report 210 Profit Distribution Proposal and Result 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Shareholders of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Şirketi A) Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 1) Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2018, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2018, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Turkish Accounting Standards (“TAS”). 2) Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with standards on auditing as issued by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey and Independent Auditing Standards (“InAS”) which are part of the Turkish Auditing Standards as issued by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority of Turkey (“POA”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics for Independent Auditors (“Code of Ethics”) as issued by the POA, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 124 3) Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key Audit Matters How key audit matter addressed in the auditor’s response Goodwill impairment test As at 31 December 2018, there is a goodwill amounting The assumptions, sensitivities and results of the tests to TL 151.824.511 which springs from previous performed are disclosed in Note 12 to the financial acquisitions. In accordance with TAS, the Group performs statements. These tests are assessed as key audit an impairment test for each cash generating unit to matter due to the complexity, the required estimates assess whether there is an impairment in the goodwill of management and the dependency on future market amount. circumstances. We involved the valuation specialists from another entity that is a part of the same audit network of our audit team to support our assessment about the assumptions and methods used by the Group in testing the discount rates per cash generating unit and assessing the model that calculates future cash flows. Furthermore, we tested the expected growth rates and related expected future cash flows. We assessed whether these future cash flows, amongst others, were based on the strategic plan as prepared by the management. In addition, within the scope of the above-mentioned special accounting, the appropriateness and sensitivity of the disclosures contained in the financial statements and the importance of these information for the users of the financial statement were questioned by us. 01 02 03 Capitalization of financing expenses 04 The Group, capitalizes significant qualifying borrowing We have tested the operating effectiveness of controls in 05 costs in respect of major investment projects, including respect of the processes and procedures which govern on going factory constructions. Given that there is a risk the capitalisation of borrowing costs. Furthermore, 06 that costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation we have carried out substantive testings in relation to in accordance with IAS 23 are inappropriately recorded each element of capitalised costs including inspecting 07 on the balance sheet rather than expensed, this matter supporting evidence for a sample of the capitalised 08 is considered as key audit matter. Detail explanation of costs, understanding the nature of the costs capitalised financial expenses disclosed in Note 11. and considering whether they are consistent with the originally approved budget. In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations, verified the inputs to the calculation, including testing a sample of cash payments, tested the mechanical accuracy of the model, and reviewed the model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised. 4) Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with TAS, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to 125 continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. 5) Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements In an independent audit, our responsibilities as the auditors are: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with InAS will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with InAS, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: -Identify and assess the risks of “material misstatement” of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. (The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.) -Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. -Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT -Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. -Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report -Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 126 matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. B) Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 1) Auditors’ report on Risk Management System and Committee prepared in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 398 of Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) 6102 is submitted to the Board of Directors of the Company on 20 February 2019. 2) In accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 402 of the TCC, no significant matter has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s bookkeeping activities for the period 1 January -31 December 2018 and financial statements are not in compliance with laws and provisions of the Company’s articles of association in relation to financial reporting. 3) In accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 402 of the TCC, the Board of Directors submitted to us the necessary explanations and provided required documents within the context of audit. The name of the engagement partner who supervised and concluded this audit is Cem Uçarlar. 01 TABLE OF CONTENTS 02 03 Page 04 Consolidated statement of financial position 128 05 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 130 06 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 131 07 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 132 08 Consolidated statement of cash flows 134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135 209 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) (Audited) (Audited) Current Period Prior Period Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 5 217.427.133 204.303.367 Trade receivables 6 419.956.860 527.109.810 Trade receivables from related parties 27 18.497 3.585.588 Trade receivables from third parties 419.938.363 523.524.222 Other receivables 8 1.593.821 19.426.487 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Other receivables from related parties 27 248.597 Other receivables from third parties 1.345.224 19.426.487 Derivate financial instruments 19 22.511.102 3.581.475 Inventories 9 190.255.123 146.774.920 Prepaid expenses 10 9.539.353 7.751.792 Assets related to the current period taxes 25 2.526.430 3.606.207 Other current assets 17 76.159.066 43.187.066 Current assets 939.968.888 955.741.124 Trade receivables 6 700.600 3.651.658 Trade receivables from third parties 700.600 3.651.658 Other receivables 8 3.682.965 3.497.796 Other receivables from third parties 3.682.965 3.497.796 128 Available for sale financial investments 29 64.478 64.478 Investments accounted under equity method 3 270.207.613 254.063.121 Derivative financial instruments 19 57.332.437 6.794.412 Property, plant and equipment 11 1.982.519.374 1.812.560.081 Intangible assets 170.034.768 164.960.610 Goodwill 12 151.824.511 148.119.252 Other intangible assets 13 18.210.257 16.841.358 Prepaid expenses 10 912.971 1.831.108 Deferred tax assets 25 40.740.895 7.414.569 Other non-current assets 17 17.824.367 31.870.606 Non-current assets 2.544.020.468 2.286.708.439 TOTAL ASSETS 3.483.989.356 3.242.449.563 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 (Audited) (Audited) 04 Current Period Prior Period Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 05 LIABILITIES Short-term borrowings 7 788.523.502 649.286.713 06 Current portion of long-term borrowings 7 240.587.041 177.801.905 Trade payables 6 296.068.427 290.746.264 07 Trade payables to related parties 27 58.574.646 11.999.811 08 Trade payables to third parties 237.493.781 278.746.453 Employee benefit obligations 16 6.066.777 8.726.850 Other payables 8 13.266.905 10.818.376 Other payables to related parties 27 1.572.923 902.084 Other payables to third parties 11.693.982 9.916.292 Derivative financial liabilities 19 41.562.030 4.056.927 Deferred income 10 15.389.576 15.813.152 Current income tax liability 25 6.111.499 9.247.691 Short-term provisions 20.256.717 19.430.295 Short-term provisions for employee benefits 14 3.428.000 4.500.000 Other short-term provisions 14 16.828.717 14.930.295 Other current liabilities 17 8.575.707 6.193.570 Current liabilities 1.436.408.181 1.192.121.743 Long-term borrowings 7 451.361.209 549.748.773 Long-term provisions 38.102.734 37.386.359 Long-term provisions for employee benefits 14,16 33.842.645 32.773.566 129 Other long-term provisions 14 4.260.089 4.612.793 Derivative financial liabilities 19 55.936.459 7.592.568 Deferred tax liability 25 50.701.393 33.250.309 Non-current liabilities 596.101.795 627.978.009 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Share capital 18 135.084.442 135.084.442 Adjustments to share capital 18 41.741.516 41.741.516 Share premiums 1.099.415 1.099.415 Other comprehensive income/expense to be reclassified to profit or loss (24.584.144) 32.337.990 Foreign currency translation reserve 66.947.614 29.853.540 Hedge fund (75.387.265) (9.896.684) Increase/(decrease) funds of available-for-sale financial assets (16.144.493) 12.381.134 Other comprehensive income/expense not to be reclassified to profit or loss (5.777.277) (6.500.138) Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (5.777.277) (6.500.138) Restricted reserves 193.104.976 187.026.176 Retained earnings 830.431.391 675.700.470 Net profit for the year 154.925.532 228.351.942 Equity attributable to equityholders of the parent 1.326.025.851 1.294.841.813 Non-controlling interests 125.453.529 127.507.998 Total shareholders’ equity 1.451.479.380 1.422.349.811 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 3.483.989.356 3.242.449.563 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) (Audited) (Audited) Current Period Prior Period 1 January1 JanuaryNote 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 OPERATING INCOME Sales 20 1.699.958.055 1.490.579.874 Cost of sales (-) 21 (1.293.977.441) (1.095.690.025) GROSS PROFIT 405.980.614 394.889.849 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report General and administrative expense (-) 21 (108.623.377) (79.826.881) Marketing, selling and distribution expense (-) 21 (14.221.118) (10.984.195) Research and development expenses(-) 21 (3.851.468) (1.557.456) Other operating income 22 98.192.612 55.265.789 Other operating expenses (-) 22 (61.790.226) (28.135.236) OPERATING PROFIT 315.687.037 329.651.870 Income from investment activities 23 33.779.578 51.805.811 Expense from investment activities (-) 23 (8.354) (409.865) Profit/(loss) from investments accounted by equity method 3 38.699.123 14.484.722 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE FINANCIAL INCOME/ (EXPENSE) 388.157.384 395.532.538 130 Financial income 24 5.141.861 2.728.922 Financial expenses (-) 24 (218.188.378) (102.315.797) PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 175.110.867 295.945.663 Tax income/(expense) from continuing operations (21.254.018) (48.660.910) Current period tax expense 25 (11.217.802) (37.674.035) Deferred tax income/(expense) 25 (10.036.216) (10.986.875) NET PROFIT 153.856.849 247.284.753 Profit for the period attributable to Non-controlling interests (1.068.683) 18.932.811 Equity holders of the parent 154.925.532 228.351.942 Earnings Per Share Earnings per share from continuing operations (Nominal amount of 1 Kr) 26 1,1469 1,6904 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 (Audited) (Audited) 04 Current Period Prior Period 1 January1 January05 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 153.856.849 247.284.753 07 Other comprehensive income/expense to be reclassified to 08 (57.889.398) 9.569.570 profit or loss Foreign currency translation reserve 36.126.810 14.497.727 Available for sales financial assets revaluation reserve (34.801.265) 6.210.659 Hedge fund (79.898.509) (12.370.855) Tax income/(expense) 20.683.566 1.232.039 Other comprehensive income/expense not to be reclassified to profit or loss 704.339 (1.671.202) Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 880.424 (2.089.002) Tax (expense)/income (176.085) 417.800 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(EXPENSE) (AFTER TAX) (57.185.059) 7.898.368 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 96.671.790 255.183.121 131 Total comprehensive income attributable to Non-controlling interests (2.054.469) 19.511.558 Equity holders of the parent 98.726.259 235.671.563 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) Other Comprehensive Income/ Expense not to be Reclassified Other Comprehensive Income/Expense to Profit or to be Reclassified to Profit or Loss Loss Available for Foreign sales financial Actuarial currency assets gains/(losses) Share Adjustments to Share translation Cash flow revaluation on defined ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report capital share capital premiums reserve hedge reserve reserve benefit plans 1 January 2017 135.084.442 41.741.516 1.099.415 15.949.885 7.412.607 (4.844.261) Transfer from retained earnings Net profit for the period Other comprehensive income/(expense) 13.903.655 (9.896.684) 4.968.527 (1.655.877) Total comprehensive income/(expense) 13.903.655 (9.896.684) 4.968.527 (1.655.877) Dividends paid 31 December 2017 135.084.442 41.741.516 1.099.415 29.853.540 (9.896.684) 12.381.134 (6.500.138) 132 1 January 2018 135.084.442 41.741.516 1.099.415 29.853.540 (9.896.684) 12.381.134 (6.500.138) Transfer from retained earnings Net profit for the period Other comprehensive income/(expense) 37.094.074 (65.490.581) (28.525.627) 722.861 Total comprehensive income/(expense) 37.094.074 (65.490.581) (28.525.627) 722.861 Dividends paid (*) 31 December 2018 135.084.442 41.741.516 1.099.415 66.947.614 (75.387.265) (16.144.493) (5.777.277) The decision to distribute dividend of 191.819.908 TL from 2016 year profit was unanimously approved by the Ordinary General Assembly held on 27 (*) March 2017 and the payment completed on 29 March 2017. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 01 02 03 04 05 06 Retained Earnings 07 08 Equity attributable to Restricted Retained Net profit equity holders of the Non-controlling Total reserves earnings for the period parent interests equity 168.519.607 640.007.495 246.019.452 1.250.990.158 107.996.440 1.358.986.598 18.506.569 227.512.883 (246.019.452) 228.351.942 228.351.942 18.932.811 247.284.753 7.319.621 578.747 7.898.368 228.351.942 235.671.563 19.511.558 255.183.121 (191.819.908) (191.819.908) (191.819.908) 187.026.176 675.700.470 228.351.942 1.294.841.813 127.507.998 1.422.349.811 187.026.176 675.700.470 228.351.942 1.294.841.813 127.507.998 1.422.349.811 133 6.078.800 222.273.142 (228.351.942) 154.925.532 154.925.532 (1.068.683) 153.856.849 (56.199.273) (985.786) (57.185.059) 154.925.532 98.726.259 (2.054.469) 96.671.790 (67.542.221) (67.542.221) (67.542.221) 193.104.976 830.431.391 154.925.532 1.326.025.851 125.453.529 1.451.479.380 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) (Audited) (Audited) Current Period Prior Period 1 January1 JanuaryNote 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 A. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 373.002.835 223.486.232 Profit before taxation 175.110.867 295.945.663 Adjustments to reconcile net profit/loss for the period 155.864.895 75.487.805 Adjustment related to depreciation and amortization expense 11/13 109.016.505 81.557.843 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Adjustment related to gain on sale of fixed assets 23 (28.270.659) (48.177.287) Adjustment related to retained profits of subsidiaries 3 (38.699.123) (14.484.722) Adjustment related to allowance for doubtful receivable 6 6.436.741 (1.105.872) Adjustment related to provision for inventories 9 168.305 130.802 Adjustment related to provision for litigations 14.a 1.898.422 977.395 Adjustment related to recultivation provision 14.b (352.704) 510.245 Adjustment related to provision for unlawful occupation 69.729 Adjustment related to retirement pay provision 16.c 5.675.205 4.830.363 Adjustment related to seniority provision 16.c 669.153 99.747 Adjustment related to unpaid vacation liability 16.c 406.446 1.273.594 Adjustment related to bonus accrual 14.a 3.428.000 4.500.000 Adjustment related to interest expense 24 139.443.432 85.858.599 Adjustment related to interest income 22/24 (7.387.733) (3.665.395) Adjustment related to dividend income 23 (19.761) Unrealized foreign exchange (gains)/losses on financial borrowings 26.950.073 (38.209.900) Adjustment related to fair value decrease/(increase) of derivative financial instruments (63.517.168) 1.342.425 Changes in working capital 65.557.744 (99.746.039) 134 Short-term trade receivables 99.219.574 (207.996.791) Inventories (43.648.508) 29.998.107 Other receivables/current assets/prepaid expenses (15.847.118) (19.176.991) Long-term trade receivables 2.951.058 (1.584.403) Other long term receivables/prepaid expenses 14.779.207 61.139.024 Short term trade payables 5.322.163 15.032.061 Other short term payables/liabilities 2.781.368 22.842.954 Cash flows from operations 396.533.506 271.687.429 Interest received 2.245.872 936.473 Unlawful paid (206.297) Penalty paid thereunder code 6111 (1.371.587) Seniority provision paid (4.500.000) (4.700.000) Retirement pay provision paid 16.c (6.025.599) (2.550.676) Unused vacation liability paid 16.c (582.344) (402.498) Seniority provision paid 16.c (314.606) (38.931) Taxes paid 25 (14.353.994) (39.867.681) B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (225.493.961) (322.264.094) Purchases of property, plant and equipment 11 (255.735.339) (355.190.672) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 35.219.585 63.764.150 Purchases of intangible assets 13 (1.272.948) (446.110) Other cash inflows/(outflows) (3.705.259) Change in advances given for fixed assets 10.a (30.391.462) C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (162.782.678) 264.250.070 Proceeds from borrowings 1.591.775.453 1.081.961.330 Repayment of borrowings (1.633.107.590) (581.095.778) Dividend paid 18 (67.542.221) (191.819.908) Dividend income 23 19.761 Interest paid (59.050.181) (47.544.257) Interests received 24 5.141.861 2.728.922 NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C) (15.273.804) 165.472.208 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE PERIOD 5 204.303.367 32.828.414 Curreny translation differences (net) 27.966.862 6.002.745 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 5 216.996.425 204.303.367 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 1. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF OPERATIONS 04 General 05 Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (“Çimsa” or the “Company”) was founded with a declaration of the trade registry on 06 16 December 1972 which was announced at Turkish Trade Registry Gazette numbered 4729 and dated 21 December 1972. Operations of the Group consist of production and sales of cement, clinker and ready mix concrete. The ultimate 07 shareholder of the Group is Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. (“Sabancı Holding”). 08 The registered office address of the Group is Kısıklı Cad. No: 4 Sarkuysan-Ak İş Merkezi S Blok Kat: 2 Altunizade, Üsküdar/İstanbul. A certain amount of the shares of the Company is traded on Borsa İstanbul A.Ş. (“BIST”). In accordance with Article 82 of the BIST Basic Principles of Share Indexes, the shares of Çimsa are included in the BIST 100 index by the Directorate General of the Stock Exchange. The upper limit of registered share capital of the Company is TL 200.000.000 (31 December 2017 TL 200.000.000) As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the information related to the Company’s subsidiaries is as follows: Date of Location of Effective shareholding of the company Entity acquisition the operation Principal Activities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Çimsa Cement Free-Zone Limited 12.10.2005 NCTR Cement sales and 99,99% 99,99% (Çimsa Cement) (*) marketing CIMSAROM Marketing Distributie 08.02.2006 Romania Cement sales and 99,99% 99,99% S.R.L. (Çimsarom) (*) marketing Çimsa Cement Sales North GmbH 27.06.2006 Germany White cement 100% 100% 135 (CSN)(*) marketing Çimsa Cementos Espana, S.A.U. 07.07.2006 Spain Sales of bulk and 100% 100% (Cementos Espana, S.A.U.) (*) bagged cement to white cement market Çimsa Mersin Serbest Bölge Şubesi (*) 12.12.2007 Turkey Cement export 100% 100% Regent Place Limited (Regent) (*) 21.05.2008 British Virgin Financial investment and 100% 100% Island holding company OOO Çimsa Rus CTK (OOO Rusya) (*) 16.07.2008 Russia Cement packaging, 100% 100% sales and marketing Çimsa Adriatico Srl (*) 09.02.2010 Italy Cement sales and 70% 70% marketing Afyon Çimento Sanayi Türk Anonim 31.05.2012 Turkey Cement production and 51% 51% Şirketi (*) sales Cimsa Americas Cement 07.07.2017 USA Cement production and 100% 100% Manufacturing and Sales Corporation sales (Cimsa Americas) (*) (*) Accounted for using full consolidation method. The Company’s associate, Exsa Export Sanayi Mamülleri Satış ve Araştırma A.Ş. (“Exsa”) (effective ownership: 32,875%) is consolidated by the equity method. For the purpose of presentation of the consolidated financial statements, Çimsa, its subsidiaries and its associate will be together referred as (“the Group”). The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors of Çimsa on 20 February 2019. The General Assembly and certain regulatory bodies have the power to amend the statutory financial statements after issuance. The number of blue collar employees (a union member) of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 660 (2017 658) and white collar employees (not a union member) is 470 (2017481) and the number of employees working in subsidiaries located abroad is 42 (2017 42). GRI-Standards 102-45 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.1 Basis of presentation Preparation principles of financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the communiqué numbered II-14,1 “Communiqué on the Principles of Financial Reporting In Capital Markets” (“the Communiqué”) announced by the Capital Markets Board (“CMB”) (hereinafter will be referred to as “the CMB Reporting Standards”) on 13 June 2013 which is published on Official Gazette numbered 28676. In accordance with article 5th of the CMB Reporting Standards, companies should apply Turkish Accounting Standards/Turkish Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report regarding these standards as adopted by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority of Turkey (“POA”). The functional and presentation currency of the Company is Turkish Liras (“TL”). Functional currency of Cement Sales North Gmbh, Çimsa Cementos Espana S.A.U., Regent Place Ltd. and Çimsa Adriatico SRL is Euro, the functional currency of Çimsarom Marketing Distribute Srl is New Romanian Lei (“Ron”), functional currency of OOO Çimsa Rus Ctk is Ruble and functional currency of Cimsa Americas Cement Manufacturing and Sales Corporation is Dollar (“USD”). Based on TAS 21, for subsidiaries operating in countries without high inflation rates, the exchange rate used for translating the financial position items is the exchange rate at the balance sheet date; for income statement balances, the average exchange rate of the related period and the consolidated financial statements are presented in TL. The resulting foreign currency gain/loss are recorded under the “Currency Translation Reserve” account in equity. The Company and the group companies established in Turkey maintain their books of account and prepare their 136 statutory financial statements (“Statutory Financial Statements”) in accordance with rules and principles published by POA, the Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”), tax legislation and the Uniform Chart of Accounts issued by the Ministry of Finance. Subsidiaries that are registered in foreign countries maintain their books of account and prepare their statutory statements in accordance with the prevailing accounting principles in their registered countries. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Turkish Lira under the historical cost convention except for available for sale financial assets, assets acquired through business combination, derivative instruments and cash flow hedge reserve that are carried at fair value. These consolidated financial statements are based on the statutory records with the required adjustments and reclassifications reflected for the purpose of fair presentation in accordance with the Turkish Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by POA. These adjustments and reclassifications mainly consist of the effect of deferred tax calculation, provision for doubtful receivables, the accounting of expense accruals, the effect of employee termination benefits and unused vacation pay liability calculated in accordance with TAS 19 “Employee Benefits” (“TAS 19”), prorata depreciation of property and equipments and intangible assets with useful life assessed by the management, capitalization of financing expenses made in scope of TAS 23 “Borrowing Cost” (“TAS 23”) over construction in progress, the assessment of financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IFRS9 “Financial Instruments: Accounting and Measurement” (“IFRS9”), the accounting of TFRS 3 “Business Combinations” (“IFRS 3”) and the accounting of derivative financial instruments and cash flow hedge reserves in accordance with IFRS 9. 2.2 Seasonality of the Group’s operations The operations of the Group increase in spring and summer season when the demand for the construction increases and construction industry revives. 2.3 Going concern The Group has prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with going concern principle. 2.4 Offsetting Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported in the net amount when there is a legally enforceable right or when there is an intention to settlee the assets and liabilities on a net basis or realize the assets and settlee the liabilities simultaneously. GRI-Standards 102-45 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.5 Changes in accounting policies, estimates and errors 05 Any change in accounting policies resulting from the first time adoption of a new standard is made either retrospectively 06 or prospectively in accordance with the transition requirements. Changes without any transition requirement, material changes in accounting policies or material errors are corrected, retrospectively by restating the prior period consolidated 07 financial statements. If changes in accounting estimates are related to only one period, they are recognised in the period when the changes are applied; if changes in estimates are related to future periods, they are recognised both in the 08 period where the change is applied and in future periods prospectively. 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of consolidation As at 31 December 2018, the consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Çimsa and its subsidiaries. Control is normally evidenced when the Company controls an investee if and only if the company has all the following; a) power over the investee, b) exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and, c) the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of company’s returns. The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated statements of profit or loss from the effective date of acquisition. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the Group. The consolidated financial statements are prepared using common accounting policies for similar transactions and events and are prepared for the same accounting system with the Company. All intra-group transactions and balances including intra-group unrealized profits and losses are eliminated. 137 Minority interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries is identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Minority interest consists of the amount of those interests at the date of the original acquisition and the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date of the acquisition. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to minority (-) interest even if that result is in deficit balance. Transactions with minority shareholders are assumed to be occurred between main shareholders and so, accounted under equity. Share purchase/(sale) transactions with minority shareholders that does not result in loss of control in the subsidiary are assumed to be occurred between the shareholders and are accounted under “differences arising from the change in shareholding rate in subsidiaries” account. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company until the date on which the control is transferred out of the Company. This control is normally evidenced when Çimsa owns, either directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights of a group’s share capital and is able to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to benefit from its activities. Accordingly, the financial statements of Çimsa Cement, Cementos Espana, Çimsarom, CSN, Regent, OOO Russia, Cimsa Adriatico S.r.l, Cimsa Americas, Afyon Çimento and Çimsa Mersin are fully consolidated in accordance with IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”. Non-controlling interests in the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries are separately presented within the Group’s equity as non-controlling interests. Non-controlling interests are composed of the sum of those emerged at the initial business combination and non-controlling interests in the changes in equities occurred in the after-math of the business combination. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Basis of consolidation (continued) Associates The associate of the Group, Exsa, is accounted by equity method, which is classified under the Group’s financial assets. Investments accounted by equity method are presented in consolidated statement of financial position with additions or ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report deductions of changes on share of the Group on net assets of the affiliate and with deduction of provisions for the decline in the value. The other comprehensive income statement presents shares of financial results of the Group’s affiliates. The changes of the amount, not reflected on income or loss of the affiliate, on the equity of the affiliate can requisite an adjustment on the net book value of the affiliate in proportion of the Group’s share. The share of the group from these changes is directly accounted under the Group’s equity. Exsa’s financial statements are prepared for the same period and with respect to the same accounting policies. The Group considers at each balance sheet date whether there is impairment on the investments accounted by equity method. Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the presentation of consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, cash in banks, checks readily convertible to known amounts of cash and short-term deposits with an original 138 maturity of three months or less. Trade Receivables Trade receivables are recognized with invoiced amounts and carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method in the subsequent periods. Notes and posdated checks classified in trade receivables are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Provision for doubtful receivables is accounted as expense. Provision for doubtful receivables is set aside if there is a concrete indication that the overdue receivables cannot be collected. The Company uses the simplified approach in IFRS 9 to calculate the expected credit losses of these financial assets. This method requires the accounted of lifetime expected credit losses for all trade receivables. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and conditions are accounted for as follows: Raw materials purchase cost on a monthly average basis. Finished goods and work-in-process cost includes direct material and labor cost, the applicable allocation of fixed and variable overhead costs (considering normal operating capacity) on the basis of monthly average basis. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 05 Basis of consolidation (continued) 06 Property, plant and equipment 07 Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. The initial 08 cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and non-refundable purchase taxes and any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to its working condition and location for its intended use. Expenses for the repair of property, plant and equipment are normally charged against income. They are, however, capitalized in exceptional cases if they result in an enlargement or substantial improvement of the respective assets. Gains or losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing proceeds with their carrying amounts and are included in the related income and expense accounts, as appropriate. Land is not subject to depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on all property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as below. The economic useful lives of property, plant and equipments are as follows: Useful Lives Land and land improvements 8-50 years Buildings 10-50 years Machinery and equipment 3-25 years Furniture and fixtures 3-15 years Motor vehicles 5-10 years 139 Other tangible assets 5-10 years Leasehold improvements Lease period Intangible assets Intangible assets which mainly comprise of software and mining rights are measured at cost. Intangible assets may be capitalized in case when they generate economic benefit and costs can ne measured accurately. Sub-sequent to initial recognition, internally-generated intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amorti-zation and accumulated impairment losses. Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognized, development expenditure is charged to the consolidated statement of profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred. The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets are determined as either a specific time or perpetual. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life. The estimated useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each annual reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. The amortization expenses of the intangible assets with certain estimated useful lives are reflected into the consolidated statement of profit or loss in accordance with the function of the intangible asset. Intangible assets which mainly comprise of software and mining rights are capitalized at cost. Except for mining rights, intangible assets are amortized with respect to straight-line method over the estimated useful life (5 years) of the related intangible asset. Mining rights are amortized based on the ratio of depletion of mining reserves to total reserves. The remaining amortization period depends on the depletion rate of the reserves. The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite useful life. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Basis of consolidation (continued) Intangible assets (continued) The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there is any event or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Derecognition of tangible and intangible assets Tangible and intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of tangible and intangible assets, measured as the differences between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised. This difference is accounted in profit or loss when tangible and intangible assets is derecognized. Goodwill Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition of the business less accumulated impairment losses, if any. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 140 A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Cırgalan ready-mix concrete facility is purchased with the amount of TL 4.640.259, the valuation of goodwill amounting to TL 3.705.259 after emerging held for property has been accounted in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. According to IFRS 3 Business Combinations Standard, the Group ​​have accounted the provisional value due to the determination of the completion of the initial recognition process according to the combinations. In subsequent periods of the initial recognition, an impairment test will be performed for the cash-generating units for the respective groups. Impairment on non-financial assets At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that book value of tangible and intangible assets, calculated by acquisition cost less accumulative amortization, is impaired. When an indication of impairment exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of such assets. When individual recoverable value of assets cannot be measured, recoverable value of cash generating unit of that asset is measured. Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use or fair value less costs to sell. Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit by using discount rates before taxes that reflects risks related with that asset. The main estimates that are used during these analyses comprise expected inflation rates, expected increase in sales and cost of sales, expected changes in export-domestic market composition and expected growth rate of the country (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 05 Impairment on non-financial assets (continued) 06 If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, 07 the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. 08 Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset (cash-generating unit) in previous years. Impairment loss on goodwill cannot be reversed in the consolidated statement of profit or loss in future periods. Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquire and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquire. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in loss as incurred. At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: 141 -Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in accordance with TAS 12 Income Taxes and TAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively; -Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquire or share-based payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquire are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; and -Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling inter-ests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another TFRS. When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and cluded as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acqui-sition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Business combinations (continued) The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with TAS 39 Financial Instruments.The aforementioned contingent consideration is measured through fair ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report value and gain or loss, sourcing from amendment, is recognized in profit or loss or other comprehensive income. Those, which are not in scope of TAS 39, are recognized in accordance with TAS 37 Provisions or other appropriate IFRS standards. When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see above), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date. 142 Business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2010 were accounted for in accordance with the previous version of IFRS 3. Foreign currency transactions The Company and its subsidiaries translate the transactions in foreign currencies during the period at the ex-change rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at the exchange rates prevailing at period-end and exchange gains or losses arising on the settlement and translation of foreign currency items have been included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Non-monetary items carried at cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates on the initial transaction date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity. On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Group is reclassified to profit or loss. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 05 Foreign currency transactions (continued) 06 Foreign currency translation rates used as of respective period-ends are as follows: 07 Date 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 08 USA Dollar (“USD”)/TL 5,2609 3,7719 Euro (“EUR”)/TL 6,0280 4,5155 Ruble (“RUB”)/TL 0,0753 0,0651 Ron (“RON”)/TL 1,2866 0,9637 Sterlin (“GBP”)/TL 6,6528 5,0803 Foreign currency average rates used in the consolidated financial statements are as follow: Date 2018 2017 USD/TL 4,8256 3,6437 EUR/TL 5,6751 4,1181 RUB/TL 0,0760 0,0622 RON/TL 1,2125 0,8969 GBP/TL 6,3997 4,6795 Borrowing costs 143 The borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs include interests and other costs related to the borrowing activity. General borrowings of the Group are capitalized to the applicable qualifying assets based on a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate is the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalization. Other all borrowing costs are booked in the consolidated statement of profit or loss, when incurred. Provisions, contingent assets and liabilities Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows. When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Income tax Tax expense/(income) is the aggregate amount included in the determination of net profit or loss for the period in respect of current and deferred tax. Tax expense/(income) is the aggregate amount included in the determination of net profit or loss for the period in respect of current and deferred tax. Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax can be directly related to equity accounts if it’s related to the transactions in connection with the share capital in the same or different period. 144 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. Provisions for employee benefits/retirement pay provision a. Defined benefit plan In accordance with existing social legislation in Turkey, the Group is required to make lump-sum termination indemnities to each employee who has completed over one year of service with the Group and whose employment is terminated due to retirement or for reasons other than resignation or misconduct. The Group has reflected a liability using the “Projected Unit Credit Method” based on the actuarial valuation performed by independent actuaries. The employee termination benefits are discounted to the present value of the estimated future cash outflows using the interest rate estimate of qualified actuaries. Under Turkish law and union agreements, lump sum payments are made to employees retiring or involuntarily leaving the Group. Such payments are considered as being part of defined retirement benefit plan as per TAS 19 “Employee Benefits” (“TAS 19”). The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation. All actuarial gains and losses are recognized in equity. b. Defined contribution plans The Group pays contributions to the Social Security Institution of Turkey on a mandatory basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 05 c. Seniority provision 06 The Group has a liability to pay seniority incentive premium to the blue collar workers for five years period in accordance 07 with the collective labor agreement. The Group discounts each first future payment and records the amounts to its consolidated statement of profit or loss. 08 d. Vacation rights Liabilities arising from unused vacation rights are accrued in the periods when they are deserved. Leasing Leasing acitivites as lessee Financial leasing Financial leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the estimated useful life of the asset. 145 Operating lease Leases of assets under which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are effectively retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases. Lease payments under an operating lease are recognized as an expense on a straightline basis over the lease term. Related parties A party is related to the Company if: (a) Directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, the party: (i) controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the entity (this includes parents, subsidiaries and fellow subsidiaries); (ii) has an interest in the entity that gives it significant influence over the entity; or (iii) has joint control over the entity; (b) the party is an associate of the entity; (c) the party is a joint venture in which the entity is a venturer; (d) the party is a member of the key management personnel of the entity or its parent; (e) the party is a close member of the family of any individual referred to in (a) or (d); (f) the party is an entity that is controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by or for which significant voting power in such entity resides with, directly or indirectly, any individual referred to in (d) or (e); or (g) the party is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of the entity, or of any entity that is a related party of the entity. A related party transaction is a transfer of resources, services, or obligations between related parties, regardless of whether a price is charged. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, rebates, and other similar allowances. Sale of Goods ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report The Group has been started to use five-stage model to recognized the revenue according to IFRS 15 “Revenue From Contracts With Customers” as of 1 January 2018. -The identification of contracts with costumers, -The identification of performance obligations in contracts, -The determination of transaction price in contracts, -The distribution of transaction fee to performance obligations, -The revenue recognition. According to this model, the goods or services undertaken in each contract with the customers are evaluated and each commitment to transfer the goods or services is determined as a separate performance obligation. Then, it is determined whether the performance obligations will be fulfilled in time or at a certain time. If the Group transfers the control of a good or service over time and thus fulfills its performance obligations with respect to the relevant sales over time, it measures the progress of the fulfillment of the performance obligations and takes the proceeds to the consolidated 146 financial statements. -It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity, and -The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably. Interest Interest income from a financial asset is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition. Dividends Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholder’s right to receive payment has been established (provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be measured reliably). Earnings per share Basic earnings per share in the consolidated statement of profit or loss are calculated by dividing the net profit for the period by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. In Turkey, companies can increase their share capital by making distribution of free shares to existing shareholders from various internal resources. For the purpose of the earnings per share calculation such share issues are regarded as issued stock. Accordingly, the weighted average number of shares used in earnings per share calculation is derived by giving retroactive effect to the issue of such shares. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 05 Events subsequent to the balance sheet date 06 Subsequent events occurring after the balance sheet date and which may affect the Group’s position at the balance 07 sheet date are reflected in the consolidated financial statements. The issues that occur after the balance sheet date are disclosed in the notes according to their importance. 08 Accounting on transaction and delivery date All financial asset purchases and sales are recognized at the transaction date, in other words, on the date when the Group commits to purchase or sell. Ordinary purchases and sales are purchases and sales where the delivery period of the asset is generally determined in accordance with legislation or regulations in the markets. Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument of another enterprise. A financial asset is any asset that is: -Cash, -A contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from another enterprise, -A contractual right to exchange financial instruments from another enterprise under conditions that are potentially favorable, or, 147 -An equity instrument of another enterprise. A financial liability that is a contractual obligation: -To deliver cash or another financial asset to another enterprise, or -To exchange financial instruments with another enterprise under conditions that are potentially unfavorable. When a financial asset or financial liability is recognized initially, it is measured at its cost, which is the fair value of the consideration given (in the case of an asset) or received (in case of a liability) for it. Transaction costs are included (deducted for financial liabilities) in the initial measurement of all financial assets and liabilities. The fair value is the amount for which a financial instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between ceiling parties, other than in a faced sale or liquidation, and this best evidenced by a quoted market price, if one exist. Fair value of financial instruments The methods and assumptions in fair value estimation of the financial instruments of the Group are explained in Note 32. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables (including trade receivables recognized at original invoice amount, notes and cheques receivables) are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Trade receivables included in the category of loans and receivables are recorded in the accounts with their invoiced amounts and are carried at net values discounted by the effective interest rate method in the following periods and if there is provision for doubtful receivables, it should be deducted. Notes classified as trade receivables and postdated checks are carried at their discounted values by the effective interest rate method. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Available for sale financial assets All available for sale financial assets are initially recognized at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including acquisition charges associated with the financial asset. After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value. Gains or losses on available for sale investments are recognized as a separate component of equity, “Available for sales financial assets revaluation fund”, ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report until the financial asset is sold, collected or otherwise disposed, or until the financial asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously disclosed in equity is associated to income and expense accounts. For financial assets that are actively traded on a quated market, fair value is determined based on the quoted market bid prices at closing on the balance sheet date. When there is no quoted market price for the equity instruments, such financial assets are stated at their costs less impairment provision if any. Impairment on financial assets Except for the financial assets whose fair value differences are accounted under profit and loss statement, financial assets or financial asset groups are assessed at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that had occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that loss 148 event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of finan-cial assets that can be reliably estimated. As there is no applicable valuation method for valuation of financial investments that are not traded in the stock exchange, the related financial investments are valued with their historical costs. Loans and receivables are held to provide contractual cash flows and lead to cash flows of principal and interest. The Company analyzed the contractual cash flow characteristics of these financial instruments and decided that they should be shown at their amortized cost in accordance with IFRS 9. Therefore, there is no classification of these financial instruments. In case trade receivables cannot be collected, the related amount is written off from allowance account. The change in allowance account is accounted in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. The allowance for doubtful receivables is established through a provision charged to expenses. Provision is provided when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the debts. The Company uses the simplified approach in IFRS 9 to calculate the expected credit losses of these financial assets. This method requires the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses for all trade receivables. When the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset that carried at its fair value is below its cost value of the financial asset due to the fluctuations in the market, the Group assesses the impairment by considering if the fair value decline is material, permanent and not recoverable in the long-term. In accordance with the Group’s accounting estimations and policies, in order to assess the fair value decline in the available-for-sale financial asset to be permanent and not recoverable in the long-term, at least one year should pass from the date that the fair value is below its cost of the financial asset. In case there is any impairment, such impairment is transferred from equity to the consolidated statement of profit or loss. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 05 Financial liabilities 06 Financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and at directly attributable transaction costs and after initial 07 recognition; financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost by using the effective interest rate method. 08 Effective interest rate method is the amortized cost method and allocation of the related interest expenses to the related periods. Effective interest rate is the rate reducing the future expected cash payments to present value of the financial liability within an expected life of the asset or in a shorter period. Bank borrowings All borrowings are initially recognized at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing. After initial recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement. Gains and losses are recognized in the consolidated statement of profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized, as well as through the amortization process. Trade payables Trade and other payables are carried at amortized cost which is the fair value of the consideration to be paid in the future 149 for goods and services received, whether or not billed to the Group. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The operations of the Group expose the entity to financial risks mainly due to the change in foreign currency exhange rates and interest rates. The Group mainly utilizes derivative instruments mainly foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk associated with certain binding commitments and forecasted future transactions. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is directly recognized in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. The Group’s policy to hedge foreign currency risk associated with a binding commitment classifies the related risk as cash flow hedge. When the hedge transaction does not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, the amounts in equity are recognized in the consolidated statement of profit or loss when the hedged item affects the statement of profit or loss. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify as cash flow hedge are recognized in the statement of profit or loss. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. The cumulative gain or loss related with hedge instrument accounted under equity as of such date is continued to be recognized under equity until the expected realization date of the transaction. When the hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net accumulated gain or loss in equity is recognized in profit or loss of the period. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are accounted directly in equity as “Hedges funds”. Furthermore, the Group is protected from foreign net investment risk arising from changes in foreign currency financial liabilities and foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of changes in the foreign exchange rates of the foreign currency financial liabilities is accounted under equity as “Hedge funds”. Recognition and derecognition of financial instruments ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report The Group recognizes a financial asset or financial liability in its consolidated statement of financial position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group derecognizes a financial asset or a portion of financial asset when and only when it loses control of the contractual rights that comprise the financial asset or a portion of financial asset and when risk and benefit related to property. The Group derecognizes a financial liability when a liability is extinguished that is when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled and expired. Research expenses and development costs When research expenses realized, they are recorded as an expense. Project costs which is related to research of the product or desing of the product are considered as an intangible asset if the the project succesfully applied from commercial and technological aspects. Other development expenses are recorded as an expense when realized. Development costs recorded in the prior period can not be capitalized in the following period. 2.7 Comparative Information 150 The financial statements of the Group have been prepared comparatively with the previous period in order to enable information about financial position and performance trends. If the presentation or classification of the financial statements is changed, in order to be comparative, financial statements of the previous periods are also reclassified and significant changes are disclosed. 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations The accounting policies adopted in preparation of the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2018 are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except for the adoption of new and amended IFRS and TFRIC interpretations effective as of 1 January 2018. The effects of these standards and interpretations on the Group’s financial position and performance have been disclosed in the related paragraphs. i) The new standards, amendments and interpretations which are effective as at 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In September 2016, POA issued TFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The new standard issued includes the clarifying amendments to IFRS 15 made by IASB in April 2016. The new five-step model in the standard provides the recognition and measurement requirements of revenue. The standard applies to revenue from contracts with customers and provides a model for the sale of some non-financial assets that are not an output of the entity’s ordinary activities (e.g., the sale of property, plant and equipment or intangibles). TFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations (continued) 05 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 06 In January 2017, POA issued the final version of TFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The final version of TFRS 9 brings together 07 all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments project: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. TFRS 9 is built on a logical, single classification and measurement approach for financial assets that 08 reflects the business model in which they are managed and their cash flow characteristics. Built upon this is a forwardlooking expected credit loss model that will result in more timely recognition of loan losses and is a single model that is applicable to all financial instruments subject to impairment accounting. In addition, TFRS 9 addresses the so-called ‘own credit’ issue, whereby banks and others book gains through profit or loss as a result of the value of their own debt falling due to a decrease in credit worthiness when they have elected to measure that debt at fair value. The Standard also includes an improved hedge accounting model to better link the economics of risk management with its accounting treatment. TFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group applied TFRS 9 retrospectively, with the initial application date of 1 January 2018. The standard did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. TFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments); In December 2017, POA issued amendments to TFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The amendments introduce two approaches: an overlay approach and a deferral approach. These amendments are applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The amendments are not applicable for the Group and did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. TFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 151 The interpretation issued by POA on 19 December 2017 clarifies the accounting for transactions that include the receipt or payment of advance consideration in a foreign currency. The Interpretation states that the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income is the date on which an entity initially recognises the nonmonetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. An entity is not required to apply this Interpretation to income taxes; or insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) it issues or reinsurance contracts that it holds. The interpretation is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The interpretation did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations (continued) TFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments) In December 2017, POA issued amendments to TFRS 2 Share-based Payment, clarifying how to account for certain types of share-based payment transactions. The amendments, provide requirements on the accounting for: a. the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payments; b. share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations; and ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report c.a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled. These amendments are applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The amendments did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. TAS 40 Investment Property: Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments) In December 2017, POA issued amendments to TAS 40 ‘Investment Property’. The amendments state that a change in use occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of investment property and there is evidence of the change in use. These amendments are applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The amendments did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. Annual Improvements to TFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle 152 In December 2017, POA issued Annual Improvements to TFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle, amending the following standards: -TAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: This amendment clarifies that the election to measure an investment in an associate or a joint venture held by, or indirectly through, a venture capital organisation or other qualifying entity at fair value through profit or loss applying TFRS 9 Financial Instruments is available for each associate or joint venture, at the initial recognition of the associate or joint venture. These amendments are applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. These amendments are not applicable for the Group and did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. ii) Standards issued but not yet effective and not early adopted Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that are issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements are as follows. The Group will make the necessary changes if not indicated otherwise, which will be affecting the consolidated financial statements and disclosures, when the new standards and interpretations become effective. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations (continued) 05 TFRS 16 Leases 06 In April 2018, POA has published a new standard, TFRS 16 ‘Leases’. The new standard brings most leases on-balance 07 sheet for lessees under a single model, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases. Lessor accounting however remains largely unchanged and the distinction between operating and finance leases is retained. 08 TFRS 16 supersedes TAS 17 ‘Leases’ and related interpretations and is effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with earlier adoption permitted. Lessees have recognition exemptions to applying this standard in case of short-term leases (i.e., leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of ’low-value’ assets (e.g., personal computers,office equipment, etc.). At the commencement date of a lease, a lessee measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date (i.e., the lease liability), at the same date recognises an asset representing the right to use the underlying asset (i.e., the right-of-use asset) and depreciates it during the lease term. The lease payments shall be discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee shall use the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate. Lessees are required to recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset separately. Lessees are required to remeasure the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain events (e.g. a change in the lease term, a change in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those payments). Under these circumstances, the lessee recognises the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of the standard on the financial position and performance of the 153 Group, the explanation of preliminary analyses is as follows: Transition to TFRS 16: The Group plans to adopt TFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach. The Group will elect to apply the standart to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying TAS 17 and TFRIC 4. The Group will therefore not apply the standart to contracts that were not previously identified as containing a lease applying TAS 17 and TFRIC 4. The Group plans to elect to use the exemptions applicable to the standard on lease contracts for which the lease terms ends within 12 months as of the date of initial application and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value. The Group has leases of certain office equipment (i.e., personal computers, printing and photocopying machines) that are considered of low value. The Group has performed a detailed impact assessment of TFRS 16 in 2018. As a result of the effects of transition to TFRS 16, there will be an impact of TL 49.279.915 on property, plant and equipment and TL 48.896.932 in the statement of lease obligation. Due to the adoption of TFRS 16, The Group’s operating profit will improve, while its finance cost will increase. This is due to the change in accounting for expenses of leases that were classified as operating leases under TAS 17. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations (continued) Amendments to TAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” (Amendments) In December 2017, POA issued amendments to TAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. The amendments clarify that a company applies TFRS 9 Financial Instruments to long-term interests in an associate or joint venture that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture. TFRS 9 Financial Instruments excludes interests in associates and joint ventures accounted for in accordance with ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report TAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. In this amendment, POA clarified that the exclusion in TFRS 9 applies only to interests a company accounts for using the equity method. A company applies TFRS 9 to other interests in associates and joint ventures, including long-term interests to which the equity method is not applied and that, in substance, form part of the net investment in those associates and joint ventures. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early application permitted. These amendments are not applicable for the Group and did not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. TFRS 10 and TAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments) In December 2017, POA postponed the effective date of this amendment indefinitely pending the outcome of its research project on the equity method of accounting. Early application of the amendments is still permitted. The Group will wait until the final amendment to assess the impacts of the changes. 154 TFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments The interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in “TAS 12 Income Taxes” when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. When there is uncertainty over income tax treatments, the interpretation addresses: (a) whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately; (b) the assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities; (c) how an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates; and (d) how an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances. An entity shall apply this Interpretation for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies this Interpretation for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. On initial application, an entity shall apply the interpretation either retrospectively applying IAS 8, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Interpretation recognised at the date of initial application. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of the interpretation on financial position or performance of the Group. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations (continued) 05 Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle 06 In January 2019, POA issued Annual Improvements to TFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle, amending the following 07 standards: -TFRS 3 Business Combinations and TFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The amendments to TFRS 3 clarify that when an 08 entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, it remeasures previously held interests in that business. The amendments to TFRS 11 clarify that when an entity obtains joint control of a business that is a joint operation, the entity does not remeasure previously held interests in that business. -TAS 12 Income Taxes The amendments clarify that all income tax consequences of dividends (i.e. distribution of profits) should be recognised in profit or loss, regardless of how the tax arises. -TAS 23 Borrowing Costs The amendments clarify that if any specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related asset is ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes part of the funds that an entity borrows generally when calculating the capitalisation rate on general borrowings. The amendments are effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early application permitted. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of the amendments on financial position or performance of the Group. Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement (Amendments to TAS 19) In January 2019, the POA published Amendments to TAS 19 “Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement” The 155 amendments require entities to use updated actuarial assumptions to determine current service cost and net interest for the remainder of the annual reporting period after a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs. An entity shall apply these amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, early application is permitted. If an entity applies these amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of the interpretation on financial position or performance of the Group. Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to TFRS 9) The POA issued minor amendments to TFRS 9 Financial Instruments to enable companies to measure some prepayable financial assets at amortised cost. Applying TFRS 9, a company would measure a financial asset with so-called negative compensation at fair value through profit or loss. Applying the amendments, if a specific condition is met, entities will be able to measure at amortised cost some prepayable financial assets with so-called negative compensation. The amendments are effective from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early application permitted. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of the interpretation on financial position or performance of the Group. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 2.8 The new and amended standards and interpretations (continued) iii) The new standards, amendments and interpretations that are issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) but not issued by Public Oversight Authority (POA) The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing IFRS standards are issued by the IASB but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the financial statements. However, these standards, interpretations and amendments to existing IFRS standards are not yet adapted/issued by the POA, thus they do not constitute part of TFRS. The Company/the Group will make the necessary changes to its consolidated financial statements after the new ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report standards and interpretations are issued and become effective under TFRS. IFRS 17 The New Standard for Insurance Contracts The IASB issued IFRS 17, a comprehensive new accounting standard for insurance contracts covering recognition and measurement, presentation and disclosure. IFRS 17 model combines a current balance sheet measurement of insurance contract liabilities with the recognition of profit over the period that services are provided. IFRS 17 will become effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021; early application is permitted. The standard is not applicable for the Group and will not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. Definition of a Business (Amendments to IFRS 3) In October 2018, the IASB issued amendments to the definition of a business in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The amendments are intended to assist entities to determine whether a transaction should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition. 156 The amendments: -clarify the minimum requirements for a business; -remove the assessment of whether market participants are capable of replacing any missing elements; -add guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive; -narrow the definitions of a business and of outputs; and -introduce an optional fair value concentration test. The amendments to IFRS 3 are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and apply prospectively. Earlier application is permitted. The amendments are not applicable for the Group and will not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. Definition of Material (Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8) In October 2018, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors to align the definition of ‘material’ across the standards and to clarify certain aspects of the definition. The new definition states that, ’Information is material if omitting, misstating or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements, which provide financial information about a specific reporting entity. The amendments clarify that materiality will depend on the nature or magnitude of information, or both. An entity will need to assess whether the information, either individually or in combination with other information, is material in the context of the financial statements. The amendments are required to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020; early application is permitted. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) 04 2.9 Significant accounting judgments and estimates 05 a) Reserve for retirement pay liability is determined by using actuarial assumptions such as discount rates, future salary 06 increase and employee’s turnover rates. The estimations include significant uncertainties due to their long term nature (Note 16). 07 b) Provision for doubtful receivables is an estimated amount that management believes to reflect possible future losses on existing receivables that have collection risk due to current economic conditions. During the impairment test for 08 the receivables, the debtors, other than the key accounts and related parties, are assessed with their prior year performances, their credit risk in the current market, their performance after the balance sheet date up to the issuing date of the financial statements; and also the renegotiation conditions with these debtors are considered. The Group also uses the simplified approach in IFRS 9 to calculate expected credit losses of trade receivables. This method requires the recognition of expected credit losses for all trade receivables (Note 6). c) The Group has made certain important assumptions based on experiences of technical personnel in determining useful economic life of mainly related to tangible and intangible assets (Note 11, 13). d) In determining of provision for litigations, the Group considers the probability of legal cases to be resulted against the Group and in case it is resulted against the Group considers its consequences based on the assessments of legal advisor (Note 14). e) During the assessment of the reserve for obsolete inventories, inventories are physically and historically analyzed, usefulness of the inventories are determined based on the view of the technical personnel and if it is necessary, allowance is booked (Note 9). f) The Group performs its impairment analysis on assets by using discounted cash flows. In these analyses, there are certain an assumption about discount rates used and Group’s future operations (Note 12). 157 g) The Group has made certain important assumptions based on experiences of technical personnel in determining useful economic life of mainly related to tangible and intangible assets (Note 14). 2.10 Convenience translation into English of consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish As of December 31, 2018, the accounting principles described in Note 2.1 (defined as Turkish Accounting Standards/ Turkish Financial Reporting Standards) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements differ from International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board with respect to the application of inflation accounting, certain reclassifications and also for certain disclosures requirement of the POA/CMB. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements are not intended to present the financial position and results of operations in accordance with IFRS. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 3. SHARES IN AFFILIATED UNDERTAKINGS The assets and liabilities of Exsa, which is consolidated by the equity method, calculated by using the effective percentage of ownership as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 and revenue, expense and net profit for the periods ending 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Effective Effective Main operating ownership Carrying ownership Carrying Investments Country activity (%) net book value (%) net book value ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Exsa Turkey Investment property and financial instruments 32,9 270.207.613 32,9 254.063.121 270.207.613 254.063.121 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Assets 824.711.204 802.069.583 Liabilities (2.786.907) (29.254.008) Net assets 821.924.297 772.815.575 Group’s share 270.207.613 254.063.121 158 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Revenues 238.019.203 60.657.639 Expenses (120.303.238) (16.597.648) Net profit for the period 117.715.965 44.059.991 Group’s share in net profit 38.699.123 14.484.722 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 3. SHARES IN AFFILIATED UNDERTAKINGS (continued) 04 As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the movement of Exsa, which is accounted by equity method is as follows: 05 1 January1 January06 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 07 Beginning of the period 254.063.121 227.197.264 Valuation funds (22.554.631) 12.381.134 08 Profit/(loss) for the period 38.699.123 14.484.722 End of the period 270.207.613 254.063.121 Information regarding the subsidiaries in which the Group has major non-controlling interests is as follows: 31 December 2018 Gain/losses attributable to Non-controlling non-controlling Accumulated nonDividend paid to nonSubsidiary interest % interests controlling interests controlling interests Afyon Çimento Sanayi T.A.Ş. 49 (1.014.142) 119.216.748 31 December 2017 Gain/losses attributable to 159 Non-controlling non-controlling Accumulated nonDividend paid to nonSubsidiary interest % interests controlling interests controlling interests Afyon Çimento Sanayi T.A.Ş. 49 18.943.596 120.230.890 Condensed financial information of Afyon Çimento T.A.Ş., the Group’s subsidiary, after consolidation adjustments and before eliminations is as follows: Condensed balance sheet information 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 18.748.861 66.229.496 Other current assets 67.757.038 122.259.788 Non-current assets 571.056.758 615.488.449 Total assets 657.562.657 803.977.733 Short term borrowings 285.958.264 276.449.100 Other current liabilities 20.221.109 60.566.527 Long term borrowings 117.901.128 219.285.066 Other non-current liabilities (10.666.751) 1.387.767 Total liabilities 413.413.750 557.688.460 Total equity 244.148.907 246.289.273 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 3. SHARES IN AFFILIATED UNDERTAKINGS (continued) Condensed income statement information 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Revenue 175.199.174 168.153.098 Gross profit 32.425.008 35.289.211 Operating profit/(loss) 29.792.652 29.805.162 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Net financial income/(expense) (67.748.486) (41.675.845) Profit/(loss) before tax (14.311.966) 36.061.015 Net profit for the period 2.069.677 38.660.399 Condensed cash flow information 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Cash flows from operating activities 80.575.588 (3.420.429) Cash flows from investing activities 26.253.053 305.550 Cash flows from financing activitites (excluding dividend) (153.085.904) 68.579.618 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (46.257.263) 65.464.739 4. SEGMENT REPORTING 160 Since the majority of the export sales of the Group are to the different geographic regions as one-off basis, the distribution of sales to specific locations is not consistent between years. Therefore, the details of sales are disclosed as domestic and export sales. The Group manages and organizes its operations depending on the content of the services and goods provided. The Group prepares its segment reporting in accordance with IFRS 8. The transfer prices between segments are prepared on the same basis with third parties. For the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the information about the Group’s segments consists of sales and profits obtained from cement (including clinker and aggregate) and ready mix concrete; segment assets and liabilities as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 4. SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) 04 Ready-mix 1 January-31 December 2018 Cement concrete Undistributed Elimination Total 05 Sales 1.449.678.553 315.176.385 (64.896.883) 1.699.958.055 06 Cost of sales (-) (1.035.472.144) (323.402.180) 64.896.883 (1.293.977.441) Gross profit/(loss) 414.206.409 (8.225.795) 405.980.614 07 General administrative,marketing selling 08 distribution expenses (-) (82.469.545) (40.374.950) (122.844.495) Other operating income/(expenses) (-), net 30.108.725 244.467 6.049.194 36.402.386 Research and development expenses (-) (3.851.468) (3.851.468) Operating profit/(loss) 357.994.121 (7.981.328) (34.325.756) 315.687.037 Income from investment activities 33.779.578 33.779.578 Expense from investment activities (-) (8.354) (8.354) Profit/loss from invetments accounted by equity method 38.699.123 38.699.123 Operating profit/(loss) before financial income/(expense) 391.765.345 (7.981.328) 4.373.367 388.157.384 Financial income/(expenses), (net) (213.046.517) (213.046.517) Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 178.718.828 (7.981.328) 4.373.367 175.110.867 Tax (expense)/income from continuing operations (21.254.018) (21.254.018) Current period tax expense (-) (11.217.802) (11.217.802) Deferred tax income/(expense) (10.036.216) (10.036.216) 161 Profit/(loss) for the period from continuing operations 157.464.810 (7.981.328) 4.373.367 153.856.849 Ready-mix 1 January-31 December 2017 Cement concrete Undistributed Elimination Total Sales 1.256.960.339 317.917.543 (84.298.008) 1.490.579.874 Cost of sales (-) (846.658.000) (333.330.033) 84.298.008 (1.095.690.025) Gross profit/(loss) 410.302.339 (15.412.490) 394.889.849 General administrative,marketing selling distribution expenses (-) (68.394.061) (22.417.015) (90.811.076) Other operating income/expenses (-), net 22.688.506 172.543 4.269.504 27.130.553 Research and Development Expenses (-) (1.557.456) (1.557.456) Operating profit/(loss) 363.039.328 (15.239.947) (18.147.511) 329.651.870 Income from investment activities 51.805.811 51.805.811 Expense from investment activities (-) (409.865) (409.865) Profit/loss from invetments accounted by equity method 14.484.722 14.484.722 Operating profit/(loss) before financial income/expense 414.435.274 (15.239.947) (3.662.789) 395.532.538 Financial income/(expenses), (net) (99.586.875) (99.586.875) Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 314.848.399 (15.239.947) (3.662.789) 295.945.663 Tax (expense)/income from continuing operations (48.660.910) (48.660.910) Current period tax expense (-) (37.674.035) (37.674.035) Deferred tax income/expense (10.986.875) (10.986.875) Profit/(loss) for the period from continuing operations 266.187.489 (15.239.947) (3.662.789) 247.284.753 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 4. SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) 1 January 31 December 2018 Other segment information Cement Ready-mix concrete Undistributed Eliminataion Total Tangible assets 255.183.150 4.257.448 259.440.598 Intangible assets 1.272.948 1.272.948 Total investment expenses 256.456.098 4.257.448 260.713.546 Amortization expense (98.761.798) (7.750.978) (106.512.776) Impairment ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Redemption (2.503.729) (2.503.729) 1 January 31 December 2017 Other segment information Cement Ready-mix concrete Undistributed Eliminataion Total Tangible assets 413.213.226 8.129.572 421.342.798 Intangible assets 446.110 446.110 Total investment expenses 413.659.336 8.129.572 421.788.908 Amortization expense (64.943.920) (13.823.826) (78.767.746) Impairment Redemption (2.790.097) (2.790.097) 31 December 2018 Cement Ready-mix concrete Undistributed Eliminataion Total Assets and liabilities Tangible assets 1.675.621.108 1.431.137.895 3.106.759.003 Available for sale financial investments 64.478 64.478 162 Investments accounted by equity method 270.207.613 270.207.613 Undistributed assets 120.493.635 120.493.635 Total asset 1.675.621.108 1.431.137.895 390.765.726 3.497.524.729 Segment liabilities 1.961.783.786 84.261.563 2.046.045.349 Undistributed liabilities 1.451.479.380 1.451.479.380 Total liabilities 1.961.783.786 84.261.563 1.451.479.380 3.497.524.729 31 December 2017 Cement Ready-mix concrete Undistributed Eliminataion Total Assets and liabilities Segment assets 1.621.293.216 1.312.038.782 2.933.331.998 Available for sale financial investments 64.478 64.478 Investments accounted by equity method 254.063.121 254.063.121 Undistributed assets 54.989.966 54.989.966 Total asset 1.621.293.216 1.312.038.782 309.117.565 3.242.449.563 Segment liabilities 1.723.694.819 96.404.933 1.820.099.752 Undistributed liabilities 1.422.349.811 1.422.349.811 Total liabilities 1.723.694.819 96.404.933 1.422.349.811 3.242.449.563 The Group does not have any particular customer which comprises 10% or more of the total sales. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 5. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 04 The detail of cash and cash equivalents as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is as follows: 05 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 Cash 986.115 5.238.514 07 Cash at banks 190.650.314 171.975.245 Demand deposits 67.659.344 67.082.270 08 Time deposits with maturity of less than 3 months 122.990.970 104.892.975 Other cash and cash equivalents (*) 15.359.786 13.642.651 Checks in collection (**) 10.430.918 13.446.957 217.427.133 204.303.367 Blocked deposites (-) (430.708) Cash and cash equivalents in consolidated cash flow statement 216.996.425 204.303.367 (*) Other cash and cash equivalents consist of credit card receivables and average maturity is 58 days.(31 December 2017: 60 days). (**) The maturities are due but not collected as of December 31, 2018. The detail of bank deposits is stated below: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 163 TL 94.529.770 102.707.351 EUR 39.860.033 40.575.578 USD 52.688.506 28.692.316 GBP 2.116.863 Other 1.455.142 190.650.314 171.975.245 Time deposits as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are denominated in TL with the maturity of less than three months. As of 31 December 2018, effective weighted average interest rate on time deposits is 22,33% for TL (31 December 2017 TL: 13,43%). As of 31 December 2018, the blocked deposit amount is TL 430.708. (The Group does not have any blocked deposits as of 31 December 2017.) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 6. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES a. Trade Receivables Short-term trade receivables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Trade receivables 332.254.830 373.740.351 Notes receivable 106.381.838 160.548.800 Due from related parties (Note 27) 18.497 3.585.588 Allowance for doubtful receivables (-) (18.698.305) (10.764.929) ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 419.956.860 527.109.810 Collection terms of trade receivables’, notes receivables’ and checks’ vary based on the type of the product and agreements made with the customers and the average term is 96 days (31 December 201791 days). Effective interest rates used when determining the amortized cost are 19,03% for TL, 4,79% for USD and 2,47% for EUR (31 December 2017 TL: 13,53%, USD: 3,49%, EUR: 2,3%). The movement of the provision for doubtful receivables for the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is as follows: Movements of allowance for doubtful receivables 2018 2017 Opening balance 10.764.929 11.747.372 Provisions during the period (Note 22) 7.045.950 164 Reversal of the provision (-) (Note 22) (609.209) (1.107.650) Currency translation difference 1.496.635 125.207 Closing balance 18.698.305 10.764.929 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 6. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES (continued) 04 The long term trade receivables for the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is as follows: 05 Long term trade receivables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 Notes receivables 700.600 1.320.597 07 Trade receivables 2.331.061 08 700.600 3.651.658 b. Trade payables Short-term trade payables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Trade payables 237.493.781 278.746.453 Trade payables to related parties (Note 27) 58.574.646 11.999.811 296.068.427 290.746.264 The average payment period of trade payables is 74 days (31 December 2017: 67 days). Effective interest rates used when determining the amortized cost are 19,03% for TL, 4,79% for USD and 2,47% for EUR (31 December 2017 TL: 13,53%, USD: 3,49%, EUR 2,3%). 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 7. FINANCIAL BORROWINGS The detail of Group’s financial borrowings as of the balance sheet date is stated below: Borrowings 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Short-term borrowings 788.523.502 649.286.713 Current portion of long-term borrowings 240.587.041 177.801.905 1.029.110.543 827.088.618 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Long-term borrowings 451.361.209 549.748.773 451.361.209 549.748.773 Total borrowings 1.480.471.752 1.376.837.391 The details of the borrowings and financial lease liabilities as of 31 December 2018 are as follows: Weighted average Secured/ Interest Currency interest Original Unsecured type type rate (%) Balance Short-term Long-term 31 December 2018 Secured Floating(*) EUR 2,44% 66.465.676 229.462.700 171.192.396 400.655.096 Unsecured Fixed EUR 2,31% 18.256.045 39.396.236 70.651.202 110.047.438 166 Secured Fixed USD 4,99% 21.314.445 112.133.164 112.133.164 Unsecured Fixed USD 3,65% 19.451.747 102.333.694 102.333.694 Unsecured Fixed TL 16,56% 506.496.489 388.595.361 117.901.128 506.496.489 Secured Fixed TL 15,35% 248.805.866 157.189.388 91.616.483 248.805.871 1.029.110.543 451.361.209 1.480.471.752 (*) Çimsa has made interest rate swap transactions in order to hedge its cash flow risk for the long term loan of 42.058.824 EUR with floating interest rate. Maturity date of this transaction is 29 March 2022, financial risk hedge accounting applied and accounted under equity (Note 19). The details of the borrowings and financial lease liabilities as of 31 December 2017 are as follows: Weighted average Secured/ Interest Currency interest Original Unsecured type type rate (%) Balance Short-term Long-term 31 December 2017 Secured Fixed EUR 1,90 21.018.146 45.236.938 49.670.500 94.907.438 Unsecured Fixed EUR 2,47 10.211.944 4.749.730 10.066.796 14.816.526 Secured Floating(*) EUR 2,45 55.000.000 58.435.880 189.916.620 248.352.500 Unsecured Fixed TL 12,79 932.007.227 631.912.370 300.094.857 932.007.227 Unsecured Fixed USD 3,20 23.000.000 86.753.700 86.753.700 827.088.618 549.748.773 1.376.837.391 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 7. FINANCIAL BORROWINGS (continued) 04 The repayment schedule of the borrowings as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is as follows: 05 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 To be paid within 1 year 1.029.110.543 827.088.618 07 To be paid between 1-2 years 263.350.657 314.908.030 To be paid between 2-3 years 98.817.384 88.575.714 08 To be paid between 3-4 years 89.193.168 81.464.273 To be paid between 4-5 years 63.137.529 More than 5 years 1.663.227 1.480.471.752 1.376.837.391 8. OTHER RECEIVABLES AND OTHER PAYABLES a. Other Receivables Short-term Other Receivables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Due from personnel 600.597 491.701 Receivables from insurance claims 600.526 80.387 Other miscellaneous receivables (*) 897.747 19.608.045 Provision for doubtful other receivables (-) (753.646) (753.646) 167 1.345.224 19.426.487 (*) Other miscellaneous receivables consists of provision for other doubtful receivables. (31 December 2017: Other miscellaneous receivables consists of the sales of the old factory land of Afyon Çimento and the sale of the scraps of old factory. It was collected during the year and closed (31 December 2017: TL 17.112.871 and TL 1.742.061 respectively)). Short-term Other Receivables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Other receivables from related parties (Note 27) 248.597 248.597 Long-term Other Receivables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Deposits and guarantees given 3.682.965 3.497.796 3.682.965 3.497.796 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 8. OTHER RECEIVABLES AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued) b. Other payables Short-term Other Payables 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Deposits and guarantees received 8.690.040 6.512.984 Taxes and funds payable 3.003.942 3.403.308 Other payables to related parties (Note 27) 1.572.923 902.084 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 13.266.905 10.818.376 9. INVENTORIES Inventories 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Raw materials 76.777.716 89.419.395 Work-in progress 68.653.471 31.764.735 Finished goods 38.740.746 22.556.355 Other inventories 10.125.863 6.908.803 Inventory impairment provision (-) (4.042.673) (3.874.368) 190.255.123 146.774.920 168 Inventory impairement provision movement Inventory impairment provision movement 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 3.874.368 3.743.566 Provisions during the period (Note 21) 168.305 311.297 Reversal of the provision (-) (Note 21) (180.495) Closing balance 4.042.673 3.874.368 The Group allocates an allowance for the impairment on the inventories of finished goods, work in progress and raw materials in the cases when their net realizable values are lower than their costs or when they are classified as slow moving inventories. The provision has been recognized under cost of sales. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 10. PREPAID EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME 04 a. Prepaid Expenses 05 Short-term Provision Expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 Advances given to suppliers 5.013.739 1.727.857 07 Prepaid expenses 4.525.614 6.023.935 08 9.539.353 7.751.792 Long-term Provision Expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Advances given for the purchase of fixed assets 844.373 1.713.070 Prepaid expenses 68.598 118.038 912.971 1.831.108 b. Deferred income Short-term Deferred Income 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 169 Advanced received 12.804.558 6.133.215 Deferred income 2.585.018 1.679.937 Other advanced (*) 8.000.000 15.389.576 15.813.152 (*) As of 31 December 2017, other advanced consists of the transactions related to the sale of the Afyon Çimento land which has not yet been transferred to the land even if the land price has been collected. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land Machinery and Land Improvements Buildings Equipment Cost value Opening balance as of 1 January 2018 103.442.685 115.910.173 477.591.564 1.648.128.161 Currency translation difference 1.000.657 880.865 16.949.367 30.096.217 Effect of facility purchased (Note 12) 830.259 2.205.000 670.000 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Additions 422.056 60.076 11.426.617 3.503.825 Disposals (6.485.688) (57.267) (201.556) Transfers from construction in progress (*) 4.101.011 92.000.387 270.531.267 Closing balance as of 31 December 2018 99.209.969 120.894.858 600.172.935 1.952.727.914 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance as of 1 January 2018 (46.275.590) (128.112.282) (761.316.254) Currency translation difference (484.119) (8.022.441) (19.084.801) Charge for the period (6.772.930) (13.128.936) (77.711.580) Disposals 46.715 197.390 170 Closing balance as of 31 December 2018 (53.485.924) (149.263.659) (857.915.245) Net book value as of 31 December 2018 99.209.969 67.408.934 450.909.276 1.094.812.669 There is mortgage or pledge over assets of the Group amounting to TL 28.288.198 as of December 31, 2018 (December 31, 2017 TL 97.082.197). As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, there are no tangible assets acquired through financial leasing. (*) Construction in progress is related to investments made by the Group to Afyon, Niğde and Eskişehir factories. As of December 31, 2018, the capitalized financing cost and financing income of the construction in progress is amounting to TL 10.000.775 (31 December 2017: 61.169.601 TL). The total amount of contruction in progress is 3.327.874 TL which is transferred to intangible assets. 01 02 03 04 Furniture and Other Tangible Leasehold Construction in Vehicles Fixture Assets Improvements Progress Total 05 06 88.150.149 16.944.713 1.158.971 2.270.359 366.935.964 2.820.532.739 07 624.958 490.187 218.790 5.437.224 55.698.265 08 3.705.259 919.194 330.259 7.460 239.065.852 255.735.339 (2.865.729) (73.193) (52.817) (9.736.250) 2.240.749 (372.201.288) (3.327.874) 86.828.572 19.932.715 1.332.404 2.270.359 239.237.752 3.122.607.478 (60.183.728) (9.315.877) (564.065) (2.204.862) (1.007.972.658) (511.503) (317.423) (306.730) (28.727.017) (6.944.573) (1.901.695) (25.118) (27.944) (106.512.776) 2.840.806 39.436 3.124.347 171 (64.798.998) (11.495.559) (895.913) (2.232.806) (1.140.088.104) 22.029.574 8.437.156 436.491 37.553 239.237.752 1.982.519.374 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) Land Machinery and Land Improvements Buildings Equipment Cost value Opening balance as of 1 January 2017 105.784.429 89.555.167 279.784.124 1.147.475.015 Currency translation difference 1.141.339 610.533 10.508.021 14.972.702 Additions 5.173.695 542.143 3.299.504 40.337.578 Disposals (15.333.611) (5.711.334) (15.329.160) (93.389.818) ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Transfers from construction in progress (*) 6.676.833 30.913.664 199.329.075 538.732.684 Closing balance as of 31 December 2017 103.442.685 115.910.173 477.591.564 1.648.128.161 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance as of 1 January 2017 (45.383.445) (129.387.540) (774.172.035) Currency translation difference (224.381) (3.714.119) (9.503.970) Charge for the period (6.161.548) (10.339.783) (56.242.866) Disposals 5.493.784 15.329.160 78.602.617 Closing balance as of 172 31 December 2017 (46.275.590) (128.112.282) (761.316.254) Net book value as of 31 December 2017 103.442.685 69.634.583 349.479.282 886.811.907 (*) Construction in progress is related to investments made by the Group to Afyon, Niğde and Eskişehir factories. As of December 31, 2017, the capitalized financing cost and financing income of the construction in progress is amounting to TL 61.238.855 and TL 69.254, respectively, and net financing cost is TL 61.169.601. (31 December 2016: 44.712.319 TL). Afyon Cement’s new factory, located in the provincial borders of Afyonkarahisar, which was commissioned in 2014, has been in operation since April 2017 after the completion of the test production and since then Group terminated production in the old factory. The total amount of contruction in progress is 208.869 TL which is transferred to intangible assets. (**) Within the year 2017, group has review the useful lives of mixers which is accounted in vehicles and determined the economic life of 7 years to be 10 years. Group has implemented this amendment to prospective years because of possible prediction changes. If there had been no change in useful lives, the depreciation charge for the current period and accumulated depreciation would have been higher amonuting to TL 2.933.304. 01 02 03 04 Furniture and Other Tangible Leasehold Construction in Vehicles(**) Fixture Assets Improvements Progress Total 05 06 83.449.772 17.515.405 1.134.592 2.283.859 779.181.748 2.506.164.111 07 526.737 293.337 28.052.669 08 5.923.397 412.219 51.955 365.602.307 421.342.798 (2.259.800) (3.170.909) (27.576) (13.500) (135.235.708) 510.043 1.894.661 (777.848.091) 208.869 88.150.149 16.944.713 1.158.971 2.270.359 366.935.964 2.820.532.739 (57.480.354) (10.510.218) (514.331) (2.178.809) (1.019.626.732) (267.197) (251.118) (13.960.785) (4.276.561) (1.655.194) (52.241) (39.553) (78.767.746) 1.840.384 3.100.653 2.507 13.500 104.382.605 (60.183.728) (9.315.877) (564.065) (2.204.862) (1.007.972.658) 173 27.966.421 7.628.836 594.906 65.497 366.935.964 1.812.560.081 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) The distribution of depreciation charge for the property, plant and equipment is as follows: 1 January 1 January 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Cost of sales 103.742.431 76.484.697 General administrative expenses 2.453.502 2.009.192 Marketing, sales and distrubition expenses 229.739 212.640 Research and development expenses 87.104 61.217 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 106.512.776 78.767.746 12. GOODWILL The goodwill amount presented in the Group’s financial statements as of 31 December 2018 is related to Eskişehir and Ankara Cement Factories (“Standart Çimento”) acquired in 2005, Çimsa Cement located in TRNC, Bilecik Ready Mix Cement Facilities acquired in 2008, Afyon Çimento Sanayi Türk Anonim Şirketi acquired in 2012 and Cırgalan ReadyMixed Concrete Facility acquired in 2018. The movement of goodwill for the periods ending 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is stated below. Effect of the acquired Currency Translation 31 December 2018 Opening subsidiary Differences Total Eskişehir 132.140.806 132.140.806 174 Afyon Çimento Sanayi T.A.Ş. 11.358.393 11.358.393 Bilecik Hazır Beton 4.293.971 4.293.971 Çimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. 326.082 326.082 Cırgalan Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility 3.705.259 3.705.259 148.119.252 3.705.259 151.824.511 Effect of the acquired Currency Translation 31 December 2017 Opening subsidiary Differences Total Eskişehir 132.140.806 132.140.806 Afyon Çimento Sanayi T.A.Ş. 11.358.393 11.358.393 Bilecik Hazır Beton 4.293.971 4.293.971 Çimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. 326.082 326.082 148.119.252 148.119.252 Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, to which the goodwill relates annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impair. Recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is determined less than the carrying amounts of the net assets assigned to the cash-generating unit, an impairment loss is recognized. Recoverable amount is calculated between the dates of 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2023 through 5 years business plan which is approved by the management. The main assumptions used in the discounted cash flow considers 20% the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and sales price and cost price increases in line with macroeconomic estimations. As a result of assessment, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount and therefore no impairment has been identified as of December 31, 2018. Cırgalan ready-mix concrete facility is purchased with the amount of TL 4.640.259, the valuation of goodwill amounting to TL 3.705.259 after emerging held for property has been accounted in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet. According to IFRS 3 Business Combinations Standard, the Group have accounted the provisional value due to the determination of the completion of the initial recognition process according to the combinations. In subsequent periods of the initial recognition, an impairment test will be performed for the cash-generating units for the respective groups. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 04 Mining Other Intangible Rights Assets Total 05 Cost value 06 Opening balance as of 1 January 2018 30.936.530 10.946.209 41.882.739 07 Currency translation difference 85.264 201.916 287.180 08 Additions 1.107.773 165.175 1.272.948 Disposals (337.023) (337.023) Transfers from investments 3.327.874 3.327.874 Closing balance as of 31 December 2018 31.792.544 14.641.174 46.433.718 Accumulated amortization Opening balance as of 1 January 2018 (19.389.759) (5.651.622) (25.041.381) Currency translation difference (451.977) (226.374) (678.351) Charge for period (1.023.718) (1.480.011) (2.503.729) Disposals Closing balance as of 31 December 2018 (20.865.454) (7.358.007) (28.223.461) Net book value as of 31 December 2018 10.927.090 7.283.167 18.210.257 175 Mining Other Intangible Rights Assets Total Cost value Opening balance as of 1 January 2017 30.936.530 10.453.710 41.390.240 Currency translation difference 734.193 734.193 Additions 446.110 446.110 Disposals (478.935) (478.935) Transfers from investments (208.869) (208.869) Closing balance as of 31 December 2017 30.936.530 10.946.209 41.882.739 Accumulated amortization Opening balance as of 1 January 2017 (17.412.895) (5.030.627) (22.443.522) Currency translation difference (176.783) (176.783) Charge for period (1.976.864) (813.233) (2.790.097) Disposals 369.021 369.021 Closing balance as of 31 December 2017 (19.389.759) (5.651.622) (25.041.381) Net book value as of 31 December 2017 11.546.771 5.294.587 16.841.358 The mining rights are amortized in proportion to the reserves consumed in the current year to the total reserves. The remaining amortization period depends on the duration of the depletion of the remaining reserves. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (continued) The distribution of amortization charge for intangible assets is as follows: 1 January 1 January 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Cost of sales 2.438.608 2.709.229 General administrative expenses 57.673 71.169 Marketing, sales and distrubition expenses 5.400 7.532 Research and development expenses 2.048 2.167 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 2.503.729 2.790.097 14. PROVISION, CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES a. Short-Term Provisions As of 31 December 2018, bonus and premium provisions for employee benefits is TL 3.428.000. (31 December 2017: TL 4.500.000) Short-term provisions 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Provision for litigations 16.828.717 14.930.295 Short-term provisions for employee benefits 3.428.000 4.500.000 20.256.717 19.430.295 176 The movement of “Provision for the litigations” as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is stated below: Provision for the litigation movement 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 14.930.295 13.952.900 Additional provision (Note 22) 2.228.249 1.300.306 Provision no longer required (-) (Note 22) (329.827) (322.911) Closing balance 16.828.717 14.930.295 As of 31 December 2018, the Group has a provision amounting to TL 16.828.717 based on the opinion of the legal advisors related to the cases which have a risk against the Group (31 December 2017: TL 14.930.295). (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 14. PROVISION, CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (continued) 04 b. Long-Term Provisions 05 Long-term provisions 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 Long-term employee benefits 33.842.645 32.773.566 07 Other long term provisions 4.260.089 4.612.793 08 38.102.734 37.386.359 31 December 31 December Other long term provisions 2017 2016 Recultivation provision 4.260.089 4.612.793 4.260.089 4.612.793 The operations of the Group such as mining, cement production are subject to the Environment Law, and to the Land Protection and Utilization Law. All liabilities such as taxes, duties and emission fees resulting from this legislation have been fulfilled by the Group. This legislation addresses the costs that could arise from recovering the damage, pollution in the land while vacating the mines. Accordingly, the management calculated the estimated cost of plans that is deemed to meet the requirements of legislation related with the mining areas in which the Group operates. The Group has accounted and disclosed the recultivation provision amounting to TL 4.260.089 under “Other Long Term Provisions” as of 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: TL 4.612.793). 177 Movement of recultivation provision as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is as follows: 1 January1 JanuaryRecultivation provision movement 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 4.612.793 4.102.548 Additional provision (Note 22) 323.130 510.245 Provision no longer required (-) (Note 22) (675.834) Closing balance 4.260.089 4.612.793 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 15. COMMITMENTS As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the details of the given letter of guarantee are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Original Currency Orginal Amount TL Balance Original Amount TL Balance Letters of guarantees received TL 408.959.306 408.959.306 326.778.643 326.778.643 Letters of guarantees received USD 23.711.521 124.743.942 19.465.349 73.421.351 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Letters of guarantees received EUR 11.399.414 68.715.670 13.597.503 61.399.523 Letters of guarantees received Other 26.000 26.000 26.000 26.000 Mortgages recevied TL 34.306.423 34.306.423 31.407.023 31.407.023 Mortgages recevied EURO 592.906 3.574.037 1.007.000 4.547.109 Mortgages recevied RUB 175.174.835 13.197.672 175.174.835 11.398.627 Checks and Notes received TL 19.742.262 19.742.262 20.196.573 20.196.573 Checks and Notes received EURO 70.000 421.960 75.000 338.663 Checks and Notes received USD 47.300 248.841 47.300 178.411 Pledge TL 15.835.159 15.835.159 16.452.988 16.452.988 Total received CPM 689.771.272 546.144.911 178 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 15. COMMITMENTS (continued) 04 As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the details of the CPM given are as follows: 05 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Original Original TL Original TL 06 Currency Amount Balance Amount Balance 07 A. Total CPM given for the 08 Company’s own legal entity TL 21.486.720 21.486.720 72.407.321 72.407.321 USD 21.148.223 111.258.686 55.830.006 210.585.200 EUR 4.966.275 29.936.706 19.153.502 86.487.638 B. Total CPM given in favour of subsidiaries consolidated on line-by-line basis C. Total CPM given in favour of other 3rd parties for ordinary trading operations D. Other CPM given i. Total CPM given in favour of parent entity ii. Total CPM given in favour 179 of other Group companies out of scope of clause B and C iii.Total CPM given in favour of other 3rd parties out of scope of clause C 162.682.112 369.480.159 Investigation of the Competition Authority In the article 77234294-110.01.04-E.9083 dated 20.07.2018, the Competition Authority is notified to Afyon Çimento with the decision dated 18.07.2018 and numbered 18-23, the decision for Afyon Çimento is included in the investigation followed with the file number 2017-5-046 to determine whether there has been a violation of Article 4 of the Law on the Protection of Competition No. 4054. The investigation process continues. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 16. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS a. Employee Benefit Obligations 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Social security payables 2.710.908 2.176.143 Personnel witholding tax 2.624.202 5.244.971 Wage and salary payables to personnel 731.667 1.305.736 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 6.066.777 8.726.850 b. Short Term Employee Benefits For the year ended December 31, 2018 the bonus accrual is TL 3.428.000 (December 31, 2017: TL 4.500.000) (Note: 14). c. Long Term Employee Benefits 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Retirement pay provision 29.122.963 28.261.383 Provision for unpaid vacation liability 3.637.726 3.784.774 Seniority provision 1.081.956 727.409 180 33.842.645 32.773.566 The movement of “Retirement Pay Provision” for the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is stated below: 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 28.261.383 23.635.650 Service cost 4.640.853 3.961.671 Interest cost (Note 22) 1.034.352 868.692 Actuarial loss/(gain) 880.424 2.089.002 Provision paid during the period (6.025.599) (2.550.676) Currency translation difference 331.550 257.044 Closing balance 29.122.963 28.261.383 In accordance with the existing social legislation in Turkey, the Group is required to make lump-sum termination indemnities to each employee who has completed over one year of service with the Group and whose employment is terminated due to retirement or for reasons other than resignation or misconduct. Such payments are calculated on the basis of one month’s pay limited to a maximum of full TL 5.434,42 as of 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: full TL 4.732,48). GRI-Standards 201-3 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 16. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued) 04 As of 31 December 2018, retirement pay provison is reflected in the consolidated financial statements by using the “Projection Method” based on actuary method and assumptions made by professional actuaries. 05 06 The main actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liability at the balance sheet dates are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 07 Discount rate 14,90% 9,00% 08 Estimated increase rate 9,23% 5,00% Net discount rate 5,10% 3,81% Employee turnover rate 3,73% 3,92% The movement of “Provision for Unpaid Vacation Liability” for the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is stated below: 1 January 1 January 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 3.784.774 2.889.926 Additional provision (Note 22) 406.446 1.273.594 Provision paid during the period (582.344) (402.498) Currency translation difference 28.850 23.752 Closing balance 3.637.726 3.784.774 181 The movement of “Seniority Provision” for the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is stated below: 1 January 1 January 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 727.409 866.149 Additional provision (Note 22) 669.153 99.747 Provision paid during the period (314.606) (38.931) Provisions no longer required (-) (Note 22) (199.556) Closing balance 1.081.956 727.409 GRI-Standards 201-3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 17. OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES a. Other Assets Other current assets 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Deferred VAT (1) 72.343.398 41.323.224 Job and personnel advances 800.807 522.751 Other current assets 3.014.861 1.341.091 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 76.159.066 43.187.066 Other non-current assets 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Deferred VAT (2) 13.920.096 26.940.729 Export VAT (3) 3.902.117 4.927.552 Other non-current assets 2.154 2.326 17.824.367 31.870.606 (1) MTL 54.4 of Deferred VAT is related with the purchases made as part of new investment in Niğde and Eskişehir. (31 December 2017: MTL 14). Due to the new investment of Afyon Çimento T.A.Ş, the portion of VAT amounting to TL 13.920.096 will be deducted in a longer period than a year (2) according to the estimations of the Group. (31 December 2017: TL 26.940.729.) According to VAT Law no 11/c, the VAT amount regarding to the goods which are rendered to export dealers by manufacturers is not collected, and (3) 182 are recorded to export VAT and deferred VAT accounts. Uncollected VAT is declared on related VAT declaration; accrued VAT is deferred and recorded to deferred VAT accounts. After verification of the realization of export, tax administration makes cancellation for the deferred VAT. b. Other Liabilities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Other short term liabilities 8.575.707 6.193.570 8.575.707 6.193.570 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 18. EQUITY, RESERVES AND OTHER EQUITY ITEMS 04 As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the composition of shareholders is as follows: 05 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 Shareholders (*) (%) Amount (%) Amount 07 Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 54,54 73.674.201 49,42 66.765.208 08 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited (**) 9,07 12.246.809 9,31 12.576.362 Akçansa Çimento San. ve Tic. A.Ş. 8,98 12.130.560 8,98 12.130.560 Adana Çimento San. T.A.Ş. 5,11 6.908.993 Hacı Ömer Sabancı Vakfı 0,11 150.000 0,11 150.000 Other shareholders 27,30 36.882.872 27,07 36.553.319 Nominal share capital 100 135.084.442 100 135.084.442 Inflation adjustment 41.741.516 41.741.516 Rearranged share capital 176.825.958 176.825.958 (*) Public quotation of the Group in BIST is 35,58% as of 31 December 2018 (31 December 2017: 40,68%). (**) Aberdeen Asset Management Limited holds 9,07% of the total capital as being the discretionary portfolio manager of the managed multiple portfolios (31 December 2017: 9,31%). The share capital of the Group as of 31 December 2018 consists of 135.084.442 shares (31 December 2017: 183 135.084.442 shares). The nominal value per share is 1 TL (31 December 2017: per share 1 TL). Restricted reserves and retained earnings Legal reserves The legal reserves consist of first and second legal reserves in accordance with the Turkish Commercial Code. The first legal reserve is appropriated out of the statutory profits at the rate of 5%, until the total reserve reaches a maximum of 20% of the Group’s share capital. The second legal reserve is appropriated at the rate of 10% of all distributions in excess of 5% of the Group’s share capital. The legal reserves are not available for distribution unless they exceed 50% of the issued capital, other than that legal reserves can not be used. Retained earnings The Ordinary General Assembly of 2017 has been held on 27 March 2018, the decisions to pay TL 67.542.221 of dividend (2017: TL 191.819.908) and to allocate TL 6.078.800 of “Legal reserves” (2017: TL 18.506.569) and TL 154.730.921 “Extraordinary reserves” (2017: TL 35.692.976) were unanimously approved and decided to pay by 29 March 2018. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 18. EQUITY, RESERVES AND OTHER EQUITY ITEMS (continued) Profit distribution Listed companies distribute dividend in accordance with the Communiqué No. II-19.1 issued by the CMB which is effective from February 1, 2014. Companies distribute dividends in accordance with their dividend payment policies settled and dividend payment decision taken in general assembly and also in conformity with relevant legislations. The communiqué does not constitute a minimum dividend rate. Companies distribute dividend in accordance with the method defined in their dividend policy or articles of incorporation. In addition, dividend can be distributed by fixed or variable instalments and advance dividend can ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report be paid in accordance with profit on financial statements of the Company. Companies should include at least the following in their profit distribution policies: a) Whether dividends will be distributed, and if distributed, the dividend distribution rate for shareholders and for others participating in the distribution. b) Payment type of dividend distribution. c) Time of dividend distribution; on condition that the distribution procedures to be started at the latest of the end of the annual period in which general assembly meeting was held in which the distribution was agreed upon. d) Whether dividend advances will be distributed, and if distributed, the related principles. In accordance with the Turkish Commercial Code (TCC), unless the required reserves and the dividend for shareholders as determined in the article of association or in the dividend distribution policy of the company are set aside, no decision may be made to set aside other reserves, to transfer profits to the subsequent year or to distribute dividends to the 184 holders of usufruct right certificates, to the members of the board of directors or to the employees; and no dividend can be distributed to these persons unless the determined dividend for shareholders is paid in cash. As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the composition of consolidated legal reserves, extraordinary reserves, accumulated profit, share premiums and other reserves existing in the statutory records of the Company can be summarized as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Legal reserves 193.104.976 187.026.176 Other capital reserves (*) 52.435.267 52.435.267 Extraordinary reserves 437.867.476 323.285.999 Accumulated profit due to inflation difference (228.519.540) 227.764.716 Share premiums 30.131 30.131 Special funds (83.001.513) (13.381.575) 371.916.797 777.160.714 In accordance with dividend principles belonging to 2017 and approved in Ordinary General Assembly held on March 27, 2018, it is decided to allocate (*) TL 154.692.976 of TL 228.730.492, which is net distributable profit of the period included in legal records prepated in accordance with Tax Procedure Law, as Extraordinary Reserve and Legal Reserve respectively. Foreign currency translation differences According to TAS 21 “Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates”, during the consolidation, the assets and liabilities of Group’s subsidiaries and joint ventures in foreign countries are translated to Turkish Lira with respect to the exchange rates on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated via the average exchange rates. The differences emerged as a result of using the closing and average exchange rates are accounted for as foreign currency translation differences in the comprehensive statement of income. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 18. EQUITY, RESERVES AND OTHER EQUITY ITEMS (continued) 04 Non-controlling interests 05 All non-controlling shares are eliminated from the equity accounts, including paid-in capital, of the consolidated subsidiaries 06 and presented as a non-controlling interest in shareholders’ equity in the consolidated balance sheet. 07 Available for sales financial assets revaluation reserve 08 Exsa, which is the Group’s investment accounted by equity method, purchased shares of Exsa Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. Those shares are classified as available for sale financial assets in financial statements and accounted in available for sales financial assets revaluation reserve under shareholder’s equity by taking into consideration its deferred tax effect. 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Fair Value Fair value Contract Contract Amount Assets Liabilities Amount Assets Liabilities Short term derivative financial instruments Hedging against impaired risk Cross Currency Swap 90.420.000 22.000.136 Hedging against cash flow risk 185 Forward foreign exchange transactions 131.213.033 22.511.102 59.962.424 4.056.926 Marketable securities Forward foreign exchange transactions 68.082.233 19.561.894 58.853.880 3.581.475 Total short term derivative financial insturments 22.511.102 41.562.030 3.581.475 4.056.926 Long term derivative financial instruments Hedging against impaired risk Interest rate swap 221.267.267 1.395.978 248.352.500 798.156 Hedging against cash flow risk Forward foreign exchange transactions 153.185.034 55.936.459 189.498.620 6.794.411 Marketable securities Forward foreign exchange transactions 153.185.034 55.936.459 189.498.620 6.794.412 Total long term derivative financial instruments 57.332.437 55.936.459 6.794.411 7.592.568 Total derivative financial instruments 79.843.539 97.498.489 10.375.886 11.649.495 As of December 31, 2018, the Group has realized 42 million sell Euro buy Turkish Lira forward transaction with maturity of 5 years expired on March 29, 2022 and with the same forward, the Group has protected a portion of its sales by foreign exchange forward contracts. Changes arising from forward transactions are recognized in the statement of change in shareholder’s equity considering the deferred tax effect. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) As of December 31, 2018, the Group has realized 42 million nominal value sell Turkish lira buy Euro forward transaction with maturity of 5 years expired on March 29, 2022. Changes arising from forward transactions are recognized in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. As of December 31, 2018, interest rate swap transactions consist of swap transactions in which Çimsa’s long term borrowings of EUR 42 million of floating rates are replaced with fixed installment payments to hedge against cash flow risk. Changes arising from interest rate swap transactions are recognized in the statement of change in shareholder’s equity considering the deferred tax effect. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 20. REVENUE 1 January1 JanuarySales 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Domestic sales 1.081.030.595 1.092.191.085 Export sales 869.404.499 561.229.724 Sales discounts (-) (42.726.383) (37.195.060) Other deductions (-) (207.750.656) (125.645.875) 1.699.958.055 1.490.579.874 Cost of sales (-) (Note:21) (1.293.977.441) (1.095.690.025) Gross income 405.980.614 394.889.849 186 21. OPERATING EXPENSES BY NATURE The detail of costs of sales for the periods between 1 January 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Cost of sales (-) 1 January1 JanuaryCost of sales 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Direct material and supplies expenses (503.033.981) (401.630.174) Energy costs (466.365.193) (347.817.990) Other production expenses (134.853.580) (159.444.794) Depreciation and amortization expenses (106.181.039) (79.193.926) Direct labor cost (71.584.320) (63.324.236) Total production cost (1.282.018.113) (1.051.411.120) Change in work-in-process 36.888.736 (15.861.240) Change in finished goods 16.184.391 2.759.771 Inventory impairment provision (Note 9) (168.305) (130.802) Cost of trade goods sold and other (64.864.150) (31.046.634) (1.293.977.441) (1.095.690.025) (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 21. OPERATING EXPENSES BY NATURE (continued) 04 The detail of general administration expenses for the periods between 1 January 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 05 1 January1 January06 General administration expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 07 Personnel expenses (39.224.293) (33.182.695) 08 Consultancy expenses (24.882.339) (13.109.058) Tax, duty and charges (8.275.046) (6.937.384) IT expenses (5.940.324) (3.765.772) Retirement pay provisions (6.917.478) (3.316.895) Rent expenses (5.120.836) (2.211.719) Travel expenses (4.711.907) (2.798.197) Representation expenses (2.499.883) (2.896.939) Communication and advertising expenses (2.319.313) (2.097.567) Depreciation and amortization expenses (2.511.175) (2.080.361) Insurance expenses (1.777.951) (1.729.727) Maintenance expenses (517.809) (713.684) Other miscellaneous expenses (3.925.023) (4.986.883) (108.623.377) (79.826.881) 187 The detail of marketing, selling and distribution expense for the periods between 1 January 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 1 January1 JanuaryMarketing, selling and distribution expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Personnel expenses (7.801.229) (6.046.209) Travel expenses (1.615.290) (1.289.130) Insurance expenses (759.594) (491.143) Rent expenses (835.923) (464.272) Consultancy expenses (391.473) (271.673) Representation expenses (274.434) (230.602) Depreciation and amortization expenses (235.139) (220.172) Communication and advertising expenses (108.075) (112.775) Other miscellaneous expenses (2.199.961) (1.858.219) (14.221.118) (10.984.195) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 21. OPERATING EXPENSES BY NATURE (continued) The detail of research and development expenses for the periods between 1 January 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 1 January1 JanuaryResearch and development expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Personnel expenses (2.489.023) (743.980) Travel expenses (331.046) (239.454) ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Outsourced benefits and services (111.882) (58.236) Depreciation and amortization expenses (89.152) (63.384) Rent expenses (40.261) (26.587) Maintenance expenses (20.595) (2.225) Transportation expenses (5.611) (6.896) Representation expenses (4.118) (14.399) Other miscellaneous expenses (759.780) (402.295) (3.851.468) (1.557.456) 22. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 1 January1 JanuaryOther operating income 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 188 Foreign exchange gain from operating activities 87.724.619 45.942.983 Overdue and interest income from operating activities 2.245.872 936.473 Provisions no longer required (Note 6/14) 1.614.870 1.630.117 Premiums and incentives received 422.183 743.078 Sales of scrap and miscellaneous material 3.297.395 Insurance damage compensation income 1.051.695 Other income 6.185.068 1.664.048 98.192.612 55.265.789 1 January1 JanuaryOther operating expense 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Foreign exchange loss from operating activities (38.564.850) (14.882.739) Provision expenses (Note 6/14) (9.597.329) (3.253.621) Compensation and penalty expenses (3.326.248) (2.460.779) Interest expense of retirement pay provision (Note 16) (1.034.352) (868.692) Litigation, levy and court paid expenses (300.511) Donations and grants (271.341) (129.066) Other expenses (8.695.595) (6.540.339) (61.790.226) (28.135.236) (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 23. INCOME AND EXPENSE FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES 04 1 January1 JanuaryIncome from investment activities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 05 06 Fixed assets sales income (*) 28.279.013 48.587.152 Rent income 5.500.565 3.198.898 07 Dividend income 19.761 08 33.779.578 51.805.811 1 January1 JanuaryExpense from investment activities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Fixed asset sales expense (8.354) (409.865) (8.354) (409.865) (*) Fixed assets sales income is related to the ongoing sale of the old factory land of Afyon, which has sales transfer transactions completed as of December 31, 2018. 24. FINANCIAL INCOME/EXPENSE 1 January1 JanuaryFinancial income 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 189 Interest income 5.141.861 2.728.922 Total financial income 5.141.861 2.728.922 1 January1 JanuaryFinancial expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Interest expenses of bank borrowings (139.443.432) (85.858.599) Foreign exchange loss on bank borrowings (76.268.267) (13.122.788) Other financial expenses (2.476.679) (3.334.410) Total financial expenses (218.188.378) (102.315.797) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 25. INCOME TAXES The Group is subject to taxation in accordance with the tax procedures and the legislation effective in the countries where the Group is operating. The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity. In such case, the tax is also recognised in shareholders’ equity. The current income tax charge is calculated in accordance with the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the subsidiaries and associates of the Group operate. Under the Turkish Tax ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Code, companies having head office or place of business in Turkey are subject to corporate tax. Under the Turkish taxation system, tax losses can be carried forward to be offset against future taxable income for five years. Tax losses cannot retrospectively offset against the profits of previous years. Furthermore, provisional corporate taxes are paid at 20% (will be applied as 22% for 2018, 2019 and 2020 tax periods) over profits declared for interim periods in order to be deducted from the final corporate tax. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, income tax provisions have been accrued in accordance with the prevailing tax legislation. 75% of the income derived by the Company from the sale of participation shares, preferential rights, founders’ shares and redeemed shares and 50% of the income derived by the Company from the sale of immovable property which are carried in assets for at least for two years is exempt from corporate tax with the condition that the relevant income should be added to the share capital or kept under a special reserve account under equity for 5 years in accordance with 190 the Corporate Tax Law. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements. Currently enacted tax rates are used to determine deferred income tax at the balance sheet date. Since the applicable tax rate has been changed to 22% for the 3 years beginning from 1 January 2019, 22% tax rate is used in the deferred tax calculation of 31 December 2018 for the temporary differences expected to be realized/closed within 3 years (for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020). However, since the corporate tax rate after 2020 is 20%, 20% tax rate is used for the temporary differences expected to be realized/closed after 2020. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences, where deferred tax assets resulting from deductible temporary differences are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilized. Provided that deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is legally eligible, they may be offset against one another. In Turkey, the corporate tax rate is 20%. However, in accordance with the addition of temporary 10 th article to the Corporate Tax Law, 22% corporate tax rate will be applied to the profits of the entities related to their to 2018, 2019 and 2020 tax periods (for the entities with special accounting period, tax periods commenced in the related year) rather than 20%. This rate is applicable to the tax base derived upon exemptions and deductions stated in the tax legislation and by addition of disallowable expenses to the commercial revenues of the companies with respect to the tax legislation. Corporate tax is required to be filed by the twenty-fifth day of the fourth month following the balance sheet date and taxes must be paid by the end of the fourth month. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 25. INCOME TAXES (continued) 04 The tax legislation provides for a temporary tax of 20% (will be applied as 22% for 2018, 2019 and 2020 tax periods) to be calculated based on earnings generated for each quarter. Temporary tax is declared by the 14th day of the second 05 month following each quarter and corresponding tax is payable by the 17th day of the same month. The amounts thus 06 calculated and paid are offset against the final corporate tax liability for the year. If there is excess temporary tax paid even if it is already offset, this amount may be refunded or offset. 07 Corporate tax losses can be carried forward for a maximum period of 5 years following the year in which the losses were 08 incurred. The tax authorities can inspect tax returns and the related accounting records for a retrospective maximum period of five years. 15% withholding applies to dividends distributed by resident real persons, those who are not liable to income and corporation tax, non-resident real persons, non-resident corporations (excluding those that acquire dividend through a permanent establishment or permanent representative in Turkey) and non-resident corporations exempted from income and corporation tax. Dividend distribution by resident corporations to resident corporations is not subject to a withholding tax. Furthermore, in the event the profit is not distributed or included in capital, no withholding tax shall be applicable. Turkish tax legislation does not permit a parent company and its subsidiaries to file a consolidated tax return. Therefore, tax liabilities, as reflected in these consolidated financial statements, have been calculated on a separate-entity basis. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, current income tax payables have been offset against the prepaid taxes in entity basis but such offset amounts have been classified in gross basis in the consolidated financial statement. In accordance with the “General Communiqué” (Serial no:1) on “Disguised Profit Distribution Through Transfer Pricing” was published in November 2007, the forms should be prepared until the deadline of annual corporate tax return. 191 As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, corporate tax payables are summarized as follows: Distribution of tax expenses are as follows: Assets related to the current period taxes 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Prepaid taxes and funds 2.526.430 3.606.207 2.526.430 3.606.207 Corporate tax payable 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Current period corporate tax provision (11.217.802) (37.674.035) Prepaid taxes and funds (-) 5.106.303 28.426.344 (6.111.499) (9.247.691) 1 January1 JanuaryTax (expense)/income 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Current period corporate tax (expense)/income (11.217.802) (37.674.035) Deferred tax (expense)/income (10.036.216) (10.986.875) (21.254.018) (48.660.910) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 25. INCOME TAXES (continued) Detail of deferred tax assets and liabilities of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is as follows: Deferred tax assets: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Tax losses carried forward 9.686.657 3.367.977 Provision for employee benefits 1.792.720 6.417.496 Recultivation provision 805.203 597.030 Provision for doubtful receivables 7.764.268 869.614 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Investment allowance 5.110.370 867.830 Provision for litigations 3.685.602 2.899.924 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 3.049.594 114.109 Inventory impairment provision 755.307 942.363 Rediscount of receivables 272.248 1.436.762 Other 3.673.448 3.879.430 36.595.417 21.392.535 Deferred tax liabilities: Goodwill (24.589.322) (24.589.322) Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (20.677.588) (19.751.579) Fair value of derivative instruments (2.474.171) 192 Rediscount of payables and borrowings (1.289.005) (413.203) (46.555.915) (47.228.275) Net deferred tax asset/(liability) (9.960.498) (25.835.740) The balance sheet presentation of the deferred tax (assets)/ liabilities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Deferred tax (assets) 40.740.895 7.414.569 Deferred tax liabilities (50.701.393) (33.250.309) (9.960.498) (25.835.740) (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 25. INCOME TAXES (continued) 04 Deferred tax (assets)/liabilities movement 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 05 Opening balance 25.835.740 18.142.491 06 Deferred tax (income)/expense 10.036.216 10.986.875 Accounted under other comprehensive income (20.507.481) (1.649.839) 07 Currency translation difference (5.403.977) (1.643.787) 08 Closing balance 9.960.498 25.835.740 Tax reconciliation: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Profit before taxation 175.110.867 295.945.663 Effective statutory income tax rate 22% 20% Tax expense at the effective statutory income tax rate (38.524.391) (59.189.133) Reconciliation of tax provision calculated with deductible: Non-deductible expenses (1.156.403) (476.714) Investment allowance (*) 5.110.370 867.830 Tax exemption from sale of Afyon land 1.596.760 9.046.046 Tax rate change effect (22%-20%) (3.502.217) 1.063.138 Effect of the profit from investments accounted by equity method 8.513.807 2.896.944 193 Other 6.708.056 (2.869.021) Tax expense in the income statement (21.254.018) (48.660.910) “The Law on Amendment to Certain Laws and Decree Laws” (Law No: 6637) has been promulgated in the Official Gazette dated 7 April 2015 and the Article will enter into force as from 1 July 2015. Capital companies are allowed a deemed interest deduction that is equal to 50% of the interest calculated on the cash capital increase in the registered capital of the existing corporations or cash capital contributions of the newly incorporated corporations based on the average interest rate announced by the Central Bank of Turkey for TL denominated commercial loans, from their Corporate tax base of the relevant year. Within the scope of the authorization provision in the legal regulation, the Council of Ministers amended this rate with the Decision no. 2015/7910 published in the Official Gazette dated 31 December 2016. Accordingly, the deduction will be applied as follows; a) For publicly held capital companies whose shares are traded in the stock exchange, 25 points will be added to 50% rate where the ratio of the nominal value of shares followed up as tradable shares in the stock exchange by Merkezi Kayıt Kuruluşu A.Ş. to the registered paid-in or removed capital is 50% or less as of the last day of the year when the deduction is benefited from, 50 points will be added to 50% rate where the above-mentioned ratio is above 50%. b) If the capital increased in cash is used in production and industry plants with investment incentive certificates and investments of machines and equipments pertaining to these plants and/or investments of lands and plots allocated to construction of these plants, the deduction in question will be applied by adding 25 points to the 50% rate stated above, as limited to the fixed investment amount in the investment incentive certificate. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 26. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to the ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Number of shares 135.084.442 135.084.442 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent TL 154.925.532 228.351.942 Dividend per share with nominal value of 1 Kr TL 1,1469 1,6904 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Dividends distributed per share: The dividend per share distributed in 2018 from 2017 profit is stated below: Dividend amount distributed 67.542.221 Number of shares with nominal value of 1 Kr 135.084.442 Dividend per share (Kr) 0,5000 The dividend per share distributed in 2017 from 2016 profit is stated below: Dividend amount distributed 191.819.908 Number of shares with nominal value of 1 Kr 135.084.442 Dividend per share (Kr) 1,4200 194 There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since the reporting date and before the completion of these financial statements. 27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES Entities are defined as related if one of the entities has control over the other entity or has a significant influence over the other entity’s financial and administrative decisions. The Group is controlled by Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. For the consolidated financial statements, shareholder companies and financial assets of Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. and their associates and subsidiaries and also other companies of Sabancı Group are presented separately and these companies and top management of the Group are referred to as related parties. The Group has various transactions with related parties. The related party balances as of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 and the related party transactions for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are mainly as follows: Short-term trade receivables from related parties 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Enerjisa Enerji A.Ş. (2) 10.177 Teknosa(2) 5.220 5.220 Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.(3) 3.100 3.580.368 18.497 3.585.588 (1) Parent company (2) Subsidiary of the parent company; Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. (3) Joint venture of the parent company; Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (continued) 04 Other receivables to related parties 05 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 Ak Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. 223.504 07 Avivasa Emeklilik Hayat A.Ş. 25.093 08 248.597 3.585.588 Short-term trade payables to related parties 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Enerjisa Enerji A.Ş. (2) (*) 58.562.205 11.953.803 Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.(3) 12.441 46.008 58.574.646 11.999.811 Other payables to related parties (short term) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Bimsa Uluslararı İş Bilgi ve Yön. Sistemleri A.Ş. (2) 1.319.525 785.850 Teknosa (3) 64.390 8.907 195 Aksigorta A.Ş. (3) 3.504 85.600 Other 185.504 21.727 1.572.923 902.084 Bank balances deposited in related parties 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Akbank T.A.Ş. (2) 199.233.840 122.913.809 199.233.840 122.913.809 Borrowings from related parties 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Akbank T.A.Ş.(2) 283.145.528 250.154.691 283.145.528 250.154.691 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (continued) Sales to related parties 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.(3) 934.704 3.026.815 Bimsa Uluslararı İş Bilgi ve Yön. Sistemleri A.Ş. (2) 12.658 5.000 Teknosa(2) 4.207 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 951.569 3.031.815 (1) Parent company (2) Subsidiary of the parent company; Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. (3) Joint venture of the parent company; Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. Purchases and services received from related parties 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Enerjisa Enerji A.Ş. (2) 131.156.473 70.039.793 Enerjisa Üretim Santralleri A.Ş. 424.944 Aksigorta A.Ş. (3) 5.878.859 2.868.642 196 Bimsa Uluslararası İş Bilgi ve Yön. Sis. A.Ş.(2) 4.580.613 3.851.779 Avivasa Emeklilik ve Hayat A.Ş. (3) 289.039 256.108 CarrefourSA (3) 227.170 164.605 Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding. A.Ş.(1) 133.046 26.188 Teknosa (2) 125.427 56.789 Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.(3) 48.492 363.647 Other 219.600 142.439.119 78.272.095 The Group is purchasing finished goods from Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. and electric energy from Enerjisa Enerji A.Ş. and services from other associated companies. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (continued) 04 Interest income from related parties 05 1 January1 January31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 07 Akbank T.A.Ş. (2) 1.847.295 1.609.334 1.847.295 1.609.334 08 Interest expenses from related parties 1 January 1 January 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Akbank T.A.Ş. (2) (36.010.032) (19.605.975) (36.010.032) (19.605.975) Compensation benefits to the top management Total amount of compensation benefits paid to the Chairman and the members of the Board of Directors, general manager, general coordinator and deputy general managers, is 14.002.242 (31 December 2017 TL 8.944.001). The contributions paid to Social Security Institution are TL 1.238.993 (31 December 2017 TL 433.573). (1) Parent company (2) Subsidiary of the parent company; Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 197 (3) Joint venture of the parent company; Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 28. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK As of 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the Group’s foreign currency position in terms of the original currency is as follows: 31 December 2018 TL Equivalent USD EUR GBP (Functional (Original (Original (Original Currency) Currency) Currency) Currency) Trade receivables 140.255.187 19.951.155 5.855.036 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Monetary financial assets 93.431.849 10.812.670 5.711.806 318.167 Current Assets 233.687.036 30.763.825 11.566.842 318.167 TOTAL ASSET 233.687.036 30.763.825 11.566.842 318.167 Trade payables 49.166.246 8.722.170 544.091 Financial liabilities 1.480.471.752 40.766.192 84.721.721 Short Term Liabilities 1.529.637.998 49.488.362 85.265.812 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1.529.637.998 49.488.362 85.265.812 Off balance sheet derivative financial instruments net asset/liability position 253.530.591 42.058.824 Off-balance sheet derivative assets denominated in foreign currencies (253.530.591) (42.058.824) Net foreign currency asset liability position (1.042.420.371) (18.724.537) (31.640.146) 318.167 Net foreign currency asset/liability 198 position for monetary items (1.295.950.962) (18.724.537) (73.698.970) 318.167 Off-balance sheet derivative assets denominated in foreign currencies Net asset/liability position (1.885.501) (121.843) (206.453) Hedged foreign currency assets (254.925.823) (265.208) (42.058.824) Export 705.508.548 84.825.592 41.179.979 Import 197.975.631 34.206.628 2.989.048 As the national currencies of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are not assessed as the foreign currency risk, they are not included in the foreign currency position. 01 02 03 04 05 31 December 2017 06 TL Equivalent USD EUR GBP 07 (Functional (Original (Original (Original Currency) Currency) Currency) Currency) 08 146.088.365 29.729.769 7.518.691 57.718.303 7.440.480 6.567.059 203.806.668 37.170.249 14.085.750 203.806.668 37.170.249 14.085.750 76.566.806 17.793.169 2.093.401 380.261.200 23.000.000 65.000.000 456.828.006 40.793.169 67.093.401 456.828.006 40.793.169 67.093.401 249.461.044 293.895 55.000.000 (249.461.044) (293.895) (55.000.000) (3.560.296) (3.329.025) 1.992.349 199 (253.021.337) (3.622.920) (53.007.651) (5.397.435) (475.452) (798.157) (249.461.044) (293.895) (55.000.000) 444.626.813 69.780.644 38.312.602 1.657.510 127.747.710 24.926.463 8.955.017 9.652 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 28. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK (continued) The Group is mainly exposed to currency risk denominated in USD, EUR and GBP. The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase in USD, Euro and GBP exchange rates. The 10% rate is the rate used in the reporting of the currency risk within the Group to the top management and represents the probable change that the management expects in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis only covers the monetary items denominated in foreign currency and presents the impact of the 10% change in foreign exchange rates of these monetary items at year-end. This analysis covers, as well as external loans, the loans denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the parties taking the loan. Positive value represents the increase in other equity items in profit/ loss. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Profit/Loss Equity Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign currency currency currency currency 31 December 2018 appreciation depreciation appreciation depreciation 1USD net assets/liabilities (9.850.791) 9.850.791 (9.850.791) 9.850.791 2Hedged portion of USD risk (-) 3USD net effect (1+2) (9.850.791) 9.850.791 (9.850.791) 9.850.791 4Net EUR assets/liabilities (44.425.739) 44.425.739 (44.425.739) 44.425.739 5Hedged portion of EUR risk (-) 25.353.059 (25.353.059) 25.353.059 (25.353.059) 6EUR net effect (4+6) (19.072.680) 19.072.680 (19.072.680) 19.072.680 7Net GBP assets/liabilities 211.670 (211.670) 211.670 (211.670) 200 8Hedged portion of GBP risk (-) 9GBP net effect (7+8) 211.670 (211.670) 211.670 (211.670) TOTAL (3+6+9) (28.711.801) 28.711.801 (28.711.801) 28.711.801 Profit/Loss Equity Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign currency currency currency currency 31 December 2017 appreciation depreciation appreciation depreciation 1USD net assets/liabilities (1.366.529) 1.366.529 (1.366.529) 1.366.529 2Hedged portion of USD risk (-) (110.854) 110.854 (110.854) 110.854 3USD net effect (1+2) (1.477.383) 1.477.383 (1.477.383) 1.477.383 4Net EUR assets/liabilities (23.935.605) 23.935.605 (23.935.605) 23.935.605 5Hedged portion of EUR risk (-) 24.835.250 (24.835.250) 24.835.250 (24.835.250) 6EUR net effect (4+6) 899.645 (899.645) 899.645 (899.645) 7Net GBP assets/liabilities 8Hedged portion of GBP risk (-) 9GBP net effect (9+10+11) TOTAL (3+6+9) (577.738) 577.738 (577.738) 577.738 Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk due to the effect of changes in interest rates on the Group’s assets and liabilities having interest returns. The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, by the use of interest rate swap contracts and interest rate forward contracts. Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite; ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either positioning the balance sheet or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 28. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK (continued) 04 The Group’s interest rate sensitive financial instruments are as follows: 05 Interest position table 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 06 07 Fixed rate instruments Time deposits 122.990.970 104.892.975 08 Loans 1.079.816.656 1.128.484.891 Variable rate financial instruments Loans (*) 400.655.096 248.352.500 (*) The Group has made interest rate swap transactions in order to hedge its cash flow risk for the long term loan with floating interest rate. 29. AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Available for sale financial assets at fair value designated through other comprehensive income/loss: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Percentage of Percentage of Company ownership (%) Amount ownership (%) Amount Mesbaş Mersin Serbest Böl. İşl. A.Ş. (Mesbaş) 0,41 52.712 0,41 52.712 Anfas Antalya Fuarcılık A.Ş. (Anfas) 0,02 11.766 0,02 11.766 201 64.478 64.478 30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT a. Capital management The Group manages its capital by maintaining permanence of its operations and on the other hand by reviewing terms of the trade receivables, trade payables and financial liabilities and cash from operations by using the debt and equity ratio in the most efficient way. The Group’s top management evaluates the cost of capital and the risks which are associated with every equity account, and presents to Board of Directors those which depend on their decision. The Group’s objective is to maintain the stability of capital structure by taking new debts or repayment of debts and also via dividend payments, depending on the decisions of Board of Directors. The Group follows the debt to equity ratio in the capital management in parallel with other companies in the sector. Net debt is calculated by dividing net debt to total equity. Net debt/equity ratios at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are as follows: Note 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Total financial borrowings 7 1.480.471.752 1.376.837.391 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 5 217.427.133 204.303.367 Net debt 1.263.044.619 1.172.534.024 Equity 1.451.479.380 1.422.349.811 Total liabilities 2.714.523.999 2.594.883.835 Net debt/Equity ratio (%) 87% 82% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) b. Financial risk factors The Group’s principal financial instruments are cash, short-term time deposits and bank borrowings. The main purpose of use of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations and to hedge interest rate risk. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. As explained below, the Board of Directors is responsible from the procedures necessary to follow and manage these risks. ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report c. Credit risk management The majority of the trade receivables are guaranteed by the bank letters and/or credit limits. The credit reviews are performed continuously over the accounts receivable balances of the customers. The Group does not have a significant credit risk arising from any customer. The aging of the assets that are overdue but not subject to any impairment as of 31 December 2018 is as follows: Receivables Derivative Trade Other Demand Financial 31 December 2018 Receivables Receivables deposit Instruments Other Total Overdue 1-30 days 13.930.594 13.930.594 Overdue 1-3 months 4.992.966 4.992.966 Overdue 3-12 months 24.832.848 24.832.848 202 Total overdue receivables 43.756.408 43.756.408 Secured part via collateral etc. 29.244.584 29.244.584 Receivables Derivative Trade Other Demand Financial 31 December 2017 Receivables Receivables deposit Instruments Other Total Overdue 1-30 days 44.457.120 44.457.120 Overdue 1-3 months 175.987 175.987 Overdue 3-12 months 363.766 363.766 Total overdue receivables 44.996.873 44.996.873 Secured part via collateral etc. 25.208.343 25.208.343 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 04 c .Credit risk management (continued) 05 The credit risk of the Group for each financial instrument type is as follows: 06 Receivables Trade Receivables Other Receivables Bank Deposits 07 Derivative Related Third Related Third Related Third Financial 08 31 December 2018 Party Party Party Party Party Party Instruments Maximum credit exposures as of report date (1) (A+B+C+D+E) 18.497 420.638.963 248.597 5.028.189 199.233.840 6.776.260 79.843.539 Secured Part of maximum credit risk exposure via collateral etc. 689.771.272 A. Net book value fo the finacial assests that are neither overdue nor impaired (2) 18.497 376.882.555 248.597 5.028.189 199.233.840 6.776.260 79.843.539 B. Carrying amount of financial assests that are renegotiated , otherwise classifed as overdue or impaired (3) 203 C. Net book value of financial assets thta are overdue but not impaired 43.756.408 Secured part via collateral etc. 29.244.584 D. Net book value of impaired financial assets Overdue (gross carrying amount) 18.698.305 753.646 Impairment (-) (18.698.305) (753.646) Secured part via collateral etc. Not Overdue (gross carrying amount) Impairment (-) Secured part via collateral etc. E. Off-Balance sheet fianancial assets exposed to credit risk (1) When determining the amount, the guarantees received and factors increasing the credibility are not considered. (2) The guarantees consist of letters of guarantees, guarantee cheques and mortgages received from customers. The portion of the guarantee which covers the risk has not been taken into consideration. (3) The Group did not have any collection problems with these customers in the past. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) c .Credit risk management (continued) The credit risk of the Group for each financial instrument type is as follows: Receivables Trade Receivables Other Receivables Bank Deposits Derivative Related Third Related Third Related Third Financial 31 December 2017 Party Party Party Party Party Party Instruments ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Maximum credit exposures as of report date (1) (A+B+C+D+E) 3.585.588 527.175.880 22.924.283 122.913.809 62.704.087 10.375.886 Secured Part of maximum credit risk exposure via collateral etc. 369.889.000 A. Net book value fo the finacial assests that are neither overdue nor impaired (2) 3.585.588 482.179.007 22.924.283 122.913.809 62.704.087 10.375.886 B. Carrying amount of financial assests that are renegotiated , otherwise classifed as overdue or impaired (3) 204 C. Net book value of financial assets thta are overdue but not impaired 44.996.873 18.854.399 Secured part via collateral etc. 24.975.484 232.859 D. Net book value of impaired financial assets Overdue (gross carrying amount) 10.764.929 753.646 Impairment (-) (10.764.929) (753.646) Secured part via collateral etc. Not Overdue (gross carrying amount) Impairment (-) Secured part via collateral etc. E. Off-Balance sheet fianancial assets exposed to credit risk (1) When determining the amount, the guarantees received and factors increasing the credibility are not considered. (2) The guarantees consist of letters of guarantees, guarantee cheques and mortgages received from customers. The portion of the guarantee which covers the risk has not been taken into consideration. (3) The Group did not have any collection problems with these customers in the past. (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 30. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 04 d. Foreign currency risk management 05 When necessary, the Group enters into derivative transactions to manage its exchange rate exposures. In this context, 06 the Group’s main preference is foreign currency forward transactions. The Group manages foreign currency purchase/ sale forward contracts with maturities less than one year. The details of unrealized foreign currency purchase/sale 07 forward contracts as of the date of the report are disclosed in Note 19. 08 e. Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to the interest rate risk through the impact of interest rate changes on interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group manages interest rate risk by using natural hedges that arise from offsetting interest rate of assets and liabilities The Group has fixed the interest rate of “2.15% + Eurlibor” variable interest rate in Euro terms with “2.15% + 0.30%” f. Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. The current and prospective risk of funding the debts is mitigated by matching the cash in and out flow volume supported by committed lending limits from qualified credit institutions. The breakdown of derivative and non-derivative financial assets and liabilities according to their maturities is disclosed considering the period elapsed from balance sheet date to due date. 205 31 December 2018 Contractual Total Net Book Cash Outflow Less Than 3-12 1-5 More Than Contractual maturities Value (I+II+III+IV) 3 Months (I) Months (II) Years (III) 5 Years (IV) Bank Borrowings 1.480.471.752 1.621.075.117 478.828.492 621.609.687 520.636.938 Trade Payables 296.068.427 298.122.936 298.122.936 Other Payables, Liabilities and Deferred Income 37.232.188 37.232.188 37.232.188 Total liabilities 1.813.772.367 1.956.430.241 814.183.616 621.609.687 520.636.938 Derivative financial liabilities Unrealized purchase/sale commitments (net) 97.498.489 97.498.489 97.498.489 Derivative cash entries Derivative cash outflows 97.498.489 97.498.489 97.498.489 31 December 2017 Contractual Total Net Book Cash Outflow Less Than 3-12 1-5 More Than Contractual maturities Value (I+II+III+IV) 3 Months (I) Months (II) Years (III) 5 Years (IV) Bank Borrowings 1.376.837.391 1.434.155.791 453.009.914 431.397.103 548.085.546 1.663.227 Trade Payables 290.746.264 291.544.235 291.544.235 Other Payables, Liabilities and Deferred Income 25.410.030 25.410.030 25.410.030 Total liabilities 1.692.993.685 1.751.110.056 769.964.179 431.397.103 548.085.546 1.663.227 Derivative financial liabilities Unrealized purchase/sale commitments (net) 475.452 475.452 475.452 Derivative cash entries 798.156 798.156 798.156 Derivative cash outflows 1.273.608 1.273.608 1.273.608 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING DISCLOSURES The classification and fair value of the financial instruments Derivative Derivative financial Available financial instruments for sale Financial instruments through Cash and cash Loans and financial liabilities at accounted income 31 December 2018 equivalents receivables assets financial cost under equity statement Carrying value Note Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 217.427.133 217.427.133 5 Trade receivables 420.657.460 420.657.460 6 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Financial investments 64.478 64.478 29 Other financial assets 15.729.110 15.729.110 8/10 Derivative financial assets 79.843.539 79.843.539 19 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities 1.480.471.752 1.480.471.752 7 Trade payable 296.068.427 296.068.427 6 Other financial liabilities 37.232.188 37.232.188 8/10/17 Derivative financial liabilities 97.498.489 97.498.489 19 31 December 2017 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 204.303.367 204.303.367 5 Trade receivables 530.761.468 530.761.468 6 Financial investments 64.478 64.478 29 Other financial assets 30.676.075 30.676.075 8/10 Derivative financial liabilities 10.375.886 10.375.886 19 Financial liabilities 206 Financial liabilities 1.376.837.391 1.376.837.391 7 Trade payable 290.746.264 290.746.264 6 Other financial liabilities 17.410.030 17.410.030 8/10/17 Derivative financial liabilities 11.649.495 19 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING DISCLOSURES (continued) 04 The classification and fair value of the financial instruments 05 The Company estimated the fair value of financial instruments using available market information and appropriate 06 valuation methodologies. However, market data, and judgment is required to estimate the fair values. As a result, the estimates presented here, may not be an indicative of the amounts by which the Company could obtain in a current 07 market transaction. 08 Financial assetsThe fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost, including cash and cash equivalents plus the respective accrued interest and other financial assets are considered to approximate their respective carrying values due to their short-term nature and negligible credit losses. The carrying value of trade receivables along with the related allowance for doubtful receivables is estimated to be their fair values. Financial liabilitiesTrade payables and other monetary liabilities are considered to approximate their respective carrying values due to their short-term nature. The bank borrowings are stated at their amortized costs and transaction costs are included in the initial measurement of bank borrowings. The fair value of long-term bank borrowings with variable interest rates are considered to state their respective carrying values since the interest rate applied to bank borrowings are updated periodically by the lender to reflect active market price quotations. The fair values of long-term bank borrowings with fixed interest rates considered to approximate their respective carrying values due to the fact that fixed rate is the rate applicable as of balance sheet date. The fair values of short-term bank borrowings are considered to approximate their respective carrying values due to their short-term nature. Fair value hierarchy table The Company classifies the fair value measurement of each class of financial instruments according to the source, using the three-level hierarchy, as follows; 207 Level 1: Market price valuation techniques for the determined financial instruments traded in markets (unadjusted) Level 2: Other valuation techniques including direct or indirect observable inputs Level 3: Valuation techniques does not contains observable market inputs FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING DISCLOSURES (continued) As of 31 December 2018, the fair value hierarchy table of the Company’s assets and liabilities at fair value are as follows: Financial assets and liabilities at fair value The level of fair value at the reporting date 31 December 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through income/loss Derivative financial assets 79.843.539 79.843.539 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Derivative financial liabilities (41.562.030) (41.562.030) Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income/loss Available for sale financial assets 64.478 64.478 Derivative financial liabilities (55.936.459) (55.936.459) Total (17.590.472) (17.654.950) 64.478 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value The level of fair value at the reporting date 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through income/loss 208 Derivative financial assets 10.375.886 10.375.886 Derivative financial liabilities (475.452) (475.452) Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income/loss Available for sale financial assets 64.478 64.478 Derivative financial liabilities (11.174.043) (11.174.043) Total (1.209.131) (1.273.609) 64.478 (Convenience translation of the report and consolidated financial statements originally issued in Turkish (See Note 2.10) ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES 01 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 02 (Amounts expressed in Turkish Lira (“TL”), unless otherwise indicated.) 03 31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING DISCLOSURES (continued) 04 Fair value of financial instruments 05 Fair value is defined as the price that collected from the sale of an asset or payable in the ordinary course of business at 06 the measurement date between market participants. 07 The estimated fair values of financial instruments have been determined by the Company using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. However, estimates are necessary to interpret market data to determine fair 08 value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company could realize in a current market exchange. Monetary assets It is foreseen that cash and cash equivalent recording prices are equal to their fair value due to their short term nature. It is foreseen that trade receivables recording prices are equal to their fair value due to their short term nature. Monetary liabilities The carrying values of trade payables are estimated to reflect their fair value due to their short-term nature. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Fair value difference reflects other comprehensive income/loss erivative financial assets and liabilities (*) (97.498.489) (12.370.855) 209 Total (97.498.489) (12.370.855) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Fair value difference reflects over income/loss financial 79.843.539 10.375.886 Total 79.843.539 10.375.886 (*) Derivative instruments detailed in Note 19 consist of forward purchase/sale contracts. Some of the group sales were protected by foreign exchange forward contracts. In addition, the interest rate swap transaction is applied against the risk of impairment arising from the interest rate changes of the loan. As of December 31, 2018, the revaluation amount of the Group’s hedged transactions is TL 75.387.265, which is presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as “Derivative financial assets” and “Equity” Fair value measurement hierarchy table The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is determined as follows: First level: Financial assets and liabilities are measured at quoted market prices on the active market for identical assets and liabilities. Second level: Financial assets and liabilities are valued using inputs that are used to determine directly or indirectly the marketable price of the related asset or liability other than the quoted price at the first level Third level: Financial assets and liabilities are valued at inputs that are not based on an observable asset in the market for the fair value of the asset or liability 32. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS None FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report PROFIT DISTRIBUTION PROPOSAL AND RESULT According to our financial statements for the accounting period between January 01, 2018 and December 31, 2018, prepared in accordance with the “Communiqué on Principles of Financial Reporting in Capital Markets” (II14.1) of Capital Market Board and audited independently by Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik 210 A.Ş., our consolidated profit for the period was TL154,925,532.00. As per our financial statements prepared in accordance with Tax Procedural Law our net profit for the period was TL 62,774,319.71. In order to strengthen the financial structure of our company and not create a new financing requirement, we propose that the distributable profit calculated from the profit for the year 2018 shall not be distributed and shall be set as Extraordinary Reserve. On behalf of the Board of Directors Tamer Saka Chairman of the Board of Directors 01 02 03 ÇİMSA ÇİMENTO SANAYİ VE TİCARET A.Ş. 2018 PROFIT DISTRIBUTION TABLE (TRY) 04 1. Paid in Capital 135,084,442.00 2. General Legal Reserves (As per Statutory Records) 102,469,321.12 05 If there is privileged dividend according to the article of association, information regarding this None 06 privilege. 07 As per CMB As per Statutory Records 08 3. Profit 175,110,867.00 79,835,427.78 4. Taxes ( ) 21,254,018.00 17,061,108.07 5. Net Profit for the Period ( = ) 154,925,532.00 62,774,319.71 6. As per Statutory Records ( ) 7. General Legal Reserve ( ) 8. NET DISTRIBUTABLE PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD (=) 154,925,532.00 62,774,319.71 9. Donations during the year ( + ) 270,929.89 10. Net Distributable Profit Including Donations 155,196,461.89 11. First Category Dividend For Shareholders -Cash -Share Total 12. Dividends Distributed to the Privileged Shareholders 211 13. Other Dividends Distributed -Members of the Board of Directors -Employees -Non Shareholders 14. Dividends Distributed to the Holders of Usufruct Right Certificates 15. Second Category Dividend For Shareholders 16. General Legal Reserves ( ) 17. Status Reserves 18. Special Reserves 19. EXTRAORDINARY RESERVES 154,925,532.00 62,774,319.71 20. Orher Resource Planned for Distribution DIVIDEND RATIOS TABLE Total Dividend Amount Total Dividend Amount/Net 1 Tl Nominal Değerli Hisseye İsabet Distributable Profit For The Eden Kâr Payı Period Cash (TL) Share (TL) Ratio (%) Amount (TL) Ratio (%) Gross 0,00 0,0000 0,00 Net* 0,00 0,0000 0,00 * It’s assumed that a 15% tax cut will be computed when calculating the net amount. 08 APPENDICES ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 212 214 Çimsa 2017-2018 Performance Tables 220 Independent Assurance Statements 224 GRI Index 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 213 APPENDICES ÇİMSA 2017-2018 PERFORMANCE TABLES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2018 Gray Cement Production (tons) 5,258,542 4,556,691 White Cement Production (tons) 1,088,476 1,215,744 Calcium Aluminate Cement Production (tons) 31,256 33,455 Aggregate Production (tons) Clinker Production (tons) 6,101,571 5,790,568 Ready-Mixed Concrete Production (m3) 3,440,770 2,741,393 Gray Cement Sales (tons) 5,252,488 4,562,779 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report White Cement Sales (tons) 1,127,452 1,273,107 Clinker Sales (million tons) 749,050 596,205 Ready-Mixed Concrete Sales (m3) 3,440,770 2,741,393 Economic Value Created (million TL) 1,490.58 1,699.9 Net Sales (million TL) 1,490.58 1,699.9 Economic Value Distributed (million TL) Taxes Paid (million TL) 37 11 Dividends to Stakeholders (million TL) 192 68 Wages to Employees (million TL) 107 127 R&D Expenditure (TL)) 1,557,456 3,851,468 214 The calculations in the performance tables excludes Afyon Cement’s 2017 data, but includes 2018 data. GRI-Standards 102-7, 201-1 01 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2018 02 Gray Cement Raw Material Amount (tons) 03 Natural Raw Material Amount 5,281,727 7,002,546 Clinker Produced 3,505,108 4,539,351 04 Alternative Raw Material 65,606 91,511 05 Natural Additive (Additive in to cement) 499,467 405,582 Alternative Additive (Additive in to cement) 49,017 103,284 06 White Cement Raw Material Amount (tons) 07 Natural Raw Material Amount 1,960,569 1,832,166 Clinker Produced 1,175,858 1,220,427 08 Alternative Raw Material 108,373 116,729 Natural Additive (Additive in to cement) 105,285 62,614 Alternative Additive (Additive in to cement) 0 57,714 Amount of Calcium Aluminate Cement (tons) Natural Raw Material Amount 52,549 49,137 Clinker Produced 36,024 32,659 Ready-Mixed Concrete (tons) Fly Ash 90,176 60,936 Slag 110,748 88,981 Raw Materials Extracted From Mines (tons) 8,745,090 7,751,317 Alternative Fuel (grey) (%) 8.7 6.8 Alternative Raw Material (grey+white+CAC) (%) 2.75 3.78 Conventional Energy Consumption (grey) (TJ) 11,134 14,122 Amount of Electrical Energy Production from Waste Heat 44,085 44,016 (mhw/year) 215 Amount of Electrical Energy Production from Waste Heat 158,706 158,458 (TJ/year) Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emission Due To Electrical Energy 20,808 20,776 Production from Waste Heat (ton/CO2/year) Total Energy Consumption (kWh) 252,006,000 301,987,000 Total Amount of Production (grey clinker ton) 3,505,108 4,539,351 Energy Density (kWh/grey clinker ton) 71.9 66.5 Amount of Scope 1 Gross Greenhouse Gas Emission (grey+white) 4.1 5.19 (m ton CO2/year) Grey Cementitious Specific CO2 Emission (scope 1) (kg CO2/ton) 732 782 Scope 2 Brüt Sera Gazı Emisyonu Miktarı (gri+beyaz) 256,853 294,253 (m ton CO2/yıl) Grey Cementitious Specific CO2 Emission (scope 2) (kg CO2/ton) 45 43 Amount of Scope 3 Gross Greenhouse Gas Emission (ton CO2/ year) (Cement transportation and distribution) 67,194 49,071 Pollutant Emissions Total Dust Emissions (tons) 93.09 87.53 Specific Dust Emissions (gr/ton clinker) 19.89 15.11 Total NOx Emissions (tons) 7,942.77 7,346.66 Specific NOx Emissions (gr/ton clinker) 1,696.82 1,268.32 Total SO2 Emission (tons) 67.51 Specific SO2 Emission (gr/ton clinker) 11.66 Total Toxic Heavy Metal Emission (tons) 0.28 0.22 Specific Toxic Heavy Metal Emission (gr/ton clinker) 0.06 0.04 Total Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emission (tons) 138.61 117.98 The calculations in the performance tables excludes Afyon Cement’s 2017 data, but includes 2018 data. GRI-Standards 102-4, 301-2, 302-1, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 304-1, 304-3, 304-4, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-1, 306-2, 306-5 APPENDICES ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (Continued) 2017 2018 Specific Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emission (gr/ton 29.61 20.37 clinker) Total Dioxin-Furan Emission (gr) 0.03 0.02 Specific Dioxin-Furan Emission (µgr/ton clinker) 0.01 0.003 Total Mercury Emission (tons) 0.01 0.01 Specific Mercury Emission (gr/ton clinker) 0.03 0.002 Total Cd+TI Emission (tons) 0.05 0.05 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Specific Cd+TI Emission (gr/ton clinker) 0.01 0.01 Total HCI (ton) 0.39 0.34 Spesific HCI (gr/ton clinker) 0.19 0.06 Total HF (ton) 0.39 0.83 Spesific HF (gr/ton clinker) 0.19 0.14 Total Hazardoud Wastes by Disposal Method (tons) 2,498 591 Recovery 109 31 Energy recovery 2,383 554 Disposal 6 6 Total Non-Hazardoud Wastes by Disposal Method (tons) 38,099 3,807 Recovery 16,681 2,570 Energy recovery 19,550 40 Disposal 1,868 1,196 216 Total water volume used and discharged (m3) Well Water 1,265,093 1,093,062 Municipal Water 15,991 84,773 Annual Waste Water Amount According to Discharge Method (m3) Discharge Point 20,147 15,487 Wastewater Channel 22,826 16,233 Recycled Water 31,450 32,178 Active Mine Site Area (ha) 833 956 Mine Site Area With Approved Rehabilitation Plan (ha) 167 609 Mine Sites Where the Production Has Finished (ha) 27.6 0 Rehabilitated Site Area (ha) 0.73 0 Total Packaging Used (tons) 7,634 13,588 Packaging Waste Recovery Rate (%) 54 56 Number of Environmental Compliance Sanctions Paid (number) 0 0 Amount of Environmental Compliance Sanction Paid (TL) 0 0 Total Environmental Investment and Management Expenditures 26,798,583 27,480,378 (TL) Total Environmental Trainings Number of Attendance (person) 83 123 Total Environmental Trainings Training Hours (person x hour) 159 720 The calculations in the performance tables excludes Afyon Cement’s 2017 data, but includes 2018 data. GRI-Standards 301-2, 302-1, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 304-1, 304-3, 304-4, 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-1, 306-2, 306-5 01 02 03 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 04 2017 2018 Injury Rate in Cement Plants 05 Çimsa Employees 14.32 8.73 06 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 14.92 9.15 07 Contractor Employees 6.60 1.74 08 Injury Rate in Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Çimsa Employees 4.49 3.95 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 4.63 4.04 Contractor Employees 6.41 10.05 Occupational Disease Rate in Cement Plants Çimsa Employees 3.37 5.16 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 3.51 5.41 Contractor Employees 0.47 0.43 Occupational Disease Rate in Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Çimsa Employees 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 Contractor Employees 0.00 0.00 Lost Day Rate in Cement Plants 217 Çimsa Employees 200.94 188.06 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 209.31 197.23 Contractor Employees 267.87 12.59 Lost Day Rate in Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Çimsa Employees 273.91 355.66 Female 0.00 0.00 Male 282.56 363.75 Contractor Employees 214.25 246.58 Absentee Rate in Cement Plants Çimsa Employees 1,568.72 1,614.75 Female 2,568.75 980.62 Male 1,527.04 1,645.70 Contractor Employees 159.87 716.29 Fatalities in Cement Plants Çimsa Employees 0 0 Female 0 0 Male 0 0 Contractor Employees 0 0 Fatalities in Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Çimsa Employees 0 0 Female 0 0 Male 0 0 Contractor Employees 0 0 The calculations in the performance tables excludes Afyon Cement’s 2017 data, but includes 2018 data. GRI-Standards 102-8, 403-2, 404-1, 404-3 APPENDICES EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS 2017 2018 Total Workforce (number) 2,671 2,266 Çimsa Employees 1,154 1,130 Female 58 68 Male 1,097 1,062 Contractor Employees 1,517 1,136 Female 75 64 Male 1,442 1,072 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report Total Workforce by Contract Type (number) Indefinite Term Contract 1,141 1,122 Female 58 67 Male 1,083 1,055 Temporary Contract 14 8 Female 0 1 Male 14 7 Total Workforce by Category (number) Blue Collars 671 660 Female 0 0 Male 671 660 White Collars 483 470 Female 58 68 218 Male 426 402 Total Workforce by Employment Type (number) 1,155 1,130 Full time 1,155 1,128 Female 58 67 Male 1,097 1,061 Part time 0 2 Female 0 1 Male 0 1 Total Workforce by Education Level (number) 1,155 1,130 No Education 0 0 Primary School 80 67 Secondary School 597 584 University and Above 478 479 Total Workforce by Age Group (number) 1,155 1,130 18-25 72 67 26-35 472 452 36-45 468 474 46+ 143 137 Senior Management Structure (number) Cinsiyet Bazında 18 14 Female 3 1 Male 15 13 By Gender 18 14 18-25 0 0 26-35 1 2 36-45 5 6 46+ 12 6 The calculations in the performance tables excludes Afyon Cement’s 2017 data, but includes 2018 data. GRI-Standards 102-8, 202-2, 401-1, 401-3 01 02 03 EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS (Continued) 04 2017 2018 Citizenship 18 14 05 Turkish citizens 18 13 06 Expat 1 Mid and Lower Level Management Structure (number) 07 By Gender 165 164 08 Female 20 24 Male 145 140 By Age Group 165 164 18-25 2 0 26-35 63 65 36-45 73 70 46+ 28 29 Employees Hired (number) By Gender 126 117 Female 12 23 Male 114 94 By Age Group 126 117 18-25 38 34 26-35 68 64 36-45 17 13 46+ 3 6 219 Employees Left (number) By Gender 114 141 Female 12 13 Male 102 128 By Age Group 114 141 18-25 9 11 26-35 54 52 36-45 23 36 46+ 27 42 Disabled Employees Female 0 0 Male 30 31 Number of Employees Left for Prental Leave 0 2 Number of Employees Returned From Prental Leave 2 2 Number of Employees Who Didn’t Leave Their Job After 12 1 1 Months to Their Return From Parental Leave Workforce Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement 580 660 (number) Direct Employees 580 660 Contractor Employees 0 0 The calculations in the performance tables excludes Afyon Cement’s 2017 data, but includes 2018 data. GRI-Standards 102-8, 401-1, 202-2, 401-3 APPENDICES INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENTS ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 220 GRI-Standards 102-56 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 221 GRI-Standards 102-56 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report 222 GRI-Standards APPENDICES 102-56 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 223 GRI-Standards 102-56 APPENDICES ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX “For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report.” ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE GRI STANDARD ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. 102-2 • Çimsa’s Product Range, Page: 17 102-3 Kısıklı Cad. No: 4 Sarkuysan Ak İş Merkezi S Blok Altunizade/İstanbul-Turkey 102-4 • Domestic Facilities, Page: 18 • International Terminals, Page: 19 • International Connections and Terminals Abroad, Page: 117-119 102-5 • Corporate Profile-Shareholding Structure, Page: 15 102-6 • Corporate Profile, Page: 14-15 • Çimsa At A Glance, Page: 16-17 102-7 • The Business Model 2018 Performance, Page: 32-33 224 • Economic Performance Indicators, Page: 214 102-8 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 62 • Employee Demographics, Page: 217-218 102-9 Çimsa continues its preparations for sustainability practices in the light of the global sustainability trends and GRI principles in all functions in the supply GRI 102: GENERAL chain, starting from the raw material procurement stage. DISCLOSURES 102-10 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/investor-relations/material-disclosures/ 2016 material-disclosures/i-181 102-11 • Risk Management and Internal Control Mechanism, Page: 101 • Business Ethic, https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/sustainabilityat-cimsa/sustainability-subjects/sustainability-subjects/i-187 • Occupational Health and Safety, Page: 67-69 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 102-12 • Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication Channels of Çimsa, Page: 34-35 102-13 • Corporate Communication-Corporate Memberships, Page: 81 STRATEGY 102-14 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 102-15 • Risks and Opportunities, Page: 46-49 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 • Business Ethic, https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/sustainabilityat-cimsa/sustainability-subjects/sustainability-subjects/i-187 01 02 03 ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE 04 GRI STANDARD 05 NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 06 GENERAL DISCLOSURES GOVERNANCE 07 102-18 • Board of Directors, Senior Management, Page: 10-11 08 • Board of Directors Annual Report, Page: 86-92, 100-101 102-22 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/ board-committees/board-committees/i-43 102-35 http://www.cimsa.com.tr/tr/yatirimci-iliskileri/kurumsal-yonetim/ucretpolitikasi/ucret-politikasi/i-452 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 • Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication Channels of Çimsa, Page: 34-35 102-41 58% 102-42 • Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication Channels of Çimsa, Page: 34-35 102-43 • Stakeholders, Priorities and Communication Channels of Çimsa, Page: 34-35 102-44 • Customer Satisfaction and Product Responsibility, Page: 57 REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102: GENERAL 102-45 • Consolidated Financial Statements, Page: 135-136 DISCLOSURES 2016 102-46 • About the Integrated Annual Report, Page: 1 • Prioritization Analysis and Matrix, Page: 36-37 102-47 • Priorities, Page: 37 225 102-48 There is no restated information. 102-49 There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries. 102-50 01.01.2018-31.12.2018 102-51 2017 102-52 Annual 102-53 Ms. Tuğba Akdere, OHS, Environment and Sustainability Manager e-mail: t.akdere@cimsa.com.tr 102-54 This report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards-Core option. 102-55 Page: 224 102-56 Page: 220-223 APPENDICES ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE GRI STANDARD NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1 • Prioritization Analysis and Matrix, Page: 36-37 GRI 103: 103-2 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 MANAGEMENT • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 201-1 • Economic Performance, Page: 52-53 GRI 201: • Economic Performance Indicators, Page: 214 ECONOMIC 201-3 • Employee Benefits, Page: 180-181 PERFORMANCE 2016 201-4 There is no financial assistance received from government during the reporting period. MARKET PRESENCE 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 103: 103-2 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 MANAGEMENT • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 GRI 202: MARKET 202-2 • Employee Demographics, Page: 216-217 226 PRESENCE 2016 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 103-1 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 GRI 103: 103-2 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 MANAGEMENT • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 GRI 203: INDIRECT 203-1 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 ECONOMIC 203-2 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 IMPACTS 2016 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 103-1 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 GRI 103: 103-2 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 MANAGEMENT • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Page: 4-5 • Message from the General Manager, Page: 6-9 GRI 204: 204-1 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/human-resources/work-principles/businesethics/business-ethics/i-185 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/human-resources/work-principles/businesMANAGEMENT ethics/business-ethics/i-185 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/human-resources/work-principles/businesethics/business-ethics/i-185 01 02 03 ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE 04 GRI STANDARD 05 NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES 06 ANTI-CORRUPTION (Continued) 205-1 As no cases of corruption were identified in the reporting period, no action was 07 GRI 205: ANTIrequired in this regard. 08 CORRUPTION 205-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/human-resources/work-principles/busines2016 ethics/business-ethics/i-185 205-3 There are no confirmed incidents of corruption during the reporting period. GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARD SERIES MATERIALS 103-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmental-policy/ environmental-policy/i-896 GRI 103: https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/cimsa-waste-policy/ MANAGEMENT cimsa-waste-policy/i-917 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmental-policy/ environmental-policy/i-896 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/cimsa-waste-policy/ cimsa-waste-policy/i-917 GRI 301: 301-2 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 227 MATERIALS 2016 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 ENERGY GRI 103: 103-1 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmental-policy/ environmental-policy/i-896 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmental-policy/ environmental-policy/i-896 302-1 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 GRI 302: ENERGY • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 2016 302-4 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 WATER 103-1 Page: 36-37 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmental-policy/ MANAGEMENT environmental-policy/i-896 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmental-policy/ environmental-policy/i-896 303-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 GRI 303: WATER 303-2 There are no water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 2016 303-3 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 APPENDICES ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE GRI STANDARD NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES BIODIVERSITY 103-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 77 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalMANAGEMENT policy/environmental-policy/i-896 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report policy/environmental-policy/i-896 304-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 GRI 304: 304-3 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 BIODIVERSITY 2016 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 304-4 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 EMISSIONS 103-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalMANAGEMENT policy/environmental-policy/i-896 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalpolicy/environmental-policy/i-896 228 305-1 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 305-4 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 GRI 305: EMISSIONS • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 2016 305-5 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 305-7 • Climate and Energy, Page: 70-73 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalMANAGEMENT policy/environmental-policy/i-896 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalpolicy/environmental-policy/i-896 306-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS 306-2 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 AND WASTE 2016 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 306-5 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 • Environmental Performance Indicators, Page: 215-216 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-1 • Environmental Management, Page: 75-77 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalMANAGEMENT policy/environmental-policy/i-896 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/policies/environmentalpolicy/environmental-policy/i-896 GRI 307: 307-1 There are no significant fines or sanctions in the reporting period. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 01 02 03 ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE 04 GRI STANDARD 05 NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARD SERIES 06 EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 07 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 08 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 401: 401-1 • Employee Demographics, Page: 218-219 EMPLOYMENT 401-3 • Employee Demographics, Page: 216-217 2016 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 • Occupational Health and Safety, Page: 67-69 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/occupational-health-andGRI 103: safety/occupational-health-and-safety-policy/occupational-health-and-safetyMANAGEMENT policy/i-937 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/sustainability/occupational-health-andsafety/occupational-health-and-safety-policy/occupational-health-and-safetypolicy/i-937 GRI 403: 403-1 • Occupational Health and Safety, Page: 67-69 OCCUPATIONAL 403-2 • Occupational Health and Safety, Page: 67-69 HEALTH AND • Social Performance Indicators, Page: 217 SAFETY 2016 403-4 • Occupational Health and Safety, Page: 67-69 229 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 404-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 404: TRAINING • Social Performance Indicators, Page: 217 AND EDUCATION 404-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 2016 404-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 • Social Performance Indicators, Page: 217 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 405: DIVERSITY 405-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 103: 103-2 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/human-resources/work-principles/businesMANAGEMENT ethics/business-ethics/i-185 APPROACH 2016 103-3 https://www.cimsa.com.tr/en/human-resources/work-principles/businesethics/business-ethics/i-185 GRI 406: NON406-1 There are no incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. DISCRIMINATION 2016 APPENDICES ÇİMSA GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE GRI STANDARD NUMBER DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 407: FREEDOM 407-1 During the reporting period, no case was found to be under the risk of ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report OF ASSOCIATION freedom of association and collective bargaining at Çimsa operations. The AND COLLECTIVE same principle is observed during the supplier audit process and no risk BARGAINING 2016 factors have been observed. CHILD LABOR GRI 103: 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 408-1 During the reporting period, no risk of child labor was observed in Çimsa GRI 408: CHILD operations. The same principle is observed during the supplier audit process LABOR 2016 and no risk factors have been observed. FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: 103-1 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 230 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • Corporate Development and Human Resources, Page: 59-66 GRI 409: FORCED OR 409-1 During the reporting period, no risk of forced or compulsory labor was COMPULSORY LABOR observed in Çimsa operations. The same principle is observed during the 2016 supplier audit process and no risk factors have been observed. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 GRI 416: CUSTOMER 416-1 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-2 No such case occurred during the reporting period. 2016 MARKETING AND LABELING GRI 103: 103-1 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 MANAGEMENT 103-2 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 APPROACH 2016 103-3 • The Values Produced by Çimsa and Objectives, Page: 30-31 GRI 417: 417-1 100% of Çimsa products are labeled according to legal regulations. MARKETING AND 417-2 No such case occurred during the reporting period. LABELING 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 01 02 03 Çimsa confirms its commitment under the UN Global Compact. 04 The 2018 Integrated Annual Report is the 6 Communication on Progress (COP) issued by Çimsa. In the context of the th 05 10 principles, the performance recorded in the reporting period is summarized in the following table and the related section references are presented. 06 Principle Çimsa’s Approach Section of Additional Page No 07 Information Businesses should support Çimsa constantly monitors compliance with national Corporate 59-66 08 and respect the protection and international norms regulating human rights, in Development and of internationally proclaimed particular the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and is Human Resources, 67-69 human rights; and passionate about the necessary practices. Occupational Health and Safety Make sure that they are not Çimsa supports the protection of human rights in the Corporate 59-66 complicit in human rights business world. Development and abuses. Human Resources, 67-69 Occupational Health and Safety Businesses should uphold Çimsa has accepted the freedom of unionization of its Corporate 59-66 the freedom of association employees and the right to collective bargaining and is Development and and the effective recognition an exemplary company in Turkey in this regard. As of Human Resources, 67-69 of the right to collective the date of the report, 660 blue-collar employees are Occupational Health bargaining; included in the collective bargaining agreement. At the and Safety reporting period 58% of Çimsa employees are union members. The union that the employees are affiliated with is T. Çimse-İş Union. 231 The elimination of all forms Equality of opportunity and diversity are the building Corporate 59-66 of forced and compulsory blocks of the Çimsa human resource policy. Çimsa also Development and labour; opposes all forms of discrimination, forced and forced Human Resources, 67-69 labor and child labor in the world and in Turkey. Occupational Health and Safety The effective abolition of child Çimsa is against child labor and supports all initiatives Corporate 59-66 labour; and taken in the business world regarding child labor. Development and Human Resources, 67-69 Occupational Health and Safety The elimination of Çimsa is against discrimination in recruitment and Corporate 59-66 discrimination in respect of working processes and supports the initiatives taken in Development and employment and occupation. the business world regarding discrimination. Human Resources, 67-69 Occupational Health and Safetyi Businesses should support Çimsa intensively works on environment-related projects Climate and Energy, 70-73 a precautionary approach to and interaction with stakeholders. Environmental 74-77 environmental challenges; Management Undertake initiatives Çimsa supports numerous activities and events to İClimate and Energy, 70-73 to promote greater increase awareness of environment and environmental Environmental 74-77 environmental responsibility; problems in our country, and carries out projects to Management and minimize the environmental impacts within the scope of the production cycle. Encourage the development Çimsa supports the development and diffusion of Climate and Energy, 70-73 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies by using the most Environmental 74-77 environmentally friendly up-to-date technologies widely within the scope of Management technologies. production and trade cycle. Businesses should work Çimsa supports full, accurate and effective fight against Corporate 93-121 against corruption in all its corruption and prevention of terrorism financing within Governance, Risk forms, including extortion and the frame of related legislation and Company policies. Management, bribery. İnternal Control Colophone and Contact Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Headquarters Kısıklı Cad. No: 4 Sarkuysan Ak İş Merkezi S Blok Altunizade İstanbul Turkey T: +90 216 651 53 00 ÇİMSA 2018 Integrated Annual Report F: +90 216 651 14 15 To get information about the report or submit your views and suggestions please contact us. Tuğba AKDERE Health and Safety, Environment and Sustainability Executive t.akdere@cimsa.com.tr A. Özgür ÜSTÜN Process Development Manager o.ustun@cimsa.com.tr T: +90 216 554 71 00 232 surdurulebilirlik@cimsa.com.tr entegrerapor@cimsa.com.tr www.cimsadasurdurulebilirlik.org/en/home.html Integrated reporting consultancy services, editing services, design and production T: +90 212 227 0436 www.tayburnkurumsal.com Brands & Reputations. This report is printed on environmentally friendly papers.
