ConvaTec Group Plc 7th Floor, 3 Forbury Place Forbury Estate 23 Forbury Road Reading RG1 3JH United Kingdom www.convatec.com ConvaTec Group Plc United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2018 The following table provides cross-references between the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and our Communication on Progress, which is integrated into our 2018 Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) Report (‘the Report’) https://www.convatecgroup.com/corporate-responsibility/corporateresponsibility-reports/ . Our continuing support of the UNGC Principles in provided in our Chairman’s Statement on page 5 of the Report. The relationship between our CR programme and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is indicated on page 12 of the Report. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom United Nations Global Compact Principles Comments and References (to the 2018 Group CR report) Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the We address the topic of human rights directly and indirectly throughout the Report. More protection of internationally proclaimed human specifically, we discuss our approach to human rights in relation to: rights; and…  our own employees in pages 29 to 36 (see page 34 in particular for an independent assessment of our approach);  our customers (in particular in relation to the conduct of clinical trials on page 21, customer safety on page 22, access to healthcare on page 23 and data privacy on 24);  our value chain (particularly in relation to labour standards, environmental performance and ethical business practices on pages 37 to 39);  broader society (through, in particular, our approach to bribery and corruption and business ethics, on pages 48 and 49). 2. …make sure that they are not complicit in human See 1. above. rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of See 1. above and, specifically, on page 31 where we disclose our policy and relevant data in association and the effective recognition of the relation to freedom of association and collective bargaining. right to collective bargaining ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom 4. …the elimination of all forms of forced and See 1. above and page 34 for discussion of our approach to human rights and labour standards. compulsory labour Also, see https://www.convatecgroup.com/media/1325/human-rights-and-labour-standardspolicy-statement_final.pdf for a copy of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy. 5. …the effective abolition of child labour; and See 1. above and page 34 for discussion of our approach to human rights and labour standards. Also, see https://www.convatecgroup.com/media/1325/human-rights-and-labour-standardspolicy-statement_final.pdf for a copy of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy. 6. …the elimination of discrimination in respect of See 1. above and page 34 for discussion of our approach to human rights and labour standards, employment and occupation. and pages 34 and 35 for discussion of our approach to diversity. Also, see https://www.convatecgroup.com/media/1325/human-rights-and-labour-standardspolicy-statement_final.pdf for a copy of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Please see pages 40 to 47 for discussion of our approach and results in relation to environmental approach to environmental challenges,… issues. Page 41 sets out our management approach and this references the precautionary principle. Page 46 discusses our approach to new product development and topics such as ‘substances of concern’. We also set out our public commitment to develop green design guidelines for new product development. 8. …undertake initiatives to promote greater See 7. above – also, page 42 sets out our new climate change strategy which will drive activities in environmental responsibility; and… relation to both product and packaging, and operations and supply chain engagement. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom 9. encourage the development and diffusion of Our activity in this area will increase as our various environmental initiatives in relation to products environmentally friendly technologies. and packaging mature. Also, please note that on pages 38 and 39 we discuss our approach to assessing and engaging with suppliers in relation to environmental performance. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its Please see pages 48 and 49 for a discussion of our approach to combating bribery and corruption. forms, including extortion and bribery. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom
