REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the Annual Financial Report 2O18 C O N T E N T S PROFILE03 1 6 COMPANY OVERVIEW05 SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP 1.1 Key figures 06 STRUCTURE301 1.2 A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 08 6.1 Information about the Company’s capital 302 1.3 Group organisational structure 20 6.2 Information about the Company’s ownership structure 305 1.4 Providing insurance for over 160 years 22 6.3 Listing of CNP Assurances shares 308 6.4 Dividends and dividend policy 309 2 6.5 6.6 Delegations of competence and financial authorisations Additional information about the Company’s capital 310 315 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 25 2.1 Significant events of the year 26 7 2.2 Market and business review 30 2.3 2018 financial review 33 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 319 2.4 Solvency40 7.1 A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 320 7.2 A CSR strategy that is continually updated to keep it 3 7.3 ambitious and relevant Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, 320 environment and economy 322 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 43 7.4 A measure of CSR performance 349 3.1 Governance structure 44 7.5 Metholodogy350 3.2 Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 48 7.6 Report by the independent third party on the consolidated 3.3 Management and members of the Board of Directors 62 non-financial statement included in the Group 3.4 Remuneration of corporate officers 81 management report352 3.5 Statement on convictions, bankruptcies, conflicts of interest Annex – Additional labour, social and and other disclosures concerning corporate officers 91 environmental information 355 3.6 Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 92 8 4 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 375 8.1 General information 376 RISK FACTORS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 107 8.2 Person responsible for the information and the audit 4.1 Risk factors 108 of the financial statements 380 4.2 Information on financial risks associated with the effects 8.3 Special committees for the exchange of information about of climate change and measures taken to mitigate such CNP Assurances set up with the Company’s shareholders 382 risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy throughout all components of the business 120 4.3 Internal control and risk management procedures 122 ANNEXES383 5 EMBEDDED VALUE 384 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 GLOSSARY AND RECONCILIATION TABLES 384 5.1 Consolidated financial statements 126 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CONCORDANCE TABLE393 5.2 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial INFORMATION RELATING TO THE MANAGEMENT statements239 REPORT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 397 5.3 Parent company financial statements 245 5.4 Other information 293 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT THEMATIC 5.5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the company CROSS‑REFERENCE TABLE 400 financial statements294 Registration Document including the Annual The concordance table provides cross references Financial Report to the information provided in the Annual Financial Report and the Management Report. The following information is incorporated by reference in this Registration Document, in accordance with Article 28 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004/EC 2018 dated 29 April 2004: • the consolidated financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the Statutor y Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, as presented respectively on pages 112 to 224 and 225 to 229 of Registration Document No. D.18-0209 filed with the AMF on 29 March 2018; • the financial statements of CNP Assurances The French-language version of this Registration Document for the year ended 31 December 2017 (Document de Référence) was filed with the AMF on and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the 28 March 2019, in accordance with Article 212-13 of the financial statements for the year ended AMF’s General Regulations. It may not be used in connection 31 December 2017, as presented with a financial transaction unless it is accompanied by an respectively on pages 231 to 282 and Information Memorandum approved by the AMF. 284 to 289 of Registration Document This English-language document has been translated and No. D.18-0209 filed with the AMF on adapted from the French Document de Référence filed with 29 March 2018; the AMF. Only the French-language version is binding on • the consolidated financial statements the Company. of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the Statutor y Auditors’ report on the consolidated The following information is incorporated in this Registration financial statements for the year ended Document: 31 December 2016, as presented • the Annual Financial Report that all listed companies respectively on pages 66 to 171 and are required to prepare and publish within four months 172 to 173 of Registration Document of their financial year-end, in accordance with No. D.17-0337 filed with the AMF on Article L.451‑1‑2 of the French Monetar y and 6 April 2017; Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier) and • the financial statements of CNP Assurances with Article L.222-3 of the General Regulations of the for the year ended 31 December 2016 French financial markets authority (Autorité des Marchés and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the Financiers – AMF); and financial statements for the year ended • the Annual Management Report of the CNP Assurances 31 December 2016, as presented Board of Directors, to be presented to shareholders at the respectively on pages 174 to 226 and Annual General Meeting held to approve the financial 228 to 229 of Registration Document statements for each financial year, in accordance with No. D.17-0337 filed with the AMF on Articles L.225-100 et seq. of the French Commercial 6 April 2017. Code (Code de commerce). CNP Assurances Registered office: 4, place Raoul Dautry 75716 Paris Cedex 15, France Société anonyme (joint-stock company) with fully paid-up share capital of €686,618,477 Registered in the Paris Trade and Companies Register under no. 341 737 062 Company governed by the French Insurance Code (Code des assurances) Tel: +33 (0)1 42 18 88 88 • www.cnp.fr • Member of the Caisse des Dépôts Group 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 01 O U R M I S S I O N I S T O P R O T E C T O U R P O L I C Y H O L D E R S A N D E V E R Y T H I N G T H E Y H O L D D E A R O V E R T H E L O N G T E R M. W I T H O U R P A R T N E R S , W E R E I N V E N T P R O T E C T I O N S O L U T I O N S A L I G N E D T O E A C H I N D I V I D U A L ’ S N E E D S W H A T E V E R T U R N S T H E I R L I F E T A K E S. 02 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES P R O F I L E €1,367 million IN ATTRIBUTABLE NET PROFIT IN 2018 No. 1 No. 1 No. 4 No. 4 IN FRANCE IN FRANCE FOR IN EUROPE IN BRAZIL FOR FOR LIFE TERM CREDITOR FOR PERSONAL INSURANCE ( 4) INSURANCE (1 ) INSURANCE (2 ) INSURANCE (EXCL. HEALTH) (3 ) O P E R AT I O N S I N E U R O P E A N D L AT I N A M E R I C A , WITH A STRONG PRESENCE IN BRAZIL A COMPREHENSIVE RANGE OF SOCIAL €32.4 billion 37 million (5) PROTECTION IN PREMIUM INCOME IN 2018 INSUREDS UNDER SOLUTIONS PERSONAL RISK / PROTECTION POLICIES (6) F O UNDED E B I T B Y SE G MEN T ( I N € M I L L I ON S) AND OVER 160 1,183 1,143 598 14 million PERSONAL RISK/ SAVINGS/ OWN-FUNDS YEARS AGO PROTECTION PENSIONS PORTFOLIOS SAVINGS AND PENSIONS POLICYHOLDERS WORLDWIDE €313 billion 5,243 EMPLOYEES IN AVERAGE TECHNICAL RESERVES IN 2018 WORLDWIDE (1) Source: FFA 2017 data, July 2018 (2) Source: Argus de l’Assurance “Les bancassureurs”, June 2018 (3) Source: Argus de l’Assurance “2016 European Top 20, Technical Reserves and Premiums”, December 2017 (4) Source: Brazilian insurance supervisor SUSEP of Caixa Segurdora, October 2018 (5) Estimates partly based on the number of contracts under management (6) Personal Risk, Health, Term Creditor and Property & Casualty insurance 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 03 04 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 1 C O M PA N Y OVERVIEW 1.1 KEY FIGURES 06 1.2 A MULTI-PARTNER AND MULTI-CHANNEL BUSINESS MODEL 08 1.2.1 Serving everyone 08 1.2.2 Closely aligned with our partners09 1.2.3 Market positioning 11 1.2.4 A business model that creates value for stakeholders 13 1.2.5 How CNP Assurances ensures that it is able to honour its commitments over the long term 16 1.2.6 Roadmap and outlook 16 1.2.7 Impact of the business model on society and the environment 17 1.3 GROUP ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 20 1.4 PROVIDING INSURANCE FOR OVER 160 YEARS 22 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 05 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W Key figures 1.1 Key figures 2018 operational and financial performance (Source: CNP Assurances 2018 annual results) (in € millions) 2018 2017 Change Premium income 32,367 32,127 +0.7% BUSINESS Value of New Business 659 782 -15.7% PERFORMANCE Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) margin 21.3% 23.6% -2.3 pts Total revenues 3,846 3,827 +0.5% Administrative costs 922 938 -1.6% Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 2,924 2,889 +1.2% EARNINGS Attributable net profit 1,367 1,285 +6.4% Return on equity (ROE) 8.4% 8.0% +0.5 pts Combined ratio (1) 80.9% 82.5% -1.5 pts Net operating free cash flow €2.13/share €1.62/share €0.51/share Dividend €0.89/share (2) €0.84/share +6,0% CASH FLOW AND DIVIDEND Payout ratio 46% 47% Dividend cover 2.4x 1.9x Consolidated SCR coverage ratio 187% 190% -3 pts SOLVENCY Consolidated MCR coverage ratio 317% 324% -7 pts (1) Personal Risk/Protection segment (Term Creditor insurance, Death/Disability, Health and Property & Casualty insurance) (2) Recommended at the Annual General Meeting of 18 April 2019 Financial ratings Standard & Poor’s Moody’s Financial Strength Rating Financial Strength Rating A A1 stable outlook stable outlook (Source: Standard & Poor’s report – December 2018) (Source: Moody’s report – February 2019) 2018 Non-financial ratings MSCI OEKOM Research Vigeo-Eiris AAA Prime C+ 61/100 Insurance industry leaders #4 out of 53 insurers in Europe 06 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W Key figures 1 P R E MI UM I NCOME EB IT BY SE G ME NT B Y S EG M EN T (in € billions) (in € millions) 2,889 2,924 31.5 32.1 32.4 2,638 665 598 6.6 602 6.6 7.4 947 1,153 1,183 24.9 24.7 25.7 1,089 1,081 1,143 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Savings/Pensions Personal risk/Protection Savings/Pensions Personal risk/Protection Own-funds portfolios P R E MI UM I NCOME EB IT BY G E OG RA PH Y B Y GEO G R A P H Y (in € billions) (in € millions) 2,889 2,924 31.5 32.1 32.4 107 2,638 132 3.7 4.0 5.3 128 3.6 5.3 913 5.5 981 875 24.3 22.8 21.6 1,635 1,777 1,903 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 France Latin America Europe excluding France France Latin America Europe excluding France E A RNI NG S DIV IDEN D PE R SH A RE P ER S H A R E (in €) (in €) 1.92 1.80 0.89 * 1.64 0.84 0.80 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 * Recommended at the Annual General Meeting of 18 April 2019 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 07 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1.2 A multi-partner and multi-channel business model As an insurer, co-insurer and reinsurer, CNP Assurances delivers its unique protection and savings expertise to its policyholders and partners through a multi-partner and multi-channel business model. Our solutions are distributed in France, Latin America and Europe by our many banking and social economy partners, at bricks‑and-mortar points of sale and online. We have 37 million Personal Risk/Protection (1) policyholders (2) and 14 million Savings/Pensions policyholders worldwide. 1.2.1 Serving everyone Lifestyles and habits are changing. People may change trajectory in Europe and demand for insurance among Brazil’s expanding a number of times during their lifetime and we are all having to middle class. come to terms with the challenges facing today’s society, such as Our Group assesses and pools risks in order to offer the type and new forms of employment, the housing crisis, the challenge of level of cover sought by each policyholder to protect their future ageing well and changes in social protection. and that of their loved ones against the risks of everyday life and Our mission is to protect people and support them during their allow them to undertake projects with confidence. different life experiences. Solutions tailored to policyholders’ needs With our many partners, we innovate so that policyholders can find the best protection solution for their specific situation, in line We work closely with each distribution partner to build offers that with our day-to-day commitment to addressing everyone’s needs. are geared to the profiles of their respective clients in terms of age, appetite for risk and income level. Our business, providing personal insurance cover These clients’ needs can be very different, such as maintaining CNP Assurances plays a major role in meeting the social their standard of living following retirement or an accident, protection needs of individuals and professionals. Thanks to our passing on capital to future generations, ensuring that help will many years’ experience, we are ideally placed to track and be available in the event of a loss of autonomy and increasing keep pace with economic and social trends. Underlying growth medical cost reimbursement rates. Whatever the need, we in demand for protection solutions in Europe and Latin America is offer comprehensive, innovative solutions to our millions of being driven by demographic trends, increasing life expectancy policyholders around the world thanks to our specialised expertise in insuring various types of risk. Segment Offers by segment Savings Traditional life insurance and life insurance with a unit-linked or Croissance (growth fund) formula Pensions Supplementary pension plans Personal Risk Death, temporary and permanent disability insurance, long-term care insurance, unemployment insurance, Insurance loss of income insurance, support and assistance services Term Creditor Insurance Term creditor insurance for home loans, consumer finance and business loans, rent guarantees Health Insurance Supplementary health insurance, dental insurance Property & Casualty Auto insurance, comprehensive home-owners’ insurance Details of premium income by segment are provided in section 2.2.2 of the 2018 Business review (1) Personal Risk, Health, Term Creditor and Property & Casualty insurance (2) Estimates partly based on the number of contracts under management 08 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1 1.2.2 Closely aligned with our partners CNP Assurances has developed an original bancassurance a multi‑channel distribution model and direct sales capabilities. model based on long-term partnerships. Combining insurance In the wealth management market, we propose innovative offers expertise with a local presence, it is a model that has proved to many different distribution partners in France and Luxembourg, its efficiency and agility over the years. including private banking institutions, high street banks, family offices, wealth management firms, brokers and independent In France, two bancassurance partners that are also financial advisors. We also create eco-systems with service shareholders providers and start-ups to build offers from scratch to address Our products are distributed in France by two historical partners, today’s needs. La Banque Postale and the BPCE group (Banques Populaires and Caisses d’Epargne networks). Long-term agreements have been A bespoke model for the social protection market signed with each partner, specifying the product categories and CNP Assurances is the preferred partner of companies, local networks concerned in accordance with their respective growth authorities, employee benefits institutions, mutual insurers, strategies. As CNP Assurances shareholders, both partners have non‑profits and brokers operating in the social protection a direct stake in the Group’s performance and in its future. market. We offer these partners many different types of personal insurance, supported by innovative customer relationship The model exported to Europe and Latin America management, product marketing and risk management solutions through joint ventures as well as by a variety of assistance and support services. The Group has expanded internationally by setting up long-term joint ventures with banking and other partners that have a deep Proprietary distribution local presence and a broad distribution network. The leading Our in-house team of insurance advisors, which operates under examples of this are the partnerships with Caixa Econômica the Amétis name, serves its own clients and also markets white Federal in Brazil, UniCredit in Italy and Santander Consumer label products to social protection partners such as Klésia and Finance in 12 European countries. Their participation as Malakoff Médéric Humanis. shareholders in the joint ventures’ governance and financial performance incentivises the networks and, as such, is a critical As experts in social protection solutions, Amétis insurance growth driver. advisors partner private individuals, freelancers and sole traders, micro-enterprises and SMEs in both urban and rural areas, by An open and evolutive model offering them products and services covering the risks they face We are inventing new partnership models to increase the throughout their life. pace of business growth. For example, we offer white label insurance products to selected partners, as well as deploying 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 09 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model Overview of our distribution partners, direct clients and main subsidiaries by segment and by geographical area Personal Term FRANCE Savings Pensions Risk Creditor Health Distribution partners and shareholders La Banque Postale BPCE group Distribution partners Private banking institutions, high street banks, family offices, wealth management firms, brokers and independent financial advisors Brokers, including 100% digital partners (EasyBourse (1) and Alan (2)) Financial institutions, including 100% digital partners (Boursorama and ING) Mutual insurers Employee benefits institutions Proprietary distribution To individuals and professionals (freelancers and sole traders, micro-enterprises and SMEs) (3) To local authorities (4) To companies To non-profits and peer groups Subsidiaries Arial CNP Assurances (5) MFPrévoyance Assuristance (through Filassistance) (6) Assistance services Lyfe , 100% digital platform (7) Healthcare, wellness and healthy ageing services Youse Home, 100% digital platform Rent guarantee service (1) EasyBourse is La Banque Postale’s online brokerage (2) Alan, a 100% digital insurer, distributes CNP Assurances’ personal risk solutions (3) Products distributed by Amétis, CNP Assurances’ in-house network of insurance advisors (4) Employee benefit solutions and coverage of local authorities’ statutory risks (5) Our joint subsidiary with AG2R La Mondiale, specialised in company retirement savings plans (6) Our holding company and joint subsidiary with Swiss Life (7) Our brokerage subsidiary for the mutual insurance, employee benefits institutions and corporates segments Personal Term Property LATIN AMERICA Savings Pensions Risk Creditor Health & Casualty Caixa Econômica Federal (1), Brazil Youse (2), 100% online platform, direct distribution in Brazil Brokers, Brazil (3) Credicoop (4), Argentina Brokers, mutual insurers, cooperatives, non-profits, Argentina (1) Through our subsidiary Grupo Caixa Seguradora (2) Subsidiary of Grupo Caixa Seguradora (3) Dental insurance only (4) Through our subsidiary CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros 10 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1 Term Property EUROPE Savings Pensions Personal Risk Creditor Health & Casualty UniCredit (1), Italy Private banking institutions and independent financial advisors (2), Italy mainly, Spain, Portugal, Luxembourg Brokers and financial institutions (3), Italy, Spain, Portugal Santander Consumer Finance (4), Germany, Poland, Italy, Spain, Austria, Portugal, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium and Netherlands Insurance agents (5), Cyprus/Greece (1) Through our subsidiary CNP UniCredit Vita (2) Through our subsidiaries CNP Partners and CNP Luxembourg (3) Through our subsidiary CNP Partners (4) Through our subsidiary CNP Santander Insurance (5) Through our subsidiary CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings 1.2.3 Market positioning France In 2017, the term creditor insurance market represented annual premiums of €9.1 billion, an increase of nearly 4% compared In 2018, the personal insurance market accounted for 74% of the with 2016. Of the total, 74% concerned home loans, 20% total insurance market in France (1). After peaking in 2006, the concerned consumer finance and 6% concerned business share of personal insurance decreased while non-life insurance loans. Premiums represented 0.7% of the loan amount for home gained ground. Within the personal insurance segment, the share loans and consumer finance, a ratio that has dropped slightly of health and personal injury insurance has grown steadily since since 2013. At end-2017, consumer debt in France totalled 2006, reaching 14% in 2018 (1). €1,292 billion. Accidental death cover accounted for 71% of term creditor insurance premiums in 2017, temporary and Number 1 in the life insurance market (2) permanent disability cover for 27% and unemployment cover for The French life insurance and endowment market is still highly 2%. In 2017, 88% of term creditor insurance premiums were concentrated. It is dominated by the bancassurers, with traditional written by the insurance partners of the lender banks (unchanged and mutual insurers lagging behind. In 2017, the top five compared with 2016), and 12% by insurers chosen by the players, which include CNP Assurances, together held over 54% borrowers. of the market. CNP Assurances is France’s largest life insurer, based on technical reserves (2), thanks in no small measure to its CNP Assurances partners close to 230 financial institutions, social partners, La Banque Postale and BPCE. economy lenders and mutual banks from across the board. We provide wide ranging cover of death, temporary and permanent Leader in term creditor insurance (3) disability, unemployment and loss of income risks, backed by support services and assistance, to ensure that borrowers are Despite the large number of companies offering term creditor fully protected following the occurrence of an insured event. As a insurance in France – including around 40 traditional insurance standard bearer in this market, CNP Assurances has also taken a companies and bancassurers – the top four account for over 70% technological lead by offering 100% online underwriting. of the market, with CNP Assurances ranked no. 1. (1) Source: French Insurance Dashboard, 2018, FFA, February 2019 (2) Source: 2017 Key Indicators, FFA, July 2018 (3) Sources: term creditor insurance technical reserves in 2017, statistics published by the FFA in June 2018; 2017 term creditor insurance premiums and key figures, published by the FFA in July 2018; Positioning by market participant, Argus de l’assurance “Les bancassureurs”, June 2018 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 11 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model Pioneering long-term care insurance (1) coaching services, assistance in accessing healthcare services As of end-2017, traditional insurers and bancassurers and help for carers, making CNP Assurances the “go‑to” provider provided long-term care insurance cover to 2.7 million insureds of support in coping with the challenges of daily life. (representing a 38% market share, behind the mutual insurers). Last year’s creation of the Youse Home, a 100% digital platform, The 20% decline in the number of policies compared with 2016 illustrates our commitment to partnering the revolution in the way resulted from the termination of a single group policy covering we go about our daily lives and the transition to new ways of 800,000 insureds, partly offset by an increase in the number working, with the aim of winning over new full digital clients. of individual policies. 59% of contracts are for long-term care Youse Home’s innovative rent guarantee is designed to restore insurance only, while 34% correspond to other types of policies confidence among prospective tenants who do not fit the that include a long-term care formula as an option. standard mould, such as freelancers, creators of start-ups and CNP Assurances was one of the first insurance companies in people working in the entertainment industry. France to address the problem of financing long-term care. It is a leading provider of long-term care cover under group policies Latin America, a growing market and has 9% of the individual long-term care insurance market. CNP Assurances has been present in Argentina since 1995. We offer a selection of compulsory and voluntary participation The acquisition of its Brazilian subsidiary, Caixa Seguradora, products allowing insureds to anticipate their future needs in terms in 2001 enabled the Group to move up a gear in its Latin of financial and other support in the event of a loss of autonomy. American development. A major supplementary pensions provider (2) Deep roots in Brazil (3) We are present in the supplementary pension and employee benefit The Brazilian insurance market totalled R$ 195 billion (excluding plan market through Arial CNP Assurances, our joint subsidiary health insurance) in the twelve months ended October 2018, with the AG2R La Mondiale group. Arial CNP Assurances is representing a modest 0.4% decline year-on-year. The Savings/ the only insurance company in France specialised exclusively in Pensions market accounted for 54% of total premiums. The supplementary pension plans and ranks second in the market, with consumer finance term creditor insurance market grew by a strong some 260,000 corporate clients, 1.6 million insureds and around 19% during the period, while the pensions market contracted by €15.8 billion worth of managed assets. It designs, markets and 9%. We expanded our share of this highly concentrated market by manages all types of company pension systems. two points, to approximately 10%, helped by good performances A service-led differentiation strategy in the pensions and personal risk/protection insurance segments. We pay close attention to the services included in our offers, Our Brazilian subsidiary, Caixa Seguradora, is owned jointly both for partners and for insureds, and have acquired growing with Caixa Econômica Federal, a distribution partner of choice. As expertise in support services through our dedicated subsidiaries. Brazil’s second-biggest state-owned bank (4), Caixa Econômica Federal plays a major social and economic role, with a deep network of Filassistance International, a member of the Assuristance branches serving the local population throughout the country. sub-group, has developed an array of personal assistance services, ranging from the most basic to the most innovative, Affordable products for the new middle class by drawing on the best that new technologies and one-to-one Caixa Seguradora offers products for companies and individuals, interactions have to offer. More than eight million people benefit focusing on Brazil’s emerging middle class. It is particularly from its services, which cover all types of assistance and are active in the retirement savings market and is the unchallenged provided by a network of 10,000 service providers specially leader in term creditor insurance with 60.2% of the market. Ranked chosen for their skills, efficiency and effectiveness, and their sixth in the personal risk market with a 6.6% share, it is actively commitment to offering a warm and welcoming service to clients. developing solutions to meet the Brazilian population’s new needs. Filassistance International’s network is supported by Âge d’Or Services, a member of the CNP Assurances Group since 2001. A 100% digital insurance platform In 2018, Âge d’Or operated a network of some 120 agencies dedicated to assisting the elderly and disabled and people Caixa Seguradora was Brazil’s first insurer to launch full-online requiring long-term care. distribution of auto insurance, comprehensive home‑owner insurance and personal risk insurance through Youse, To strengthen the service dynamic that adds value to our a 100% digital insurance platform that came on stream in insurance solutions, we have launched “Lyfe”, a digital health, mid-2016. As of end-2018, Youse had already signed up more wellness and healthy ageing services platform. Lyfe offers than 125,000 clients. mutual insurance companies, employee benefits institutions and employees of member companies a range of prevention and (1) Source: Funeral insurance policies in 2017, FFA, June 2018 (2) Source: 2018 retirement savings plan rankings, Argus de l’assurance, October 2018 (3) Source: insurance market data by class are taken from the databases of Brazil’s insurance supervisor, SUSEP, October 2018: http://www2.susep.gov.br/menuestatistica/SES/principal.aspx (4) Source: Brazilian Central Bank, September 2018 12 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1 At the heart of a wealthy and mature Open model distribution to drive growth European market CNP Santander Insurance is expanding distribution of our term With operations in 14 countries, CNP Assurances is Europe’s creditor insurance offer. More than half of the partnership’s term fourth largest life insurer (1). creditor insurance premiums are now generated in Germany, while Spain, Poland and the Nordic countries (Nor way, With UniCredit in Italy Sweden, Denmark and Finland) account for most of the rest. In 2018, distribution was extended to include Belgium and In a life insurance market (2) that contracted by 1% in the twelve the Netherlands, raising the number of countries targeted by months ended October 2017 compared with the previous CNP Santander Insurance to 12. period, CNP UniCredit Vita lifted its market share by one point to 3%. At the end of 2017, CNP Assurances and UniCredit We intend to move up a gear in the development of our business renewed the partnership organised around their joint subsidiary, in southern Europe (Italy, Spain and Portugal) by leveraging CNP CNP UniCredit Vita, which was set up in 2005. The new Partners’ multi-partner and multi-channel model. Drawing on the agreement runs until 2024 and covers central and southern Italy, support of a servicing subsidiary, a call centre (in six languages) Sardinia and Sicily. CNP UniCredit Vita offers a full range of and four branches, CNP Partners is building sales of two insurance products for distribution in the territory covered by the flagship products through three core distribution channels: private agreement. It also provides the services of a dedicated marketing banking institutions and independent financial advisors for wealth support team to promote sales of unit-linked savings contracts, management products, especially in Italy, and bancassurers and personal risk insurance and term creditor insurance, in line with brokers for Personal Risk/Protection insurance offers. our strategic refocusing of the product mix. 1.2.4 A business model that creates value for stakeholders Our personal insurance business draws on multiple skill-sets developed in-house and on the expertise of specialised service providers. Our commitments to policyholders cover long periods and significant amounts, compelling us to maintain a robust and sustainable balance sheet structure. We leverage these strengths and the quality of our partners to create value for all of our stakeholders. A specific feature: the policyholder benefit is deferred Upstream, the policyholder pays the premium. Downstream, the risk is covered when it occurs. The average life of a personal insurance policy is ten years and policyholder so that they can be released at any time and over the challenge is therefore to safeguard the funds advanced by the time at the request of the policyholder or the beneficiary. (1) Source: “2016 European Top 20, Technical Reserves and Premiums”, Argus de l’Assurance, December 2017 (2) Source: Italian insurance supervisor (IANA) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 13 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model A BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS RESOURCES CNP ASSURANCES GROUP VALUE CREATION Policyholder premiums The bond of trust Insureds between the insured and the insurer €28.2bn in lump sum payments or in the form The CNP Assurances Group of annuities in the case of surrender, performs statistical analyses accident, illness, death, loss of to determine the premium required autonomy, unemployment, retirement to cover claims and benefits or property damage Financial resources ____ The insured transfers his or her risk to the insurer by paying the premium Employees Service providers/Suppliers Shareholders Distribution partners The CNP Assurances Group €4.7bn in wages and salaries, Pools the insured’s risk with the risks purchases and commissions of its community of insureds to share Bond issues the probability of the risk occurring and make the premium affordable ____ Reinsurers Human and Protects premiums by investing them in long-term instruments and optimises €1.1bn external resources its financial management to be able of ceded premiums to cash in investments if needed ____ Guarantees the proper execution Shareholders/ Employees of each policy Bondholders €0.9bn of dividends and interest The insured (or his/her beneficiary) Service providers/Suppliers receives the settlement when the risk or need occurs States* €0.8bn Distribution partners in taxes * CNP Assurances also contributes to government finances in its host countries through the payment of taxes other than corporate income tax. 14 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1 Working seamlessly with our partners to address the end client’s needs INSIGHT INTO THE POSITIONS OF ACTUARY AND MEDICAL ADVISOR We pool our strengths with those of our partners to address the AT C N P A S S U R A N C E S needs of policyholders who are the end clients. These distribution partnerships, forged over the long term in France and other Actuaries are employed in the various disciplines countries, enhance the effectiveness of our unique combination of and functions. They are the guarantors of the models, insurance expertise and in-depth customer understanding. These measurements and valuations of our commitments, combined strengths help to ensure that our offers evolve in close contributing to managing risks at all levels by sharing alignment with the end clients’ changing needs. their expertise in support of the Group’s profitable and They are also leveraged to develop new policyholder sustainable growth. experiences. The challenge is to offer the end client a multi-channel They also contribute to the process of innovation to experience that is fully integrated from start to finish. Meeting this address marketing challenges, improve operating challenge makes our partners’ marketing efforts more effective efficiency and comply with regulatory requirements, and increases policyholder satisfaction. using artificial intelligence algorithms. One of the recent To offer end clients high quality administrative services and quick advances proposed by the actuaries – a solution to speed response times, we have entered into reciprocal commitments with up the search for beneficiaries – won an award at the our partners. These commitments reflect our promise to drive constant 2018 Trophées de l’Assurance, in the category “customer improvement in our service quality and contribute to the fulfilment of relationship management innovations”. our mutual obligations in terms of data protection (under the General The actuaries also work closely with universities and Data Protection Regulation), prevention of money laundering and research institutes, and are taking part in various the financing of terrorism, and the provision of impartial advice to projects undertaken by the insurance industry in France policyholders (under the Insurance Distribution Directive). as active members of various commissions and industry working groups. Deploying numerous skill-sets Our medical advisors’ primary role is to advise the many In 2018, we had 5,243 employees around the world. With units within the organisation on medical issues. They 160 years’ experience in writing personal insurance, we have ensure that the necessary internal medical confidentiality developed advanced expertise in managing the risks of daily life, rules exist and are applied within the Group, especially with multiple skill-sets and numerous disciplines closely involved at rules concerning the protection of insureds’ personal the various stages in the life of each policy. medical data (validation of medical documents, training of concerned employees, etc.). During the product design phase, the marketing teams analyse policyholders’ needs in terms of cover. Designing the contractual In addition to leading a network of medical correspondents, framework that will govern relations with the insured and his or her the medical advisors act as the interface between insureds beneficiaries over an average period of ten years – and much longer and CNP Assurances, as well as dealing with the insureds’ periods in some cases – involves members of our Compliance, personal physicians concerning medical and confidentiality Actuarial, Medical Advisory, Legal, IT and Finance departments. issues. Marketing of the products involves establishing close relations They also continuously monitor medical developments. For with partner distribution networks, in order to train and support example, by participating actively in the AERAS working their insurance advisors. The Amétis network’s insurance advisors, group on the right to be forgotten as it applies to survivors who are employees of CNP Assurances, sell policies directly to of serious illnesses, and the “Insurance and Cancer” their clients or to partners in the form of white label products. symposia organised by France’s national cancer institute (INCa) for more than five years now, our medical advisors During the life of the policy, the highest quality administrative system are deeply involved in the process to take into account new is essential for us to be able to process events in the lives of millions of medical advances. In this way, they contribute to updating different policies. Using the latest technologies, we have developed the reference grid designed to standardise the conditions specific expertise enabling us to process very large volumes of data for access to insurance cover, to take account of therapeutic while also being attentive to each personal situation. advances, improved understanding of epidemiological The last step, determining the premium investment strategy, is data and regulatory developments. both decisive and complex. The strategy has to respond to the dual imperatives of performance and security in order to ensure that we are able to honour our financial commitments without knowing in advance when they will fall due. Our financial strategies focus on long-term investment horizons aligned with the duration of our liabilities. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 15 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model The support of specialised service providers At all stages in the life of a policy, our teams draw on the deploy complex bespoke systems and digital apps for use by support of external resources as needed, including recognised policyholders. asset managers for the financial aspects and IT engineers to 1.2.5 How CNP Assurances ensures that it is able to honour its commitments over the long term Solvency and financial strength indicators attest to the Group’s requirement of €13.4 billion, with an SCR coverage ratio of ability to manage risks and protect premiums over time. At the 187% under Solvency II. same time, the values carried over from our time as a public sector company guarantee our ethical approach to doing business and our commitment to protecting policyholders’ data. Sustainably creating value Since the IPO in 1998, CNP Assurances has consistently reported a profit and has matched or increased its dividend The stability afforded by public sector every year. Consolidated net profit has grown at an average rate shareholders of 10% over the past 20 years. Since the IPO in October 1998, the composition of Setting premium rates at the right level and protecting premiums CNP Assurances’ Board of Directors has reflected its ownership are the pre-requisites of sustained financial viability. To satisfy structure and particularly the holdings of its four historical these pre-requisites, we pay very close attention to effectively shareholders – Caisse des Dépôts, La Banque Postale and BPCE managing risks (see section 4.1 Risk factors). (whose interests are held through a joint holding company, Sopassure) and the French State – that are united by a The Group’s financial sustainability and ability to meet its Shareholders’ Agreement. On 30 August 2018, the French State, long-term obligations are also assured thanks to our fundamental Caisse des Dépôts (CDC), the La Poste group and La Banque commitment to applying ethical business practices and Postale announced a project to create a large public financial unit demonstrating high levels of transparency. The Corporate Social serving territories involving Caisse des Dépôts and La Poste. The Responsibility approach deployed since 2006 embeds and gives project would entail Caisse des Dépôts becoming the majority shape to these fundamentals. shareholder of La Poste and La Banque Postale becoming the majority shareholder of CNP Assurances. Its implementation is subject to various prior conditions and conditions precedent. Recognised financial strength CNP Assurances is rated by two agencies: CNP Assurances turns regularly to the deeply subordinated notes WW A by Standard & Poor’s, indicating that the Group has market to increase its own-funds and optimise its financing costs. strong financial security characteristics (rating confirmed in December 2018); A high solvency ratio WW A1 by Moody’s, indicating that the Group represents a low At 31 December 2018, CNP Assurances had own-funds of credit risk (first rating awarded in June 2018 and confirmed €25.1 billion, representing nearly double its solvency capital in February 2019). 1.2.6 Roadmap and outlook A multi-partner model, a high quality product mix and a streamlined policyholder experience are the three fundamentals of CNP Assurances’ future growth strategy One ambition, three drivers Backed by our Group’s solid financial results, we aim to offer the helping to meet the human and environmental challenges facing full range of insurance solutions to our partners’ clients in a digital society now and in the future. and ultra-competitive environment, while remaining engaged in 16 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1 We have identified three drivers of future growth: In Brazil, the binding framework agreement signed in 2018* WW development of the multi-partner model, a process that paves the way for a long-term distribution agreement with was strengthened in 2018 with the signature of a binding Caixa Seguridade and confirms our local subsidiary’s exclusive long-term agreement with Caixa Seguridade in Brazil *; right to distribute personal risk insurance, consumer finance term WW diversification of the product mix, with the development of creditor insurance and pension products to the 78 million clients the Personal Risk/Protection insurance business and long-term of Caixa Econômica Federal. The agreement secures the Savings business (with particular focus on retirement savings business’s very long-term future (through 2041) and supports and employee savings plans), in all markets; our ambitions in this country, as we pursue our expansion in Latin America. WW faster implementation of the digital transformation strategy, to make the client experience more efficient for our partners, more human-centric for policyholders and more agile for our Accelerating the digital transformation employees. process to enhance the client experience The ramp-up of digitalisation taking place in both Europe and Latin Developing partnerships and diversifying America is having a clear impact on local people, their ways of the product mix life and their jobs. This force for change has led to a rethink of personal protection solutions and the design of innovative types of We are continuing to develop our partnerships and diversify our services and innovative methods of delivering them. product mix to meet the needs of end clients, whether they are individuals or professionals. The shift in the flow of new money Faster digitalisation of the client experience, diversification of towards Personal Risk/Protection insurance and long-term savings distribution channels and the new human-centric client approach products is being supported by the distribution agreements with are the three areas of the business units’ action plans. All of these La Banque Postale and BPCE, and the partnerships with Klésia plans address a major challenge – simplifying the experiences and Malakoff Médéric Humanis in France, as well as by the of our clients, partners and employees. This dynamic process renewed partnership with UniCredit in Italy and the scaling up supports our constantly renewed ambition to be a responsible of term creditor insurance distribution with Santander Consumer insurer and a benchmark partner in Europe and Latin America. Finance in Europe. We are pursuing our ambitious programme to invest in and Similarly, the alliance with AG2R La Mondiale within our partner innovative start-ups, called “Open CNP”. The aim is to joint subsidiary, Arial CNP Assurances, a major player in the help finance these start-ups’ growth while working with them to supplementary pension sector in France, is enabling us to pursue develop advanced solutions in promising areas such as e-health, the development of our business in this market at the centre fintech, assurtech, and offers and technologies that address of society’s emerging needs. These new opportunities for the emerging protection needs. As of end-2018, Open CNP had Group, especially in the retirement savings plan and employee invested in six start-up partners. savings plan markets, will be enhanced by France’s Pacte law (concerning the government’s action plan for business growth and transformation). 1.2.7 Impact of the business model on society and the environment To meet today’s environmental and social challenges, Six of these goals are particularly appropriate for describing the CNP Assurances’ goal is to play a role in the transition to a impacts of our business model: decarbonised and inclusive economy. In short, its investment WW Reduced inequalities (No. 10); policy can contribute to sustainable economic growth and its WW Good health and well-being (No. 3); insurance guarantees to combating financial exclusion. WW Decent work and economic growth (No. 8); Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme enables us WW Responsible consumption and production (No. 12); to identify our organisation’s positive and negative contributions WW Action against climate change (No. 13); to society and the environment, using the UN Sustainable WW Peace, justice and strong institutions (No. 16). Development Goals (SDGs) as a blueprint. * The agreement is subject to various conditions precedent, including the issuance of the necessary approvals by the competent supervisory and anti-trust authorities. See press release dated 22 March 2019, the content of which is presented under ”Subsequent events”on page 30 of this Registration Document 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 17 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) AND TO THE TRANSFORMATIONS RESHAPING THE WORLD CNP Assurances Group’s contribution CNP Assurances Group’s SDG to the goal CSR challenges (1) WW A product offer aligned with each person’s health Support change in the situation and the needs of people with low incomes. workplace and society. WW Prevention initiatives via the dedicated subsidiary Commit to offering good Filassistance International and the health, wellness and working conditions. healthy ageing services platform, Lyfe. Ensure healthy lives and promote WW Initiatives to reduce social inequalities in healthcare well-being for all at all ages and prevention initiatives through the CNP Assurances corporate foundation. WW For employees, actions deployed by the workplace health and safety units at the main sites. WW An investment policy based on challenging social Integrate ESG (2) and environmental criteria and a strategy of making and climate criteria investments that have a positive impact (in SMEs, into investment strategies. start-ups). Attract and nurture talents, WW A Group Human Resources policy that supports our develop skills. commitment to being a responsible and engaged Promote sustained and sustainable employer. Commit to offering good economic growth shared by all, full WW A Human Resources planning and development working conditions. productive employment and decent jobs for everyone approach designed to foster high quality of worklife at a time of major transformations. WW Employment of more than a hundred school-leavers under work-study contracts. WW Contribution to efforts to eliminate financial Support change in the exclusion and reduce social inequalities in healthcare. workplace and society. WW Actions to make products more accessible (tutorials, Integrate ESG (2) communication support for hearing and visually and climate criteria impaired clients). into investment strategies Reduce inequalities between countries WW Funding for small businesses that have difficulty (social aspects). overcoming financial and social barriers. WW Support for Human Resources diversity, with Act to improve client particular focus on hiring young people, seniors satisfaction. and the disabled, recognised by the Diversity Label. Commit to offering good Promotion of professional equality between men and working conditions. women. WW Use of ESG filters in the investment process and Integrate ESG (2) policy of shareholder activism. and climate criteria WW Awareness-raising and training programmes for into investment strategies. employees on sustainable development issues. Use digital technology WW Environmental audits of new suppliers to promote to transform policyholder Promote responsible production best practices. services. and consumption (1) The CNP Assurances Group’s CSR challenges are presented in section 7.3 “Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy”, which also includes a description of the methods used to determine and manage these challenges, and the related key performance indictors (2) ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance 18 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 1 CNP Assurances Group’s contribution CNP Assurances Group’s SDG to the goal CSR challenges (1) WW Publication of quantitative objectives for measures to Integrate ESG (2) combat climate change. and climate criteria WW Dialogue on the topic of the energy and environmental into investment strategies. transition with companies whose shares are held in the Group’s asset portfolios. Take urgent action to combat WW Active participation in the work of industry bodies. climate change and its effects WW Communication campaigns to inform employees about these asset management initiatives. WW Creation of C@pEthic, a code of conduct that Comply with good describes how to put into practice the principles of business ethics. respect for people, assets and resources within the Integrate ESG (2) Group and apply ethical business practices. and climate criteria WW Ban on investing in companies established in tax havens, into investment strategies. manufacturers of cluster bombs and anti-personnel Promote peaceful societies and access bombs, and in countries where there is a serious risk Protect the personal data to justice for all, build effective, of corruption. of policyholders and accountable institutions at all levels, employees. in support of sustainable development (1) The CNP Assurances Group’s CSR challenges are presented in section 7.3 “Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy”, which also includes a description of the methods used to determine and manage these challenges, and the related key performance indictors (2) ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 19 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W Group organisational structure 1.3 Group organisational structure Simplified organisational structure of CNP Assurances’ main subsidiaries and branches outside France at 31 December 2018 * The list of CNP Assurances’ subsidiaries outside France at 31 December 2018 was as follows: CNP Assurances Brazil Argentina Ireland Cyprus/ Spain Italy Luxembourg Greece 100% 76.47% 100% 50.10% 100% 57.50% 100% CNP ASSURANCES CNP ASSURANCES CNP EUROPE LIFE CNP CYPRUS CNP PARTNERS CNP CNP LUXEMBOURG BRASIL HOLDING COMPAÑÍA INSURANCE UNICREDIT VITA HOLDINGS 51% 51.75% CNP SANTANDER INSURANCE CAIXA SEGUROS EUROPE HOLDING 51% CNP SANTANDER INSURANCE LIFE 51% CNP SANTANDER INSURANCE SERVICES IRELAND For information about the risks to which the CNP Assurances Group is exposed, see Notes 23 to 25 to the consolidated financial statements and the description of risk factors (Chapter 4) The senior executives of CNP Assurances do not exercise the same executive duties in the main subsidiaries of the Group Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer, are directors of the Brazilian subsidiary Caixa Seguros Holding The strategic partnerships in Latin America and Europe (excluding France) are discussed in pages 9 to 11 CNP Assurances has signed shareholders’ agreements in relation to Caixa Seguros Holding, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros, CNP Santander Insurance Europe, CNP Santander Insurance Life, CNP Santander Insurance Services Ireland, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings and CNP UniCredit Vita * The percentages shown indicate both the interest in share capital and the voting rights directly and indirectly held in each subsidiary A more detailed presentation of CNP Assurances’ main subsidiaries is provided in Notes 4.5 to 4.6 to the consolidated financial statements 20 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W Group organisational structure 1 The list of CNP Assurances’ branches outside France at 31 December 2018 was as follows: Entity Branch Country City CNP Assurances CNP Assurances Denmark branch Denmark Copenhagen CNP Assurances CNP Assurances Italy branch Italy Milan CNP Assurances CNP Assurances Spain branch Spain Madrid CNP Assurances CNP Assurances New Caledonia branch New Caledonia Noumea CNP Assurances CNP Assurances Polynesia branch Polynesia Papeete CNP Caution CNP Caution Italy Italy Milan CNP Caution CNP Caution Spain Spain Madrid CNP Santander Insurance Life Santander Insurance Life Ltd Italy branch Italy Turin CNP Santander Insurance Europe Santander Insurance Europe Ltd Italy branch Italy Turin CNP Partners CNP Partners Italy branch Italy Milan CNP Partners Solutions CNP Partners Solutions Italy branch Italy Milan CNP Partners Solutions CNP Partners Solutions France branch France Nanterre CNP Asfalistiki CNP Asfalistiki Greece branch Greece Athens Simplified organisational structure of CNP Assurances’ main companies in France at 31 December 2018 * CNP Assurances Wholly Jointly owned owned insurance Brokerage insurance companies companies company 100% CNP CAUTION 66% ASSURISTANCE 100% YOUSE HOME 65% MFPRÉVOYANCE 100% LYFE 40% ARIAL 49% ECUREUIL VIE CNP ASSURANCES DÉVELOPPEMENT CNP Assurances has signed shareholders’ agreements in relation to Assuristance, MFPrévoyance, Arial CNP Assurances and Ecureuil Vie Développement For information about the risks to which the CNP Assurances Group is exposed, see Notes 23 to 25 to the consolidated financial statements and the description of risk factors (Chapter 4) * The percentages shown indicate both the interest in share capital and the voting rights directly and indirectly held in each subsidiary A more detailed presentation of CNP Assurances’ main subsidiaries is provided in Notes 4.5 to 4.6 to the consolidated financial statements 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 21 1 C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W Providing insurance for over 160 years 1.4 Providing insurance for over 160 years For over 160 years, CNP Assurances has been committed The personal insurer’s business is to meet these needs. By to meeting the demand for affordable personal insurance assessing and pooling risks and offering multiple guarantees, we products offering protection against current and future risks. enable our policyholders to attenuate the financial and day-to-day impact of adverse life events. Thanks to this long experience, we are ideally placed to track and keep pace with economic and social trends. In keeping with the strong public-sector roots of its main shareholders, CNP Assurances defines its social and As a general rule, as economies become more developed environmental responsibility as an insurer and investor based on people become more risk-averse, while longer life expectancy three pillars – helping to build a sustainable society, a sustainable leads to greater needs in retirement. There is only so much that environment and a sustainable economy – underpinned by the families can do to meet these needs and state pension schemes fundamental aim of establishing a relationship of trust with all can provide only partial coverage. This is where insurance stakeholders. companies play a critical role, by enabling policyholders to protect their own future and that of their loved ones. Key dates in the history of CNP Assurances 1850 1998 Creation within Caisse des Dépôts of Caisse Nationale de Retraite Stock market flotation. Signing of the CNP Assurances pour la Vieillesse (CNRV), France’s first pension fund. Shareholders’ Agreement with La Poste, Groupe Caisses d’Epargne, Caisse des Dépôts and the French State. 1868 1999 Creation of Caisse Nationale d’Assurances en cas d’Accident (CNAA), an accident insurance fund, and of Caisse Nationale Acquisition of controlling interests in Global SA and Global Vida SA d’Assurances en cas de Décès (CNAD), a life insurance fund. in Portugal. 1959 2001 Creation of Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance (CNP), a state institution Acquisition of a controlling stake in Caixa Seguros in Brazil, now combining the above three funds within Caisse des Dépôts. renamed Caixa Seguradora. 1960 Creation of Filassistance International in conjunction with Azur-GMF, dedicated to the provision of local services. Launch of the first individual insurance policies invested in mutual funds, distributed by La Poste (the French Post Office) and the 2005 French Treasury. Entry into the Italian market through the acquisition of a 57.5% 1988 stake in Fineco Vita, renamed Capitalia Vita in 2006, then CNP UniCredit Vita in 2008. Creation of Ecureuil Vie with the Caisses d’Epargne savings banks. 2006 1992 Extension of the Shareholders’ Agreement with La Poste, Groupe Caisses d’Epargne, Caisse des Dépôts and the French State CNP becomes CNP Assurances, a société anonyme until the end of 2015. Entry into the Spanish market through the (joint-stock company) governed by the Insurance Code (Code acquisition of a 94% stake in Skandia Vida, renamed CNP Vida. des assurances). 2007 1995 Purchase by CNP Assurances of the 49.9% stake in Ecureuil Vie Creation of CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros in Argentina. held by Groupe Caisses d’Epargne. 22 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C O M PA N Y O V E R V I E W Providing insurance for over 160 years 1 2008 2016 Expansion into Cyprus and Greece through the acquisition of a Renewal of the distribution agreement with La Banque Postale for 50.1% stake in Marfin Insurance Holdings. a ten-year period starting on 1 January 2016. The agreement’s scope was widened to include distribution of life and endowment 2009 insurance through La Banque Postale’s wealth management arm, Signing in June of a long-term, exclusive partnership agreement BPE, and a direct partnership has been established to offer term with Barclays, followed by the creation of a joint venture – creditor insurance to home buyers. Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compañia de Seguros (BVP) – to Partnership between AG2R La Mondiale and CNP Assurances distribute a full range of life insurance and pension products in cemented with the acquisition by CNP Assurances of a 39.95% Spain, Portugal and Italy. stake in Arial Assurance, a subsidiary of AG2R La Mondiale that 2012 has been renamed Arial CNP Assurances. Creation of Groupe Assuristance, 66% owned by Launch in September of Youse, Brazil’s first 100% digital CNP Assurances and 34% by Swiss Life. Groupe Assuristance insurance platform. is the parent company of the sub-group made up of Filassistance 2017 International and Garantie Assistance, which provides services across all segments of the assistance market. Renewal until 31 December 2019 of the Shareholders’ Agreement dated 2 September 1998 and its successive 2013 amendments, by the process agreed by the signatories (the Through Caixa Seguros, its Brazilian subsidiary, CNP Assurances French State, Caisse des Dépôts, La Banque Postale, the BPCE continues to expand in Latin America, acquiring Previsul, group and Sopassure). a personal insurance specialist in Southern Brazil, and Tempo Renewal of the life insurance partnership in Italy between Dental, one of the country’s largest dental insurance companies. CNP Assurances and UniCredit, organised around 2014 CNP UniCredit Vita, which is 57.5% owned by CNP Assurances, 38.8% by UniCredit and 3.7% by Cardif. Concluded for seven Renewal of the partnership agreement between BPCE group years as from 1 January 2018, the partnership takes the form of and CNP Assurances for a seven-year period starting on a shareholders’ agreement among CNP Assurances, UniCredit 1 January 2016, focused on developing the protection insurance and Cardif, supplemented by a distribution agreement between business. CNP UniCredit Vita and UniCredit. Signing of a strategic agreement with the Banco Santander group, 2018 providing for the acquisition of 51% of Santander Consumer Finance’s life and non-life insurance subsidiaries and a long-term In Brazil, the Group has signed a binding framework exclusive agreement for the distribution of protection insurance agreement with Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF) providing for products in ten European countries. the establishment of a new long-term exclusive distribution agreement covering the period to 13 Februar y 2041*. 2015 The new scope of exclusivity would only cover life and Signing in December of a partnership framework contract consumer credit life insurance lines and private pension plans between AG2R La Mondiale and CNP Assurances to create the (vida, prestamista, previdência). The agreement is subject to market leader in retirement savings. various conditions precedent, including the issuance of the necessary approvals by the competent supervisory and antiSale of CNP Assurances’ interest in CNP BVP to Barclays Bank. trust authorities. * See press release dated 22 March 2019, the content of which is presented under “Subsequent events” on page 30 of this Registration Document 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 23 24 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 2 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2.1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 26 2.1.1 First half 26 2.1.2 Second half 28 2.1.3 Subsequent events 30 2.2 MARKET AND BUSINESS REVIEW 30 2.2.1 Economic and financial environment 30 2.2.2 2018 Business review 31 2.2.3 Acquisitions of controlling and other interests (Article L.233‑6 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce)33 2.3 2018 FINANCIAL REVIEW 33 2.3.1 Consolidated financial statements 33 2.3.2 Company financial statements (French GAAP) 36 2.3.3 Review of subsidiaries 39 2.3.4 Growth outlook 39 2.4 SOLVENCY 40 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 25 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Significant events of the year 2.1 Significant events of the year 2.1.1 First half 29 JANUARY 2018 EasyVie is the only fully digitised life insurance product, from initial purchase to final surrender. Like EasyBourse’s investment CNP Assurances takes a majority stake in two products, customers can purchase their EasyVie contract directly InsurTechs, Azimut and iSalud.com, operating on the EasyBourse website and manage all their transactions respectively in France and Spain (purchases, sales, payments, surrenders, etc.) via their online On 29 January 2018, CNP Assurances announced that it was account. taking over two InsurTechs focused on digital marketing and direct distribution of protection and health insurance: iSalud in 9 APRIL 2018 Spain and Azimut in France. The investment of some €40 million has enabled CNP Assurances CNP Assurances wins the Best Managerial to become the majority shareholder of the two companies. Innovation Prize awarded by l’Argus de l’Assurance In April 2018, at the 14 th annual l’Argus d’Or de l’Assurance 15 FEBRUARY 2018 awards ceremony recognising innovative programmes, initiatives CNP Assurances invests in fintech company and products, CNP Assurances won the Best Managerial Lydia, which specialises in mobile payment Innovation Prize. solutions and services This category rewards innovative initiatives that benefit all As part of a funding round of €13 million, CNP Assurances stakeholders in the areas of change management, efficiency has acquired a stake in fintech company Lydia, France’s improvements, motivation building and the use of new leading mobile payment solutions provider, through its Open technologies. CNP corporate venture programme. CNP Assurances presented its Open Innovation Challenge that The investment in Lydia is part of CNP Assurances’ programme of is designed to help employees wake up to the fact that they investments and partnerships with innovative start-ups under Open all have ideas which are useful to the Company, encourage CNP. Lydia, launched in 2013 by Cyril Chiche and Antoine them to put forward these ideas and create internal start-ups Porte, has developed an instant mobile payment app to simplify for their implementation, and more generally incite employees day-to-day transactions, both peer-to-peer and with businesses. to be bolder. The company is based in Paris and has 40 employees. A total of 953 employees took part in this first participative CNP Assurances has invested in Lydia to help it pursue its strategy innovation challenge, which was completed over eight months of conquering new users in France and Europe and developing and focused on improving customer satisfaction. 203 employees new services. The app, which is very popular among young organised in teams proposed 55 projects, of which 10 were people, already has more than a million users, with more than presented to an expert panel. Five teams were selected to join 2,000 new accounts being opened daily. Accelerator, CNP Assurances’ project incubator, and four projects Lydia represents the sixth investment by Open CNP, which is are now in the development phase. The Open CNP Challenge is dedicating €100 million over five years to supporting innovative a prime example of the ways in which the Group is undertaking start-ups as part of the acceleration of the digital transformation its cultural and digital transformation. of CNP Assurances. 11 APRIL 2018 8 MARCH 2018 CNP Patrimoine’s Flexi G offer wins EasyBourse and CNP Assurances launch Best Innovation Prize a full-online life insurance product, EasyVie CNP Patrimoine, CNP Assurances’ wealth management EasyBourse, La Banque Postale’s online broker, has teamed up business, won the Best Innovation Prize at the 33rd Gestion de with CNP Assurances to launch EasyVie. The product, which has Fortune awards ceremony, for its Flexi G offer. Launched by been on sale since end-February 2018, consists of an attractively CNP Patrimoine in early 2018, the Flexi G option enables all priced modular contract with a choice between investor-led or of CNP Patrimoine’s partners (private banking institutions, IFA manager-led investment strategies. platforms, family offices and asset managers) to offer life insurance and endowment policy holders dynamically managed unit-linked funds combined with a capital guarantee at a selected maturity. 26 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Significant events of the year 2 15 MAY 2018 6 JUNE 2018 Launch of Flexi I, the latest addition Moody’s assigned its A1 financial strength to CNP Patrimoine’s Flexi offer rating with stable outlook to CNP Assurances On 15 May 2018, CNP Patrimoine announced the launch of In a constant effort to strengthen the long-standing relationship of Flexi I, a new option to seize equity market opportunities while trust with its policyholders, its distributing partners and its bond keeping savings secure. creditors, CNP Assurances has entrusted Moody’s rating agency with rating its financial strength in addition to the rating assigned Flexi I allows investors, in a continuing low interest rate by S&P Global Ratings since 2006. environment, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by equity markets while protecting their capital at an optimised cost. On 6 June 2018, Moody’s assigned to CNP Assurances its A1 In this option, available in CNP One unit-linked life assurance or financial strength rating with stable outlook, which is one notch endowment contracts, 40‑50% of units are fully invested in shares higher than the A rating with stable outlook currently assigned by based on the SBF® TOP 80 Ew Decrement 50 pt index created S&P Global Ratings. by Euronext. This index is more diversified than the CAC 40. It is In its analysis, Moody’s noted: “CNP’s credit profile is supported composed of the 80 largest French stock market capitalisations by the Group’s very strong market position in the French life (including CAC 40 stocks) and has outperformed the CAC 40 insurance market, a low liability risk profile thanks to a low over the last five years. average guaranteed rate on traditional savings products, a Thanks to the insurer’s guarantee, the investor is certain to very stable level of profitability, as well as very good financial recover at least, according to their choice, 98% or 100% of flexibility owing to a strong shareholder, Caisse des Dépôts et their initial capital at maturity either on 31 December 2021 or Consignations (Aa2 positive), which owned 40.8% of CNP’s 31 December 2022 for optimised protection costs. shares as of 31 December 2017.” 24 MAY 2018 11 JUNE 2018 Employee savings: Humanis, CNP Assurances Youse, a new rental solution and AG2R La Mondiale consolidate their On 11 June 2018, CNP Assurances announced the launch of partnership Youse in France. Inter Expansion-Fongepar, the company dedicated to employee A wholly-owned subsidiary of CNP Assurances, Youse offers a savings for the Humanis group, of which CNP Assurances rental guarantee solution that is totally new to the real estate is a shareholder, and Prado Épargne, the employee savings market. Whatever their status may be, whether on permanent management company of AG2R La Mondiale, have combined or temporary contracts, students, autoentrepreneurs, freelancers their expertise and resources to become a major player in the or independents, all tenants can now obtain a guarantor with co-managed and mutual sector. a response in less than 24 hours. Youse relies on the solidity The merger between Inter Expansion-Fongepar and Prado of France’s leading personal insurer, guaranteeing the owners’ Épargne was approved by France’s insurance supervisor (ACPR) peace of mind. on 26 April 2018 and has been effective since 1 May 2018. The merger is in line with the growth and multi-stakeholder 21 JUNE 2018 distribution strategy of the Humanis group’s employee Savings Issuance of €500m subordinated Restricted business, which began in 2013 with CNP Assurances and the Tier 1 perpetual notes merger of Inter Expansion and Fongepar. On 20 June 2018, CNP Assurances finalised a €500 million This deal solidifies several years of partnership between Inter issue of undated subordinated notes with a first call date of Expansion-Fongepar and Prado Épargne around an administrative 27 June 2028. The issue will be classified as equity under IFRS. management service and tool shared within the Groupement The bonds will pay a 4.75% fixed rate of interest over the first d’Intérêt Économique Gestion Épargne Salariale (GIE GES). 10 years and the coupon will subsequently be adjusted every The pooling of technical resources and the improvement of the five years in line with future benchmark interest rates. Payment of quality of management was initiated at the beginning of 2016. the coupon is discretionary. The notes feature a principal writeIt has naturally led to the merger of the two companies and the down mechanism together with mandatory interest cancellation acquisition by AG2R La Mondiale of a stake in the capital of the in the event of non-compliance with solvency requirements, in new structure. accordance with the Solvency II directive. The issue proceeds will be eligible for inclusion in Solvency II Restricted Tier 1 regulatory capital. The notes have been rated BBBby Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 by Moody’s. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 27 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Significant events of the year 2.1.2 Second half 19 JULY 2018 The new exclusivity perimeter in CEF’s network concern life insurance, consumer credit life insurance and private pension CNP Assurances launches a new type plans. In line with the terms of the non-binding Memorandum of individual healthcare cover distributed of Understanding signed at the end of September 2017, the by Amétis, its commercial employee network new distribution agreement will be implemented through a newly “Ma Santé” is CNP Assurances’ first individual healthcare cover formed insurance joint venture between CNP Assurances and to be distributed by Amétis, its commercial employee network. Caixa Seguridade, the holding company for CEF’s insurance Modular and customisable, subscribers can select the level of operations, with CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguridade owning reimbursement for each type of care: hospitalisation, day-to-day respectively 51% and 49% of the voting rights and 40% and 60% care, dental care, eye care, etc. of the economic rights. With the “Ma Santé” cover, subscribers can adapt the level of On the closing date, CSH will transfer to the new joint venture reimbursement for each type of care, depending on their needs the In-Force insurance portfolios for the products included in and those of their beneficiaries. Divided into five categories the scope of the agreement (life insurance, consumer credit life (hospitalisation, day-to-day care, pharmacy, dental care and eye insurance and private pension plans). care), each one of which has six levels of guarantee, this new individual offering means that bespoke healthcare cover is now 24 SEPTEMBER 2018 possible. CNP Patrimoine launches CNP Éthique, The cost of a number of ancillary services can also be covered, its conviction investment offering such as hearing aids, thermal baths, osteopathy, nutritional assessments, etc. For savers wishing to adopt an ethical approach while ensuring high performance objectives and diversification, The “Ma Santé” individual healthcare cover also includes access CNP Patrimoine – CNP Assurances’ entity dedicated to wealth to the Lyfe website. Launched in 2015 by CNP Assurances, Lyfe management clients – presented its range of investment vehicles provides eight services geared towards healthcare, well-being selected in accordance with ESG criteria. and ageing well, and offers its users day-to-day support in the form of completely customisable exclusive content that falls into This range of products will enable them to include a selection ten main health topics. of 22 investment vehicles in their life assurance and multi-asset capitalisation contracts (the CNP Patrimoine range). These Each contract will also include access to Filassistance guarantees. vehicles meet the Morningstar Sustainable-rated ethical and As soon as subscribers take these out, they will be able to take responsible criteria. advantage of support services should they suffer an accident (help with searching for a doctor, getting medicines to them, sending 5 OCTOBER 2018 urgent messages, etc.), in the event of their being hospitalised, or should their carers require help (training, assessment, search for CNP Assurances wins an award for its a host institution, etc.). innovative AI-based Fuzzy Matching model Developed by CNP Assurances, the MPR (Missing Person 30 AUGUST 2018 Recovery) Model took the third position in the Customer Relations Innovation category at the 2018 Insurance Awards held on Conclusion of a binding Memorandum 4 October 2018 in Paris. Initially designed to optimise the of Understanding with Caixa Seguridade* search for the beneficiaries of escheated life insurance policies, On 30 August 2018, CNP Assurances announced the conclusion this effective, high-performance technology is now being used in of a binding Memorandum of Understanding providing for other areas of the company. the establishment of a new long-term exclusive distribution Since it was first launched in 2016, the MPR (Missing agreement until 13 February 2041 in Brazil in the network of Person Recovery) model has helped find tens of thousands of Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF), one of the leading Brazilian beneficiaries of escheated life insurance policies, so the amounts banks and one of the five largest in Latin America. owing to them could be paid. Combining advanced indicators This new agreement builds on the successful track-record of (phonetic matching, geographic cross-referencing, modules for CNP Assurances and CEF’s partnership since 2001, through their calculating the distance between character strings) with machine Caixa Seguros Holding (CSH) joint venture, which demonstrated self-learning models and recently developed artificial intelligence an ability to combine strong growth, high profitability and regular algorithms, the MPR is a fuzzy matching tool that finds more than cash flow generation. 99% of contracts. * See press release dated 22 March 2019, the content of which is presented under “Subsequent events” on page 30 of this Registration Document 28 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Significant events of the year 2 The MPR model and its fuzzy matching method can be extended 26 DECEMBER 2018 to numerous other applications (complete client overview, CNP Assurances announces the establishment withholding tax, etc.). These are available from Diwise, a of a Euro Medium Term Notes programme CNP Assurances start-up which provides the market with unique business expertise and tried and tested data science solutions. CNP Assurances announced that its new Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) programme (the “Programme”) received visa from the French financial markets authority 30 OCTOBER 2018 (Autorité des Marchés Financiers – AMF) on 21 December 2018. CNP Assurances’ A rating affirmed The establishment of the Programme will strengthen with a stable outlook CNP Assurances’ financial flexibility allowing it to seize Moody’s assigned its A1 financial strength rating (with stable opportunities on the bond market more rapidly through issuances outlook) to CNP Assurances. As previously, this rating does not of subordinated or senior notes, by means of public or private include any specific uplift linked to CNP Assurances’ shareholding placements and in different currencies. It is fully in line with structure. In its analyses published on 3 September 2018 and the Group’s financing strategy aiming at constantly seeking to 4 October 2018, Moody’s highlights that the “new distribution diversify its investor base, both in terms of geographies and agreement with Brazil’s Caixa Econômica Federal is credit currencies – as evidenced by the bonds it placed in EUR, USD positive and that the “expected change in shareholding and GBP – and to adapt its capital structure on a regular basis structure has no credit impact. Caisse des Dépôts and the taking into account its growth prospects in Europe and Latin government of France would remain key indirect shareholders America, Solvency II own-funds requirements and Moody’s and in CNP Assurances, allowing it to retain its strong financial Standard & Poor’s rating agencies criteria. flexibility. We do not currently factor shareholder support considerations into CNP Assurances’ ratings, and do not plan to The €7 billion amount of the Programme is consistent with change our approach once the new structure takes effect.” the current nominal value of CNP Assurances’ outstanding subordinated notes. As a reminder, the maximum amount of Standard & Poor’s assigned its A financial strength rating (with bonds issues currently authorized by the Board of Directors stable outlook) to CNP Assurances. This rating no longer includes is €1.5 billion per year. The securities to be issued shall be any specific uplift linked to CNP Assurances’ shareholding admitted to trading on Euronext Paris. structure. In its analysis published on 30 October 2018, Standard & Poor’s notes that “according to the French government, La 27 DECEMBER 2018 Poste’s banking subsidiary La Banque Postale may become the majority shareholder of insurer CNP Assurances by 2020. CNP Patrimoine is to acquire the Quality Prospectively, we view CNP Assurances as highly strategic to La Insurance Services management platform Poste. Our view of CNP Assurances’ stand-alone creditworthiness to bolster its client relations has improved thanks to its sustainably stronger capital position On 27 December 2018, CNP Patrimoine – CNP Assurances’ and the signing of a new long-term partnership in Brazil.” wealth management business for high‑end clients – announced CNP Assurances’ stand-alone rating has therefore been upgraded that it is to acquire the Quality Insurance Services management by 1 notch (from Ato A) to consider the improvement of the platform that manages its contracts in France and Luxembourg. Group’s solvency position according to Standard & Poor’s capital Since it was launched four years ago, the wealth management model, whereas the 1-notch uplift linked to Caisse des Dépôts business conducted by CNP Patrimoine and CNP Luxembourg support has been withdrawn, leaving the final rating unchanged has been enjoying rapid growth, with €6 billion of outstandings at A. as of 30 November 2018. To support this growth and improve the client experience, 15 NOVEMBER 2018 CNP Patrimoine is taking over Quality Insurance Services, a Antoine Lissowski appointed as Chief platform specialised in managing high-end contracts, which has Executive Officer of CNP Assurances been its partner since it was set up in 2014. On 15 November 2018, CNP Assurances’ Board of Directors Merging Quality Insurance Services and CNP Patrimoine will approved Antoine Lissowski’s appointment as Chief Executive improve the quality of the partner relationships with private banks, Officer of CNP Assurances. independent financial adviser platforms and family offices. Through this acquisition, the CNP Assurances Group is confirming its position as a major player in wealth management. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 29 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Market and business review 2.1.3 Subsequent events CNP Assurances announces the successful for inclusion in Solvency II regulatory capital. The issue was issue of €500 million in Tier 2 subordinated quickly placed with around 220 institutional European and Asian notes with ten years maturity and a fixed investors on 25 January 2019. rate of 2.75% On 1 February 2019, CNP Assurances announced that it New exclusive distribution agreement had successfully completed its first issue of Tier 2 subordinated in Brazil in the Caixa Econômica Federal notes under the EMTN programme set up in December 2018. Network * The €500 million in ten-year bullet notes bear a fixed rate of On 22 March 2019, CNP Assurances announced that the new 2.75%. This is the lowest fixed coupon paid by CNP Assurances management team of Caixa Seguridade, with which it signed a for a Tier 2 subordinated note. The notes are rated BBB+ by framework agreement on 29 August last year regarding their new Standard & Poor’s and A3 by Moody’s. exclusive distribution agreement in the Caixa Econômica Federal This issuance will allow CNP Assurances to prepare the next call network in Brazil, has engaged discussions with CNP Assurances dates and to optimize its capital structure, while maintaining its in order to reach agreements on adjustments or any supplements financial flexibility to issue Restricted Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 to the agreement. subordinated notes. The proceeds of the notes will be eligible 2.2 Market and business review 2.2.1 Economic and financial environment A violent market downturn, particularly which together led to a 25% drop in the Shanghai Index and a accentuated at the end of the year… 6% fall in the yuan. Brazil was almost the only emerging market to buck the trend, with the Bovespa index gaining 12%. Lastly, Following an excellent 2017 in terms of growth and financial commodity prices were volatile during the year. The Brent crude performance, 2018 began with a stock market rally, with prices oil price climbed to $85 in early October but then collapsed gaining 8% in January, and record high leading indicators, to $50. Industrial metals prices also experienced a sharp with the PMI and ISM at close to the 60 mark. However, the correction – the copper price dropped 17% – and precious outlook suddenly darkened in early February as US long‑term metals prices failed to live up to their reputation as a safe haven, rates came under pressure, leading to a surge in volatility and with the gold price losing 2%. significant price corrections. The markets subsequently calmed down, experiencing a rebound that lasted until September. US stock markets reached dizzying heights before crashing in the … despite a macroeconomic environment fourth quarter. The reversal took everyone by surprise, not just its that was still robust although experiencing occurrence but also its magnitude, and the wave of pessimism a certain loss of momentum… deepened at the end of the year. The collapse in financial asset prices caught investors by surprise because the global economy was still robust. It grew by around … accompanied by a general decline 3.5% over the year thanks in particular to very resilient consumer in risky-assets… spending that in turn was supported by widespread falls in jobless rates. Overall, faster economic growth in the US (at close to Stock market indices ended the year in the red, after experiencing 3%), driven by tax cuts and other fiscal stimulus measures, offset steep declines. The CAC 40 lost 11%, the Eurostoxx lost 15% slowdowns in other developed countries (with a return towards and the S&P 500 was down 7%. In the credit market, widening the 2% potential growth rate in Europe and 1% in Japan) and a spreads in both the United States and Europe led to falls ranging loss of momentum in emerging markets such as China, Turkey from 2% to 4%. The dollar’s 5% appreciation and higher shortand South Africa, etc. Healthy investment levels offset the global term dollar interest rates adversely affected emerging market stock trade slowdown triggered by the credit restrictions announced by and debt indices, which lost 16% and 8% respectively. Chinese China at the beginning of the year and the introduction of new assets were particularly badly hit by the combination of these trade tariffs by the United States in the summer. developments and growing trade tension with the United States, * For additional information, see management report 30 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Market and business review 2 … with higher corporate earnings (the 10-year OAT rate hovered between 0.60% and 1% over the and the restoration of attractive multiples year) and the ECB remained cautious, announcing the end of the quantitative easing programme in 2019 but ruling out a rate hike The size of the correction cannot be explained either by before the fourth quarter. The 10-year OAT rate ended the year corporate earnings performances. Aggregate global corporate at 0.70%, a decline of 10 bp. earnings growth was a very healthy 19.4%, helped in no small measure by the 23% increase in the earnings reported by American companies. Corporate revenues also rose, with robust … and growing political tensions causing organic growth attenuating negative currency effects due to further volatility… the depreciation of emerging currencies. Lastly, dividends also The other reason why the markets derailed was the lack of political continued to rise along with share buybacks. The combination of visibility. The US administration’s constant threats to impose trade tariffs higher earnings and lower share prices eroded P/E ratios which and renegotiate multilateral trade agreements were an important fell to below their historical averages. source of market volatility. At the same time, the environment in Europe remained unstable, due to persistent uncertainty about the outcome of A market shock explained by Brexit negotiations and Italy’s budget trajectory. This agitation led to unprecedented moves to restore interest higher risk premiums on European assets and a 100 bp increase in rates to more normal levels… the spread on Italian debt. One of the reasons for this paradox lies with the central banks. The Federal Reserve’s moves to restore interest rates to more … leading to questions about the normal levels (by raising short-term rates by 100 bp), and drive a sustainability of the current economic cycle reduction in total debt were encouraged by a surge in inflation to Since the financial crisis, the markets had outperformed the above 2%. The policy depressed bond prices and lifted the US economy thanks to the central banks’ liquidity injections. The 10-year treasury bond yield to 3.25% in October. The Fed’s clear climate of political uncertainty and moves by the Federal Reserve commitment to pursuing its strategy in 2019 caused concern to reverse the fall in interest rates triggered a violent adjustment of among investors and explains why interest rates fell back (with valuations that was not fully justified by changes in fundamentals. the 10-year rate at 2.7% at the end of December) following the The question now is whether this was just an allergic reaction collapse in stock prices. The bond markets’ reaction was muted, by the markets or a point of no return presaging the end of the however. Long-term euro interest rates stayed more or less stable current economic cycle after ten years of growth. 2.2.2 2018 Business review The Group’s consolidated premium income for the year totalled In Latin America, premium income totalled €5.5 billion, up €32.4 billion, up 0.7% (up 4.1% like‑for-like). 3.3% as reported (up 23.8% at constant exchange rates). In France, premium income declined 5.5% to €21.6 billion. Savings/Pensions premium income increased 13.0% (up 35.2% at constant exchange rates) to €4.0 billion, with Savings/Pensions premium income contracted by 3.8% to Caixa Seguradora accounting for 99% as it went from strength €17.4 billion, mainly reflecting the €1.2 billion decrease in to strength in this segment, which is a strategic priority for “Fourgous transfers” and transfers to Croissance contracts. Caixa Econômica Federal with net new money of €2.3 bilion. The contribution of unit-linked contracts continued to grow, The proportion of Savings/Pensions premiums represented by representing 22.5% of Savings/Pensions premiums in 2018 unit-linked contracts remained very high, at 98.6%. compared with 20.7% in 2017. One of the main growth drivers was CNP Patrimoine’s unit-linked offer (44.1% of Premium income for the Personal Risk/Protection business unit-linked contracts). Savings/Pensions net new money amounted to €1.5 billion (Caixa Seguradora accounting reflected a €2.4 billion net inflow to unit-linked contracts and a for 99%) representing a decrease of 16.1% (but a modest €5.1 billion net outflow from traditional products. increase of 1.0% at constant exchange rates) due to Caixa Econômica Federal’s decision to adopt stricter lending Personal Risk/Protection premium income declined 11.9% to criteria. €4.1 billion, due in particular to new agreements with Crédit Agricole in the term creditor insurance segment. The new business margin stood at 30.1% in 2018 compared with 32.6% in 2017. The decline was due to advance The new business margin narrowed slightly, to 19.7% from recognition of the reduction in CNP Assurances’ right to a 21.5% in 2017, due to the lower term creditor insurance share of prestamista, vida, and previdência business under the volumes. new distribution agreement signed at end-August 2018, from 51.75% to 40%. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 31 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Market and business review In Europe excluding France, premium income amounted to Premium income from Personal Risk/Protection business rose €5.3 billion, an increase of 32.7%. 6.8% to €1.0 billion, with growth led by CNP Santander (up 7.3%, or €0.7 billion) and CNP UniCredit Vita (up 15.1%, or Savings/Pensions premium income rose by a strong 40.7% to €0.1 billion). €4.3 billion (€3.3 billion of which for CNP UniCredit Vita). This dynamic per formance was mainly attributable to The new business margin declined to 16.9% from 19.1% in CNP UniCredit Vita, which achieved 30% growth, and 2017. This was due to an unfavourable change in segment mix, CNP Luxembourg. Net new money was positive, at a solid with Savings/Pensions volumes growing at a faster rate than €1.8 billion, reflecting net inflows of €1.6 billion to unit-linked Personal Risk/Protection volumes. contracts and €0.2 billion to traditional products. PREMIUM INCOME BY COUNTRY % change % change (in € millions) 2018 2017 (reported) (like-for-like) France 21,571 22,820 (5.5) (5.5) Brazil 5,452 5,261 3.6 23.8 Italy 3,638 2,851 27.6 27.6 Luxembourg 616 180 243.0 243.0 Germany 483 469 2.9 2.9 Spain 263 221 18.9 18.9 Cyprus 153 143 7.4 7.4 Poland 83 67 23.4 23.4 Argentina 27 41 (32.9) 18.0 Denmark 22 18 22.5 22.5 Norway 21 24 (11.9) (11.9) Austria 13 12 14.0 14.0 Portugal 5 6 (22.5) (22.5) Other International 17 12 (12.4) 42.8 Total International 10,795 9,307 16 27.6 TOTAL 32,367 32,127 0.7 4.1 PREMIUM INCOME BY SEGMENT % change % change (in € millions) 2018 2017 (reported) (like-for-like) Savings 20,642 19,728 4.6 4.7 Pensions 5,089 4,984 2.1 17.6 Personal Risk 1,738 1,958 (11.2) (5.6) Term Creditor Insurance 4,075 4,393 (7.2) (4.6) Health Insurance 449 676 (33.6) (31.8) Property & Casualty 374 389 (3.8) 12.5 TOTAL 32,367 32,127 0.7 4.1 32 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review 2 2.2.3 Acquisitions of controlling and other interests (Article L.233‑6 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) In 2018, the Company acquired the following controlling and other interests within the meaning of Article L.233‑6 of the French Commercial Code: % interest at % interest at 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ALVEN CAPITAL IV OPPORTUNITY F 12.99% 0.00% AZIMUT 71.04% 0.00% DIWISE 100.00% 0.00% GF DE LA FORÊT DE NAN 100.00% 0.00% IXO 4 8.40% 0.00% LATOUR CO-INVEST HYGEE 16.28% 0.00% LDX SME III 10.00% 0.00% MONTPARVIE IV 100.00% 0.00% MONTPARVIE V 100.00% 0.00% QUADRILLE TECHNOLOGIES IV FUND 6.67% 0.00% SOFINNOVA CROSSOVER I S.L.P. 19.94% 0.00% TIKEHAU NOVO 2018 14.16% 0.00% BNP PARIBAS NOVO 2018 15.16% 0.00% SCOR INFRA III 7.27% 0.00% 2.3 2018 financial review 2.3.1 Consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements have been prepared IFRS financial statements of insurance undertakings, and the in accordance with the International Accounting Standards guidelines contained in the reports of the CNC work groups set (IASs) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) up to examine the specific issues arising from the application of formulated by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS by insurance undertakings (see notes to the consolidated (IASB), the recommendations of the French National Accounting financial statements). Board (CNC 2005‑R‑01) concerning the presentation of the 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 33 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review Review of results Key earnings figures are as follows: Geographic area OwnLatin Europe funds Total Total % change % change (In € millions) France America excl. France portfolios 2018 2017 (reported) (like-for-like) * Premium income 21,571 5,480 5,316 32,367 32,127 +0.7 +4.1 Net insurance revenue 1,804 1,069 241 3,113 3,048 +2.1 +9.2 Revenue from own-funds portfolios 733 733 779 -5.9 -6.0 Administrative costs (922) (938) -1.6 +2.7 EBIT 2,924 2,889 +1.2 +7.2 Finance costs (248) (247) +0.7 +0.7 Share of profit of equity accounted companies 23 7 +218.0 -17.7 Income tax expense (901) (1,001) -10.0 -1.8 Non-controlling interests (304) (336) -9.6 +5.4 Fair value adjustments and net gains 89 200 n/a n/a Non-recurring items (216 (227) n/a n/a ATTRIBUTABLE PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,367 1,285 +6.4 +8.6 * The constant scope of consolidation does not include the activities of Holding d’Infrastructures Gazières, Filassistance and Assuristance Note: The Brazilian real lost 19.5% against the euro, with the average exchange rate standing at 4.31 at 31 December 2018 compared with 3.61 at 31 December 2017 EBIT is a key performance indicator used by the Group, because Net insurance revenue France it is not affected by the timing and magnitude of profit-taking In France, net insurance revenue rose by 5.2% to €1,804 million, on equities and investment property (as reflected in realised with the Savings/Pensions and Personal Risk/Protection capital gains attributable to owners of the parent) or by changing businesses both contributing to the increase. Savings/Pensions market prices. net insurance revenue was boosted by higher unit-linked new EBIT corresponds to attributable net profit before: money, while the Personal Risk/Protection business benefited from WW finance costs; improved loss ratios for previous claim years. WW share of profit of equity-accounted companies; WW income tax expense; Net insurance revenue Latin America WW non-controlling interests; In Latin America, net insurance revenue came to €1,069 million, WW fair value adjustments and capital gains and losses; down 0.6% as reported but up 19.4% at constant exchange WW non-recurring items. rates. Growth factors included sharply higher technical reserves in the Pensions business, improved loss ratios in the Personal Risk/ The two main business indicators are: Protection business, and a one-off reversal from Term Creditor WW premium income, which came in at €32.4 billion in 2018 Insurance reserves following a change in local regulations (see comments in the Business Review); concerning the calculation of commitments for home-buyer term WW average technical reser ves (excluding the deferred creditor insurance. participation reserve and net of ceded reserves), which rose by 1.0% in 2018 to €313.0 billion. The increase reflected premium income for the year, the amount set aside Net insurance revenue Europe excluding France for policyholder dividends, claim and benefit payments and In Europe excluding France, net insurance revenue contracted by contract withdrawals. 6.8% to €241 million. As explained previously, during the initial three-year term of the new distribution agreement with UniCredit, Consolidated net insurance revenue was €3,113 million at which came into effect on 1 January 2018, the joint subsidiary 31 December 2018, up 9.2% like-for-like. CNP UniCredit Vita will pay UniCredit higher commissions than under the previous agreement. CNP Santander enjoyed strong growth in net insurance revenue, which rose 21.8% due to rapid business expansion in Poland, Spain, Italy and Scandinavia. 34 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review 2 Revenue from own-funds portfolios amounted to €733 million, The net decrease reflected the inclusion of profit for the year representing a decline of 5.9% (down 6.0% like‑for‑like). The (€1,367 million positive impact), fair value adjustments contraction was due to cuts in European and Brazilian interest recognised directly in equity (€1,116 million negative impact rates. due mainly to falls in financial asset values in 2018), payment of the 2017 dividend (€577 million negative impact) and exchange Administrative costs amounted to €922 million, down 1.6% differences on translating foreign operations (€182 million as reported (up 2.7% like-for-like). In France, administrative negative impact). costs were reduced by 0.1% to €611 million. As of end-2018, the measures implemented under the Operational Excellence Equity includes €1,881 million in deeply-subordinated debt. Programme had delivered a recurring reduction in the cost base For more information, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial of €78 million (on a full-year basis), representing considerably statements. more than the original target of €60 million. At €2,924 million, EBIT was up 1.2% as reported and 7.2% Technical reserves like-for-like. Insurance and financial liabilities totalled €357.6 billion, a 2.1% Finance costs were stable at €248 million. decrease compared with 31 December 2017. The reduction in income tax expense primarily reflects the lower For more information, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial tax base in France compared with 2017 when a surtax applied statements. along with the recently invalidated tax on distributed earnings. The 9.6% decrease in non-controlling interests was due to Financing liabilities the unfavourable currency effect in Latin America and the more Financing liabilities amounted to €5,342 million at limited contribution to profit by CNP UniCredit Vita. 31 December 2018 compared with €5,300 million at the The impacts of net gains (losses) on disposal of investments, fair previous year-end. The increase reflected the impact of changes value adjustments to financial assets and non‑recurring items in exchange rates on debt issues denominated in foreign appear at the foot of the income statement. currencies. Fair value adjustments and capital gains made a smaller net For more information, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial contribution to profit, due in particular to the fall in equity prices statements. at the end of 2018. Non-recurring items represented net income of €216 million, Solvency capital corresponding mainly to increases in technical reserves for The consolidated SCR coverage ratio was 187% at €206 million after the tax effect. 31 December 2018 compared with 190% at end-2017. The Repor ted attributable net profit was 6.4% higher at 2018 figure takes into account the advance recognition of €1,367 million. The like-for-like increase was 8.6%. the payment that will be due by CNP Assurances when the various conditions precedent applicable to the new distribution agreement in Brazil have been fulfilled*. Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018 Total assets at 31 December 2018 amounted to €415.5 billion Asset portfolio and financial management compared with €423.3 billion at the previous year-end, a Gr o u p i ns u r a nce i nv e s t me nt s a t 3 1 D e ce mb e r 2 0 1 8 decrease of 1.8%. totalled €380.1 billion compared with €387.1 billion at 31 December 2017, a decrease of €7.0 billion over the period. Insurance investments Most investments are measured at fair value, except for heldGroup insurance investments fell 1.8% year-on-year to to-maturity investments and property assets not covered by €380.1 billion at 31 December 2018. unit-linked policies, which are measured using the cost model. For more information, see Notes 7 and 8 to the consolidated At 31 December 2018, available-for-sale financial assets financial statements. represented 76.1% of total investments, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (trading securities) represented 21.5%, and held-to-maturity investments and other investments (mainly Equity investment property and loans) accounted for 2.4%. Equity attributable to owners of the parent fell by €477 million compared with 31 December 2017, to €17,781 million. * See press release dated 22 March 2019, the content of which is presented under “Subsequent events” on page 30 of this Registration Document 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 35 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review 2.3.2 Company financial statements (French GAAP) Premium income (in € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 2018/2017 31.12.2016 Individual insurance premiums 17,492 17,577 -0.48% 19,480 Group insurance premiums 4,496 5,372 -16.30% 4,564 TOTAL 21,988 22,948 -4.20% 24,045 Premium income declined by 4.20% in 2018. Individual insurance products Premium income from individual insurance products was stable (contracting by just 0.48%). During the year, there was a growing shift towards unit-linked products and away from traditional Savings/Pensions products. Group insurance products GROUP INSURANCE PREMIUMS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (in € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 2018/2017 31.12.2016 Death benefit 2,196 2,191 0.23% 1,818 Pensions 638 992 -35.68% 671 Bodily injury 1,662 2,189 -24.07% 2,075 TOTAL 4,496 5,372 -16.30% 4,564 The decline in premium income from group insurance products was mainly due to the change of CNP Assurances’ status for the Crédit Agricole Term Creditor Insurance business, to co-insurer in 2018 from reinsurer in prior years. In 2017, premium income was boosted by the sale of new employee benefits and group pensions contracts. Profit for the year Supplier payment terms The net profit of CNP Assurances rose by 2% to €1,165.3 million Under France’s Act of 17 March 2014 concerning transparency in 2018, from €1,142.5 million in 2017. of information about payment terms, companies whose financial statements are audited are required to disclose information in the Equity management report about the payment terms with their suppliers and customers, in a format defined by decree. Equity at 31 December 2018 amounted to €12,070.4 million compared with €11,405.5 million at the previous year-end. The year-on-year change primarily reflected payment of the 2017 dividend (€577 million negative impact), inclusion of 2018 profit (€1,165.3 million positive impact) and changes in the capitalisation reserve (€76.3 million positive impact). 36 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review 2 In accordance with Articles L.441‑6‑1 and D.441‑4 of the French Commercial Code, CNP Assurances’ payment terms in 2018 were as follows: 1. Invoices received and due but not yet settled at the year-end In the following table, the percentage by period overdue has been calculated as follows: WW total invoices overdue by the period concerned divided by total purchases excluding VAT for the year, corresponding to a total of €466,505,686 worth of supplier invoices recorded in 2018. WW The amounts in the following table are stated net of credit notes for a total (excluding VAT) of €339,776.78, of which €304,051.02 is in the “91 days and more” tranche. Period overdue 1 to 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days 91 days and more Total Reference payment terms: contractual period of 45 days end of month (Article L.441‑6 or Article L.443‑1 of the French Commercial Code) Number of invoices concerned 37 57 13 31 138 Total value excluding VAT of the invoices concerned 831,028 835,636 125,061 (245,898) 1,545,827 Percentage of total purchases excluding VAT for the year 0.18% 0.18% 0.03% -0.05% 0.33% In application of the circular dated 29 May 2017 issued by the French insurance industry federation (Fédération Française d’Assurance), the information in the above tables does not include insurance and reinsurance receivables. The Company is working to continuously improve supplier payment terms, by pursuing deployment of its new purchasing process software. 2. Invoices issued and due but not yet settled at the year-end In the following table, the percentage by period overdue has been calculated as follows: WW total invoices overdue by the period concerned divided by total revenue (reinvoiced costs) excluding VAT for the year, corresponding to a total of €39,643,791 worth of customer invoices recorded in 2018. Period overdue 1 to 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days 91 days and more Total Reference payment terms: contractual period of 45 days end of month (Article L.441‑6 or Article L.443‑1 of the French Commercial Code) Number of invoices concerned 2 3 0 18 23 Total value excluding VAT of the invoices concerned 3,030 131,190 0 82,958 217,178 Percentage of total revenue (excluding VAT) derived from reinvoiced costs 0.0076% 0.3309% 0% 0.2093% 0.5478% In application of the circular dated 29 May 2017 issued by the French insurance industry federation (Fédération Française d’Assurance), the information in the above tables does not include insurance and reinsurance receivables. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 37 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review Summary of investments (In € thousands) Carrying Realisable Detail of investments Cost amount value 1. Property investments and property in progress 12,416,622 12,133,203 16,157,752 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 2. Equities and other variable income securities, other than mutual fund units 29,105,960 26,569,671 30,958,236 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 840,673 585,732 799,033 3. Mutual fund units (other than those in 4) 25,467,404 25,370,960 28,361,024 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 4. Mutual fund units invested exclusively in fixed income securities 27,714,624 27,714,624 27,845,588 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 5. Bonds and other fixed income securities 197,656,439 199,806,932 215,505,145 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 1,104,423 535,715 (689,985) 6. Mortgage loans WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 7. Other loans 123,000 123,000 127,491 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 8. Deposits with ceding insurers 228,494 228,494 228,494 9. Cash deposits and guarantees and other investments (other than those in 8) 343,452 343,452 343,452 10. Assets backing unit-linked contracts 33,996,013 33,996,013 33,996,013 WW Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy WW Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 11. Other forward financial instruments TOTAL 328,997,104 327,407,796 353,632,243 The share of investments held to back the Company’s commitments towards insureds and policy beneficiaries that would be transferred if the underlying policies were to be transferred amounted to €317,870,161 thousand, representing 89.89% of total insurance investments at realisable value. 38 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2018 financial review 2 2.3.3 Review of subsidiaries Caixa Seguradora Total net insurance revenue contracted by 21.8% to €74 million, The decline mainly reflected application, from 1 January 2018, The Caixa Seguradora sub-group reported premium income of the new distribution agreement with UniCredit, which provides of €5.5 billion, up 3.6% as reported and 23.8% at constant for the payment during the first three years of higher commissions exchange rates. Growth was driven by the Pensions business to UniCredit than under the previous agreement. that expanded by 35.3% at constant exchange rates. Caixa Seguradora continued to attract significant amounts of new General administrative expenses were down 3.1% at money for its Savings/Pensions products, which are a strategic €34.7 million. EBIT totalled €48 million, down 28.7% compared priority for the partner. Its market share increased by 1.9 points with 2017. to 9.9% at end-2018. CNP UniCredit Vita’s contribution to the Group’s attributable net Premium income for the Personal Risk/Protection business profit under IFRS rose by 33.9% to €20.4 million. contracted by 16.1% after translation into euros due to the unfavourable currency effect. At constant exchange rates, the CNP Santander Insurance year-on-year change was an increase of 1.0%. The dip in term creditor insurance premiums (down 2.3% at constant exchange CNP Santander Insurance generated premium income of rates) was mainly due to a premium adjustment for a portfolio €743 million in 2018, an increase of 7.3% compared with the (term creditor insurance) and Caixa Econômica Federal’s decision previous year that came mainly from operations in Germany, to adopt stricter lending criteria. Poland and Spain. Caixa Seguradora’s contribution to consolidated profit was Net insurance revenue, in the amount of €105.6 million, unfavourably affected by the 19.5% negative currency effect. In was derived primarily from business written in Germany (48% 2018, the average real/euro exchange rate improved to 4.31 of net insurance revenue), Spain (26%) and Poland (12%). from 3.61 in 2017. Administrative expenses for 2018 amounted to €18.8 million, an increase of 15.6% compared with 2017 that reflected the Its contribution to net insurance revenue was down 0.1% after additional staff taken on to keep pace with business growth. The translation into euros, but up 19.4% at constant exchange rates. subsidiary’s EBIT rose by 32.7% after deducting €68 million in Growth factors included sharply higher technical reserves in the amortisation of intangible assets. Pensions business, improved loss ratios in the Personal Risk/Protection business, and a one-off reversal from term creditor insurance reserves CNP Santander Insurance’s contribution to the Group’s following a change in local regulations concerning the calculation of attributable net profit under IFRS amounted to €3.5 million, down insurance liabilities for mortgage insurance. €8 million on 2017. Revenue from own-funds portfolios fell by 73%, reflecting lower Brazilian interest rates and the unfavourable currency effect. CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings Administrative costs increased by 8% like-for-like. At €903 million, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings’ premium income totalled EBIT was 6.8% lower as reported and up 11.4% like-for-like. €157 million in 2018, an increase of 8.4% on 2017 Growth Caixa Seguradora’s contribution to the Group’s attributable was led by a 16.3% increase in Savings premiums. net profit for 2018 amounted to €236 million; the decline of Net insurance revenue increased by 7.7% to €37 million. 19.3% compared with 2017 was due to the depreciation of the Administrative costs increased by 6.7% over the year. In all, Brazilian currency. EBIT after amortisation of acquired In-Force business was stable compared with 2017 at €14 million. CNP UniCredit Vita CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings’ contribution to Group CNP UniCredit Vita’s premium income amounted to €3.4 billion attributable net profit under IFRS, after amortisation of acquired in 2018, an increase of 29.3% in an Italian market that In-Force business, was €6.8 million, up €0.7 million compared contracted by 2% over the first eleven months of the year. with 2017. Savings premiums were up by a very strong €0.75 billion. The company’s market share rose by 0.9 points to 2.95% at end‑November 2018 compared to 2017. 2.3.4 Growth outlook The growth outlook is discussed in the Non-Financial Information Statement, in the section on the business model (“Roadmap and outlook”). 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 39 2 B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w Solvency 2.4 Solvency The Solvency II directive defines the prudential regime applicable policyholders and beneficiaries that payments will be made as to European insurance and reinsurance undertakings. It sets the they fall due. SCR is defined in Solvency II as the value-at-risk of minimum capital required by each insurance undertaking and basic own-funds, subject to a confidence level of 99.5% over a insurance group in order to be able to fulfil their commitments one-year period. towards insureds and the beneficiaries of their insurance T h e G r o u p ’s c o n s o l i d a t e d M C R c o v e r a g e r a t i o a t policies. The directive also describes the governance and risk 31 December 2018 was 317%. The excess of own-funds management principles to be applied by these undertakings and eligible for inclusion in capital available to cover the consolidated groups, as well as their reporting obligations towards the public MCR (€21.6 billion) over the consolidated MCR (€6.8 billion) and the insurance supervisor. represented a regulatory surplus of €14.8 billion. The Minimum Since 1 January 2016, the Group’s regulatory solvency capital Capital Requirement (MCR) corresponds to the minimum eligible has been measured using the standard formula in Solvency II, basic own-funds, defined in Solvency II as the amount of eligible without any internal model or any transitional plan, except for the basic own-funds below which policyholders and beneficiaries grandfathering of subordinated notes issued before Solvency II are exposed to an unacceptable level of risk. When the amount came into effect. of eligible basic own-funds falls below the MCR, the insurance undertaking’s authorisation is withdrawn if it is unable to reAt 31 December 2018, CNP Assurances’ consolidated SCR establish this amount at the level of the MCR within a short period coverage ratio was 187%. The excess of own-funds eligible for of time. inclusion in capital available to cover the SCR (€25.1 million) over the SCR (€13.4 billion) represented a regulatory surplus More detailed information about the SCR and MCR coverage of €11.7 billion. The Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) is the ratios and changes in these ratios compared with 2017 will be level of eligible own-funds that enables an insurance undertaking presented in the 2018 Solvency and Financial Condition Report to absorb significant losses and gives reasonable assurance to (published in April 2019). CONSOLIDATED SCR COVERAGE RATIO CONSOLIDATED MCR COVERAGE RATIO AT 187% AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 AT 317% AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 (in € billions) (in € billions) 11.7 14.8 25.1 21.6 13.4 6.8 Eligible own-funds Eligible own-funds Surplus own-funds Surplus own-funds SCR MCR 40 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES B usiness and F inancia l R e v ie w 2 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 41 42 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 3 C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE 3.1 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 44 3.3 MANAGEMENT AND 3.1.1 Allocation of duties and responsibilities 44 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD 3.1.2 Separation of the positions of Chairman OF DIRECTORS 62 and Chief Executive Officer 45 3.3.1 Chairman of the Board 62 3.1.3 Executive Management procedures 47 3.3.2 Chief Executive Officer 63 3.3.3 Directors64 3.2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ GOVERNANCE PRACTICES 3.4 REMUNERATION OF AND PROCEDURES 48 CORPORATE OFFICERS 81 3.2.1 Composition of the Board of Directors 48 3.2.2 Diversity policy applied to members of the Board of Directors 53 3.5 STATEMENT ON CONVICTIONS, 3.2.3 Compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF BANKRUPTCIES, CONFLICTS Corporate Governance Code 54 OF INTEREST AND OTHER 3.2.4 Preparation and organisation DISCLOSURES CONCERNING of the Board’s work 56 CORPORATE OFFICERS 91 3.2.5 Activities of the Board of Directors and its Committees in 2018 57 3.2.6 Performance assessment of the Board 3.6 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ of Directors and its Committees 60 SPECIAL REPORT ON 3.2.7 Limitations on the powers RELATED‑PARTY AGREEMENTS of the Chief Executive Officer 61 AND COMMITMENTS 92 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 43 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Governance structure The corporate governance report is prepared by the following departments and units: Group Legal Affairs, the Secretary to the Board of Directors, the Secretary to the Executive Committee, the Human Resources department and the Shareholders and Investor Relations department. 3.1 Governance structure French company law sets the general framework for the Fit and proper requirements apply to the persons who participate governance structure of listed companies, which are free to in the system of governance (directors and persons who decide the details of their governance. effectively run CNP Assurances or perform other key functions). These concern their professional qualifications, knowledge and CNP Assurances’ governance structure and the organisation experience (fit) and their good repute and integrity (proper). of its governing bodies (the Board of Directors and Executive Management) and their areas of expertise are largely governed The directors and the persons who effectively run the Company by the Company’s Articles of Association and the Board of and the Group’s European subsidiaries or perform key functions Directors’ internal rules. must fulfil specific requirements in terms of qualifications, knowledge and experience. CNP Assurances complies with the legal and regulator y standards that apply due to its status as an insurance undertaking To determine whether a person has the qualifications, knowledge and a listed company, and also applies the recommendations and experience required to perform a key function, consideration in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for Listed is given to their professional qualifications and specific Companies and the guidelines issued by France’s securities Solvency II training and their professional experience in the regulator (AMF) *. insurance industry or other finance sectors or other companies or organisations. Preference is given to candidates with experience Any instances of non-compliance with the Code are listed and in the insurance industry. explained in this Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the “comply or explain” principle laid down in Article A Fit and Proper policy has been adopted by the Board of L.225‑37‑4, paragraph 8 of the French Commercial Code (Code Directors. Its application is overseen by the Fit and Proper Review de commerce). Committee. Close attention is also paid to regulatory guidance, rating agency opinions and the recommendations of shareholder advocacy groups. 3.1.1 Allocation of duties and responsibilities Since 10 July 2007, the position of Chairman of the Board of The Board approves the financial statements of the Company and Directors has been separated from that of Chief Executive Officer. the Group, and obtains assurance concerning the quality and reliability of financial and other information given to shareholders The current governance structure separates the powers of the and other stakeholders. It also obtains assurance concerning the Board of Directors, which is responsible for promoting lasting effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems. value creation by the Company and for deciding the Group’s These three roles are fulfilled jointly with the members of Executive strategy and overseeing its implementation, from those of Management, who are responsible for preparing matters and Executive Management. The Board of Directors examines all proposals for submission to the Board for review and approval. issues affecting CNP Assurances and decides all matters that The Board of Directors prepares the management report and the concern it, in line with the corporate purpose and with the corporate governance report. exception of those matters which, by law, can only be decided by Executive Management or by the shareholders at General The Board fulfils other specific roles, such as authorising related Meetings. party agreements governed by Article L.225‑38 of the French Commercial Code, appointing executive directors, assessing * AMF recommendation DOC-2012‑02 regroups all the recommendations applying to companies that refer to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code as revised in June 2018 44 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Governance structure 3 their performance and determining their remuneration, allocating The Board of Directors’ prior approval of certain strategic among Board members the directors’ fees awarded by the transactions, such as material business acquisitions, must be General Meeting and calling General Meetings. obtained by the Chief Executive Officer before any decision is made. The membership of the Board of Directors is governed by a shareholders’ agreement and comprises a mix of executive and The Board of Directors’ internal rules list the powers delegated to independent directors with a range of skills and experience the Chief Executive Officer and the cases where the Board’s prior aligned with the Company’s specific ownership structure. Women approval is required. account for 43.75% of Board members. The allocation of duties and responsibilities within the Company At 20 February 2019, the Board of Directors had 18 members, was adapted as follows to pave the way for the introduction including two directors representing employees as required by of Solvency II governance requirements applicable since Article L.225‑27‑1 of the French Commercial Code. 1 January 2016: The directors offer an array of complementar y skills and WW two people are effectively responsible for running the experience (in finance, banking, international business, etc.). undertaking and four senior executives are in charge of key Some of them also have in-depth knowledge of the Company’s corporate functions (Internal Audit, Actuarial Analysis, Risk history and business environment, acquired over many years. Management and Compliance); WW the Board of Directors has adopted written policies and Five Committees of the Board (the Audit and Risk Committee, the Strategy Committee, the Remuneration and Nominations prepares reports intended for France’s banking and insurance Committee, the Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of supervisor (ACPR) or the general public; the BPCE and LPB Partnerships and the ad hoc Committee) help WW more stringent fit and proper requirements with respect to to prepare decisions of the Board within their clearly defined people in charge of key functions. terms of reference. These Committees facilitate Board decisions The Board’s powers are exercised alongside those of the General by performing the background analysis of technical issues. Meeting, which has sole authority to elect directors, approve The representatives of the various corporate departments (mainly the annual and consolidated financial statements, authorise share Finance, Risks, Actuarial, Human Resources and Compliance) issues or cancellations, and amend the Company’s Articles of provide valuable support to the Committees of the Board, Association. including explanations of specific technical points and general The Board takes a consensus-based approach in compliance comments on accounting, actuarial and financial data. with the Company’s social and environmental challenges, ethical The Statutory Auditors attend all meetings of the Audit and Risk standards and corporate values, as well as with all applicable Committee. laws and regulations. Rather than simply acting in an oversight role, the Board of To ensure the quality of the Board’s governance while Directors is also a partner for Executive Management, holding encouraging the transmission of knowledge and experience to regular discussions about the best way of achieving the strategic new directors, in June 2012 the Company amended its Articles goals of the Company and the Group. of Association to allow for a staggered Board, with the entire Board being re-elected over a period of five years. This period The Board of Directors delegates to the Chief Executive Officer was gradually reduced to four years following the Annual certain powers to implement decisions of the Board and from the General Meeting of 6 May 2014. General Meeting. 3.1.2 Separation of the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance His role does not exclusively concern the Board’s organisation Code and AMF guidelines encourage companies that have and practices. opted to separate the positions of Chairman of the Board of The Board’s internal rules state that he may represent the Directors and Chief Executive Officer to specify the Chairman’s Company in its public relations, notably with major partners or duties in detail. In line with these recommendations, the Board of government authorities, at national or international level. Directors has drawn up an explicit description of the Chairman’s role and responsibilities. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 45 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Governance structure Respective roles of the Chairman Prior to the Board Meetings at which these topics are discussed, and the Chief Executive Officer the Chairman receives the briefing documents needed to ensure that he fully understands the Company’s risk exposure. To this end, he receives advance briefing documents from the Group Chairman Risk Committee and the Strategic Asset Allocation Committee, The Board of Directors is chaired by Jean-Paul Faugère. allowing him to discuss the topic concerned with the Chief Executive Officer prior to the Board Meeting. The role and responsibilities of the Chairman as defined in the French Commercial Code include responsibility for: He may also attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee of WW calling meetings of the Board of Directors and setting the the Board of Directors. He receives copies of the audit reports agenda; as soon as they are issued. He may also commission special WW chairing meetings of the Board of Directors; audits or ask for additional work to be included in the audit plan WW chairing General Meetings called by the Board of Directors; discussed by the Board of Directors. WW determining the confidential information presented at The Internal Audit Director and the Chief Compliance Officer Board Meetings that will be subject to the directors’ duty of are appointed by the Chief Executive Officer after seeking the discretion; and Chairman’s opinion. WW submitting related party agreements and commitments to the The Chairman has broad and continuous access to necessary Board for approval and informing the Statutory Auditors of relevant information. these agreements. At the beginning of each year, he meets the heads of the various The Chairman ensures that the Board members respect the roles business units and corporate departments, to hold a free and and prerogatives of Executive Management. frank discussion of their work and any issues that they may have He makes sure the Board of Directors is kept permanently identified and believe should be brought to his attention. informed of all of the Company’s activities and performances. He receives the quarterly risk reports and monthly management The Chairman organises and leads the work of the Board of reports, as well as summary information about operations with the Directors, calling meetings at least four times per year, or more main distribution partners. frequently if warranted by circumstances. In 2018, the Board In addition to his legal and statutory duties, the Chairman met eight times. regularly visits the Company’s various facilities in France (Paris, He oversees the transparency of decision-making processes, with Arcueil, Angers) and conducts a series of initiatives to: a particular focus on the clarity, accuracy and completeness of WW maintain the quality of shareholder relations; information provided to the Board in respect of matters submitted WW guarantee Board diversity; for its decision. WW propose a training programme to Board members. The Chairman is closely involved in the Company’s strategic management. He meets with the Chief Executive Officer every Chief Executive Officer week (or more frequently if necessary) to receive information The Chief Executive Officer has the broadest powers to act in the about material events and situations that concern the Group’s Company’s name in all circumstances, subject to the restrictions strategy, organisation, major investment or divestment projects on his powers and the financial authorisations decided by the or other matters. Board of Directors, as set out in its internal rules which may be He participates in internal strategy meetings chaired by the Chief consulted on the CNP Assurances website *. These restrictions Executive Officer, notably meetings to discuss the distribution concern, in particular, business acquisitions (aside from portfolio agreements with the Company’s main partners. management transactions) exceeding certain financial limits or that are not fully aligned with the strategy decided by the Board. He chairs meetings of the Committee tasked with preparing Board decisions, which are also attended by the Chief Executive The Chief Executive Officer actively participates in Board Officer and the Executive Committee members concerned. The Meetings and keeps the Board abreast of the day-to-day topics covered by the Committee include: management of the Company and all significant events affecting WW the annual budget; the Group. He helps devise and update the strategy decided by WW the annual and interim financial statements; the Board. WW policies submitted for Board approval in accordance with The Chief Executive Officer is assisted in his managerial and Solvency II governance rules. operational duties by the Deputy Chief Executive Officers and the members of the Executive Committee. * http://www.cnp.fr/en/The-Group/Governance/Corporate-governance 46 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Governance structure 3 3.1.3 Executive Management procedures The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing The holders of the four key functions (Risk Management, day-to-day operations. A key concern of Executive Management Compliance, Actuarial Analysis and Internal Audit) report to the is to ensure that operations comply with the policies and strategies Chief Executive Officer. decided by the Board and that the link between strategy and They are regularly invited to attend Board Meetings to provide the shareholder value is maintained. Board with insight into the risks, responsibilities and challenges The Chief Executive Officer has set up an Executive Committee to associated with these functions. lead the Group’s operations and implement the strategy decided The Risk Management function is run by the Group Risk by the Board of Directors. The Committee comprises the Chief department, which is responsible for coordinating the risk Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officers and eight management system. The department applies the risk tolerance other senior executives. limit defined in the Group’s risk management strategy through The Executive Committee generally meets once a week. As risk policies and economic capital estimates. These policies are well as acting in a strategic planning role, it coordinates and submitted by Executive Management for approval by the Audit rolls out Group-level initiatives and monitors cross-functional and Risk Committee and the Board of Directors. The department projects. It combines a very broad range of technical, marketing, is responsible for ensuring that all risks are covered by the system managerial and operational skills within an internal structure. and that the related surveillance measures are effective. It rolls down the risk-acceptance framework to the different businesses The Executive Committee discusses cross-functional and strategic through such measures as underwriting policies, delegations management issues for final decision by the Chief Executive of authority and investment guidelines. It delivers a preliminary Officer. Periodic management indicators are used to track the opinion on decisions with a significant impact on the Company’s Group’s business. risk profile based on the four-eyes principle. It is also tasked The Committee reviews budgets, long-term business projections, with independently validating the Group’s model for Solvency II, financial statements, financial investment strategies and profit MCEV© and ALM analyses calculations. Lastly, by participating forecasts by business segment. It also reviews proposed business in the core phases of the business and staff training processes, it acquisitions and the business plans of the main French and contributes to instilling a risk management culture throughout the foreign subsidiaries. Group. This gives it a critical role in safeguarding the Company’s value, assets and reputation. It oversees the consistency of action plans implemented by the business units and subsidiaries. It monitors the Company’s The Compliance function is run by the Compliance department, results and financial ratios and reviews the action plans to which closely monitors product compliance risks and the be implemented by the Company. It particularly focuses on legitimacy of financial flows, notably in line with the money ensuring the efficiency of internal control, internal audit and risk laundering and terrorist financing provisions of the compliance management systems, which are key drivers of good corporate policy approved by the Board of Directors. governance. The Actuarial function is run by the Group Actuarial department. Summary minutes are kept of each Executive Committee meeting. Its activities include calculating the Group’s insurance indicators (Embedded Value and Value of New Business, technical reserves At least one Executive Committee member sits on the Board under French GAAP, IFRS and Solvency II) and forecasting of Directors of each of the main subsidiaries, providing further under writing results. It also establishes standards for the assurance of consistent strategic management across the Group. determination of technical reserves and MCEV©, leads actuarial The Chief Executive Officer holds regular meetings with the research and development activities and prepares the executive Group’s main executives. Each participant is responsible for summaries and analysis reports required from the Group Actuarial rolling down the information and discussion process to his or department. her level, for example by organising Management Committee The Internal Audit function is run by the Internal Audit meetings or meetings with team members. department, which assesses the relevance and robustness Xavier Larnaudie-Eiffel, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and of the Group’s overall system of controls. It also assesses the Partnerships and Business Development Director, has been design and effectiveness of the risk management and internal designated as one of the two people who effectively run control processes deployed in the audited activities or critical CNP Assurances. In accordance with Article R.322‑168 of the business processes, and recommends quality and compliance French Insurance Code (Code des assurances), he has broad improvements. responsibility for and authority over the Company’s business and risks and is involved in strategic, budget, financial and other decisions that have a material impact. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 47 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3.2 Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3.2.1 Composition of the Board of Directors Principles Since the IPO in October 1998, the composition of (held through Sopassure, the joint holding company set up by CNP Assurances’ Board of Directors has reflected its ownership La Banque Postale and BPCE) and the French State – that are structure and particularly the holdings of its four historical united by a Shareholders’ Agreement. shareholders – Caisse des Dépôts, La Banque Postale and BPCE The Shareholders’ Agreement organises the composition of the Board of Directors as follows: Directors appointed or elected * Six directors recommended by Caisse des Dépôts Caisse des Dépôts, represented by Eric Lombard Alexandra Basso (replacing Annabelle Beugin-Soulon) Virginie Chapron du Jeu Olivier Fabas (replacing Olivier Sichel) Laurence Giraudon Olivier Mareuse Five directors recommended by Sopassure Sopassure, represented by Florence Lustman Jean-Yves Forel Laurent Mignon Philippe Wahl Rémy Weber One director recommended by the French State The French State, represented by Charles Sarrazin Two directors representing employees Philippe Bartoli Laurence Guitard Four independent directors Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors Marcia Campbell Stéphane Pallez Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe One director recommended jointly * Where applicable, director appointed subject to ratification by the Annual General Meeting of 18 April 2019 Directors’ profile 43.75% 25% 4 YEARS 56 YEARS OF DIRECTORS OF DIRECTORS AVERAGE PERIOD AVERAGE AGE ARE WOMEN * ARE INDEPENDENT * SERVED ON THE BOARD 7 OUT OF 16 4 OUT OF 16 * The two directors representing employees are excluded for the purpose of calculating percentages, in accordance with Article 8.3 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Code and Article L.225-27-1 of the French Commercial Code 48 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 Overview of the Board of Directors MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFTER THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 18 APRIL 2019 Personal information Experience Position on the Board Membership of Board Committees Number of directorships Remuneration and Follow-up Committee Current term expires Strategy Committee Years served on the Number of shares Special Committee on the Implementation of listed companies First appointed Audit and Risk Independence Nominations Committee of the BPCE and LBP Gender Nationality Board Committee Partnerships Age Executive director Jean-Paul Faugère 62 M FR 1,500 2 Yes 2012 2021 7 Directors Éric Lombard 60 M FR 200 1 No 2017 2020 1 Alexandra Basso 44 F FR 1 No 2019 2021 0 Virginie Chapron du Jeu 57 F FR 200 1 No 2012 2021 7 Olivier Fabas 36 M FR 1 No 2019 2022 0 Laurence Giraudon 49 F FR 200 1 No 2018 2020 1 Olivier Mareuse 55 M FR 200 3 No 2013 2022 6 Florence Lustman 58 F FR 200 1 No 2015 2021 4 Jean-Yves Forel 57 M FR 200 1 No 2012 2022 6 Laurent Mignon 55 M FR 200 3 No 2018 2022 1 Philippe Wahl 63 M FR 200 1 No 2011 2022 8 Rémy Weber 61 M FR 200 1 No 2013 2022 5 Charles Sarrazin 45 M FR 1 No 2016 2020 2 Marcia Campbell 60 F UK 750 1 Yes 2011 2020 8 Stéphane Pallez 59 F FR 200 2 Yes 2011 2020 8 Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe 72 F FR 200 3 Yes 2013 2021 6 Directors representing employees Philippe Bartoli 60 M FR 180 1 No 2017 2021 2 Laurence Guitard 57 F FR 1 No 2016 2021 3 Member Chairman 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 49 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures Changes in the membership of the Board of Directors and the Committees of the Board during 2018 MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Resigned Appointed Re-elected Board of Directors Olivier Sichel (21 February 2018) Olivier Mareuse, François Pérol, Jean‑Yves Forel, Olivier Sichel, Philippe Wahl, Rémy Weber (27 April 2018) Delphine de Chaisemartin Annabelle Beugin-Soulon (15 May 2018) (15 May 2018) François Pérol Laurent Mignon (1 June 2018) (1 June 2018) Pauline Cornu-Thénard Laurence Giraudon (27 September 2018) (27 September 2018) Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration and François Pérol Laurent Mignon Nominations Committee (1 June 2018) (1 June 2018) Strategy Committee Olivier Sichel (21 February 2018) Follow-up Committee Jean-Paul Faugère, on the Implementation Olivier Sichel, of the BPCE and LBP Virginie Chapron du Jeu, Partnerships Stéphane Pallez, Marcia Campbell, Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe (21 February 2018) Special Committee Jean-Paul Faugère, Stéphane Pallez, Marcia Campbell, Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe (27 September 2018) 50 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 Directors’ independence The tables below present the situation of each director in relation to the independence criteria listed in section 8 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code. Criterion 1: not to have been an employee or executive director in the previous five years Not to be and not to have been within the previous five years: WW an employee or executive officer of the corporation; WW an employee, executive officer or director of a company consolidated within the corporation; WW an employee, executive officer or director of the Company’s parent company or a company consolidated within this parent company. Criterion 2: no cross directorships Not to be an executive officer of a company in which the corporation holds a directorship, directly or indirectly, or in which an employee appointed as such or an executive officer of the corporation (currently in office or having held such office within the last five years) holds a directorship. Criterion 3: no significant business relationships * Not to be a customer, supplier, commercial banker, investment banker or consultant: WW that is significant to the corporation or its group; WW or for which the corporation or its group represents a significant portion of its activities. The evaluation of the significance or otherwise of the relationship with the company or its group is debated by the Board, and the quantitative and qualitative criteria that led to this evaluation (continuity, economic dependence, exclusivity, etc.) are explicitly stated in the report on corporate governance. Criterion 4: no family ties Not to be related by close family ties to a company officer. Criterion 5: not to have been an auditor Not to have been an auditor of the corporation within the previous five years. Criterion 6: no more than 12 years on the Board Not to have been a director of the corporation for more than twelve years. Loss of the status of independent director occurs on the date when this 12 years is reached. Criterion 7: no variable compensation A non-executive officer cannot be considered independent if he or she receives variable compensation in cash or in the form of shares or any compensation linked to the performance of the corporation or the Group. Criterion 8: not a significant shareholder Directors representing major shareholders of the corporation or its parent company may be considered independent, provided these shareholders do not take part in the control of the corporation. Nevertheless, beyond a 10% threshold in capital or voting rights, the Board, upon a report from the nominations committee, should systematically review the qualification of a director as independent in the light of the make-up of the corporation’s capital and the existence of a potential conflict of interest. * At its meeting on 20 February 2019, the Board of Directors found that none of the directors qualified as independent had any material direct or indirect business ties with CNP Assurances or the Group 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 51 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures Virginie Jean-Paul Eric Alexandra Chapron Olivier Laurence Olivier Florence Jean-Yves Criteria (1) Faugère Lombard Basso du Jeu Fabas Giraudon Mareuse Lustman Forel Criterion 1: not to have been an employee or executive director in the previous five years I ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ I ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 2: no cross directorships ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 3: no significant business relationships ◊ I I I I I I I I Criterion 4: no family ties ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 5: not to have been an auditor ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 6: no more than 12 years on the Board ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 7: no variable compensation ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 8: not a significant shareholder ◊ I I I I I I I I Position on the Board (2) I NI NI NI NI NI NI NI NI (1) In the above tables, ◊ indicates that the independence criterion is fulfilled and I indicates that the independence criterion is not fulfilled (2) I = Independent, NI = Not independent Laurent Philippe Rémy Charles Marcia Stéphane Rose-Marie Philippe Laurence Criteria (1) Mignon Wahl Weber Sarrazin Campbell Pallez Van Lerberghe Bartoli Guitard Criterion 1: not to have been an employee or executive director in the previous five years ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ I I Criterion 2: no cross directorships ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 3: no significant business relationships I I I I ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 4: no family ties ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 5: not to have been an auditor ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 6: no more than 12 years on the Board ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 7: no variable compensation ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Criterion 8: not a significant shareholder I I I I ◊' ◊ ◊ ◊ ◊ Position on the Board (2) NI NI NI NI I I I NI NI (1) In the above tables, ◊ indicates that the independence criterion is fulfilled and I indicates that the independence criterion is not fulfilled (2) I = Independent, NI = Not independent 52 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE RATES IN 2018 Attendance rate at Follow-up Attendance Attendance rate Attendance Committee on the Attendance rate at Audit at Remuneration rate at Implementation rate at Attendance and Risk and Nominations Strategy of the BPCE and Special rate at Board Committee Committee Committee LBP Partnerships Committee Meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Jean-Paul Faugère 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Eric Lombard 100% 80% Virginie Chapron du Jeu 75% 100% Laurence Giraudon 100% Olivier Mareuse 62.5% 85.71% 100% Annabelle Beugin-Soulon 100% Olivier Sichel 50% 0% Florence Lustman 87.5% 100% Jean-Yves Forel 75% 85.71% 100% Laurent Mignon 50% 100% Philippe Wahl 100% 100% Rémy Weber 87.5% 100% Charles Sarrazin 87.5% 100% Marcia Campbell 75% 85.71% 100% 100% 100% Stéphane Pallez 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe 87.5% 100% 100% 100% Philippe Bartoli 100% Laurence Guitard 87.5% 3.2.2 Diversity policy applied to members of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors ensures that the choice of candidates to fulfil the responsibilities of the Board and its Committees, for election or appointment to the Board reflects a wide range concerning in particular: of skills and experience and satisfies the gender balance WW the insurance and financial markets; required under Article L.225‑18‑1 of the French Commercial WW the Company’s strategy and business model; Code. At 20 February 2019, 43.75% of Board members were WW its governance system and financial and actuarial analysis women, in line with the 40% minimum proportion required by processes; Article L.225‑18‑1 of the French Commercial Code. WW the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to insurance The requirements in terms of the range of skills and experience undertakings. demonstrated by individual directors and the Board as a whole Implementation of this policy depends to a significant extent on have been increased with the application of Solvency II. The the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement and compliance with Board must have permanent assurance that, together, its members these terms by the parties to the agreement when it comes to have the qualifications, knowledge and experience needed recommending candidates for election to the Board. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 53 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures The choices of candidates to replace directors who had resigned to better represent the Company’s human potential than all the in 2018 and early 2019 ensured that the gender balance on employees taken as a whole. the Board was maintained and brought to the Board profiles A quarterly scorecard is produced to track changes in this that enhance its collective skills and competence. This was proportion in relation to the corresponding objectives. particularly true of the two women directors who were employees of CNP Assurances in the past. Concerning total employees, CNP Assurances obtained a score of 99/100 in the gender equality index created by the French government to enable companies to measure their progress in Information about the way that this area. We were awarded the highest possible score for CNP Assurances endeavours to ensure substantially all of the five measurement indicators (pay gap balanced representation of men and between men and women in comparable positions and of a women on the Executive Committee similar age, gaps between individual pay rises and promotions The membership of the Executive Committee reflects the choice for men and women, pay rises for women returning from maternity of the Chief Executive Officer to surround himself with the leave, gender breakdown of the ten highest paid executives). technical, marketing, managerial and operational skills that he considers necessary in order to have an internal structure he can rely on when making his decisions. Since 1 February 2019, Directors’ qualifying shares the Executive Committee has comprised the Chief Executive Article 1.2 C) 3 of the Board of Directors’ internal rules stipulates Officer, the two Deputy Chief Executive Officers and eight senior that each director must hold at least 200 CNP Assurances shares executives, representing 11 members in all, including eight men (500 in the case of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief and three women (27.27%). Executive Officer). Directors representing employees are not required to hold any CNP Assurances shares. Information about diversity among executives representing the top 10% As of 1 February 2019, women represented 37.7% of the G60 group composed of 69 senior executives who are considered 3.2.3 Compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code Explanation of practices that differ from those recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code CNP Assurances refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code *. Without calling this principle into question, its practices may on occasion differ from those set out in the Code due to the Company’s specific features. The divergent practices are listed in the table below, which has been prepared in accordance with the “comply or explain” provisions of Article L.225‑37‑4, paragraph 9 of the French Commercial Code. Recommendations of AFEP-MEDEF Code CNP Assurances Explanations Proportion of independent directors The composition of CNP Assurances’ Board of Directors is mainly organised by the Shareholders’ Agreement and is a reflection of the Company’s WW Board of Directors: Proportion is 25% ownership structure. proportion should be greater than 33% in controlled companies Consequently, the proportion of independent directors does not comply with Code guidelines. WW Audit and Risk Committee: Proportion is 40% proportion should be greater than 66% WW Remuneration and Nominations Proportion is 40% Committee: proportion should be greater than 50% * The June 2018 revised version of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code is available on the AFEP website at http://www.afep.com/themes/governance/ 54 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 Recommendations of AFEP-MEDEF Code CNP Assurances Explanations Independence criteria Not to be a (…) director (…) Jean-Paul Faugère The Board of Directors believes that, in light of Caixa Seguros Holding’s of a consolidated subsidiary (…) of is a director of critical contribution to CNP Assurances, electing an independent CNP Assurances Caixa Seguros director of CNP Assurances to its Board is useful, because it provides Holding (Brazil), CNP Assurances’ Board with an additional perspective on the Group’s a consolidated business in Latin America. subsidiary of As recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code’s CNP Assurances application guidance, Jean-Paul Faugère does not participate in decisions by CNP Assurances’ Board on matters that may give rise to a conflict of interests between CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguros Holdings. Organisation each year of a Each year, during its February meeting, the Board of Directors assesses meeting not attended by the the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman executive directors (Article 10‑-3) of the Board and determines the components of their respective remuneration packages. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board and the members of management present at the meeting leave the room while the Board discusses the management of the business and the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman. The nominations Committee Article 5.3 of the Shareholders’ Agreement describes the specific process (or an ad hoc Committee) designs for appointing the Chief Executive Officer and other corporate officers. management succession plans for At its meetings on 27 July, 27 September and 15 November 2018, corporate officers the Board of Directors discussed and approved the appointment of Antoine Lissowski as Chief Executive Officer. CNP Assurances’ practices comply with Solvency II, which requires insurance undertakings to identify two persons who effectively run the undertaking. This means that if either of the two positions concerned were to fall vacant, there would still be one person left to effectively run the business. Concerning the temporary or permanent replacement of holders of other key functions in the Group, a continuity and succession plan for key functions was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee in February 2019. The Remuneration and Nominations Article 5.3 of the Shareholders’ Agreement describes the specific process Committee should include a director for appointing the Chief Executive Officer and other corporate officers. representing employees This process is described in the Board of Directors’ internal rules. The Board currently has no plans to appoint a director representing employees to the Remuneration and Nominations Committee. When an employee becomes The Board of Directors considered that it would not be appropriate to a corporate officer, his or her require the termination of Antoine Lissowski’s employment contract with employment contract with the CNP Assurances, which has been in force since 2003. The Board took the Company or another Group entity view that the loss of his rights under the contract and by virtue of his years should be terminated either by of service up until 1 September 2018 would be sufficiently damaging as to means of a settlement agreement or adversely affect the management transition, given that he was appointed by the employee resigning Chief Executive Officer for a fixed term in accordance with the Articles of Association. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 55 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3.2.4 Preparation and organisation of the Board’s work The procedures for the preparation of the Board’s work and its At each Board Meeting, the agenda items are presented in detail organisation are described in its internal rules, which supplement by the Chief Executive Officer and other members of Executive and clarify the corresponding laws and regulations, the relevant Management. provisions of the Articles of Association and the AFEP-MEDEF After the directors have obtained answers to their questions, they Corporate Governance Code to which the Board refers. The discuss these presentations and then, where applicable, vote on Board’s internal rules may be consulted on the CNP Assurances the related decision. website. The participants in Board Meetings have a duty to exercise Every year, the dates and agendas for the upcoming meetings of discretion, particularly with regard to information of a confidential the Board and its Audit and Risk Committee are drawn up and nature that is presented as such by the Chairman of the Board approved. of Directors. The Chairman provides the directors with all documents and The Board’s internal rules include specific rules covering the information required to enable them to fulfil their duties and prevention and management of conflicts of interest. prepare their decisions. Between any two Board Meetings, directors may also be sent briefings on important topics or copies In order to perform its management and supervisory duties more of press releases by e-mail. effectively, the Board of Directors receives advice from its five Committees: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Several days ahead of each Board Meeting, the directors receive and Nominations Committee, the Strategy Committee, the briefing documents on the various agenda items, together with Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and the draft minutes of the previous meeting, a file containing press LBP Partnerships and the Special Committee. cuttings and selected analyst reports concerning the Company or the Group. The duties and procedures of the first three of these Committees are set out in the Board of Directors’ internal rules. They may use At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board the services of external experts. about day-to-day management matters and any significant events affecting the running of the Company. Directors are regularly All of the members of the Committees are directors and are provided with a detailed analysis of the Group’s results, notably appointed by the Board, which also appoints the Chairman of in the form of the annual and interim financial statements and the each Committee. Minutes are kept of each Committee meeting quarterly results indicators. and a report is presented at the next Board Meeting. Directors also receive detailed updates on developments regarding commercial, financial and operational issues that help them to track the implementation of the Group’s strategy and better understand its businesses and outlook. 56 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 3.2.5 Activities of the Board of Directors and its Committees in 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS WW the status of various business developments, particularly in relation to: —— the activities of the Social Protection & Services BU in the 8 83% 2H15 area of group pensions and employee benefit plans in France, NUMBER ATTENDANCE AVERAGE DURATION —— term creditor insurance in France and the consequences OF MEETINGS RATE OF EACH MEETING of the Bourquin amendment allowing borrowers to freely choose their insurer (Open Model BU), —— the life and non-life businesses of Caixa Seguradora in Latin America (Latin America BU), —— CNP Santander Insurance’s consumer finance insurance and personal risk insurance businesses in Europe; WW the status of various issues concerning the Group’s compliance The main matters discussed by the Board of Directors in 2018 with European texts (General Data Protection Regulation, were as follows: Insurance Distribution directive); WW the Group’s strategy and changes to the business model; WW the technical procedures required under Solvency II (review of WW the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy; the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) process and WW negotiations with the Brazilian partner, Caixa Econômica Federal, approval of reports (1) and adjustments to written policies (2) with a view to renewing the partnership in Latin America; designed to guarantee the sound, prudent and efficient WW the organisation of Frédéric Lavenir’s succession as management of the business); Chief Executive Officer, following the announcement on WW the Company’s responses to questions and information 11 July 2018 that he would be resigning from his position on requests from the French Prudential Supervision and Resolution 1 September 2018; Authority (ACPR). WW t h e a u t h o r i s a t i o n o f r e l a t e d p a r t y t r a n s a c t i o n s (Arial CNP Assurances, Caisse des Dépôts); Committees of the Board of Directors Audit and Risk Committee Average Number Attendance duration of Number of members: 5 of meetings rate each meeting Stéphane Pallez, Chair Independent directors Marcia Campbell Florence Lustman 7 91% Three hours Directors (elected on the recommendation of Jean-Yves Forel the parties to the Shareholders’ Agreement) Olivier Mareuse (1) SFCR reports, RSR reports, reports on the procedures for the preparation and verification of financial information, reports on internal control over the system to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism (2) The main policies concern (i) risk management (including underwriting, reserving, asset/liability management, investment, liquidity and concentration standards, operational risk management, reinsurance and other risk mitigation policies); (ii) internal control; (iii) internal audit; (iv) outsourcing; (v) reporting; (vi) ORSA; (vii) measurement of assets and liabilities; (viii) capital management; (ix) fit and proper requirements; (x) remuneration and (xi) business continuity 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 57 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures During 2018, the Audit and Risk Committee continued to WW portfolios with a sharply negative Value of New Business, provide opinions and recommendations to the Board, based by conducting an assessment of the measures deployed to notably on discussions with the Auditors and people employed reverse the situation; by the Company. WW Solvency II programme issues (determination of the overall The members of the Audit and Risk Committee receive the solvency capital requirement, drafting of written policies, etc.); documents and information required for their review of the annual WW reviewing the Group’s investment policy and policy concerning and interim financial statements and the quarterly indicators the use of financial futures; sufficiently in advance to enable them to prepare their questions WW reviewing the activities of the Internal Audit department and for the Statutory Auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the the Compliance department in 2018, and their respective Accounting Director, the Chief Actuary and the Chief Risk Officer, programmes for 2019; who all systematically attend the meetings concerned. WW reviewing the activities of Youse in Brazil. Audit and Risk Committee meetings are held the day before The Committee also looked at the Company’s management and Board Meetings, to make it easier for the Committee member follow-up of ACPR audits and reviewed the action plans drawn who is based outside France to attend the meetings in person. up to address the ACPR’s recommendations. The Committee may consult independent experts, after first The Audit and Risk Committee requested and obtained a informing the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors. In consolidated report presenting the recommendations of the this case, the experts’ fees are paid by the Company. internal auditors, the ACPR, the Statutory Auditors and the Chief Actuary, giving it a holistic vision of all of these different In 2018, the Audit and Risk Committee focused primarily on: recommendations. WW the audit of the financial statements; WW the Group’s risk exposures, based on its review of the quarterly Lastly, the Committee’s work programme also covered the risk reports; provision by the Statutory Auditors of the services referred to in Article L.822‑11‑2 of the French Commercial Code (services other than the audit of the financial statements). Remuneration and Nominations Committee Average Number Attendance duration of Number of members: 5 of meetings rate each meeting Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe, Chair Independent directors Jean-Paul Faugère Laurent Mignon 5 86% One hour Directors (elected on the recommendation of Éric Lombard the parties to the Shareholders’ Agreement) Philippe Wahl Executive corporate officers are involved in the work of the recommendations to the Board concerning the directors’ fees Remuneration and Nominations Committee: Jean-Paul Faugère, to be attributed to the directors based on pre-defined criteria Chairman of the Board of Directors, a member of the Committee such as attendance at Board Meetings and membership of a and the Chief Executive Officer is invited to take part in meetings Committee of the Board. The Committee is informed about the whenever necessary depending on the agenda items. Neither remuneration policy for the main corporate officers other than of them take part in discussions and decisions concerning their the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, which is part of re-appointment and remuneration. the Group’s overall remuneration policy approved by the Board. The Remuneration and Nominations Committee is responsible for It reviews any planned employee rights issues or share grants. selecting candidates for election as directors and reviewing the In 2018, as well as reviewing the matters that are routinely proposed appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, submitted to it concerning the appointment or election or the Chief Executive Officer, the second person who effectively re-election of directors and the components of the remuneration runs the business, and the members of the Committees of the of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, Board. the Remuneration and Nominations Committee managed the The Committee also reviews the remuneration awarded to the situation arising from Frédéric Lavenir’s unexpected announcement Chairman of the Board of Directors as well as the total individual on 11 July 2018 that he would be resigning from the position of remuneration awarded to the Chief Executive Officer. It makes Chief Executive Officer on 1 September 2018. 58 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 In this regard, the Committee: WW reviewed the candidates presented by this firm and WW settled the aspects concerning the Chief Executive Officer’s opted to recommend to the Board of Directors to appoint remuneration by determining his rights in respect of 2018 Antoine Lissowski; (covering his fixed salary but also his variable remuneration WW approved the proposal by Antoine Lissowski to name based on a mid-year assessment of performance in relation to Xavier Larnaudie-Eiffel as the second person who effectively the corresponding objectives); runs the Company; WW obtained the Board of Directors’ authorisation to ask a firm WW recommended that Antoine Lissowski be paid only a fixed of executive recruitment consultants to present a selection of salary for 2018, in light of the short period (six weeks) candidates for the position of Chief Executive Officer for a term between the confirmation of his appointment and the end of aligned with the remainder of the Chief Executive Officer’s term; the year. Strategy Committee Average Number Attendance duration of Number of members: 7 of meetings rate each meeting Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman Independent directors Stéphane Pallez Marcia Campbell Rémy Weber 1 100% One hour Directors Jean-Yves Forel (elected on the recommendation of Olivier Mareuse the parties to the Shareholders’ Agreement) Olivier Sichel At its meeting on 12 Januar y 2018, the Strategy paying close attention to issues related to the price offered to Committee examined the renewal of the partnership with CEF to pursue the development of the businesses included in the Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF) in Latin America. The Committee scope of the new agreements and to relations with the brokerage reviewed the partnership’s financial metrics and legal structure, firm Wiz. Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships Average Number of Attendance duration of Number of members: 7 meetings rate each meeting Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman Stéphane Pallez Independent directors Marcia Campbell Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe One and a 1 96% half hours Directors Olivier Sichel (elected on the recommendation of the parties Virginie Chapron du Jeu to the Shareholders’ Agreement) Charles Sarrazin At its meeting on 19 September 2018, the Follow-up Committee —— the development of premium offers, on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships reviewed —— the promotion of unit-linked offers in full compliance with the results obtained under the renegotiated agreements in force the obligation to provide impartial advice, since 1 January 2016. —— proactive conversion of traditional products into products The heads of the LBP and BPCE BUs informed the Committee about: with a unit-linked or Eurocroissance formula; WW the ways in which the partnerships have enhanced the WW significant advances in policy administration processes, with marketing dynamic underpinning the business model, thanks to: the transition to paperless communications and use of Internet for simple operations in the life of the contract (“self care”); 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 59 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures WW the satisfactory implementation of the two partnerships’ Based on these presentations, the Committee concluded that the governance through the creation of many committees to two agreements have delivered the expected benefits and results, guarantee effective cooperation at all levels. and above all, that their implementation is a demonstration of the whole-hearted engagement of CNP Assurances and each of its two partners. Special Committee Average Number of Attendance duration of Number of members: 4 meetings rate each meeting Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman Stéphane Pallez Independent directors Marcia Campbell One and a Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe 2 100% half hours Directors (elected on the recommendation of the parties to the Shareholders’ Agreement) The work of the Special Committee included an analysis of the The rules would cover measures to protect: potential benefits of drawing up formal governance rules to WW the confidentiality of commercial information shared between protect the interests of distribution partners (including partners CNP Assurances and each of its partners, that are not also shareholders) and insureds in the event that WW the personal data of clients contributed by each partner, La Banque Postale were to become the majority shareholder of a WW financial management processes that guarantee each partner’s company with a multi-partner model. independence. 3.2.6 Performance assessment of the Board of Directors and its Committees In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance noted with satisfaction the improvements made since the previous Code and its own internal rules, in 2018 the Board performed a assessment. The directors particularly appreciated the strategy self-assessment of its performance with the assistance of outside seminar called for in the 2017 self-assessment and organised in consultants. The results of the self-assessment were presented to 2018, applauding both its form and its content. the Board at its meeting on 19 December 2018. An analysis of the completed questionnaires and the interviews The self-assessment was based on a questionnaire sent to the confirmed that the directors have the skills needed for the Board directors, who all filled it out, and on one-on-one conversations to fulfil its role. The analysis also confirmed each director’s with the independent directors, a representative of each commitment to making a real contribution to the Board’s work. historical shareholder, a director representing employees and the Certain points were noted for inclusion in an action plan to be Chief Executive Officer. implemented in 2019. In particular, to take into account the many The topics covered were those listed in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, matters included on the agendas of Board Meetings, executive and directors were asked to respond to questions on the practices summaries will be systematically included in the directors’ briefing of the Board and its Committees, how well the Board and the files and a table listing the matters submitted to the Board for Committees work together, the strategy seminar, the overall consideration or decision will be distributed to directors. Specific competence of the Board members and directors’ individual software used to send or read the documents sent with the contributions to the work of the Board and its Committees, and agendas for meetings of the Board and its Committees will also implementation of the action plan drawn up after the 2017 be deployed in 2019. self-assessment. A detailed assessment will be carried out at the end of 2019, The directors confirmed their favourable or highly favourable three years after the 2016 assessment. opinion about the Group’s governance and nearly all of them 60 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Board of Directors’ governance practices and procedures 3 3.2.7 Limitations on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer The following decisions are subject to the prior approval of the WW issue, on one or several occasions, bonds or notes for Board of Directors: a maximum of €1.5 billion placed in France or on an international market. The securities issued under this WW the issue of guarantees to secure the Company’s commitments authorisation may be dated or undated and subordinated or in excess of €100 million per commitment *; unsubordinated, and may pay interest at a fixed or variable WW business acquisitions and disposals for amounts in excess of rate (or any other form of remuneration); €50 million per transaction, whether they are carried out by WW buy back, on one or several occasions as required, at the CNP Assurances or by one of its direct or indirect subsidiaries. prices and according to terms and conditions that he shall This threshold takes into account the price, the net debt of the determine, bonds or notes issued by the Company, to be held target, any put options written or underwriting commitments or cancelled, in accordance with contractual provisions and granted by the Company and any off-balance sheet the applicable laws and regulations. The maximum nominal commitments. It does not apply to acquisitions and disposals amount of securities bought back pursuant to this authorisation of assets as part of the portfolio management process; may not exceed €1 billion or the equivalent of this amount in WW business acquisitions and disposals for any amounts that are foreign currency or any other unit of account determined by not part of the strategy decided by the Board of Directors, reference to a basket of currencies; except for transactions carried out on an experimental basis; WW establish or unwind, on one or several occasions, hedging WW organic growth or internal restructuring operations qualified as positions on bonds or notes issued or to be issued by having a major impact for the Group. CNP Assurances, in the form of swaps, including but On 20 February 2019, the Board of Directors also renewed the not limited to currency swaps that convert the interest and Chief Executive Officer’s authorisations to: principal into euros and interest rate swaps involving the exchange of interest streams. The maximum notional amount WW issue sureties, bonds and other guarantees in the Company’s of the positions may not exceed €1.5 billion or the equivalent name for up to €100 million annually, or the equivalent in in foreign currency. any foreign currency, covering the commitments of subsidiaries and other third parties in accordance with Article L.225‑35, The full text of the limitations of powers and financial paragraph 4 of the French Commercial Code; authorisations is reproduced in the appendix to the internal rules of the Board of Directors available at www.cnp.fr. * Additional information: in addition, the Chief Executive Officer is authorised to issue and sign commitments under which CNP Assurances acts as guarantor for its subsidiary CNP Caution in relation to commitments made by CNP Caution to its commercial partners. This authorisation relating to CNP Caution is limited to a maximum cumulative amount of eleven billion euros (€11,000,000,000), less the total amount of the guarantees issued by CNP Assurances in relation to commitments made by CNP Caution to its commercial partners which are still in place 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 61 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3.3 Management and members of the Board of Directors Functions of the members of the Board of Directors and list of their directorships 3.3.1 Chairman of the Board J E A N PA U L FA U G È R E Main function: Chairman of the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances since 29 June 2012 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Jean-Paul Faugère was director of the Prime Minister’s • Technical advisor to the Minister of Infrastructure, AGE: 62 office from 2007 to 2012, having previously been Housing, Territorial Development and Transport director of François Fillon’s office (when Mr Fillon was (1987‑1988) NATIONALITY: French Minister of Social Affairs, Employment and Solidarity • Government representative on the Special Litigation EDUCATION: Graduate of École polytechnique, and then Minister of National Education, Higher Committee (Assemblée du contentieux) of the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and École nationale d’administration Education and Research) (2002-2005) and prefect Conseil d’État (1988-1990) for the Alsace-Bas Rhin region (2005-2007). • Advisor to the General Director (1990) and SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: Prior to this, Jean-Paul Faugère held the following then Finance Director and Secretary General Insurance and financial markets positions: (1991‑1994) of the French Atomic Energy Insurance Undertaking • Insurance commissioner and comptroller Commission (CEA) Governance system of an insurance undertaking (1980-1981) • Director of Civil Liberties and Legal Affairs at the Financial and actuarial analysis • Auditor (auditeur) at the Conseil d’État (French Ministry of the Interior and Territorial Development Experience of legal and regulatory systems of an insurance undertaking supreme administrative court) (1982) (1994‑1997) • Master of Petitions (maître des requêtes) of the • Prefect for Loir-et-Cher département (1997‑2001), BUSINESS ADDRESS: Conseil d’État (1986) then for the Vendée département (2001‑2002) CNP Assurances • Deputy Secretary General of the Conseil d’État • State councillor (1998) 4, place Raoul Dautry (1986-1987) 75015 Paris, France NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 1,500 DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Within the CNP Assurances Group OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Remuneration and Nominations Committee • Caixa Seguros Holding (Brazil), Director (member) Other directorships and functions Strategy Committee (Chairman) • Icade (listed SA), Director and member of the Strategy and Investments Committee Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships (Chairman) Special Committee (Chairman) FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 29 June 2012 LAST RE-ELECTED: 2017 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2021 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 100% Remuneration and Nominations Committee: 100% Strategy Committee: 100% Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships: 100% Special Committee: 100% 62 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 3.3.2 Chief Executive Officer ANTOINE LISSOWSKI Main function: Chief Executive Officer of CNP Assurances since 1 September 2018 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Antoine Lissowski began his career with Caisse Dépôts’ Banking and Financial Services unit in 1992. des Dépôts et Consignations (CDC) as manager of In 2000, he joined the newly formed CDC IXIS as AGE: 62 foreign currency treasury transactions and eurocredits Chief Financial Officer, and in 2002 he was named (1982-1985). In 1985, he joined the French head of the bank’s Proprietary Trading department. NATIONALITY: French securities regulator (Commission des Opérations de In December 2003, Mr. Lissowski was appointed EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études Bourse), where he led the first work groups on ethical Member of the Executive Board of CNP Assurances Politiques de Paris and École Nationale practices in the financial services industry. and Chairman of the Plenary Economic and Financial d’Administration In 1988, he moved to Caisse des Dépôts et Commission of the French Insurance Federation (FFSA, Consignations, as head of business development on now FFA). SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: the bond and money markets. From July 2007 until 2018, Mr. Lissowski served as Insurance and financial markets In 1990, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director Insurance Undertaking of Caisse Autonome de Refinancement (CAR), a of CNP Assurances. Governance system of an insurance undertaking member of the Caisse des Dépôts Group, before He has been Chief Executive Officer of Financial and actuarial analysis becoming Chief Financial Officer of Caisse des CNP Assurances since 1 September 2018. Experience of legal and regulatory systems of an insurance undertaking DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS BUSINESS ADDRESS: • CNP Assurances (listed SA), Chief Executive Officer since 1 September 2018 CNP Assurances • Arial CNP Assurances (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (since 2 October 2018) 4, place Raoul Dautry • Montparvie IV (SAS), Chairman (since 18 September 2018) 75015 Paris, France • Montparvie V (SAS), representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman (since 29 October 2018) NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 2,000 • Sogestop L (SAS), Director • Lyfe (SAS), representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2022 • CNP Caution (SA), permanent representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman (term expired 19 December 2018) • MFPrévoyance (SA), permanent representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman (term expired 4 December 2018) • CNP Immobilier (SCI non-trading property company), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances • SCI de la CNP (SCI non-trading property company), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances • SICAC (SCI non-trading property company), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances • Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts (SA), permanent representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman • CDC Habitat (public-private company), member of the Supervisory Board, Audit Committee and Selection and Remuneration Committee (term expired 31 December 2018) • Caixa Seguros Holding (Brazil), Director OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 • Investissement Trésor Vie (SA), permanent representative of CNP Assurances (term expired 4 October 2017) • La Banque Postale Prévoyance (SA), Director (term expired 28 June 2016) • Ilot A5B (SCI), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances (term expired 21 September 2016) • CICOGE (SAS), representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman (term expired 14 January 2013) • Parvis Belvédère (SCI), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances (term expired 10 January 2013) • Rueil Newton (SCI), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances (term expired 1 February 2013) • 83 avenue Bosquet (SAS), representative of CNP Assurances, Chairman (term expired 14 January 2013) • SCI Desmoulins (SCI), person authorised to routinely enter into binding commitments on behalf of CNP Assurances (term expired 14 January 2013) • CNP IAM (SA), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 28 November 2015) • Assurbail Patrimoine (SAS), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 1 June 2015) • Assuristance (SA), member of the Supervisory Board (term expired 17 December 2015) • CNP TI (GIE), Chairman of the Board of Directors (until 22 June 2015) and Director (until 23 May 2017) • Ecureuil Vie Développement, Director (term expired 31 December 2015) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 63 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3.3.3 Directors PHILIPPE BARTOLI Director representing employees Main function: Head of the Special and Cross-Functional Audits unit of the Operational Risk and Internal Control section of CNP Assurances’ Group Risks Department since July 2015 AGE: 60 NATIONALITY: French PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Philippe Bartoli began his career as an audit Flipo as audit manager. He joined CNP Assurances EDUCATION: Master’s degree in business supervisor with the Salustro Reydel accounting firm in 1995, working first in accounting and then in the management, finance and tax from Paris IX Dauphine University, Post-graduate degree in before moving to Ernst & Young and then Cogerco areas of internal control and risk management. insurance and risk management techniques from Paris IX Dauphine University DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS (N/A) SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: Insurance and financial markets Insurance Undertaking OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Financial and actuarial analysis HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 (N/A) BUSINESS ADDRESS: CNP Assurances 4, place Raoul Dautry 75015 Paris, France NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 180 FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 27 April 2017 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2021 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 100% 64 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 ALEXANDRA BASSO Main function: Strategic Investments Manager, Caisse des Dépôts PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Alexandra Basso began her career in 1998 with institutions, including the Caisse des Dépôts Group. In PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, in the banking group, 2014, she joined the finance department of Caisse AGE: 44 before joining Arthur Andersen in 2000. des Dépôts, where she was responsible for permanent NATIONALITY: French In 2001, she returned to PricewaterhouseCoopers controls and operational risk monitoring in the Audit, in the financial services group, rising to Accounting and Financial Management department. EDUCATION: Graduate of EDHEC business the position of Senior Manager in 2006 with Since 2018, she has been Strategic Investments school, London School of Economics and Political Science, Post-graduate degree in auditing from responsibility for auditing the separate and Manager in the Caisse des Dépôts Group’s financial Paris Dauphine university, French certified public consolidated financial statements of various financial institutions unit. accountant (Expert-comptable) SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS (N/A) Insurance and financial markets Governance system of an insurance undertaking Experience of legal and regulatory systems of an OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS insurance undertaking HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 (N/A) BUSINESS ADDRESS: Caisse des Dépôts 56, rue de Lille 75007 Paris, France FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 20 February 2019 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES (SUBJECT TO RATIFICATION BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING): 2021 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 65 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors MARCIA CAMPBELL Main function: Company Director PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Marcia Campbell began her career in 1982 and Chief Executive Officer for Asia‑Pacific (2004working as a consultant for Proudfoot Plc International 2010). AGE: 60 Management consultants and became Chief Executive She was Director of Operations at Ignis Asset NATIONALITY: British Officer for the UK in 1988. In 1990, she joined Management, a subsidiary of Phoenix Group plc, Standard Life Plc, where she held a number of senior between 2010 and March 2012. She then chaired EDUCATION: Degree in French, Business and History of Art from the University of positions including Director of Sales Development the Scottish Government’s Advisory Committee for Edinburgh, MBA from the Open University (1990-1993), Director of Customer Services (1993Environmental Strategy until 2014. SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: 1996), General Advisor and Director of Business Marcia Campbell is a director of several companies Insurance and financial markets Services (1996-2004) and Director of Operations outside France. Insurance Undertaking Governance system of an insurance undertaking DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS BUSINESS ADDRESS: • Sainsbury’s Bank (UK), Director, member of the Audit and Risk Committee CNP Assurances • Murray International Trust Plc (UK), Chair of the Audit Committee 4, place Raoul Dautry • Aviva (UK and Ireland), member of the Independent Governance Committee 75015 Paris, France • Canada Life (Great West Life Group) (Canada), Director NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 750 • Canada Life Limited (Great West Life Group) (Canada), Director, Chair of the Risk Committee and member MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD of the Audit Committee OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: • Woodford Investment Management (UK), Chair of the Oversight Board (since June 2016) Audit and Risk Committee (member) • Charles Stanley Group plc (UK), Director (since October 2017), Chair of the Risk Committee and member Strategy Committee (member) of the Audit Committee Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships (member) Special Committee (member) OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 22 February 2011 • Scottish Government, Chairman of the Advisory Committee for Environmental Strategy (term expired 2014) LAST RE-ELECTED: 2016 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2020 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 75% Audit and Risk Committee: 85.71% Strategy Committee: 100% Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships: 100% Special Committee: 100% 66 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 VIRGINIE CHAPRON DU JEU Main function: Group Finance Director, Caisse des Dépôts since 1 September 2016 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Virginie Chapron du Jeu held various management department from 2007, she worked as Project positions with IXIS CIB (2004-2007), CDC IXIS Director reporting to the Deputy CEO of Caisse des AGE: 57 (2001-2004), Caisse des Dépôts (1989-2001) and Dépôts between October 2011 and February 2013, NATIONALITY: French OSEO (1986-1989). when she then became Investments and Accounting After serving as Director of the Financial Ratios, Director in the Pensions and Solidarity Division. EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études Deposits and Complex Financing unit in the Savings She has been Group Finance Director since Politiques de Paris, postgraduate degree in foreign trade from Paris IX-Dauphine University, Funds Division of Caisse des Dépôts Finance 1 September 2016. Master’s degree in financial management/budget control from Paris IX-Dauphine University DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: • Caisse des Dépôts, Group Finance Director, member of the Management Committees of Caisse des Dépôts Insurance and financial markets and of the Group Insurance Undertaking • Bpifrance (SA), Director, member of the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee Governance system of an insurance undertaking Financial and actuarial analysis • La Poste (SA), Director, Chair of the Audit Committee Experience of legal and regulatory systems • Réseau Transport Électricité RTE, member of the Supervisory Board, member of the Oversight and Audit of an insurance undertaking Committee • Coentreprise de Transport d’Électricité CTE, Director BUSINESS ADDRESS: Caisse des Dépôts • Novethic, Chair and member of the Strategy Committee 51, rue de Lille • CDC GPI (SA), permanent representative of Caisse des Dépôts, Director 75356 Paris 07 SP, France • CDC GPII (SAS), permanent representative of Caisse des Dépôts, Director • Humanis Retraite Arrco (supplementary pension institution), Director representing members (term expired in 2018) NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • Alter Egales, Chair MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCE Follow-up Committee on the Implementation OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships (member) HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 Strategy Committee (since 20 February 2019) • Caisse des Dépôts, Investments and Accounting Director in the Pensions and Solidarity Division (February 2013 FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 29 June 2012 to August 2016) LAST RE-ELECTED: 2017 • Caisse des Dépôts, Project Director reporting to the Deputy CEO of Caisse des Dépôts (October 2011 to February 2013) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2021 • CDC Placement (SA), Director (term expired 2016) ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: • AEW Europe (SA), permanent representative of Caisse des Dépôts, Director (term expired 2016) Board of Directors: 75% Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships: 100% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 67 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors O L I V I E R FA B A S Main function: Director, Financial Institutions and Investment Capital Unit – Strategic Investments Management Department – Caisse des Dépôts PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Olivier Fabas began his career in 2004 as a in advising listed companies involved in M&A AGE: 36 member of the BNP Paribas Portfolio Management transactions. NATIONALITY: French team, before moving to the financial management Since September 2018, Olivier Fabas has been side of the business in 2006, where he participated Director of the Financial Institutions and Investment EDUCATION: Graduate of ESCP Europe in managing the BNP Paribas Group structures and Capital unit in the Strategic Investments Management SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: monitoring solvency ratios (transition to Basel III and Department at Caisse des Dépôts. Insurance and financial markets related process changes), as well as structuring He also lectures on corporate finance as part of Insurance Undertaking acquisitions and partnerships. the dual Tax & Law degree programme at HEC Governance system of an insurance undertaking In 2013, he joined the BNP Paribas mergers & Université Paris 1 Panthéon Sorbonne. Financial and actuarial analysis acquisitions team, where he specialised mainly Experience of legal and regulatory systems of an insurance undertaking DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS BUSINESS ADDRESS: • Qualium Investissement (SAS), Director Caisse des Dépôts • Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts (SA), Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee 56, rue de Lille 75007 Paris, France OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD HELD IN THE PERIOD 2012 TO 2017 OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Follow-up Committee on the Implementation • Antin Participation 31 (SAS), Chairman (term expired 3 June 2013) of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships • Bergère Participation 2 (SAS), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 3 June 2013) (member since 20 February 2019) • Bergère Participation 7 (SAS), Deputy Chief Executive Officer (term expired 14 May 2013) FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 20 February 2019 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES (SUBJECT TO RATIFICATION BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING): 2022 68 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 JEAN-YVES FOREL Main function: Deputy Chief Executive Officer in charge of Retail Banking in Europe and of the Paris 2024 Olympic Games initiative at BPCE since October 2018 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Jean-Yves Forel began his career in 1983, at Banque Services Division. In November 2006, he became AGE: 57 Populaire des Alpes. In 1992, after working in member of the General Management Committee NATIONALITY: French high-street banking, he was appointed Director of and Director of the Specialised Financial Services EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études Operations, and, in 1995, Central Director. In 1997, Division of Natixis, the BPCE Group’s corporate Politiques de Grenoble, Degree in Economics he joined Banque Populaire Atlantique as Central and investment banking, asset management and SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: Director with responsibility for business development specialised services arm. Insurance and financial markets and the business line subsidiaries. In 2000, he was In 2012, Jean-Yves Forel became a member of Insurance Undertaking appointed Business Development Director at Banque BPCE’s Management Board, ser ving as Chief Governance system of an insurance undertaking Fédérale des Banques Populaires and in 2001, Executive Officer responsible for Retail Banking & Financial and actuarial analysis became a member of the General Management Insurance. In May 2016, he was appointed Chief Committee. Executive Officer in charge of Transformation and Experience of legal and regulatory systems of an insurance undertaking In 2003, he moved to Natexis Banques Populaires Operational Excellence. Since 15 October 2018, he where he was appointed member of the General has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer in charge BUSINESS ADDRESS: Management Committee and Director of Banking, of Retail Banking in Europe and of the Paris 2024 BPCE Financial and Technological Services. In 2005, he Olympic Games initiative. 50, avenue Pierre Mendès France was appointed Director of the Specialised Financial 75013 Paris, France NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD • BPCE (SA), Deputy Chief Executive Officer in charge of Retail Banking in Europe and of the Paris 2024 OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Olympic Games initiative Audit and Risk Committee (member) • Média Consulting & Investment (SA), Director (since 20 April 2010) Strategy Committee (member) • Natixis Algérie (Algeria), Chairman of the Board of Directors (since 20 January 2011) FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 11 December 2012 • BPCE Immobilier Exploitation (SAS), permanent representative of BPCE, Chairman of the company LAST RE-ELECTED: 2018 and the Board of Directors (since 31 August 2016) • Holassure, Director and Chairman (since 9 February 2017) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2022 • Natixis Coficiné (SA), Director (since 20 April 2010) ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: • Sopassure (SA), Director and Chairman (since 6 December 2012) Board of Directors: 75% Audit and Risk Committee: 85.71% • BPCE IT, Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 7 December 2018) Strategy Committee: 100% • Albiant IT (SA), Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 7 December 2018) • NEFER, Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 26 September 2018) • BPCE Achats, Director (term expired 12 December 2018) • IT-CE, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 17 October 2018) • i-BP, Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 10 October 2018) • EDEP, Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 28 March 2018) OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 • Algiers Business Centers (Algeria), Director (term expired 11 June 2013) • Association Française des Sociétés Financières (ASF), Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 15 January 2013) • Banque Palatine (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 24 May 2016) • BPCE (SA), member of the commercial banking and insurance Executive Board (term expired 17 May 2016) • BPCE International et Outre-Mer (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 25 May 2016) • Conecs (SAS), Director (term expired 12 June 2013) • Crédit Foncier de France (SA), Director (term expired 9 June 2016) • Ecureuil Vie Développement, representative of BPCE, director (term expired 31 December 2015) • Partecis (SAS), Director (term expired 10 March 2015) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 69 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors LAURENCE GIRAUDON Main function: Director, Support and Operations unit of the Asset Management Department, Caisse des Dépôts since June 2017 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Laurence Giraudon held various management In 2012, she joined CNP Assurances as Middle & AGE: 49 positions at CDC Marchés (1993-1998) and Back Office Manager in the Investments Department. NATIONALITY: French CDC ICM (1998-2001), and then participated in the Laurence Giraudon is currently Director in charge creation and deployment of the Results unit at IXIS CIB of the Support and Operations unit of the Asset EDUCATION: Graduate of ENSIMAG (Institut (2005-2007) and BFI Natixis (2007-2009). Management Department at Caisse des Dépôts since National Polytechnique de Grenoble) In 2009, she moved to Société Générale CIB June 2017. SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: to take up a position as co-manager of the Results Insurance and financial markets Certification Department’s Product Control Group. Insurance Undertaking Governance system of an insurance undertaking Financial and actuarial analysis DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Experience of legal and regulatory systems • Caisse des Dépôts, Director, Support and Operations unit of the Asset Management Department of an insurance undertaking • Crédit Municipal de Paris (public institution), member of the Strategy and Oversight Board BUSINESS ADDRESS: Caisse des Dépôts OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS 51, rue de Lille HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 (N/A) 75356 Paris 07 SP, France NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 27 September 2018 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES (SUBJECT TO RATIFICATION BY THE GENERAL MEETING): 2020 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 100% 70 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 L A U R E N C E G U I TA R D Director representing employees Main function: Data Protection Project Manager, CNP Assurances since 2011 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Laurence Guitard began her career in 1982 with to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer responsible for Alfred Herlicq & Fils, a construction company. In the Insurance group. AGE: 57 1988, she joined France Télécom where she was In 2004, she joined the headquarters of Banque CIC NATIONALITY: French responsible for operational tasks, reporting to the (Bordelaise CIC) as assistant to the Director, Financial EDUCATION: École nationale d’assurance Direct Marketing Director. Engineering and Financial Operations. and CNIL She then acquired experience in the property sector, Laurence Guitard joined the CNP Assurances SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: as researcher with Rocval & Savills, a firm of property Group in 2005, as assistant to the Deputy Chief Insurance and financial markets consultants (1989 to 1993) and as assistant to the Executive Officer responsible for Innovation, Property Insurance Undertaking Chairman of Cofradim, a property developer (1997 Management, Legal Affairs and Information Systems. Experience of legal and regulatory systems to 2000). Since 2011 she has been responsible for data of an insurance undertaking In 2001, she took up a position with Solving protection projects at CNP Assurances. International, a strategy consulting firm, as assistant BUSINESS ADDRESS: CNP Assurances 4, place Raoul Dautry DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS 75015 Paris, France • FCPE “Action CNP” (corporate mutual fund), Chair of the Supervisory Board FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 28 April 2016 LAST RE-ELECTED: 2017 DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 (N/A) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2021 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 87.5% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 71 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors ÉRIC LOMBARD Main function: Chief Executive Officer of Caisse des Dépôts since 8 December 2017 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE • Technical advisor to the Cabinet of the spokesman • Responsible for Corporate and Institutional Relations AGE: 60 for the French Government (1989‑1991) BNP Paribas (2002‑2004) NATIONALITY: French • Advisor to the Minister Delegate for Justice • Chief Executive Officer of BNP Paribas Cardif EDUCATION: Graduate of HEC (1991‑1992) (2004‑2006) • Advisor to the Minister of Economy and Finance • Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BNP SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: (1992‑1993) Paribas Cardif (2006‑2013) Insurance and financial markets • Responsible for Mergers & Acquisitions in the • General Manager and then Chairman and Chief Insurance Undertaking banking and insurance sector BNP Paribas Executive Officer of Generali France (2013‑2017) Governance system of an insurance undertaking (1993‑1999) • Chairman of the Board of Europ Assistance Financial and actuarial analysis • Head of the Financial Institutions Group and a Holding (2015-2017) Experience of legal and regulatory systems member of the Corporate and Investment Banking of an insurance undertaking General Management Committee – BNP Paribas BUSINESS ADDRESS: (1999‑2002) Caisse des Dépôts 56, rue de Lille DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS 75007 Paris, France • Caisse des Dépôts, Chief Executive Officer NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • Fonds de Réserve pour les Retraites (FRR) (public institution), Chairman of the Management Board MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD • Bpifrance (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: • CDC Habitat, Chairman of the Supervisory Board Remuneration and Nominations Committee (member) • La Poste (SA), permanent representative of Caisse des Dépôts, Director and member of the Remuneration and Governance Committee PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE OF CAISSE DES DÉPÔTS SINCE: 13 December 2017 • 2020 European Fund for Energy, Climate Change and Infrastructure (Marguerite Fund), permanent representative of Caisse des Dépôts, Director CAISSE DES DÉPÔTS FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD OF CNP ASSURANCES (LISTED SA): 1998 CAISSE DES DÉPÔTS LAST RE-ELECTED: 2016 OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 CAISSE DES DÉPÔTS’ CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2020 • BNP Paribas Cardif, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 2013) ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 100% Remuneration and Nominations Committee: 80% 72 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 FLORENCE LUSTMAN Main function: Chief Financial Officer & Public Affairs Director, La Banque Postale PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Florence Lustman began her career in 1985 as Committee of IAIS between 2006 and 2007. Insurance inspector at France’s insurance supervisor In December 2012, Florence Lustman was appointed AGE: 58 (Commission de Contrôle des Assurances, now known Inspector General at La Banque Postale and member NATIONALITY: French as ACPR) and rose to become its General Secretary of its Executive Committee, EDUCATION: Graduate of École polytechnique, in 2000. In 2004, she was appointed Insurance Before becoming Chief Financial Officer in Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris Comptroller General before becoming Director of the April 2014 in charge of ALM, accounting, budget and Institut des Actuaires Français department of Insurance Auditors in 2006. In 2008, control, capital management, balance sheet SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: Florence Lustman headed up the Interministerial management, tax, real estate and purchasing. Insurance and financial markets programme to tackle Alzheimer’s disease in France Since September 2017, Florence Lustman has Insurance Undertaking and promote awareness of the programme abroad. also held the position of Public Affairs Director of Governance system of an insurance undertaking She is heavily involved in European and international La Banque Postale, responsible for relations with Financial and actuarial analysis regulatory, accounting, and actuarial bodies, and the French banking community and the banking, Experience of legal and regulatory systems was a founding member of CEIOPS (which became insurance and asset management supervisors and of an insurance undertaking EIOPA in 2011). She was a member of the Executive regulators. BUSINESS ADDRESS: La Banque Postale DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS 115, rue de Sèvres • La Banque Postale (SA), Chief Financial Officer & Public Affairs Director 75275 Paris Cedex 06, France • AEW SA (SA), permanent representative of SF2, Director, Chair of the Audit and Accounts Committee and member of the Strategy Committee NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts et de Résolution (guarantee fund), member of the Supervisory Board MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: • La Banque Postale Asset Management (SA), member of the Supervisory Board and Chair of the Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Committee (member) Committee • La Banque Postale Assurances IARD (SA), Director and member of the Audit and Risk Committee REPRESENTATIVE OF SOPASSURE SINCE: 1 September 2015 • La Banque Postale Assurance Santé (SA), permanent representative of La Banque Postale, Director • La Banque Postale Financement (SA), member of the Supervisory Board, member of the Audit Committee, SOPASSURE FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD OF CNP ASSURANCES (LISTED SA): 2000 member of the Risk Committee • La Banque Postale Home Loan SFH (SA), Chair of the Board of Directors SOPASSURE LAST RE-ELECTED: 2017 • La Banque Postale Prévoyance (SA), permanent representative of SF2, Director, Chair of the Audit and Risk SOPASSURE’S CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2021 Committee ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: • SF2 (SA), Director and Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors: 87.5% • Sopassure (SA), Director Audit and Risk Committee: 100% • Tikehau Capital (SCA), member of the Supervisory Board • Tikehau Capital Advisors (SAS), representative of Fonds Stratégique de Participations, Director • Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts et de Résolution (guarantee fund), member of the Supervisory Board OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 (N/A) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 73 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors OLIVIER MAREUSE Main function: Director of the Savings Funds Division, Caisse des Dépôts (since 1 September 2016), Asset Management Director since 1 June 2018 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE After serving as Technical and Financial Director of the From 15 December 2010 to 1 September 2016, AGE: 55 Group Insurance Division of CNP Assurances (1989he served as the Caisse des Dépôts Group’s Finance NATIONALITY: French 1990), Olivier Mareuse was appointed as an advisor Director. EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études to the Chief Executive Officer of CNP Assurances He has been Director of the Savings Funds Division Politiques de Paris and École nationale in 1991. In 1993, he was named Director of of Caisse des Dépôts since 1 September 2016 and d’administration Strategy, Budget Control and Investor Relations, with Asset Management Director since 1 June 2018. SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: responsibility for the Group’s IPO, before becoming Insurance and financial markets Chief Investment Officer of CNP Assurances in 1998. Insurance Undertaking Governance system of an insurance undertaking DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Financial and actuarial analysis • Caisse des Dépôts, Director of the Savings Funds Division of Caisse des Dépôts and Asset Management Experience of legal and regulatory systems Director, member of the Caisse des Dépôts Executive Committee of an insurance undertaking • AF2i (French institutional investors association), Director and member of the board BUSINESS ADDRESS: • CDC GPI, Director Caisse des Dépôts • Icade (listed SA), Director, member of the Audit and Risk Committee 56, rue de Lille • Société Forestière de la Caisse des Dépôts (SA), Director 75007 Paris, France • Veolia Environnement (listed SA), permanent representative of Caisse des Dépôts, Director NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • CDC International Capital (SA), Director, member of the Investment Committee and the Audit and Accounts MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Committee (term expired 31 December 2018) OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Audit and Risk Committee (member) Strategy Committee (member) OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 25 April 2013 • AEW Europe (SA), Director (term expired July 2016) LAST RE-ELECTED: 2018 • Bpifrance Investissement (SAS), Director (term expired July 2013) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2022 • CDC Entreprises (SAS), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired July 2013) ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: • CDC Infrastructure (SA), Director (term expired August 2017) Board of Directors: 62.5% • Qualium Investissement (SAS), representative of Caisse des Dépôts, director (term expired November 2017) Audit and Risk Committee: 85.71% Strategy Committee: 100% 74 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 LAURENT MIGNON Main function: Chairman of the Management Board of BPCE since 1 June 2018 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE After graduating from HEC and following the Stanford head of Life Insurance, Financial Services and Credit Executive Program, Laurent Mignon spent the first ten Insurance in 2003 and Chief Executive Officer and AGE: 55 years of his career with Banque Indosuez, where he Chairman of the Executive Committee in 2006. In NATIONALITY: French held various positions in the trading and investment September 2007, he moved to Oddo et Cie as banking areas. In 1996, he moved to London to take Managing Partner. In May 2009, he was named EDUCATION: Graduate of HEC, Stanford up a position with Schroders Bank, before joining Chief Executive Officer of Natixis, becoming a Executive Program AGF in 1997 as Chief Financial Officer and, from member of the BPCE Management Board in 2013. SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: 1998, member of the Executive Committee. He Since 1 June 2018 Laurent Mignon has been Insurance and financial markets became head of Investments, Banque AGF, AGF Chairman of the Management Board of BPCE. Insurance Undertaking Asset Management and AGF Immobilier in 2002, Governance system of an insurance undertaking Financial and actuarial analysis Experience of legal and regulatory systems DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS of an insurance undertaking • BPCE (SA), Chairman of the Management Board (since 1 June 2018) • Arkema (listed SA), Director BUSINESS ADDRESS: BPCE • AROP (Association pour le Rayonnement de l’Opéra National de Paris), Director 50, avenue Pierre Mendès-France • CE Holding Promotion (SAS), Chairman (since 6 June 2018) 75013 Paris, France • Coface (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 15 June 2018) NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • Crédit Foncier de France (CFF) (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (since 17 May 2018) • Natixis (listed SA), Chief Executive Officer (until 31 May 2018), Chairman of the Board of Directors MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD and member of the Strategy Committee (since 1 June 2018) OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Remuneration and Nominations Committee • Natixis Assurances, Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 7 June 2018) (member) • Natixis Investment Managers, Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 28 May 2018) FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 15 May 2018 • Peter J. Solomon Company LLC, Director (term expired 30 May 2018) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES (SUBJECT TO RATIFICATION • Sopassure (SA), Director (since 18 June 2018) BY THE GENERAL MEETING): 2022 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Board of Directors: 50% HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 Remuneration and • Sequana (listed SA), Director (term expired 27 June 2013) Nominations Committee: 100% • BPCE, non-voting director, permanent representative of Natixis (term expired 11 July 2013) • Lazard Ltd (listed SA), Director (term expired 19 April 2016) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 75 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors S T É P H A N E PA L L E Z Main function: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of La Française des Jeux since November 2014 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Stéphane Pallez began her career in 1984 and Stéphane Pallez was appointed as Deputy Chief AGE: 59 served as a Technical Advisor on industrial matters Financial Officer at France Télécom Orange, with NATIONALITY: French in the Office of the Minister for the Economy and responsibility for financing and treasury strategy, cash EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études Finance between 1991 and 1993. She spent time management, tax, internal audit, risk management, Politiques de Paris and École nationale at the Directorate General of the Treasury as Deputy internal control, fraud prevention, and financial d’administration Director of Insurance between 1995 and 1998, reporting. Between 2011 and January 2015, she SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: and Deputy Director in charge of State Investments was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caisse Insurance and financial markets between 1998 and 2000. She was appointed head Centrale de Réassurance. Insurance Undertaking of European and International Affairs at the Treasury Stéphane Pallez has been Chairman of the Board and Governance system of an insurance undertaking Department in 2000 and in this capacity served as Chief Executive Officer of La Française des Jeux since Financial and actuarial analysis Chairman of the Club de Paris and a Director of November 2014. Experience of legal and regulatory systems of an the European Investment Bank (EIB). In April 2004, insurance undertaking BUSINESS ADDRESS: DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS La Française des Jeux • La Française des Jeux, Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 3-7, quai du Point du Jour • Eurazeo (listed SA), member of the Supervisory Board, Audit Committee and CSR Committee 92560 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex, France • RAISESHERPAS Endowment fund, Director NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • ENGIE (formerly GDF-Suez) (listed SA), representative of the French State, Director (term expired 18 May 2018) MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Audit and Risk Committee (Chair) HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 Strategy Committee (member) • Caisse Centrale de Réassurance (SA), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 14 January 2015) Follow-up Committee on the Implementation • Crédit Agricole CIB (SA) (formerly Calyon), Director (term expired 2013) of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships (member) Special Committee (member) FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 5 April 2011 LAST RE-ELECTED: 2016 CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2020 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 100% Audit and Risk Committee: 100% Strategy Committee: 100% Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships: 100% Special Committee: 100% 76 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 CHARLES SARRAZIN Main function: Director of Services and Finance Sector Investments at the State Investment Agency (APE) since August 2017 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Charles Sarrazin served as a magistrate at the Paris (Caisse des Dépôts, savings funds, social housing) AGE: 45 Administrative Court, hearing tax cases, before from 2009 to 2012 and as head of the business NATIONALITY: French joining the Directorate General of the Treasury in regulation and financial stability unit from 2012 to EDUCATION: Graduate of École polytechnique, 2005 as deputy head of the trade policy unit. 2014. From January 2015 until August 2017 he was Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and École He then worked in the Treasury unit responsible deputy director responsible for international business nationale d’administration for financing the economy, as rapporteur to the financing. Between January and May 2012, he also SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: Interministerial Committee on Industrial Restructuring, served as a Prime Ministerial advisor on the economy, Insurance and financial markets then as head of the general interest financing unit finance and business. Financial and actuarial analysis Experience of legal and regulatory systems DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS of an insurance undertaking • Agence des Participations de l’Etat (APE), Director of Services and Finance Sector Investments BUSINESS ADDRESS: • Arte France, representative of the French State, member of the Supervisory Board Agence des participations de l’État • Arte GEIE, member of the French delegation 139, rue de Bercy • Bpifrance Participations (SA) and Bpifrance Investissements (SAS), representative of the French State, Director 75572 Paris Cedex 12, France • La Poste (SA), representative of the French State, Director MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD • France Télévisions, representative of the French State, Director OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships (member) OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE FRENCH STATE SINCE: HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 7 September 2017 • ODAS, Director FRENCH STATE FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD • TSA, Director OF CNP ASSURANCES (LISTED SA): 1998 FRENCH STATE LAST RE-ELECTED: 2017 FRENCH STATE’S CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2020 ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 87.5% Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships: 100% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 77 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors R O S E M A R I E VA N L E R B E R G H E Main function: Company Director PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe worked as Inspector In 1996, she returned to the public sector, as General General of Social Affairs and Deputy Director for Delegate for Employment and Vocational Training at AGE: 72 the Defence and Promotion of Employment in the the French Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. NATIONALITY: French Employment department of the French Ministry of She then became Chief Executive of the Paris public EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études Labour. hospitals authority (Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Politiques de Paris, École nationale In 1986, she joined BSN-Danone, where she held Paris). Between 2006 and December 2011, she d’administration, INSEAD, and École normale various management positions including Chief served as Chairman of the Management Board of supérieure, history graduate and philosophy professor Executive Officer of two subsidiaries, Les Verreries the Korian Group. de Masnières, with 800 employees and €92 million She was Chair of the Board of Directors of Institut SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: in revenues (1990-1992), and L’Alsacienne, with Pasteur (Foundation) between 2013 and 2016 and Insurance and financial markets 1,000 employees and €185 million in revenues. a senior advisor at BPI Group between 2015 and Insurance Undertaking She then served as Human Resources Director of the 2018. Governance system of an insurance undertaking Danone Group from 1993 to 1996. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 33, rue Frémicourt DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS 75015 Paris, France • Bouygues (listed SA), Director NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • BPI Group, senior advisor (until 2018) MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD • Groupe Hospitalier Paris Saint Joseph (private healthcare institution), Director OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: • Klépierre (listed SA), Director, Vice Chair of the Supervisory Board since 2017 Remuneration and Nominations Committee • Orchestre des Champs Élysées, Chair of the Board of Directors (Chair) Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships (member) OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Special Committee (member) HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 25 September 2013 • Air France (listed SA), Director (term expired 2016) • Casino (listed SA), Director (term expired 2016) LAST RE-ELECTED: 2017 • Conseil Supérieur de la Magistrature, member (term expired 2016) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2021 • Institut Pasteur (Foundation), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired October 2016) ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 87.5% Remuneration and Nominations Committee: 100% Follow-up Committee on the Implementation of the BPCE and LBP Partnerships: 100% Special Committee: 100% 78 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors 3 P H I L I P P E WA H L Main function: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of La Poste since September 2013 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Philippe Wahl began his career in 1984 as Auditor Board of CDC IXIS and CNP Assurances. He was AGE: 63 and Master of Petitions (maître des requêtes) at the appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Havas group NATIONALITY: French Conseil d’État. In 1986 he was advisor to the President in 2005, and became Vice Chairman of the Bolloré EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études of the French Securities and Exchange Commission group in 2006. In January 2007, Mr. Wahl joined Politiques de Paris and École nationale (COB, now known as the AMF), and in 1989 he Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) as Managing Director d’administration, Post-graduate degree joined the office of Prime Minister Michel Rocard as for France. In March 2008, he was appointed as in monetary and financial economics technical advisor responsible for economic, financial an advisor to the RBS Global Banking and Markets SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: and tax affairs. In 1991, he served as advisor to the Board in London. In December 2008, he became Insurance and financial markets Chairman of Compagnie Bancaire, before being Chief Executive Officer of RBS for France, Belgium Insurance Undertaking appointed member of the Steering Committee in 1992 and Luxembourg. Governance system of an insurance undertaking and Deputy Chief Executive Officer in 1994. In 1997, In January 2011, he was appointed Chairman of the Financial and actuarial analysis he took responsibility for specialised financial services Management Board of La Banque Postale and Deputy Experience of legal and regulatory systems at Paribas and became a member of the bank’s Chief Executive Officer of La Poste. of an insurance undertaking Executive Committee. In 1999, Philippe Wahl was Philippe Wahl has been Chairman and Chief appointed Chief Executive Officer of Caisse Nationale Executive Officer of La Poste since September 2013. BUSINESS ADDRESS: La Poste des Caisses d’Epargne (CNCE). 9, rue du Colonel Pierre Avia As such, he was appointed Chairman of Sopassure, 75015 Paris, France Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ecureuil Assurances IARD and member of the Supervisory NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS Remuneration and Nominations Committee • La Poste (SA), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (member) • La Banque Postale (SA), Chairman of the Supervisory Board, member of the Nominations Committee and FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 22 February 2011 member of the Remuneration Committee. • Géopost (SA), permanent representative of La Poste, Director LAST RE-ELECTED: 2018 • Institut Montaigne, member of the Steering Committee CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2022 • L’Envol Le Campus de La Banque Postale (non-profit organisation), Director • La Poste Silver (SASU), member of the Strategy Committee ATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: Board of Directors: 100% • Poste Immo (SA), permanent representative of La Poste, Director Remuneration and Nominations Committee: 100% • Sopassure (SA), Director OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS HELD IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 • Association Française des Banques (non-profit organisation), Vice-Chairman (term expired 2013) • CNP Assurances, member of the Audit Committee (term expired 2013) • CRSF DOM (SCI), representative of La Banque Postale, legal manager (term expired 2013) • CRSF Métropole (SCI), representative of La Banque Postale, legal manager (term expired 2013) • Fédération Bancaire Française (Federation) (FBF), member of the Executive Committee (term expired 2013) • Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts (guarantee fund), member of the Supervisory Board (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Financement (SA), member of the Supervisory Board (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Prévoyance (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors, member then Chairman of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale (SA), Chairman of the Management Board (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Asset Management (SA), Chairman of the Supervisory Board, member of the Supervisory Board, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Assurance Santé (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Assurances Iard (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Gestion Privée (SA), Chairman of the Supervisory Board (term expired 2013) • L’Envol Le Campus de La Banque Postale (non-profit organisation), Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expired 2013) • Paris Europlace (non-profit organisation), Director (term expired 24 April 2014) • SF2 (SA), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 2013) • Société de Financement Local (SA), Director, member of the Audit Committee (term expired 2013) • Sofipost (SA), representative of La Poste, Director (term expired 1 July 2014 • Sopassure (SA), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (term expired 2013), formerly representative of SF2, Director 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 79 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Management and members of the Board of Directors RÉMY WEBER Main function: Chairman of the Management Board of La Banque Postale, and Deputy Chief Executive and Director of Financial Services at La Poste since 15 October 2013 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AGE: 61 Rémy Weber began his career in the Large In 1993, Rémy Weber joined the CIC-Crédit Mutuel NATIONALITY: French Corporates Division of Banque Française du Group where he held various management positions EDUCATION: Graduate of Institut d’Études Commerce Éxtérieur (BFCE), before taking up before becoming Chairman and Chief Executive Politiques d’Aix en Provence and HEC a position as advisor in the International Affairs Officer of CIC Lyonnaise de Banque, member of department of the French Directorate General of the the CIC Group Management Board (from 2002 SOLVENCY II-RELATED EXPERTISE: Treasury. He was subsequently given responsibility to 2010) and then member of the Group Executive Insurance and financial markets for developing and monitoring government policy Committee. Insurance Undertaking in the area of credit insurance, export financing and Since 15 October 2013, Rémy Weber has been Governance system of an insurance undertaking foreign exchange guarantees (COFACE), before Chairman of the Management Board of La Banque Financial and actuarial analysis joining Financière BFCE in 1990 as Deputy Director, Postale, and Deputy Chief Executive and Director of Experience of legal and regulatory systems Investments and M&A. Financial Services at La Poste. of an insurance undertaking BUSINESS ADDRESS: DIRECTORSHIPS AND FUNCTIONS OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS La Banque Postale • La Banque Postale (SA), Chairman of the Management AND FUNCTIONS HELD 115, rue de Sèvres Board IN THE PERIOD 2013 TO 2017 75275 Paris Cedex 06, France • Association Française des Banques (non-profit • ACM Iard SA (SA), representative of Groupe des organisation), Vice-Chairman Assurances du Crédit Mutuel, Director (term expired NUMBER OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES: 200 • CRSF DOM (SCI), permanent representative of 2013) La Banque Postale, legal manager MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD • CIC Lyonnaise de Banque (SA), Chairman and Chief • CRSF Métropole (SCI), permanent representative of La OF DIRECTORS OF CNP ASSURANCES: Executive Officer (term expired October 2013) Banque Postale, legal manager Strategy Committee (member) • CM-CIC Asset Management (SA), representative of • Fédération Bancaire Française (FBF) (Federation), CIC Lyonnaise de Banque, member of the Supervisory FIRST ELECTED TO THE BOARD: 6 November 2013 permanent representative of the Association Française Board (term expired 2013) des Banques, member of the Executive Committee LAST RE-ELECTED: 2018 • CM-CIC Factor (SA), representative of CIC Lyonnaise • KissKissBankBank & Co (SAS), Chairman of the de Banque, Director (term expired 2013) CURRENT TERM EXPIRES: 2022 Management Committee (since 19 July 2017) • CNP Assurances (SA), member of the Audit Committee • L’Envol Le Campus de La Banque Postale (nonATTENDANCE RATE AT BOARD MEETINGS: (term expired 2015) profit organisation), Director, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors: 87.5% • DANIFOS (SAS), representative of CIC Lyonnaise de Administrative Committee Strategy Committee: 100% Banque, Chairman of the Executive Committee (term • La Banque Postale Asset Management (SA), member expired 2013) of the Supervisory Board, Chairman of the Supervisory • DESCOURS et CABAUD (SA), representative of Board, member of the Remuneration Committee CM-CIC Investissement, Director (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Assurances Iard (SA), Director, • EURO Information (SAS), member of the Management Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Committee (term expired 2013) Remuneration Committee • EURO P3C (SA), Director (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Assurances Santé (SA), Director • Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts (guarantee fund), • La Banque Postale Crédit Entreprises (SA), member of member of the Supervisory Board (term expired 2014) the Supervisory Board (since 26 January 2017) • Gesteurop (SAS), Chairman (term expired 2013) • Ma French Bank (formerly LBP Digital) (SA), Chairman • La Banque Postale Asset Management (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors (since 21 December 2017) of the Remuneration Committee (term expired • La Poste (SA), Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Director 17 June 2015) of Financial Services • La Banque Postale Assurances Santé (SA), Chairman of • Opéra de Lyon (non-profit organisation), Director, the Board of Directors (term expired 7 January 2015) Chairman of the Board of Directors • La Banque Postale Prévoyance (SA), Chairman of the • Paris Europlace (non-profit organisation), member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Nominations Board of Directors and Remuneration Committee (ter m expired • Poste Immo (SA), Director 28 June 2016) • SCI Ter tiaire Saint Romain (SCI), permanent • SF2 (SA), Chief Executive Officer (term expired 2014) representative of La Banque Postale, legal manager • SFIL (SA), member of the Audit Committee (term • SF2 (SA), Chairman of the Board of Directors expired: 2014), Director, member of the Risk and • Sopassure (SA), Director, and since 28 March 2018, Internal Control Committee and member of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Accounts Committee (term expired 24 March 2016) • SOFEMO (SA), representative of CIC, Director (term expired October 2013) • UVP (mutual insurance company), representative of CIC Lyonnaise de Banque, Director (term expired 2013) • La Banque Postale Crédit Entreprises, Chairman of the Supervisory Board (term expired 7 March 2017) 80 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers 3 3.4 Remuneration of corporate officers CNP Assurances refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance To make the disclosures clearer and easier to compare with Code, and in particular its recommendations concerning the those of other groups, information concerning the remuneration remuneration paid to executive directors. of executive directors is presented in the standardised format recommended by the AFEP and MEDEF and the AMF. Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer As is the case at all companies whose shares are traded Remuneration policy applicable to the on a regulated market, the remuneration packages of Chief Executive Officer of CNP Assurances CNP Assurances’ Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are decided by the Board of Directors and the General Meeting, according to a decision process that complies Principles with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, as revised The Chief Executive Officer receives a fixed salary and a variable in June 2018, and Article L.225-37-2 of the French Commercial bonus. If a Chief Executive Officer is appointed in the latter part Code. of the year, the decision may be made not to award him (or her) any variable compensation for that year, due to the limited period Under the Solvency II gover nance system in force at between his (or her) appointment and the year-end which makes CNP Assurances since 1 January 2016, the Board of Directors it difficult to determine qualitative and quantitative objectives for has approved a remuneration policy that formally embodies the period concerned. a set of remuneration principles applicable to the Company’s employees, risk-takers and corporate officers. The Chief Executive Officer’s total remuneration package is less than the maximum package allowed in public sector The policy is followed by the Board of Directors and applied companies *. He also has the use of a company car. through the decisions it makes each year. In order to ensure that the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration is aligned with the Company’s strategic objectives and with the objective of sound and efficient risk management, the variable component is: Flexible Application of this principle may result in no variable bonus being paid for a given year. Deferred Payment of 40% of the variable bonus for a given year, as decided the following year, is deferred over three years, with 20% paid the first year, 10% the second year and 10% the third year. Conditional and The variable bonus may be “adjusted downwards based on current and future risks, taking into account the modulated Company’s risk profile and cost of capital”. The Chief Executive Officer’s variable bonus is subject to: WW performance conditions (quantitative and qualitative objectives). In addition, in line with the principle applicable to all risk-takers, if the Group reports an attributable net loss, payment of half of the portion of the deferred bonus that should have been paid the following year is postponed by one year. Then, if the attributable net profit reported the following year does not fully offset the loss, the postponed deferred bonus payment is forfeited; WW compliance with internal and external rules and ethical standards. The Chief Executive Officer would forfeit all or part of his deferred remuneration in the event of any disciplinary sanction, equivalent measure or formal action resulting from his failure to comply with the internal rules (procedural rules, ethical or professional standards) or external rules that apply to him. * Cap specified in Decree No. 2012‑915 dated 26 July 2012 concerning State control over the remuneration of corporate officers of public sector companies 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 81 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers Rules adopted by the Board of Directors Remuneration policy applicable Each year, the Board of Directors sets the Chief Executive to the Chairman of the Board of Directors Officer’s salary (unchanged since 2012 at €400,000) and his bonus (capped since 2012 at €50,000) based on the level of Principles achievement of qualitative and quantifiable objectives set by the The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors consists Board. of a fixed payment. He does not receive any variable remuneration. Details of the policy adopted by the Board of Directors and the His total remuneration package is less than the maximum resulting remuneration paid or awarded to the Chief Executive package allowed in public sector companies *. Officer are presented below. Payment of his 2018 variable bonus is subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Rules adopted by the Board of Directors Each year, the Board of Directors decides on the fixed When the Board of Directors allocated total directors’ fees remuneration to be paid to the Chairman. among its members, it did not award any fees to Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer and director of CNP Assurances up to This remuneration was increased to €280,000 in 2016 after 31 August 2018, for his participation at meetings of the Board remaining unchanged at €250,000 between 2012 and 2015. and its Committees. The Chairman does not receive any fees for participating in meetings of the Board and the Committees of the Board. Details of the policy adopted by the Board of Directors and the resulting remuneration paid or awarded to the Chairman are presented below. Table 1 GROSS REMUNERATION PAYABLE AND STOCK OPTIONS AND SHARES GRANTED TO THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (in euros) Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors 2017 2018 Remuneration payable for the year (Table 2) 280,000 280,000 Value of stock options granted over the year (Table 4) None None Value of performance shares granted during the year (Table 6) None None Value of other long-term remuneration None None TOTAL 280,000 280,000 Executive Management 2017 2018 Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer (since 1 September 2018) Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer (until 31 August 2018) F. Lavenir F. Lavenir A. Lissowski Remuneration payable for the year (Table 2) 450,000 298,333.31 150,000 Valuation of stock options granted over the year (Table 4) None None None Value of performance shares granted during the year (Table 6) None None None Value of other long-term remuneration None None None TOTAL 450,000 448,333.31 * Cap specified in Decree No. 2012‑915 dated 26 July 2012 concerning State control over the remuneration of corporate officers of public sector companies 82 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers 3 Table 2 GROSS REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (in euros) 2017 2018 Chairmanship of the Board of Directors Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors Payable (1) Paid (2) Payable (1) Paid (2) Salary 280,000 280,000 280,000 280,000 Annual variable bonus None None None None Special bonus None None None None Directors’ fees None None None None Benefits in kind 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 280,000 280,000 280,000 280,000 (1) The “Payable” columns indicate the remuneration awarded to the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer for the duties performed in each year concerned, regardless of the payment date (2) The “Paid” columns show the total remuneration paid to the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer for the duties performed in each of those years Additional information on the remuneration of Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors 2017 2018 Fixed and variable remuneration Fixed and variable remuneration On 22 February 2017, the Board of Directors set On 21 February 2018, the Board of Directors set Jean-Paul Faugère’s annual remuneration for 2017 Jean-Paul Faugère’s annual remuneration for 2018 at €280,000 at €280,000 (capped since 2016) Directors’ fees Directors’ fees n/a n/a Benefits in kind Benefits in kind Jean-Paul Faugère does not receive any benefits in kind Jean-Paul Faugère does not receive any benefits in kind Benefit plan open to all employees and covering death/disability Benefit plan open to all employees and covering death/disability insurance and medical insurance insurance and medical insurance Jean-Paul Faugère participates in this plan Jean-Paul Faugère participates in this plan Executive Management 2017 2018 Antoine Lissowski, Payable (1) Paid (2) Payable (1) Paid (2) Chief Executive Officer since 1 September 2018 Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer until 31 August 2018 F. Lavenir A. Lissowski F. Lavenir A. Lissowski Salary 400,000 400,000 266,666.64 150,000 266,666.64 150,000 Annual variable bonus (3) 48,168 28,776 30,445.23 None 38,493.20 None Special bonus None None None None None None Directors’ fees (4) None None None None None None Benefits in kind (5) 1,832 1,832.28 1,221.44 0 1,221.44 0 SUB-TOTAL 298,333.31 150,000 306,381.28 150,000 TOTAL 450,000 430,608.28 448,333.31 456,381.28 (1) The “Payable” columns indicate the remuneration awarded to the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer for the duties performed in each year concerned, regardless of the payment date (2) The “Paid” columns show the total remuneration paid to the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer for the duties performed in each of those years (3) Payment of Frédéric Lavenir’s 2018 variable bonus is subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 Annual General Meeting (4) No directors’ fees were awarded to Frédéric Lavenir, who is a member of the Company’s Board of Directors, for his participation in meetings of the Board and the Committees of the Board until 31 August 2018 (5) Corresponding to the use of a company car 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 83 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers Additional information on the remuneration of Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer 2017 2018 2017 salary 2018 salary On 22 February 2017, the Board of Directors set Frédéric Lavenir’s On 21 February 2018, the Board of Directors set Frédéric gross annual fixed salary for 2017 at €400,000, unchanged Lavenir’s gross annual fixed salary for 2018 at €400,000, since his appointment in 2012. unchanged since his appointment in 2012. Frédéric Lavenir resigned on 31 August 2018. The gross salary due and paid to him for the period in 2018 up to his resignation amounted to €266,666.64. 2017 bonus 2018 bonus At the same meeting, his maximum bonus for 2017 was set At the same meeting, his maximum bonus for 2018 was set at €50,000 (representing 12.5% of his annual fixed salary), at €50,000 (representing 12.5% of his annual fixed salary), unchanged since his appointment in 2012. unchanged since his appointment in 2012. The Board of Directors’ Meeting of 22 February 2017 also set The Board of Directors’ Meeting of 21 February 2018 also the objectives to be used in 2018 to determine Frédéric Lavenir’s set the objectives to be used in 2019 to determine Frédéric 2017 bonus, as presented in the table below (first three columns). Lavenir’s 2018 bonus, as presented in the table below (first In 2018, based on the Remuneration and Nominations three columns). Committee’s analysis of achievement rates compared to Following Frédéric Lavenir’s announcement that he was Frédéric Lavenir’s 2017 bonus objectives, as presented to the resigning, the Board of Directors decided not to wait until Board of Directors on 21 February 2018 (corresponding to 2019 and to determine his bonus as soon as possible after the third and fourth columns of the table below), at its meeting his resignation. on 21 February 2018, the Board of Directors decided to In July 2018, based on the Remuneration and Nominations award the maximum possible bonus of €50,000 (including the Committee’s analysis on 27 July 2018 of achievement rates €1,832 estimated value of his company car) to Frédéric Lavenir compared to Frédéric Lavenir’s 2018 bonus objectives for 2017. The bonus breakdown is shown in the last column of (corresponding to the third column of the table on page the table below. 85), at its meeting on 27 July 2018, the Board of Directors In accordance with the remuneration policy, 60% of the €48,168 decided to award a bonus of €30,445.23 (compared to a net bonus was paid in 2018, with 20% to be paid in 2019, maximum prorated bonus of €32,111.89 after deducting the 10% in 2020 and 10% in 2021. €1,221.44 estimated value of his company car) to Frédéric Lavenir for 2018. The bonus breakdown is shown in the last column of the table on page 85. In accordance with the remuneration policy, 60% of the €30,445 net bonus will be paid in 2019 followed by 20% in 2020, 10% in 2021 and 10% in 2022, subject to the Annual General Meeting voting in favour. The total €38,493.20 in variable remuneration paid in 2018 corresponds to 60% of the 2017 bonus (€48,168) and 20% of the 2016 bonus (€47,961). Benefits in kind Benefits in kind Frédéric Lavenir continued to have the use of a company car Frédéric Lavenir continued to have the use of a company car in 2017. in 2018, up to the date of his resignation. Benefit plan open to all employees and covering death/disability Benefit plan open to all employees and covering death/disability insurance and medical insurance insurance and medical insurance Frédéric Lavenir participated in this plan. Frédéric Lavenir participated in this plan in 2018, up to the date of his resignation. 84 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers 3 VARIABLE REMUNERATION FOR 2017 PAYABLE AFTER THE 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL % weighting 2017 threshold/objectives 2017 achievement rate Quantifiable objectives 50% Cost/income ratio 25% 30.8% or less 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €12,500 2017 performance: 30.8% EBIT 25% At least €2,850m Over 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €12,500 2017 performance: €2,889m Qualitative objectives 50% Product diversification 12.5% Growth in unit-linked sales Development of the premium Savings business 100%, corresponding to a bonus Development of the Personal Risk of €6,250 Protection/Services business Development of diversified 12.5% Development of the digital insurance 100%, corresponding to a bonus distribution models business in Brazil (Youse) of €6,250 B to C initiative Service quality 12.5% Improved policyholder service quality 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €6,250 Managerial performance 12.5% Change management support 100%, corresponding to a bonus Innovations of €6,250 100%, CORRESPONDING TO A BONUS OF €48,168 BEFORE DEDUCTING TOTAL 100% THE ESTIMATED VALUE OF FRÉDÉRIC LAVENIR’S COMPANY CAR (€1,832) In accordance with the remuneration policy, 60% of the €48,168 net bonus (i.e., €28,901) was paid in 2018 followed by 20% in 2019, 10% in 2020 and 10% in 2021. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE VARIABLE REMUNERATION PAYABLE TO FRÉDÉRIC LAVENIR IN 2018 IN RESPECT OF 2018 AND PAID AFTER THE 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IF APPROVED BY SHAREHOLDERS End-2018 % weighting threshold/objectives Mid-year achievement rate Quantifiable objectives 60% Cost/income ratio 30% 30.4% or less 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €10,000 Mid-year ratio: 30% EBIT 30% At least €2,960m 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €10,000 Prorated EBIT objective = €1,480m Actual EBIT for first-half 2018 = €1,499 m Qualitative objectives 40% Deployment of CAP 2020 10% Transformation of the corporate culture 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €3,330 programme Continuous improvement 10% Release of innovative products and services of multi-partner model and Application of new regulatory requirements 50%, corresponding to a bonus of €1,670 compliance performance Service quality 10% Policyholder service quality 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €3,330 improvements and assessments Managerial performance 10% Quality of life at work 100%, corresponding to a bonus of €3,330 95% OF 8/12 OF €50,000, CORRESPONDING TO A BONUS OF €30,445 AFTER TOTAL 100% DEDUCTING THE ESTIMATED VALUE OF FRÉDÉRIC LAVENIR’S COMPANY CAR (€1,222) In accordance with the remuneration policy, 60% of the €30,445 net bonus (i.e., €18,267.14) will be paid in 2019 followed by 20% in 2020, 10% in 2021 and 10% in 2022, subject to the Annual General Meeting voting in favour. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 85 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers Table 3 DIRECTORS’ FEES AND OTHER REMUNERATION RECEIVED BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE DIRECTORS Directors’ fees paid in 2017 (in €) Directors’ fees paid in 2018 (in €) In respect of In respect of In respect of In respect second-half first-half second-half of first-half Members of the Board of Directors 2016 2017 2017 2018 Paid to Jean-Paul Faugère (1) Frédéric Lavenir (1) Florence Lustman (Sopassure) (2) 27,400 21,300 31,200 20,550 Sopassure Philippe Wahl (2) 14,450 18,250 11,400 18,250 Sopassure Rémy Weber (2) 15,200 17,500 28,150 14,450 Sopassure François Pérol (2) 10,650 6,850 3,800 10,650 Sopassure Laurent Mignon 0 Sopassure Jean-Yves Forel (2) 15,200 24,350 40,350 16,750 Sopassure Virginie Chapron du Jeu 15,200 15,200 19,000 15,200 CDC Pierre -René Lemas (2) 11,400 6,850 CDC Eric Lombard (CDC) (2) 0 15,200 CDC Delphine de Chaisemartin 7,600 11,400 19,000 3,800 CDC Annabelle Beugin-Soulon 3,800 CDC Olivier Mareuse (2) 23,600 23,600 26,650 16,750 CDC Pauline Cornu-Thénard 7,600 15,200 15,200 15,200 CDC Laurence Giraudon CDC Franck Silvent (2) 15,200 21,300 3,800 CDC Olivier Sichel (2) 3,800 CDC Bertrand Walckenaer (French State) 15,200 15,200 0 French Treasury Charles Sarrazin (French State) 15,200 15,200 French Treasury Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe (2) 21,300 21,300 19,000 21,300 Rose-Marie Van Lerberghe Stéphane Pallez (2) 29,700 27,400 45,700 36,550 Stéphane Pallez Marcia Campbell (2) 27,400 27,400 36,550 23,600 Marcia Campbell Philippe Bartoli 3,800 19,000 15,200 Trade union Laurence Guitard 3,800 19,000 15,200 Trade union Pierre Garcin (non-voting director) 3,800 Sopassure TOTAL 260,900 280,700 353,000 281,450 (1) Jean-Paul Faugère and Frédéric Lavenir did not receive any directors’ fees for participating in meetings of the Board or the Committees of the Board in accordance with the decisions of the Board of Directors based on the recommendations of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee (2) Also a member of a Committee of the Board during all or part of the period between 1 July 2016 and 30 June 2018 86 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers 3 The two directors representing employees both have an The total fees awarded to the Board of Directors by the Annual employment contract with the Company and receive remuneration General Meeting of 28 April 2016 (for 2015 and subsequent from these companies that is not related to their service on the years) amounted to €830,000. Based on the recommendations Board. As a result, no details of this remuneration are disclosed. of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee and the notifications received by the Company, directors’ fees were allocated as follows: Additional information on directors’ fees WW for each meeting attended during the first six months and These amounts are gross of withholding tax. second six months of 2018, the fee per Board Meeting was The Board of Directors’ Meeting of 18 December 2007 decided set at €3,800 and the fee per meeting of the committees of to pay directors’ fees as follows: the first payment is for meetings the Board at €3,050; of the Board and the Committees held during the first half of the WW the Chairman of each Board Committee was entitled to year and is made at the end of the first half; the second payment double the amount allocated to the other Committee members. is for meetings held during the second half of the year and is made at the beginning of the following year. Table 4 * STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER BY CNP ASSURANCES AND ALL OTHER GROUP COMPANIES Value of stock Number of Stock options granted to the Chairman Type of stock options based on stock options of the Board and the Chief Executive options the method used granted Officer by CNP Assurances SA and all Plan no. (purchase or for the consolidated during Exercise Exercise other Group companies and date subscription) financial statements the year price period Not Not Not Not Not applicable applicable applicable Not applicable None applicable applicable Table 5 * STOCK OPTIONS EXERCISED DURING THE YEAR BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Stock options exercised by the Chairman Number of stock options of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer Plan no. and date exercised during the year Exercise price Not applicable Not applicable None Not applicable * Tables 4 to 9: there are currently no stock option or performance share plans for any CNP Assurances senior executives or employees 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 87 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers Table 6 * PERFORMANCE SHARES GRANTED DURING THE YEAR TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER BY CNP ASSURANCES AND ALL OTHER GROUP COMPANIES Performance shares granted to the Number of Value of shares based Chairman of the Board and the Chief shares granted on the method used End of Executive Officers by CNP Assurances Plan no. during the for the consolidated Vesting lock-up Performance and all other Group companies and date year financial statements date period conditions Not Not Not Not Not applicable applicable None Not applicable applicable applicable applicable Table 7 * PERFORMANCE SHARES GRANTED TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER FOR WHICH THE LOCK-UP PERIOD ENDED DURING THE YEAR Performance shares granted to the Chairman Number of shares for which of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer the lock-up period ended for which the lock-up period ended during the year Plan no. and date during the year Vesting conditions Not applicable Not applicable None Not applicable Table 8 * HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTION GRANTS Information on stock options Date of AGM Plan 1 Plan 2 Plan 3 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Table 9 * HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PERFORMANCE SHARE GRANTS Information on performance shares Date of AGM Plan 1 Plan 2 Plan 3 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Table 10 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE BONUSES PAID TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Not applicable. * Tables 4 to 9: there are currently no stock option or performance share plans for any CNP Assurances senior executives or employees 88 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers 3 Table 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Supplementary pension plan Employment (Article 39 of the Compensation for loss of Non-compete contract French Tax Code) office due or that may be due indemnity Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Jean-Paul Faugère Chairman of the Board of Directors First appointed: 29 June 2012 X X X X Term expires: 2021 AGM to approve the 2020 financial statements Frédéric Lavenir Chief Executive Officer X X X X First appointed: 26 September 2012 Term ended: 31 August 2018 Antoine Lissowski Chief Executive Officer First appointed: 1 September 2018 X* X X X Term expires: 2021 AGM to approve the 2020 financial statements * Antoine Lissowski’s employment contract, which had been in force since 2003, was suspended on 1 September 2018 Supplementary pension plan Contractual termination benefits The defined benefit supplementar y pension plan was set As Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and up following Supervisory Board approval at its meeting of Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer, do not have employment 20 December 2005. contracts with the Company, they would not be entitled to any contractual termination benefits. The same applies to Antoine Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors since Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer, whose employment contract 29 June 2012 does not participate in this supplementary pension has been suspended. plan. Likewise, Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer from 26 September 2012 until 31 August 2018, did not participate in the plan. Retirement benefits payable on retirement Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer since (Article 43 of the Company-wide agreement covering all 1 September 2018, participated in the plan under his employees) employment contract, with contributions paid in respect of his As Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and salary when he was member of the Management Board and then Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer, do not have employment Deputy Chief Executive Officer. Antoine Lissowski’s rights under contracts with the Company, they will not be entitled to any the defined benefit supplementary pension plan were frozen retirement benefits. when his employment contract was suspended. Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer, will be entitled to a length-of-service award on retirement under the terms of his suspended employment contract. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 89 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Remuneration of corporate officers Table 12 HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING SHARE GRANTS Plan 1 Plan 2 Date of AGM 7 June 2005 7 June 2005 Date of Management Board Meeting 5 July 2006 19 June 2007 Total number of shares granted to employees 201,120 202,260 Total number of shares granted to the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer 0 0 Remuneration of members of Executive Management In the following table, the remuneration paid to Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer, is presented in full. The breakdown of his remuneration is described in more detail in the tables regarding the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer. SUMMARY TABLE OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION Remuneration Remuneration paid in 2017 paid in 2018 (in €) (in €) Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer until 31 August 2018 Salary 400,000 266,666.64 Bonus 28,776 38,493.20 Directors’ fees received from CNP Assurances, its subsidiaries and other companies 0 0 Miscellaneous (holiday pay, retirement benefits, EPI group life insurance plan, bonus, company car) 1,832 1,221.44 Sub-total 1 430,608 306,381.28 Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer since 1 September 2018 Salary 150,000 Sub-total 2 150,000 TOTAL 430,608 456,381.28 Disclosure of the remuneration of Deputy Chief Executive Officers is not required by law. This information is presented voluntarily for reasons of transparency. Antoine Lissowski, Deputy Chief Executive Officer until 31 August 2018 Remuneration Remuneration Xavier Larnaudie-Eiffel, Deputy Chief Executive Officer paid in 2017 paid in 2018 Yves Couturier, Deputy Chief Executive Officer (in €) (in €) Aggregate salaries of the Deputy Chief Executive Officers 950,919.00 849,158.56 Aggregate bonuses of the Deputy Chief Executive Officers 381,037.00 403,506.00 Aggregate benefits in kind of the Deputy Chief Executive Officers (company car) 8,765.00 8,764.80 Aggregate directors’ fees (subsidiaries of CNP Assurances) 54,851.11 49,822.48 Miscellaneous (holiday pay, EPI group life insurance plan, bonus) 94,490.00 81,165.34 Aggregate remuneration of the Deputy Chief Executive Officers 1,490,062.11 1,392,417.18 Average remuneration per Deputy Chief Executive Officer 496,687.37 464,139.06 AGGREGATE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION (CEO + DEPUTY CEOs) 1,920,670.39 1,848,799.02 Average remuneration per member of Executive Management 480,167.60 462,199.76 90 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statement on convictions, bankruptcies, conflicts of interest and other disclosures concerning corporate officers 3 3.5 Statement on convictions, bankruptcies, conflicts of interest and other disclosures concerning corporate officers Absence of convictions for fraud, association with bankruptcy or official public incrimination or sanctions To the best of the Company’s knowledge, at the date of WW none of the members of the Board of Directors or Executive publication of this document: Management has been the subject of any official public WW none of the members of the Board of Directors or Executive incrimination or sanctions by statutory or regulatory authorities Management has been convicted of fraud within the last five (including relevant professional organisations), and no member years; of the Board of Directors or Executive Management has been WW none of the members of the Board of Directors or Executive disqualified by a court of law from acting as member of an Management has been associated with any bankruptcy, administrative, management or supervisory body of any issuer receivership or liquidation while acting as member of an or from participating in the management or conduct of the administrative, management or supervisory body or as Chief business of any issuer. Executive Officer within the last five years; Service contracts None of the members of the Board of Directors or Executive Management is linked by a service contract with CNP Assurances or any other companies in the Group. Conflicts of interest The Board of Directors’ organisation and procedures – In accordance with the internal rules of the Board of Directors particularly the presence of four independent directors – ensure and in order to prevent risks associated with conflicts of interest, that no single shareholder is in a position to exercise undue each member of the Board of Directors is required to report to control over Board decisions. the Board any situation that leads to or could lead to a conflict of interest between the interests of CNP Assurances and personal To the best of the Company’s knowledge at the date of interests or those of the shareholder or group of shareholders publication of this document, there are no potential conflicts of that he/she represents, as soon as he/she is aware of it (see interest between the duties of members of the Board of Directors section 1 1.2 C, paragraph 6 of the internal rules of the Board or Executive Management in their capacity as director or of Directors, available at www.cnp.fr). corporate officer of CNP Assurances, and their private interests and/or other duties. To the best of the Company’s knowledge In the case of any conflict of interest, the director concerned does at the date of publication of this document, no arrangements not participate in the Board of Directors’ discussion or vote on the or agreements have been entered into with major shareholders, matter in question. customers or suppliers providing for the appointment of a member The members of the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances state of the Board of Directors or Executive Management, other than that they have not personally entered into any arrangements with the Shareholders’ Agreement described in section 6.2.2. the main shareholders, customers or suppliers of the Group, or To the best of the Company’s knowledge at the date of any arrangements that are likely, at the date of publication of this publication of this document, with the exception of the issue document, to create a conflict of interest that is incompatible with noted in the Shareholders’ Agreement section, no restrictions their duties as directors or corporate officers of CNP Assurances. have been accepted by the members of the Board of Directors There are no family ties between any members of the Board of or Executive Management concerning the sale of their interests in Directors and Executive Management. the Company’s capital. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 91 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3.6 Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments Annual General Meeting for the approval of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances, Where applicable it is also our responsibility to provide we hereby report to you on related-party agreements and shareholders with the information required by Article R.225‑31 of commitments. the French Commercial Code and Article R.332-7 of the French Insurance Code in relation to the implementation during the year It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the of agreements and commitments already approved by the Annual information provided to us, on the main terms and conditions of General Meeting. the agreements and commitments that have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, as We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in well as the reasons given as to why they are beneficial for the accordance with professional standards applicable in France Company, without commenting on their relevance or substance to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying or identifying any undisclosed agreements or commitments. Under that the information given to us is consistent with the underlying the provisions of Article R.225‑31 of the French Commercial documents. Code (Code de commerce) and Article R.332-7 of the French Insurance Code (Code des assurances), it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether the agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Agreements and commitments submitted for the approval of the Annual General Meeting Agreements and commitments authorised Nature and purpose by the Board of Directors in 2018 In signing this agreement, which is subject to a certain number In accordance with Article L.225‑40 of the French Commercial of conditions precedent, the Group has secured, for the very Code and Article R.332-7 of the French Insurance Code, we long term (through 2041) and for revised product categories, were informed of the following agreements and commitments a significant part of the business currently conducted with the authorised by the Board of Directors. Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF) network, along with exclusive access to CEF’s 78 million clients. With the new agreement, CNP Assurances will remain CEF’s main life insurance partner 1) New exclusive distribution agreement in Brazil in Brazil, while at the same time continuing to develop its other through the Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF) businesses in Latin America. network, for life insurance (vida), consumer The new exclusive distribution rights in CEF’s network concern credit life insurance (prestamista) and private life insurance (vida), consumer finance term creditor insurance pension plans (previdência) (agreement between (prestamista) and private pension plans (previdência). companies that have common directors) The distribution agreement will be implemented through a Persons concerned joint venture (“New JV”) set up for this purpose between Frédéric Lavenir and Jean-Paul Faugère, directors of both CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguridade, the holding company CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguros Holding (CSH), a for CEF’s insurance operations, with CNP Assurances and 51%-owned subsidiary of CNP Assurances. Caixa Seguridade owning respectively 51% and 49% of the voting rights and 40% and 60% of the economic rights. 92 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3 On the transaction completion date, Caixa Seguros Holding WW CNP Assurances will be entitled to a larger share of the (CSH) will transfer to the new insurance joint venture (which will businesses concerned than would have been proposed if the be wholly owned by the New JV) the In-Force insurance portfolios agreement had been put out to competition; corresponding to the product categories included in the scope of WW concerning the contractual documents with the Wiz the agreement. group, Wiz has given a commitment not to challenge the In parallel, CNP Assurances has reached a separate agreement interpretation according to which its exclusive rights will expire with Caixa Seguridade and the insurance brokerage group Wiz no later than 14 February 2021. regarding the terms of the future cooperation with Wiz, including operational back office services provided by Wiz to CSH and 2) Agreements with Arial CNP Assurances to the new insurance joint venture to be created under the new (signed in connection with the transfer of agreement with Caixa Seguridade. a portfolio of company retirement savings plan contracts carried out in 2017) (agreements Terms and conditions with companies that have common directors) In accordance with Article L.225‑38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors authorised the Persons concerned Executive Management of CNP Assurances on 15 January 2018 The Chief Executive Officer of CNP Assurances is Chairman (authorisation reiterated on 27 July 2018) to sign: of the Board of Arial CNP Assurances which is 40%-owned by WW a binding framework agreement with CEF and Caixa CNP Assurances. Seguridade (together “Caixa”), together with the agreements listed therein and/or that resulted therefrom, including: Nature and purpose —— a distribution agreement covering vida, prestamista and AG2R La Mondiale and CNP Assurances initially signed a previdência products, to be entered into notably with the framework partnership agreement on 11 December 2015, new insurance company (wholly owned by the New JV), covering their retirement savings plan and employee benefits plan businesses. The partnership was cemented by CNP Assurances’ —— a n e w J V S h a r e h o l d e r s ’ A g r e e m e n t b e t w e e n acquisition of 40% of the capital and voting rights of Arial CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguridade, CNP Assurances (ACA). —— an addendum to the Caixa Seguros Holding (CSH) Shareholders’ Agreement between CNP Assurances and In connection with this strategic partnership to create a major Caixa Seguridade, player in the Company retirement savings plan market that —— a letters issued by CNP Assurances waiving the exclusive became operational at the end of 2017 when the portfolio was distribution rights granted by Caixa to the CSH group transferred, various agreements were signed in 2018 addressing under the current partnership agreement for the insurance the practical organisation of the partnership’s implementation. products not included in the scope of the new partnership, The agreements mainly concern (i) the delegated management —— an addendum to the distribution agreement currently in of the portfolio of CNP Assurances company retirement savings force between CSH and Caixa; plans transferred to ACA and of the plans that have not been WW contractual documents with the Wiz brokerage group (i.e., transferred, (ii) an administrative management services agreement a framework settlement agreement, a letter in which the Wiz and (iii) a service level agreement. subsidiaries sign up to this agreement and a commitment by CNP Assurances concerning operational back office services Terms and conditions to be entered into by the new insurance company), defining In accordance with Articles L.225‑38 et seq. of the French the terms and conditions of future cooperation between Commercial Code, at its meeting on 21 February 2018, the CSH group, Caixa Seguridade and the Wiz group, the Board of Directors authorised the Company’s Executive particularly for the supply of operational back office services Management to sign the following documents: to CSH and the new insurance company. WW addendum to the delegated management agreement Benefits for the Company of signing the agreements (concerning the portfolio of CNP Assurances company The benefits of these agreements, which did not give rise to any retirement savings plans transferred to ACA) payments in 2018, are as follows: (addition of an appendix to the delegated management agreement describing the actuarial analysis, marketing, WW the agreements secure the long-term future of CNP Assurances’ contract administration, operational management, complaint business in Brazil (through 2041). The product categories processing and cash management tasks delegated to ACA for covered by the agreement are more limited than under the the portfolio of CNP Assurances company retirement savings current agreement, but they are strategically attractive as plans transferred to ACA, the terms and conditions governing potential drivers of future growth in the Group’s earnings and their execution and the operating decision-making processes cash flows; for certain management actions); WW the renewed partnership will create value, unlike the various no-deal scenarios; 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 93 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments WW delegated management agreement (concer ning the Benefits for the Company of signing the agreement CNP Assurances company retirement savings plans that have Enabling corporate officers to benefit from the employee benefits not been transferred to ACA) plan set up for all employees ensures that the Company can (delegated management agreement describing the tasks attract and retain executives who take up a position as a delegated to ACA for CNP Assurances company retirement corporate officer. savings plans not transferred to ACA, covering contract Premiums paid by CNP Assurances under this policy in 2018 administration and management, client relationship amounted to €4,846.90. management, management of actuarial analyses and management of sales and marketing activities); WW delegated administrative ser vices agreement (for the Agreements and commitments authorised CNP Assurances portfolio transferred to ACA) during the year but not yet signed (management by CNP Assurances on its information system of In accordance with Article R.225‑40 of the French Commercial the portfolio of CNP Assurances company retirement savings Code and Article R.332-7 of the French Insurance Code, we plans transferred to ACA, pending migration to ACA’s target were informed of the following agreements and commitments PTV information system); authorised by the Board of Directors but not yet signed on the WW agreement for the use of computer applications (concerning date of our report. the portfolio of CNP Assurances company retirement savings plans transferred to ACA and the plans not transferred that 1) Agreement concerning the proposed are managed by ACA under a delegated management acquisition of an office complex in agreement) Issy-les-Moulineaux, a south-western (use by Arial CNP Assurances of the CNP Assurances suburb of Paris, and transfer of the computer applications needed to manage the portfolios); Company’s headquarters to the new property WW ser vice level agreement (concerning the portfolio of (agreement with a shareholder) CNP Assurances company retirement savings plans transferred to ACA) Persons concerned (determination of the operational processes for The persons concerned are Caisse des Dépôts, represented by communications between CNP Assurances and ACA Eric Lombard, and the directors elected on the recommendation concerning certain commercial and financial management, of Caisse des Dépôts (Olivier Sichel, Olivier Mareuse, asset/liability management and reporting tasks). Virginie Chapron du Jeu, Annabelle Beugin Soulon, The amounts billed under these agreements in 2018 amounted Pauline Cornu-Thenard and Laurence Giraudon). to €5.2 million. Nature and purpose Benefits for the Company of signing the agreements In connection with the search for a new headquarters building, The agreements clarify the parties’ roles concerning the CNP Assurances identified an office complex to be built on land management of the insurance portfolios, the use of IT resources owned jointly by Caisse des Dépôts and another company. and the determination of service levels. Terms and conditions 3) Death/disability and health insurance At its meetings on 27 July 2018 and 19 December 2018, policy taken out by CNP Assurances for the Board of Directors authorised CNP Assurances’ Executive the benefit of the Chief Executive Officer, Management to sign agreements concerning the acquisition of its Antoine Lissowski future headquarters building in Issy-les-Moulineaux. The agreements (one between CNP Assurances and Caisse Persons concerned des Dépôts, and another between CNP Assurances, Caisse The person concerned is Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive des Dépôts and Altarea Cogedim) include certain conditions Officer. precedent and provide for two alternative deal structures: (i) a Share Deal, whereby CNP Assurances and Caisse des Nature and purpose Dépôts would become joint owners of CNP Assurances’ The purpose of this commitment is to enable Antoine Lissowski to headquarters building on a 50/50 basis, and continue to benefit from the employee benefits plan set up by the (ii) an Off-Plan Deal, whereby CNP Assurances would purchase Company for all employees, following his appointment as Chief the building alone, for future delivery once construction has Executive Officer. been completed. They describe the relations between the parties depending on the Terms and conditions chosen structure and the related contractual impacts. The Board of Directors authorised this commitment at its meetings of 27 July 2018 and 15 November 2018. The deadline for selecting one or the other structure was initially set at 16 November 2018 and was subsequently put back to 1 April 2019. The chosen structure will be implemented as of that date, provided that the conditions precedent have been met. 94 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3 Benefits for the Company of signing the agreements WW the financial terms (price per sq.m., total value of the property) The agreements, which did not lead to any payments between are attractive; CNP Assurances, Altarea-Cogtedim and Caisse des Dépôts WW CNP Assurances would be able to continue occupying the in 2018, benefit the Company by enabling it to move to offices until the Issy-les-Moulineaux property is delivered; new offices where it can house a significant proportion of its WW CNP Assurances could receive contingent consideration employees in a high quality working environment. The property depending on the additional office space created by Altarea was found after an extensive search that took into account real Cogedim and Caisse des Dépôts and the rent negotiated with estate, environmental and financial criteria. the new tenant(s); WW an independent expert has expressed a favourable opinion on 2) Agreement concerning the proposed sale the terms offered by Caisse des Dépôts and Altarea Cogedim. of offices in the Montparnasse district of Paris, corresponding to the Company’s Agreements and commitments authorised current headquarters (agreements with in prior years that were not submitted a shareholder) to a previous General Meeting Persons concerned 3) Death/disability and health insurance policy The persons concerned are Caisse des Dépôts, represented by taken out by CNP Assurances for the benefit Eric Lombard, and the directors elected on the recommendation of Frédéric Lavenir of Caisse des Dépôts (Olivier Sichel, Olivier Mareuse, Virginie Chapron du Jeu, Annabelle Beugin Soulon and Persons concerned Laurence Giraudon). The person concerned is Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Officer until 31 August 2018. Nature and purpose Caisse des Dépôts and Altarea Cogedim expressed an interest Nature and purpose in acquiring CNP Assurances’ current headquarters in the The purpose of this commitment was to enable Frédéric Lavenir to Montparnasse district of Paris and presented an indicative offer. benefit from the employee benefits plan set up by the Company for all employees, during his term as Chief Executive Officer. Terms and conditions At its meeting on 19 December 2018, the Board of Directors Terms and conditions authorised CNP Assurances’ Executive Management to: The Board of Directors authorised this commitment at its meeting WW complete the sale on the terms presented to the Board, which of 7 September 2012. The commitment was not submitted include a mechanism to increase or reduce the sale price to a vote by shareholders and a resolution is therefore being depending on factors affecting the property’s value (asbestos presented at the Annual General Meeting of 18 April 2019. removal, creation of additional space) and an occupancy charge for the period between the completion date of the sale Benefits for the Company of signing the agreements and the date when CNP Assurances’ employees move to the Enabling corporate officers to benefit from the employee benefits new building; plan set up for all employees ensures that the Company can WW accept the signature of the related contractual documents. attract and retain executives who take up a position as a At this stage and following the indicative offer, CNP Assurances corporate officer. has agreed to an exclusive negotiation period, during which Premiums paid by CNP Assurances under this policy in 2018 Caisse des Dépôts and Altarea Cogedim will be able to validate amounted to €7,740.80. the terms of their indicative offer and make a final, unconditional offer. CNP Assurances will then consider whether to accept the offer, provided that the terms are as good as or better than 4) Death/disability and health insurance policy those described above, and to sign the related agreements if taken out by CNP Assurances for the benefit applicable. of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Jean-Paul Faugère Benefits for the Company of signing the agreement Persons concerned The benefits of this agreement, which did not give rise to any payments between CNP Assurances, Altarea Cogedim and The person concerned is Jean-Paul Faugère, Chairman of the Caisse des Dépôts in 2018, are as follows: Board of Directors. WW it is in CNP Assurances’ interests to sell the offices, which Nature and purpose require considerable work; The purpose of this commitment is to enable Jean-Paul Faugère to benefit from the employee benefits plan set up by the Company for all employees, during his term as Chairman. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 95 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments Terms and conditions Benefits for the Company of signing the agreements The Board of Directors authorised this commitment at its meeting Enabling corporate officers to benefit from the employee benefits of 29 June 2012. The commitment was not submitted to a vote plan set up for all employees ensures that the Company can by shareholders and a resolution is therefore being presented at attract and retain executives who take up a position as a the Annual General Meeting of 18 April 2019. corporate officer. Premiums paid by CNP Assurances under this policy in 2018 amounted to €282.19. Agreements and commitments already approved by the Annual General Meeting Agreements and commitments approved (Direction Générale des Finances Publiques), which had in previous years been fulfilled, —— delete the condition precedent of official approval a) That were implemented during the year being obtained for the partial privatisation that could have resulted from the portfolio transfer, which had been fulfilled; 1) Agreements with Arial CNP Assurances —— In-Force reinsurance treaty No. RS 170003 (signed on (agreements between companies with 29 May 2017). This 100% quota-share treaty concerns the common directors) reinsurance by CNP Assurances of all the Group contracts Person concerned transferred to ACA pursuant to the terms and conditions of the asset contribution agreement; Common director on the transaction date: Frédéric Lavenir, —— t h r e e s e n i o r p l e d g e a g r e e m e n t s ( s i g n e d o n director of both CNP Assurances and Arial CNP Assurances 19 October 2017) guaranteeing CNP Assurances’ (40%-owned by CNP Assurances) until 31 August 2018. obligations towards ACA under the In-Force reinsurance Nature and purpose treaty. The agreements concern financial securities accounts pledged separately to three contractually defined contract Implementation of the strategic partnership with AG2R La categories (202, 235 and 237) (pledges presented in Mondiale in the group pensions market was conditional upon Appendix 2 to the reinsurance treaty); the transfer of CNP Assurances’ portfolio of company retirement —— addendum to the new business reinsurance treaty (signed savings plan contracts to Arial CNP Assurances in exchange for on 29 May 2017), whose purpose is to reflect the structure shares under a regulatory transfer procedure overseen by the adopted in the In-Force reinsurance treaty concerning French insurance supervisor, the ACPR. pledges for category 211 contracts; The transfer was originally due to take place in 2016 but was —— pledge agreement (signed on 19 October 2017) postponed until 2017 following discussions with the authorities. extending the pledge on financial securities accounts to include CNP Assurances’ obligations towards ACA under To reflect the delay and adjust the terms of the original the In-Force reinsurance treaty. The extension only concerns agreement, various addenda were signed and the draft asset obligations related to contracts included in the transferred contribution agreement, the CNP reinsurance treaty covering portfolio that are classified as category 211; In-Force contracts and the related agreements were all updated. —— delegated financial management mandate (signed on Terms and conditions 29 May 2017) appointing CNP Assurances to manage the unit-linked portfolios included in the scope of the In accordance with Ar ticles L.225‑38 et seq. of the agreement and the In-Force reinsurance treaty. ACA has French Commercial Code, at its meetings on 13 April and appointed CNP Assurances to manage, in its name and on 10 May 2017, the Board of Directors authorised the Company’s its behalf, the assets held in the account(s) opened for this Executive Management to sign the following documents: purpose. The delegated financial management mandate WW agreements implementing the partnership: sets the rules for managing the portfolios and describes the —— addendum to the framework partnership agreement fee arrangements as well as the process for recording and between AG2R La Mondiale and CNP Assurances (signed transmitting buy and sell orders. on 29 May 2017). The purpose of this addendum was to: WW the following addenda governing relations between the —— postpone until 31 December 2017 the deadline for partners: the transfer of a portfolio of group retirement savings —— addendum to the Shareholders’ Agreement (and the contracts by CNP Assurances to Arial CNP Assurances, undertakings given in application of the agreement) which was originally due to take place on (signed on 28 June 2017); 30 September 2017, —— addendum to the exclusive distribution agreement (signed —— delete the condition precedent of the transaction being on 28 June 2017). authorised by the government department concerned 96 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3 Benefits of the agreements remaining in force Reason for the agreement remaining in force The ongoing execution of these agreements for the implementation The agreement covers the continued management of part of of the partnership maintains a contractual framework governing the securities portfolio on terms that reflect the changes made relations between the parties to the partnership, CNP Assurances, necessary by Solvency II, adjust the services provided and set La Mondiale and AG2R Réunica Prévoyance. higher service level requirements, in exchange for fees that are aligned with very satisfactory market rates for standard services. Inward reinsurance premiums received by CNP Assurances in 2018 totalled €285.5 million, including €56.6 million from the new business reinsurance treaty. Net expenses came to 3) Agreements with AEW Ciloger (agreement €11.5 million. with a company that owns more than 10% of CNP Assurances’ capital) 2) LBPAM (agreements between companies Persons concerned with common directors) Sopassure, Philippe Wahl, Rémy Weber, François Pérol and Persons concerned Jean-Yves Forel (common directors or concerned persons on the transaction date). Sopassure, Rémy Weber, Philippe Wahl, the French State, Caisse des Dépôts and Franck Silvent (common directors or concerned Nature and purpose persons on the transaction date). Under the terms of agreements signed on 22 December 2017 Nature and purpose in replacement of a property portfolio management mandate signed on 11 July 2008, CNP Assurances retained the services Under the terms of agreements signed on 26 June 2017 of AEW Ciloger (previously AEW Europe) for five years from in replacement of an asset management mandate dated 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2022 to manage all of the 28 April 2006, CNP Assurances gave full powers to LBPAM to property assets defined in the mandate, and to provide assistance manage asset portfolios and cash deposited in a related account, and advice in defining and implementing the investment and in its name and on its behalf, or in the name and on behalf of its asset rotation strategy. insurance subsidiaries, subject to compliance with the applicable regulations and the investment guidelines and instructions issued Agreements for the management of five dedicated OPPCI by CNP Assurances. property funds were included in the negotiations. Terms and conditions The fee arrangements are aligned with those negotiated with CNP Assurances’ other property portfolio managers. In accordance with Articles L.225‑38 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, at its meeting on 10 May 2017, the Board Terms and conditions of Directors authorised the Company’s Executive Management to In accordance with Articles L.225‑38 et seq. of the French sign the following documents: Commercial Code, at its meeting on 15 November 2017, WW a delegated asset management mandate covering equities the Board of Directors authorised the Company’s Executive and fixed income products, including the investment fund Management to sign the following documents: order reception and transmission services that LBPAM is WW a master property portfolio management mandate covering licensed to provide; properties owned indirectly by CNP Assurances; WW a service level agreement setting out key performance WW a master property portfolio management mandate covering indicators (KPI), the penalties for failing to meet the required properties owned directly by CNP Assurances; service levels, the service governance structure (Committees) and the management processes; WW five OPPCI property fund management mandates. (AEW IMCOM UN, AEW IMCOM 6, AEP 247, LBP Actifs Immo WW an investment advice agreement concerning purchases and and Outlet Invest). sales of units in investment funds and covering due diligence reviews and analyses of investment funds and their asset These agreements were signed on 22 December 2017. managers. AEW Ciloger received a fee determined as follows: LBPAM receives a fee for its portfolio management services, determined as follows: WW portfolio rotation transactions: a percentage of the purchase and/or sale price of the properties purchased or sold with its WW an annual commission based on the value of assets under assistance; management, and the type of securities held; WW property management services: a percentage of rental income, WW fees on portfolio transactions carried out. based on property type, excluding taxes and expenses; Fees paid by CNP Assurances pursuant to this agreement in WW property leasing services: a percentage of the rent under the 2018 amounted to €17.7 million. This amount was rebilled to signed lease; the subsidiaries concerned. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 97 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments WW investment vehicle administrative management services: a flat The investment agreement and memorandum of understanding annual fee per investment vehicle based on the number of assets were signed on 14 December 2016 and include, respectively, held by the vehicle and the number of account closing balance; appendices setting out the agreements that the parties intend to WW investment vehicle account consolidation services: a flat fee sign on the transaction completion date: based on the number of investment vehicles and the number WW an agreement between the shareholders of SOCIETE C25, of account closings; CNP Assurances, Caisse des Dépôts and EDF organising WW works management services: fees based on the invoiced cost their rights and obligations as indirect shareholders of RTE of the works, excluding tax. and describing RTE and CTE’s governance rules based on the AEW Ciloger’s costs under the agreement are paid by the specific regulations applicable to RTE; investment vehicles, except for €208.7 thousand paid directly WW a shareholders’ agreement between CNP Assurances and by CNP Assurances. Caisse des Dépôts organising their rights and obligations as shareholders of CTE and indirect shareholders of RTE, and the All of the costs associated with these agreements will be paid exercise of their collective rights under the agreement in the directly by the investment vehicles. governance of RTE and CTE. Reason for the agreement remaining in force Reason for the agreement remaining in force The new agreements with AEW Ciloger extend the existing This significant investment in Europe’s leading electricity relationship. Through its experience of buying, selling and transmission system operator and the sole operator in France managing properties, AEW Ciloger has become an expert in (€1,080 million for CNP Assurances’ share, representing 20% analysing property investments and structuring deals, enabling of RTE’s capital) was made at a price that offers a satisfactory it to present investment opportunities that are compatible with internal rate of return and a healthy projected average yield over CNP Assurances’ investment strategy in France and the rest of the the next ten years. Eurozone, encompassing various types of assets (offices, retail units, residential units, warehouses), in exchange for fees that are In addition, it qualifies as a strategic investment under Solvency II, comparable to those of CNP Assurances’ other property portfolio with the result that the corresponding solvency capital requirement management services providers. is less than for a non-strategic infrastructure investment. 4) Acquisition of a stake 5) Renewal of the partnership in Réseau de Transport d’Électricité (RTE) with La Banque Postale Persons concerned Persons concerned Caisse des Dépôts, Delphine de Chaisemartin, Franck Silvent, Sopassure, Philippe Wahl, Rémy Weber, and the French State Olivier Mareuse, Pauline Cornu-Thénard, Virginie Chapron du (common directors or concerned persons on the transaction date). Jeu and the French State(common directors or concerned persons on the transaction date). Nature and purpose Following the authorisation given by the Board of Directors on Nature and purpose 16 February 2016, CNP Assurances and La Banque Postale EDF, the sole shareholder of RTE, sold part of RTE’s capital subject signed a master agreement on 25 March 2016 organising the to the legislative requirement that its entire capital must be held by renewal of their partnership. the French State, EDF and/or another public sector entity. Terms and conditions In July 2016, Caisse des Dépôts and CNP Assurances started The main purpose of the master agreement was to: bilateral negotiations with EDF with a view to acquiring a 49.9% stake in RTE, of which 20% would be acquired by WW define, organise and set a framework for the contractual CNP Assurances. relationship created through the new partnership agreements; WW set at ten years the duration of the renewed partnership, Terms and conditions commencing 1 January 2016, except for home-buyer term At its meeting on 14 December 2016, the Board of Directors creditor insurance for which the ten-year period commenced authorised CNP Assurances’ Executive Management to sign: when La Banque Postale and BPE began distributing new CNP Assurances policies on 28 September 2016; WW an investment agreement between CNP Assurances, Caisse WW define the process for winding up the renewed partnership des Dépôts and EDF describing the terms and conditions of and for negotiating any new distribution partnerships between the purchase of 49.9% of the capital and voting rights of CTE, the parties. If the parties decided to go their separate ways, a company to be set up by EDF to which it would transfer they would negotiate the details in good faith, particularly 100% of RTE’s capital and voting rights; the fate of the In-Force life insurance and endowment policies WW a memorandum of understanding concerning the signature of sold through La Banque Postale and BPE, and the method of a shareholders’ agreement between Caisse des Dépôts and ensuring that La Banque Postale and BPE continue to receive CNP Assurances. the commission due to them for as long as the policies remain in force; 98 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3 WW generally, organise and set a framework for relations between —— a certain number of addenda and application agreements the parties under the renewed partnership agreement. were signed during 2016. Addenda postponing the deadlines for signing the agreements that had not been In line with the terms of the master agreement, new partnership finalised were signed on 15 February 2017. agreements were signed, along with contracts implementing their provisions in the following areas: Reason for the agreement remaining in force WW in life insurance, the main components of the new agreements The benefits of the agreement are as follows: are as follows: WW renewal of the life and endowment insurance partnership for —— a t e n y e a r p a r t n e r s h i p a g r e e m e n t b e t w e e n a long period on satisfactory financial terms protects the value CNP Assurances, La Banque Postale and BPE (the private of the partnership between CNP Assurances and La Banque banking arm of La Banque Postale, which has been Postale; a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group since 2013). WW the overall agreement is balanced, with the removal from La Banque Postale and BPE have given CNP Assurances the partnership of individual personal risk insurance business exclusive distribution rights (except to wealth management being offset by the extension of activities in the wealth customers served under open model arrangements) for management segment with BPE and the strengthening of the life insurance and endowment products representing a home-buyer Term Creditor Insurance business; certain percentage of market share, with a commission WW the proposed agreement covers a long period and the arrangement designed to ensure that profits are shared partnership conditions are not excessively inflexible, providing equally between the insurer and the distributor, CNP Assurances with improved visibility when it comes to —— an agreement whereby CNP Assurances has appointed preparing its business plan. La Banque Postale and BPE to distribute its life insurance No payments were made or received under these agreements and endowment products, during 2018. —— a m a r k e t i n g c o s t s h a r i n g a g r e e m e n t , w h e r e b y CNP Assurances contributes to the sales promotion and The remuneration received by La Banque Postale as distributor communication costs incurred by La Banque Postale and BPE; corresponds mainly to a share of the premium and asset loadings WW in personal risk/protection insurance: and the deductions from investment income. —— an agreement for the sale by CNP Assurances to Fees paid by CNP Assurances pursuant to this agreement in La Banque Postale of its 50% interest in La Banque Postale 2018 amounted to €607.1 million. Prévoyance (“LBPP”) for €306.9 million (less the amount of dividends paid prior to the completion date), with 6) Final agreements covering deployment La Banque Postale Prévoyance retaining inter alia the of the renewed partnership between personal risk insurance business. The sale was completed on 28 June 2016 and was preceded by the signature CNP Assurances and the BPCE group on 25 March 2016 of (i) a delegated management commencing 1 January 2016 agreement whereby CNP Assurances continues to Persons concerned administer current personal risk insurance products with the same fee arrangements as applied before the agreement François Pérol and Jean-Yves Forel (common directors on the was signed, (ii) an addendum to the advisory and financial transaction date). management agreement, and (iii) an agreement organising the transfer to La Banque Postale Prévoyance by the end of Nature and purpose 2017 of certain back-office activities previously performed In March 2015, CNP Assurances and BPCE group signed an by CNP Assurances, agreement renewing their partnership for an initial seven-year —— a distribution agreement between CNP Assurances, period commencing 1 January 2016. La Banque Postale and BPE concerning home-buyer term creditor insurance, a financial agreement defining Terms and conditions commissions payable to La Banque Postale and BPE and In parallel with the gradual transfer to Natixis Assurances of the payment by CNP Assurances to La Banque Postale all savings and pensions (i.e., life and endowment) policies and BPE of an initial commission when distribution of the distributed by the Caisses d’Epargne network during 2016, the new group policies begins, to be adjusted at the end of renewed partnership includes: 2020 and after ten years, and a delegated management WW mechanisms to align the interests of policyholders with those agreement setting out the service level and reporting of CNP Assurances concerning the ongoing management by commitments given by La Banque Postale and BPE, CNP Assurances of contracts purchased by Caisses d’Epargne —— a 5% quote-share reinsurance treaty covering new homecustomers up until 31 October 2016, corresponding to the buyer Term Creditor Insurance business between La Banque date when the final Caisse d’Epargne branches switched from Postale Prévoyance and CNP Assurances. The ten-year CNP Assurances to Natixis Assurances for their new insurance treaty will come into effect when La Banque Postale and business. These mechanisms consist mainly of two reinsurance BPE start distributing CNP Assurances’ new group policies, treaties covering new business (“tranche 1” and “tranche 2” 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 99 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments treaties), a mechanism concerning the Savings business that —— addendum to the commission agreement with BPCE, comprises an agreement guaranteeing stable In-Force business extending its term for a period expiring at the end of the levels and an outperformance agreement, and a 10% life of the CNP Assurances savings and pensions contracts quota-share reinsurance treaty with ABP Vie, a subsidiary of (life policies), Natixis Assurances; —— mechanism covering Savings business, based on two WW an exclusive partnership with Natixis Assurances (co-insured agreements with BPCE: an agreement guaranteeing stable 66% by CNP Assurances and 34% by Natixis Assurances) for In-Force business levels and an outperformance agreement. term creditor insurance distributed by the Banques Populaires This mechanism will be triggered if surrenders and/ network (excluding BRED, Crédit Coopératif and CASDEN), or top-up premiums deviate from the benchmark the Caisses d’Epargne network, Banque Palatine and Crédit trajectories determined on the basis of historical data for Foncier and specific partnerships in personal risk insurance CNP Assurances. If observed surrenders are higher than and employee benefit plans, including health insurance (to expected or observed top-up premiums are lower than address the market created by the national inter-professional expected, BPCE will make a compensatory payment agreement Accord National Interprofessionnel). to CNP Assurances, and CNP Assurances will pay a symmetrical outperformance commission to BPCE if the Renewal of the partnership was authorised by the Board of reverse is true. The mechanism will be deactivated in the Directors on 18 February 2015 and a master partnership event of an interest rate or behavioural shock, and agreement was signed on 23 March 2015 between CNP Assurances, BPCE (acting in its own name and in the —— a 10% quota share reinsurance treaty with ABP Vie name and on behalf of, inter alia, the banks in the Caisses covering In-Force business sold through the BPCE group, d’Epargne and Banques Populaires networks) and Natixis. On —— a reinsurance treaty with ABP Vie, to which Natixis is a 30 December 2015, an addendum was signed modifying the party, covering tranche 1 new business. Under the terms of deadlines for signing certain agreements for the application of this treaty, CNP Assurances reinsures 40% of the ABP Vie the master partnership. savings and pension products (excluding unit-linked contracts or formulas) sold by the Caisses d’Epargne and The master partnership agreement: related banks during the 2016‑2019 calendar years. This WW notes that the agreements expiring on 31 December 2015 treaty will remain in force until the reinsured policies expire, are not being renewed; —— a quote-share reinsurance treaty with ABP Vie, to which WW represents the umbrella agreement defining and organising BPCE and Natixis are parties, covering tranche 2 new the contractual framework created by the new partnership business. Under the terms of this treaty, which would agreements; be activated by an interest rate or behavioural shock, WW sets at seven years the duration of the new partnership CNP Assurances reinsures 90% of the insurance liabilities agreements, commencing 1 January 2016. At the end arising from payments into ABP Vie savings and pension of this seven-year period, BPCE will have the option of products made by former CNP Assurances customers. either renewing the agreements for a period of three years Similarly, a “Eurocroissance” agreement provides for commencing 1 January 2023 or purchasing the insurance CNP Assurances to be indemnified for policyholder book represented by policies sold through the BPCE group at payments into an ABP Vie “Eurocroissance” product. a mutually agreed price. BPCE may initiate negotiations for “Cross-matching” agreements organise the supply by BPCE the purchase of the insurance book after five years, i.e., at the of the list of former CNP Assurances customers that have end of 2020, and CNP Assurances may initiate negotiations become ABP Vie customers following the occurrence of an for the sale of the insurance book to BPCE at the end of the interest rate or behavioural shock, fiveand seven-year periods and each three-year renewal —— in addition: period; —— in the premium savings segment, par tnership WW generally organises and defines relations between the parties agreements have been signed by CNP Assurances with under the renewed partnership. Banque Privée 1818 and Sélection 1818, Various agreements for the application of the master partnership —— concerning Ecureuil Vie Développement (set up to drive agreement were also signed, as follows: growth in insurance sales by the Caisses d’Epargne network), an agreement for the sale of 2% of its shares WW in the area of savings and pension products (life and was signed between CNP Assurances, BPCE and endowment policies), the main components of the new Natixis Assurances (giving Natixis Assurances 51% of agreements are as follows: Ecureuil Vie Développement’s capital and voting rights —— partnership agreement with BPCE primarily dealing as of 1 January 2016), together with a Shareholders’ with the administration of In-Force business retained Agreement between the three partners, and an by CNP Assurances and top-up premiums paid on the agreement was signed between CNP Assurances and contracts, Ecureuil Vie Développement concerning the secondment of employees, 100 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3 —— in the area of asset management, a master portfolio The remuneration received by Groupe Caisse d’Epargne as management and investment ser vices agreement distributor corresponds mainly to a share of the premium and was signed on 28 December 2015 between asset loadings and the management fees charged on financial CNP Assurances and Natixis Asset Management. products. Fees paid by CNP Assurances pursuant to this With the exception of this latter agreement, all the other agreement in 2018 amounted to €1,033 million. agreements were signed on 23 March 2015 with various addenda signed during 2015, where necessary, dealing 7) Investment by CNP Assurances in GRTgaz with technical issues; WW in the area of term creditor insurance distributed by the a. Persons concerned Banques Populaires networks (excluding BRED, Crédit Caisse des Dépôts and the five directors elected on the Coopératif and CASDEN), the Caisses d’Epargne network, recommendation of Caisse des Dépôts, Stéphane Pallez and Banque Palatine and Crédit Foncier, the main components of the French State (common directors or concerned persons on the the new agreements are as follows: transaction date). —— co-insurance agreement between CNP Assurances, ABP Vie and ABP Prévoyance (CNP Assurances for 66% and b. Nature and purpose ABP Vie and ABP Prévoyance for 34%). If the agreement is On 12 July 2011, a public consortium comprising renewed, risks will be co-insured on a 50/50 basis, CNP Assurances, CDC Infrastructure and Caisse des Dépôts —— several agreements that are a standard feature of this type (CDC) laid the foundations for a long-term partnership with of partnership, including a fee agreement, a brokerage GDF Suez in natural gas transportation in France and the rest of agreement between CNP Assurances, BPCE, ABP Vie and Europe. The partnership was based on the acquisition of a 25% ABP Prévoyance and a delegated management mandate non-controlling interest in GRTgaz for an amount of €1.1 billion, and service level agreement between CNP Assurances, alongside Engie (formerly GDF Suez) which held the other 75% and BPCE. of the shares. All of these agreements were signed on 23 March 2015: The 25% minority stake is held indirectly through two holding WW in personal risk insurance (long-term care and renters’ companies, Société d’Infrastructures Gazières (SIG) which insurance) and employee benefits plans including health holds the GRTgaz shares and is wholly owned by Holding insurance, the following agreements were signed: d’Infrastructures Gazières, which in turn is 54.4%-owned by —— personal risk insurance commission agreement with BPCE, CNP Assurances and 45.6% by Caisse des Dépôts. —— health insurance referral agreement with BPCE and BPCE A shareholders’ agreement relating to GRTgaz was authorised Assurances. by the Board of Directors on 5 April 2011 and signed on All of these agreements came into effect on 1 January 2016, 27 June 2011 between GDF Suez and SIG in the presence except for: of GRTgaz, CNP Assurances, CDC Infrastructure and Caisse des Dépôts. It sets out the rights and obligations of GRTgaz WW the agreements signed by CNP Assurances with Banque shareholders and establishes governance arrangements in Privée 1818 and Sélection 1818, which came into effect on compliance with the specific regulations applicable to GRTgaz. 1 January 2015; and The Shareholders’ Agreement was entered into for a term of WW the health insurance referral agreement which came into effect 20 years and is renewable once for a term of ten years. It grants on 1 June 2015. SIG the usual rights of a non-controlling shareholder. A certain number of addenda and application agreements were In 2017, to support GRTgaz’s plan to acquire the entire capital signed during 2016. Two addenda postponing the deadline for of Elengy, a methane terminal operator wholly owned by Engie, finalising all the contractual documents related to the renewed CNP Assurances and Caisse des Dépôts decided to underwrite partnership were signed respectively on 30 December 2015 and a capital increase by GRTgaz through SIG in order to maintain 18 January 2017 the balance of ownership interests in GRTgaz. CNP Assurances’ share of SIG’s €200 million investment amounted to Reason for the agreement remaining in force €110 million. The new partnership agreements will further the Company’s business interests, particularly in light of the In-Force business The transaction led to the signature of several agreements protection mechanisms which adequately cover the risks identified authorised by the Board of Directors on 10 May 2017: by the Company, and the term creditor insurance and personal WW an addendum to the GRTgaz Shareholders’ Agreement to risk/employee benefits distribution partnerships negotiated with be entered into between Engie and SIG, to which GRTgaz, the partners. CNP Assurances and Caisse des Dépôts are also parties, adjusting the dividend policy to include distribution of the No payments were made or received under these agreements profits generated by Elengy (the agreement currently provides during 2018. for GRTgaz’s IFRS profit to be distributed in full); 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 101 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments WW an additional agreement (alongside the Shareholders’ Terms and conditions Agreement) to be entered into between Engie and SIG, to In 2018, CNP Assurances recorded in its accounts fee income which GRTgaz, CNP Assurances, Caisse des Dépôts and for the services still covered by the 2010 agreement and those Elengy are also parties; provided for in the agreements signed on 25 March 2016, as WW a call option on GRTgaz shares representing up to 0.187% of follows: the capital, to granted by Engie to SIG. The option would be exercisable if revenues from Elengy’s unregulated businesses in WW €14.9 million for suppor t ser vices and delegated the period to 2022 fall short of Engie’s projections; management services. WW call option on GRTgaz shares representing up to 0.063% of Reason for the agreement remaining in force the capital, to granted by SIG to Engie. The option would be exercisable if a subsidiary of Elengy receives an amount The terms of the partnership between CNP Assurances and in settlement of a dispute between the subsidiary and the La Banque Postale, and especially the relations between STS group of companies that is distributed by the subsidiary CNP Assurances and LBPP, were the subject of negotiations to Elengy, by Elengy to GRTgaz and by GRTgaz to its own and the new partnership sets an end date for the agreement shareholders. increasing LBPP’s autonomy. The Shareholders’ Agreement remained in effect in 2018 and the call options on the shares were not exercised. 9) Securities management agreement with Natixis AM Reason for the agreement remaining in force Nature and purpose At 31 December 2018, CNP Assurances held 54.41% of the At its meeting on 24 June 2008, the Board of Directors share capital of HIG (€420.47 million) as well as bonds directly authorised Gilles Benoist, in his capacity as legal representative issued by SIG in the amount of €317 million. of CNP Assurances, to enter into and sign a securities portfolio GRTgaz constitutes a long-term infrastructure investment for management agreement with Natixis AM, formerly IXIS Asset CNP Assurances. In this context, the Shareholders’ Agreement Management, a BPCE group company. The contract signed on should not be called into question. 30 June 2008 was amended in 2013. Under the renewed partnership with BPCE authorized by the 8) Agreement between CNP Assurances Board of Directors on 18 February 2015, a master portfolio and La Banque Postale (LBP) concerning management and associated investment services agreement was La Banque Postale Prévoyance (LBPP) signed on 28 December 2015 between CNP Assurances and Natixis Asset Management. The agreement replaced the former Persons concerned agreement dated 2008 with effect from 1 January 2016. Sopassure, Jean-Paul Bailly and Patrick Werner (common directors Pursuant to this agreement, CNP Assurances gives full powers or concerned persons on the transaction date). to Natixis AM to manage in its name and on its behalf, or in the name and on behalf of its insurance subsidiaries the Nature and purpose portfolios and the cash deposited in a related account, subject At its meeting on 7 October 2010, the Board of Directors to compliance with the applicable regulations and the investment authorised the signing of an agreement between CNP Assurances guidelines and instructions issued by CNP Assurances. and La Banque Postale defining the terms and conditions for giving greater autonomy to La Banque Postale Prévoyance Terms and conditions (“LBPP”). Natixis AM receives a fee for its portfolio management services, This agreement, applicable with retroactive effect as from determined as follows: 1 January 2010, described the measures taken in terms of WW a fixed annual fee per portfolio (except for portfolios invested governance, operating procedures, and to adjust fees for policy exclusively in mutual funds); administration services provided by CNP Assurances on behalf WW a variable fee calculated at a declining rate based on of LBPP. the value of assets under management, with different rates Following the renewal of the partnership with La Banque Postale applying according to the type of securities held. in March 2016, which notably included the sale of CNP Assurances’ 50% interest in LBPP, a delegated management Fees paid by CNP Assurances pursuant to this agreement in agreement giving CNP Assurances responsibility for managing 2018 amounted to €18.7 million. This amount was rebilled to existing personal risk products, and an addendum to the advisory the subsidiaries concerned. and financial management agreement, the 2010 agreement was Reason for the agreement remaining in force no longer applicable to certain support services provided by CNP Assurances on behalf of LBPP. CNP Assurances benefits from the prolongation of this mandate for the management of part of its securities portfolio. 102 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments 3 10) Agreement for the issue of perpetual 12) Agreement for the issue of fixedsubordinated notes between term subordinated notes between CNP Assurances and Caisse Nationale CNP Assurances and Caisse Nationale des Caisses d’Epargne et de Prévoyance des Caisses d’Epargne et de Prévoyance Nature and purpose Nature and purpose At its meeting on 18 April 2006, the Super visor y Board At its meeting on 10 April 2002, the Supervisory Board of of Ecureuil Vie authorised the Company to issue perpetual Ecureuil Vie authorised the Company to sign an agreement with subordinated notes in the amount of €108 million. Caisse Nationale des Caisse d’Epargne et de Prévoyance for the issue of €200 million worth of dated subordinated notes due On 18 December 2007, Ecureuil Vie was merged into 23 June 2023. CNP Assurances, which replaced Ecureuil Vie as borrower. On 18 December 2007, Ecureuil Vie was merged into Terms and conditions CNP Assurances, which replaced Ecureuil Vie as borrower. Interest rate on the notes: 3-month Euribor +95 bp until 20 December 2026, then Euribor 3 months +195 bp. Terms and conditions Interest rate on the notes is Euribor +200 bp. The interest The interest expense recorded by CNP Assurances in 2018 expense recorded by CNP Assurances in 2018 amounted to amounted to €0.69 million. €3.4 million. Reason for the agreement remaining in force Reason for the agreement remaining in force These perpetual subordinated notes constitute regulatory capital This perpetual subordinated loan constitutes regulatory capital under Solvency II. The loan has more competitive interest rate under Solvency II. The loan has more competitive interest rate conditions than those which could currently be obtained in the conditions than those which could currently be obtained in the market. market. 11) Agreement for the issue of perpetual subordinated notes between b) That were not implemented during the year CNP Assurances and Caisse Nationale des In addition, we were informed of the following agreements and Caisses d’Epargne et de Prévoyance commitments approved by Annual General Meetings in previous years that remained in force but were not implemented during Nature and purpose the year. At its meeting on 2 April 2004, the Supervisory Board of Ecureuil Vie authorised the Company to enter into an agreement for the 1) Sale of CNP Assurances’ interest in its issue of perpetual subordinated notes with Caisse Nationale des subsidiary, CNP Seguros de Vida, and Caisse d’Epargne et de Prévoyance for a total of €183 million, of most of its interests in Argentina to the divided into two tranches of €90 million and €93 million. Brazilian company, CNP Assurances Brasil On 18 December 2007, Ecureuil Vie was merged into Holding Limitada CNP Assurances, which replaced Ecureuil Vie as borrower. Nature and purpose Terms and conditions At its meeting on 17 September 2008, the Board of Directors Interest rate on the notes: authorised Gilles Benoist, in his capacity as legal representative of CNP Assurances, to sell CNP Assurances’ interest in its WW first tranche: 4.93% until 2016, then Euribor +160 bp from subsidiary, CNP Seguros de Vida, and to sell most of the other 15 November 2016; non-controlling interests held by CNP Assurances in Argentina to WW s e c o n d t r a n c h e : 3 m o n t h E u r i b o r + 1 6 0 b p f r o m the Brazilian company Brasil Limitada (“CNP BHL”), a subsidiary 15 November 2016. of CNP Assurances. The interest expense recorded by CNP Assurances in 2018 In 2008, the following Argentine interests were sold: Provincia amounted to €1.16 million for the first tranche and €1.2 million Seguros de Vida (to CNP BHL for €2,084,526), Prévisol for the second tranche. Compania de Seguros de Retiro (to CNP BHL for €1,000), Asociart (ARS 180,058.94), and Prévisol Compania de Seguros Reason for the agreement remaining in force de Vida (ARS 44,700). This perpetual subordinated loan constitutes regulatory capital The interest in Provincia Aseguradora de Riesgos des Trabajo under Solvency II. The loan has more competitive interest rate was sold in 2009 for ARS 3,460. conditions than those which could currently be obtained in the market. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 103 3 C or p orate G o v ernance Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments Terms and conditions Reason for this agreement remaining in force The sale of the CNP Assurances Seguros de Vida and Previsol The proposed disposal of CNP Assurances’ interest in the Administradora de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (Previsol Argentine subsidiary CNP Assurances Compania de Seguraos to AFJP) interests did not take place in 2017. Brazilian company CNP Brasil Holding Limited is still in progress. Previsol AFJP, now called Credicoop Administradora de Fondos The Argentine insurance regulator (SNN) granted authorisation de Aportes Voluntarios y Depositos Convenidos, S.A., is in for this operation on 4 April 2014. liquidation and will not be transferred to CNP BHL. The completion of the transaction is subject to possible changes in the governance rules of CNP BHL. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, 4 March 2019 The Statutory Auditors PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AUDIT MAZARS Bénédicte Vignon Olivier Leclerc 104 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate G o v ernance 3 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 105 106 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 4 R I S K FA C T O R S AND RISK MANAGEMENT 4.1 RISK FACTORS 108 4.1.1 Risk factors linked to the financial markets 108 4.1.2 Risk factors linked to the insurance business 113 4.1.3 Operational risk factors linked to the business 114 4.1.4 Other risk factors 117 4.2 INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE AND MEASURES TAKEN TO MITIGATE SUCH RISKS BY IMPLEMENTING A LOW-CARBON STRATEGY THROUGHOUT ALL COMPONENTS OF THE BUSINESS 120 4.2.1 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arising from the Group’s investment policy 120 4.2.2 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arising from the Group’s insurance business 121 4.2.3 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arising from the Group’s internal processes 122 4.3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES 122 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 107 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4.1 Risk factors The risks described below are inherent in the economic, WW operational risk factors linked to the business: product and competitive and regulatory environment in which the Group client interaction compliance risk, outsourcing risk, process operates. The 2018 economic and financial environment is execution risk and information system and data risk; described in section 2, paragraph 2.2.1. WW other risk factors: strategic partner risk, assumption and Although the main risks to which the Group is exposed are set model risk, reputational risk, country risk, rating risk and out in this section, the list is by no means exhaustive and other emerging risks. risks that are currently unknown or are considered minor or not Risks are discussed in declining order of importance within each material may prove to have a material impact on the Group in category. Their impact cannot always be reliably measured, the future. due to the many contingencies and uncertainties related to these This section discusses: risks. Risk management processes, procedures and controls have nonetheless been set up to track and manage the risks on an WW risk factors linked to the financial markets: equity risk, ongoing basis. Information about these processes, procedures credit risk, interest rate risk, private equity risk, real estate risk, and controls is provided in section 4, paragraph 4.3. counterparty risk, currency risk and liquidity risk; WW underwriting risk factors linked to the insurance business: This presentation should be read in conjunction with the tables surrender or cancellation risk, insureds’ mortality or longevity illustrating and quantifying these risks that are included in the risk, morbidity risk, expense risk and non-life risk; Group’s consolidated financial statements and have been audited by the Statutory Auditors. 4.1.1 Risk factors linked to the financial markets The Group is exposed to the risk of a fall In the case of a prolonged fall in value of certain equities held in the value and dividend yield of its listed in the portfolio, impairment provisions may have to be set aside equities portfolio for unrealised losses on these assets, with an adverse effect on earnings. Investments in listed equities represent an important portfolio diversification opportunity for the Group. They include equities For example, we may hold shares in a heavily leveraged purchased directly on the market and units in equity funds which company whose value is underpinned by forecasts of future provide an opportunity to invest in diversified portfolios of profitable growth. If the Company has difficulty in making debt equities. Our listed equities portfolio consists mainly of European repayments or fails to meet its earnings growth targets, its share stocks. price may fall significantly. Equity risk measures the sensitivity of equities to changes in We have purchased hedging instruments to attenuate the risk stock market prices. Volatility measures the extent of equity of losses on the listed equities portfolio. In the case of a fall in price changes and is used to quantify the yield and price risk. certain stock market indices to below certain trigger points, these High volatility means high potential gains but also a higher risk hedges would generate additional revenues corresponding to the of losses. difference between the trigger value and the actual value of the indices. The hedging programme is updated every year. 108 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4 Moreover, while the Group may not be directly affected by a fall Changes in credit spread therefore have a direct impact on the in the value of equities held in unit-linked portfolios, there is still a fair value of bonds held in the portfolio and consequently on the risk that its margins on this business will suffer. level of unrealised gains or losses. The Group’s exposure to equities and equity-based instruments We manage this risk by applying a series of exposure limits by (including private equity but excluding unit-linked portfolios), issuer, diversifying the portfolio and continuously monitoring the determined on an IFRS basis, represents just over €35 billion exposed investments. (representing less than 12% of total assets excluding unit-linked We may also attenuate the risk of losses on exposed investments portfolios), while the unit-linked portfolio’s exposure is less than by setting up hedging programmes to generate additional €30 billion. The sensitivity of the Group’s MCEV© to equity risk is revenues if spreads widen to above certain trigger points. presented in Note 23.4 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2018, the equity markets were considerably more volatile and Credit risks on government bonds and their performance was significantly negative. government bond-based instruments The nature of its assets means that the Group has significant As a long-term investor, CNP Assurances exposure to sovereign debt risk. Details of this exposure are is exposed to credit risk on its bond provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see investments Note 8.9 to the consolidated financial statements – Classification Details of the Group’s exposure to this risk are provided in the of investments by type of asset and by geographic region). notes to the consolidated financial statements (see Note 8.8 to During periods of increased government borrowing, there may the consolidated financial statements – Credit risk). be growing concern about the ability of certain sovereign issuers The credit risk on a bond is the risk of partial or total issuer to continue to service their debt, leading to investor distrust of default. It concerns both corporate bonds and government bonds. the corresponding bonds and significantly wider spreads. In extreme situations, we may be faced with an actual default or The level of risk depends on the issuer’s financial bill of health as a debt restructuring and have to take a significant haircut on the reflected in its credit rating (which can range from AAA to D). The securities in question. credit spread is the risk premium, namely the difference between the yield on a bond and that on a risk-free government bond The Group holds significant portfolios of French and other with the same characteristics. Credit spreads vary according to European government bonds and is naturally sensitive to any investor perceptions of the credit risk represented by the issuer. widening of sovereign debt spreads in the main Eurozone countries (France, Spain, Italy, etc.). A wave of surrenders could oblige us to sell part of the government bond portfolio and if Credit risk on corporate bonds spreads widen, the sales could generate losses which could in Our corporate bond portfolio consists primarily of bonds issued turn impact the Group’s own-funds. Exposure to sovereign debt by European private companies. issued by “peripheral” Eurozone governments has been closely Historically, spreads on corporate bonds tend to narrow in monitored and we have also paid very close attention to the periods of growth and they widen during a recession when the sovereign debt of two of our host countries, Spain and Italy. We number of issuer defaults tends to increase. In addition, spreads have stepped up our oversight of developments in these countries may widen or narrow for reasons specific to the issuer, whatever and increased our monitoring of their sovereign debt. Investments the economic conditions. in these countries are regularly reviewed. The Group would be exposed to losses in the event of one or a number of issuer defaults. The Group is exposed to the risks of both increases and decreases in interest rates But even without an actual default, during certain periods there The magnitude of our portfolio of fixed rate bonds (see Note 8 may be an inflated perception of risk and spreads in general to the consolidated financial statements – Insurance investments) may reflect excessively gloomy corporate failure projections that is an indicator of its exposure to interest rate risk. The Group’s negatively affect the value of the investment portfolio. largest exposure concerns European rates. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 109 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors The Group is exposed to the fall in interest rates A rapid increase in interest rates increases and persistently low interest rates policy surrender risk The impact of declining interest rates on our ability to fulfil our In the event of a rapid increase in interest rates, yields on our commitments to policyholders is analysed at regular intervals. investment portfolios may lag behind the market, generating a mismatch between the yields paid on our products and those During a period of falling interest rates, we experience a fall in available on competing financial products. the reinvestment rate, leading to a gradual erosion of portfolio yields (see Note 23.3 to the consolidated financial statements – We may then have to contend with an increase in life insurance Interest rate risk on financial assets). policy surrenders as policyholders seek higher yields elsewhere. A prolonged fall in interest rates makes contractual loading more A spike in the surrender rate could force us to sell off bonds at difficult to apply to savings and pension products and exposes a loss. This could then trigger a negative spiral whereby such the insurer to a risk of lower margins, especially on traditional life losses accentuate the mismatch between the yield being paid to insurance products. our policyholders and those available on the market, thus pushing the surrender rate even higher. In more extreme scenarios, despite the relatively low proportion of contracts with a guaranteed yield, there is a risk that asset The current low interest rate environment in Europe exacerbates yields will be insufficient to cover contractually guaranteed our exposure to the risk of a rapid increase in rates, because the yields, forcing the Group to use its own-funds portfolio to pay the longer this environment lasts, the longer it will take us to adapt to guaranteed amount. the higher rates. Pension products – especially group pension plans – as well The risk associated with an increase in interest rates is as certain personal risk and employee benefits contracts, are closely monitored and this is a key focus of our asset/liability particularly exposed to the risk of a fall in interest rates. management strategy. Given the size of its life insurance business based on traditional Liabilities: savings contracts with a capital guarantee, CNP Assurances is WW traditional savings products with a unit-linked formula include sensitive to reductions in interest rates and also to a prolonged contractual clauses limiting or banning transfers between very low interest rate environment which, if it were to continue, portfolios in the event of an unfavourable change in market could adversely affect the Group’s earnings and capital. conditions; For several years, we have followed a policy of setting aside a WW the duration and level of yield guarantees is limited, thereby portion of the investment income generated by our investments allowing asset managers to reduce the weighting of longin the policyholder surplus reserve, which could be used in such dated bonds in the managed portfolios. a situation. If interest rates stay low in the future, we may have Assets: to use the reserve to top up policyholder dividends. Initiatives WW investment strategies include investing in floating rate and have been taken to modify new products to adapt the Group’s index-linked bonds; liabilities over time to the new very low interest rate environment. WW investment strategies include investing in bonds with diversified In 2018, after a small hike at the start of the year, European maturities; interest rates finally remained low, with France’s 10-year OAT WW part of the portfolio is invested in money market funds; rate ending the year at 0.71% (versus 0.78% at end-2017). WW part of the portfolio of fixed-rate bonds is hedged using caps This led to an increase in the Group’s exposure to persistently (see Note 8.6 to the consolidated financial statements – low rates. Derivative instruments). The Brazilian business is significantly less sensitive to interest We have set up a hedging programme to mitigate the risk rates given the main types of insurance contracts sold. These are associated with an increase in interest rates. Under this predominantly personal risk and property & casualty contracts programme, in the event of a rapid increase in interest rates to that generate limited exposure to financial market risks, and above certain trigger points, the caps acquired by the Group unit-linked pension products that also have limited exposure to would generate additional revenues corresponding to the interest rate levels. difference between the trigger rate and actual long-term interest The sensitivity of the Group’s MCEV© to a fall in interest rates is rates on the financial markets, thereby improving the yield on the presented in Note 23.4 to the consolidated financial statements. hedged assets in a period of rising interest rates. The hedging programme is updated every year. The sensitivity of the Group’s MCEV© to an increase in interest rates is presented in Note 23.4 to the consolidated financial statements. 110 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4 Interest rate risk gives rise to the broader risk Our property portfolio is closely monitored through dedicated of a mismatch between asset durations and processes that cover both the Group’s exposure and changes yields on the one hand and insurance and in the associated risks. Our property portfolio consists mainly of French assets. financial liabilities on the other Management information systems have been established to A decline in the value of investments in this asset class could have optimise asset allocation strategies and to measure asset/liability an adverse impact on consolidated earnings if impairment losses mismatch risk. Asset/liability management (ALM) strategies match have to be recognised. the structures of asset portfolios to policyholder commitments while The Group’s exposure to property assets and funds, determined seeking to maximise investment yields for a given level of risk. on an IFRS basis and excluding unit-linked portfolios, represents ALM techniques use deterministic and stochastic modelling of just over €10 billion (representing less than 4% of total assets (i) financial market behaviour to measure assets and (ii) changes excluding unit-linked portfolios). in insurance commitments under various different scenarios to measure liabilities. This allows asset durations to be matched to The Group has invested in private equity the profiles of the Group’s different liabilities. and infrastructure assets, and is exposed However, as with all modelling techniques, there are inherent to the risk of a fall in the value or yields of risks. If any assumptions were to be materially invalidated by these asset classes future events or if a situation not provided for under any of the Private equity involves investors acquiring part of the capital of models were to arise, CNP Assurances could be forced to sell unlisted companies This is a much more complex activity than assets at a loss or could have insufficient amounts of profitable buying shares in listed companies. assets to meet its yield commitments to policyholders. Nearly all of our private equity portfolio is made up of units in private equity funds, allowing us to fulfil our diversification The Group has invested in property objectives. The companies in the funds’ portfolios are located for companies and funds and is exposed the most part in Europe and North America. to the risk of a fall in the value or yields Infrastructure investments consist of providing financing for current of this asset class or planned projects in the transport, energy, environmental Real estate risk measures the sensitivity of property portfolio services, telecommunications and public works sectors. values to changes in real estate market prices, and concerns all property regardless of use, i.e., owner-occupied and rental or Infrastructure investments represent an important portfolio investment property. diversification opportunity for the Group. They include direct investments in infrastructure projects and units in infrastructure The rental income from a property portfolio is exposed to funds, which provide an opportunity to invest in diversified market risk (e.g., excess of supply over demand, increased portfolios of assets in this class. The portfolio is invested primarily vacancy rates and their impact on rental value) as well as to in European infrastructure projects. the risk of tenant default and unfavourable changes in rent adjustment indices. There are two types of risk inherent in private equity and infrastructure investments: the risk of the companies or projects The value of properties owned directly by CNP Assurances generating lower-than-expected profits and the risk associated Group or through a fund is exposed to the risk of changes in with the lack of a liquid market for these investments (see rental income and in the investment market itself, as well as to the discussion of liquidity risk below), which require a medium-term potential risk that certain buildings will be rendered obsolete by to long-term perspective. new regulations (on energy use, for example) resulting in losses in the event of sale or additional costs to bring the assets back into Our private equity and infrastructure portfolios are closely compliance. Although property companies are rarely exposed monitored through dedicated processes that cover both the to leverage risks, they also need to be taken into consideration Group’s exposure and changes in the associated risks. given the current possibility of interest rate increases. A decline in the value of investments in these asset classes could have an adverse impact on consolidated earnings if impairment losses have to be recognised. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 111 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors In addition to the credit risk, the Group issuers. The portfolios’ exposure to currency risk is therefore is exposed to a counterparty risk limited (see Note 8.10 to the consolidated financial statements on its bond portfolio – Foreign currency transactions). In addition, exposures are governed by a currency standard. Counterparty risk concerns derivative instruments (such as interest rate swaps and interest rate and stock index options), reinsurance We have carried out various subordinated notes issues and repos. Margin calls and collateralisation arrangements in US dollars and in sterling, one of which matured and was are used to reduce counterparty risk and these are presented redeemed in 2018. Specific currency hedges have been set up in Note 9.9 to the consolidated financial statements – Credit risk for the three remaining issues. See the tables in the following on reinsured business. The Group’s exposure to its main reinsurers notes to the consolidated financial statements: Note 10 – is also analysed to ensure that cumulative exposure remains Subordinated debt and Note 8.7 – Derivative instruments within defined limits. Despite close monitoring of counterparty qualifying for hedge accounting. risk, certain reinsurers may be unable to honour their financial obligations following extreme events and this could adversely In the event of a sharp rise in the policy affect the Group’s consolidated earnings. surrender rate, the Group would be Details of the exposures associated with derivative instruments exposed to significantly higher liquidity risk and repos are provided in the notes to the consolidated financial Liquidity measures a debtor’s ability to pay its debts and honour statements (see the tables in Note 8.4 – Repurchase agreements/ its obligations as and when they fall due in a going concern Lent securities, and Note 8.6 – Derivative instruments). situation. For CNP Assurances, liquidity risk is the risk that it will Lastly, a counterparty risk exists in respect of earned premiums be unable to pay policyholders in the event of a sharp rise in not yet written corresponding to amounts receivable from group surrender rates. insurance clients. This risk is linked to our ability to sell assets on the market in response to a surge in surrenders or claims; it is therefore greater CNP Assurances is exposed for property, private equity and infrastructure assets. to currency risk Our unit-linked Savings/Pensions business exposes us to liquidity The Group’s presentation currency is the euro. Most of its currency risk. In this regard, we have noted an increase in unit-linked funds risk arises from the consolidation of the Brazilian subsidiary, invested in property assets. In the event of a wave of surrenders, Caixa Seguros Holding, which presents its financial statements if the underlying properties could not be sold on the market, the in Brazilian reals. The Brazilian subsidiary’s contribution to Group could incur losses because it would be unable to use the the Group’s financial performance – in terms of both premium proceeds from the sale of the assets to finance the surrender value income and earnings – is already substantial, and changes in due to the policyholders. the real/euro exchange rate therefore have a material impact on Liquidity risk varies inversely with policyholder confidence; in the consolidated net profit and cash flows. event of a loss of confidence, the Group could find that it has In addition, the Group is exposed to a currency risk on the insufficient liquid assets to deal with a wave of surrenders. A lack dividend paid each year by Caixa Seguros Holding in reals. of confidence in the Group could also mean that it is no longer able to find any takers on the market for its subordinated notes. We purchase currency hedges each year to protect against the risk of a fall in the real against the euro; however, these are In practice, liquidity risk may arise if net new money becomes based on analyses and forecasts and may prove inadequate or sharply negative, forcing the Group to sell off investments to ineffective. make policyholder payments. In order to deal with such an eventuality, we maintain liquidity reserves and hold portfolios of The binding framework agreement with Caixa Seguridade signed liquid investments. Although these are for large amounts, they in 2018 provides for a payment to be made in reals when the could still prove to be insufficient under extreme conditions. final agreement is signed, exposing the Group to the temporary risk of an increase in the value of the real against the euro. We A certain number of liquidity risk indicators are provided in have purchased a specific hedge against this risk. Note 24.1 to the consolidated financial statements – Liquidity risk. The Brazilian real fell by 19% against the euro in 2018, based on average exchange rates. The Group’s subordinated notes issues are not subject to any covenants. With the exception of Caixa Seguros Holding, the bulk of the Group’s asset portfolios are invested in the securities of Eurozone 112 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4 4.1.2 Risk factors linked to the insurance business The Group offers a full range of insurance products in Europe is exercisable annually). An unexpectedly high surrender rate and Latin America. would modify the average contract duration and could adversely affect the business’s profitability. As France’s leading provider of The main individual insurance contracts offered to our clients are term creditor insurance, the Group is exposed to cancellation risk savings contracts, most of which offer a formula whereby savers and has set up a process to closely monitor the portfolio. can invest in a traditional fund, one or several unit-linked funds and a Eurocroissance growth fund. Our group policies are mainly defined contribution or defined Insureds mortality and longevity risks benefit pension plans, points-based pension plans, employee benefits plans and term creditor insurance. Mortality risk In addition, our subsidiaries in Brazil (Caixa Seguros Holding) Mortality risk corresponds to the risk of higher-than-expected and Cyprus (CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings) write property and mortality rates among insureds. casualty insurance. Our personal risk policies generally include death cover and the The Group is exposed to the risks inherent in marketing and Group is therefore exposed to mortality risk on these policies pricing new insurance products. These risks are managed through which represented premium income of more than €6 billion in specific processes and by dedicated committees. 2018 on an IFRS basis (see Note 14.4 to the consolidated financial statements – Premium income by business segment). In addition to the mainly financial risks generated by Savings/Pensions contracts, these products give rise to the risks The mortality risk may be accentuated by the occurrence of described below. natural or man-made disasters. Acts of terrorism, the occurrence or spread of pandemics, or fallout from global warming, aside from the immediate damage that such events would cause, could Surrender or cancellation risk also significantly impact the results of certain personal insurance Traditional savings contracts include an early surrender option businesses. for a contractually fixed amount. Surrender rates depend on To attenuate the consequences of this risk, we have set up how the financial markets perform, the yield offered by other a reinsurance programme providing overall protection of competing financial products, our policyholders’ behaviour and underwriting results through non-proportional treaties aligned with their confidence in our Group, and the tax rules applicable to the Group’s size and self-insurance capability. investments in life insurance products. High surrender rates on unit-linked contracts are also unwelcome, to the extent that they The reinsurance policy is implemented throughout the Group, lead to a loss of future profits. covering business written by CNP Assurances and by its subsidiaries. Applications have been developed to monitor Technical reserves for our Savings business represent over reinsurance results. Certain reinsurers may be unable to honour €200 billion and the Group’s exposure to surrender risk is their financial obligations following extreme events, exposing therefore very significant. A wave of surrenders could impact the Group to counterparty risk (see above). The availability, earnings or even solvency in extreme conditions. amount and cost of reinsurance also hinge on numerous factors For group pensions contracts, surrender risk corresponds to and may vary considerably over time. An increase in the cost the risk of the policy being transferred by the client to another of reinsurance may affect Group earnings either directly via the insurer. This risk is taken into account by including a clause in our reinsured business or because a reduction in the reinsurance rate standard group pensions contracts prohibiting transfers. increases the risk of losses. The Term Creditor Insurance business also exposes the Group In addition, an increase in the mortality rate would reduce to a surrender risk in connection with the early repayment of future margins on the €200 billion Savings business (based the insured loan (which is all the more likely during a period of on technical reserves) and could adversely affect the Group’s low interest rates) or a cancellation risk (since the Hamon Act financial position. Some unit-linked contracts also include death came into effect in 2014, insureds have been free to cancel their cover. The combination of less favourable financial market policy during the first year of the loan and following the Bourquin conditions and higher-than-expected mortality rates would erode amendment applicable from January 2018, the cancellation right our margins on these contracts. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 113 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors Longevity risk optical care and hearing aids not covered by social security reimbursements is expected to have an impact on Insureds longevity risk mainly concerns our life annuity contracts CNP Assurances and the other health insurance providers. The and relates to the benefit payment period, which is not known requirement will be phased in over several years and we will be in advance. paying close attention to changes in underwriting results on these Longer or shorter life expectancies significantly affect margins on contracts. this type of policy. Technical reserves are generally calculated using regulatory mortality tables based on statistical data for the population of the country concerned. In some cases, experienceRisk of unreliable contract administration based data is also used. Earnings or own-funds are potentially cost projections exposed to the risk that actual longevity experience may turn Expense risk corresponds to the risk of an increase in costs out to be significantly different to that predicted in the mortality beyond the originally approved budget. The main expense items tables used to price the contracts and calculate technical reserve are employee benefits expense, IT costs, office rent and sales requirements. They may also be exposed to the risk that asset commissions paid to distribution networks. yields fall short of the valuation rate of interest used in the pricing Unreliable estimates of future contract administration costs may and reserving models. have an adverse effect on the Group’s results and solvency. Insureds morbidity risk Non-life risks Personal risk contracts comprise various types of primar y The Group is exposed to non-life risks mainly on Property & guarantees covering temporary or permanent disability, long-term Casualty business written by its subsidiaries in Brazil and Cyprus care and health risks. These guarantees expose the Group to (see Note 14.4 to the consolidated financial statements – morbidity risks. Premium income by business segment, Property & Casualty). We establish risk selection policies and monitor statistical data This type of risk may be exacerbated by the occurrence of concerning the policyholder base and related loss ratios. In natural disasters. An increase in the occurrence of climate risks addition, products are subject to regular pricing reviews based throughout the world could have an adverse effect on Property & on loss experience to ensure that margins remain adequate. Casualty underwriting results. Asymmetric information available to policyholders and insurers Non-life risks also include unemployment risk, arising from the gives rise to a risk of anti-selection, although this is attenuated unemployment cover offered by the Group under term creditor by the use of medical questionnaires, deferred periods and/or insurance written by CNP Assurances in France, CNP UniCredit other measures. Vita in Italy and CNP Santander in Europe. In France, new legislation requiring health insurance providers to reimburse the full cost of dental treatment and dentures, 4.1.3 Operational risk factors linked to the business Operational risk is defined as “the risk of loss resulting from Activities outsourced to partners or inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from contractors may give rise to a risk external events”. This definition includes legal and compliance of non-compliance with regulations risks. or to service quality risks Operational risk management systems are tailored to the type Outsourcing risk – as defined under Solvency II – has been of risk. They are designed to enhance operating managers’ risk highlighted as a significant risk inherent to the Group’s business management capabilities and to be clearly identifiable in order model. Activities may be outsourced to partners (certain to facilitate the crucial work of monitoring. The operational risk management operations, notably asset management) or to management system is deployed across the Group. It backs outside contractors (policy administration, information system up the Group’s internal control system – which could prove management). inadequate – by addressing risks by category instead of focusing on individual risks identified by process. The system also includes The main outsourcing risks, which relate to the quality and a risk mapping process. compliance of the outsourced activities, regulatory compliance (including the ban on price bargaining, dependence issues, This section presents the Group’s four major operational risks, loss of internal know-how and conflicts of interest), are reviewed which are all considered of equal importance. on a regular basis. An internal outsourcing policy is helping to gradually increase employee understanding, monitoring and control of the related risks. 114 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4 The policy’s main principles are as follows: The new regulations expose the Group to compliance WW maintain operational control of the outsourced activity: the risks due to its broad range of businesses, in Group retains the ability to assess contractors’ activities, an environment shaped by the digitalisation of largely through formal documentation of the outsourced policyholder relationships and the increased focus on processes and service performance procedures; unit-linked sales, which are also a source of changing risks. WW deploy adequate resources to manage the risks, in order to The life insurance section of the CNP Assurances business model maintain the expected level of outsourcing efficiencies and (covering insurer liability) is frequently prepared by the partner gains: the resources deployed to monitor the outsourced networks. The products offered by the Group and the contractual activity are in proportion to the importance of the activity and and marketing documents presented to customers must be legally the cost it represents for CNP Assurances; watertight and provide policyholders with clear information about WW maintain or increase service quality and productivity levels the content and scope of the purchased cover or the insurance compared to performing the activity in-house; proposal. The Group has a robust product launch procedure that WW apply the Group’s general purchasing policy to outsourcing includes checks to ensure that the product and the marketing contracts; process are in full compliance with regulatory requirements, and WW comply with all of the ethical and professional guidelines set the review procedure required under the IDD. out in the code of ethics, including the Ethical Purchasing There are also numerous regulatory and contractual obligations Charter, the code of conduct for Group employees, the throughout the life of a policy. professional standards applicable to each business, the Internal Control Charter, and the ten principles of the United Dealing with unclaimed life insurance settlements is a key Nations Global Compact (covering human rights, labour, the concern and after France’s Eckert Act came into force the environment and anti-corruption) upheld by CNP Assurances. Group’s administrative processes were revised to comply with the requirement to reduce the time taken to find beneficiaries. The outsourcing policy is rolled down to the operating units in the form of the following procedures: In the interests of customer service quality, over the past few years the Group has obtained quality certifications for core processes WW the procedure for deciding if an outsourced function or activity from recognised professional standards bodies (ISO 9001 for is critical or important; key management or marketing processes, and CMMI or ITIL for IT WW the procedure for choosing a contractor and determining the processes). Regulatory texts and the recommendations published details to be included in the written outsourcing agreement; by France’s insurance supervisor (ACPR) are incorporated into WW the procedure for monitoring the outsourced activities, the Group’s internal procedures, which also describe the controls covering the method and frequency of contractor performance to be performed by the employees concerned by each process. and results assessments (the various methods include but are not limited to continuous monitoring by Committees, random Combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism is a on-site and desk audits, and reviews of contractors’ own constant concern for the Company. reports on their internal control and risk management systems); The Group’s business model, in which many transactions are WW the procedure for examining business contingency plans and performed by partners, has shaped the related controls. The exit strategies. tasks entrusted to intermediaries are set out in the distribution agreements between the Group and its partners. Nearly all transactions go through policyholders’ accounts with the partner CNP Assurances’ products and banks which are responsible for performing background checks its interactions with clients may expose on cash flows. When policyholder relations are handled by the Group to compliance risk partners, they also play a key role in data gathering and knowSeveral aspects of the regulatory framework governing insurance your-customer procedures. activities have been changed. Many new regulations have been The Group is fully engaged in the fight against money laundering introduced to improve client protection, with the Packaged Retail and the financing of terrorism and is deploying the latest and Insurance-based Investment Products (PRIIPs) regulation that techniques to ensure that its procedures are as effective as came into effect on 1 January 2018, the Insurance Distribution possible. Efforts in this regard are part of a long-term project to directive (IDD) that came into effect in October 2018 and the industrialise and automate the entire process to prevent money General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). laundering and the financing of terrorism and the related controls. The aim of the project is to improve know-you-client procedures, allow detailed analyses to be performed and provide real time information about the profile of any client who wants to carry out an insurance transaction, and to accelerate deployment of the necessary procedures in application of the adopted risk classification. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 115 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors Working with our partners, we are strengthening the internal Instances of system downtime or failure or processing delays control system by reviewing existing controls and introducing could lead to losses and may also damage the Group’s image new ones. among customers. These risks are managed primarily by taking out appropriate insurance cover, investing in the systems, ensuring At the same time, major awareness-raising and training exercises a high level of cyber-resilience, developing contingency and are being organised for our employees. disaster recovery plans, implementing procedures to guarantee the security of software upgrades, and strengthening the systems The Group is exposed to process and procedures for determining management application settings. execution risks Granting access to the systems to certain partners and outside Process execution risks include potential business continuity risks, contractors exposes the Group to risks of intrusion and malicious the risk of exceeding regulatory or contractual processing times acts that could result in the disclosure of sensitive data. and processing failures or errors. Resources are invested in ensuring that information systems Process complexity due to our diverse range of markets, products and processes are secure and fluid and that data integrity is and partner types exposes the Group to the risk of a major protected, including through a cyber-insurance policy and the failure. long-term programme to improve systems security. However, despite this investment, systems could still be hit by technical Insured amounts are determined according to the type of problems that may have an adverse impact on operations. business, the size and the claims experience of the main Group entities. A contingency plan has been drawn up describing the As a life insurer that holds insureds’ medical data, the Group is immediate action to be taken in a crisis situation. heavily exposed to the risk of personal data breaches due to the large volume of information on policies and policyholders that is The plan seeks to minimise the disruption to operations and processed automatically or manually. continue to offer customers and partners an adequate level of service. It is updated regularly and tested in real conditions to A cross-functional compliance project was carried out within the take into account the Company’s changing needs and check that Group in preparation for the application of the new General the earmarked human and technical resources are adequate. Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In addition, a Data Protection Officer (DPO) was appointed to manage the GDPR compliance project and lead international personal data protection As a major insurance company, any compliance initiatives. security incident exposes CNP Assurances’ information systems and data to risk All new documents that collect personal data (insurance The Group’s sales and marketing and underwriting operations are application forms, administrative or financial riders, etc.) are now all organised around information systems. These mission-critical included in a process for prior validation by the DPO, and risk systems must be capable of being adapted to a rapidly changing analyses are performed on all new data processing sequences. environment and increasingly frequent cyber attacks. The protection of personal data is also discussed in section 7 – Information system risks include systems security risks, software Corporate Social Responsibility. malfunction risks and data protection risks. 116 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4 4.1.4 Other risk factors Risks related to the Group’s To limit these risks, we ensure that the necessary anticipatory strategic partnerships action is taken in good time. We enter into various strategic partnerships, directly or through Concerning these partnerships: subsidiaries, to strengthen our presence in certain markets. WW with the current agreement with Caixa Seguridade in Brazil These partnerships represent a means of sharing the business and due to expire in 2021, in August 2018, we announced the financial risk with the partners concerned. They may simply be signature of a binding framework agreement with Caixa commercial arrangements, such as a distribution agreement, or Seguridade providing for the establishment of a new long‑term involve the investment of capital in a joint subsidiary. exclusive distribution agreement until 13 February 2041 in the network of Caixa Econômica Federal *. Implementation of this Joint ownership arrangements both reduce the Group’s investment agreement is subject to various conditions precedent; risk and act as an incentive for the effective participation and WW in March 2016, we renewed our Savings/Pensions and involvement of the partner. Personal Risk/Protection partnership with La Banque Postale As part of its external growth strategy, whenever the Group for ten years. The renewed partnership commenced on identifies a potential acquisition, it commissions an in-depth audit 1 January 2016 (and will expire on 31 December 2025), of the target’s financial position. In addition, each key stage of except for home-buyer term creditor insurance for which the the process is framed by governance procedures to assess the ten-year period commenced when La Banque Postale and acquiree’s strategic fit and enable the relevant decision-making BPE began distributing new CNP Assurances policies on body to establish the conditions and parameters for completing 28 September 2016 and 3 October 2016, respectively; the deal. WW in March 2015, we renewed our partnership with BPCE, covering term creditor insurance, personal risk insurance and Integrating these partnerships or joint subsidiaries into the Group employee benefits plans. The new agreement covers the seven can sometimes take longer, be more difficult and require bigger years from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2022. We teams of employees and managers than originally expected, and have agreed with BPCE that at the end of this initial period this may negatively affect consolidated earnings. (and, if applicable, each subsequent three-year period), The constantly evolving nature of the business means that there BPCE will have the option of renewing the partnership for is no guarantee that the financial performance of acquirees or three years or acquiring the portfolio of In-Force life insurance partners will come in on plan and negative variances may result and endowment policies sold through the BPCE group, at a in impairment losses being recognised on goodwill or other price to be agreed jointly through negotiations conducted in intangible assets that negatively impact the Group’s financial good faith. If no price can be agreed, the partnership will be position (see Note 6.1 to the consolidated financial statements – renewed for a three-year period commencing 1 January 2023 Intangible assets by category). and, in the same way, for successive three-year periods up until 2052. BPCE also has the option of initiating It may be necessary to rethink a partnership in the event of negotiations for the acquisition of the portfolio of In-Force changes either to the project itself or to the local political and life insurance and endowment policies between 1 January economic situation or the partner’s own financial situation, or and 31 December 2020. If the option is exercised and the because of a disagreement between partners. portfolio is acquired during this period, the term creditor In order to manage all of these risks, long-term partnerships are insurance, personal risk insurance and employee benefit plan integrated into our financial reporting system. Their performance partnerships will remain in force until 31 December 2022. For is monitored, any necessary adjustments are made and corrective its part, CNP Assurances has the option of initiating equivalent action is taken, jointly with the distribution partner, if appropriate. negotiations in 2020 or 2022 and at the end of each three-year renewal period. We pay close attention to anticipating the expiry of our long-term partnerships and any risk of non-renewal as the ending of the strategic relationship may affect the Group’s earnings, financial position or business model. * See press release dated 22 March 2019, the content of which is presented under “Subsequent events” on page 30 of this Registration Document 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 117 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors The Group may be exposed to risks Our model risk management procedure is based on the following arising from the use of assumptions which, principles: use of a common system for the various metrics by definition, are uncertain and models (Solvency II and MCEV ©), a dedicated governance system that it does not fully master organised around committees, extensive documentation of the model to avoid any loss of modelling knowledge, independent Statistical and actuarial approaches are used to: reviews, and a model development and upgrade policy. WW price insurance products; WW build up technical reserves and ensure their adequacy by performing liability adequacy testing (LAT), and calculating Reputational risk the amount and recoverability of deferred participation assets Reputational risk is a cross-functional risk that is closely linked or reserves; to underwriting, financial and operational (legal and employeeWW measure certain indicators, such as regulatory solvency ratios, related) risks. This is because an event that unfavourably affects the value of new business, the Value of In-Force business and stakeholders’ perception of the Group may temporarily or durably the projected cash flows used for goodwill impairment testing damage its image or reputation and adversely affect its future purposes; earnings. WW determine potential shock scenarios, assess the Group’s risk Reputational risk is managed through a monitoring system, crisis exposure and calculate profitability indicators including the management plans and remedial action plans. As soon as a cost of risks. crisis occurs, whatever its nature, a crisis management plan is Certain assumptions use data extrapolated from past experience triggered. The action plan launched or the commitments made or prospective data that draw upon: following a crisis are closely monitored. WW economic, demographic, social, legislative, regulatory or This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the Group does business financial trends; in a fiercely competitive market comprising diverse types of WW policyholder behaviour (for example, policy surrenders, players (insurance companies, mutual insurers, employee benefits transfers or cancellations); institutions, commercial and investment banks, etc.) subject WW factors specific to life insurance such as mortality, morbidity to different regulations and using many different distribution or longevity. channels to market alternative products, some of which may be cheaper than the Group’s offering. While the assumptions used appear reasonable at the measurement date, actual future experience may be significantly different. In particular, changes in technical assumptions or in Risks related to the Group’s host countries the financial markets may affect reserving rates and the Value of The Group has operations in many countries, in Europe and Latin In-Force and new business, and negatively impact the Group’s America. The sustainability and development of its businesses consolidated earnings and solvency (see Note 23.4 to the depends in part on these countries’ economic health and political consolidated financial statements – Sensitivity of MCEV © to stability. market risks). More specifically, the financial viability of certain businesses may In addition, these measurements entail the use of projection depend on local regulations and government commitments in our models adapted to the Group’s insurance and investment host countries, especially in cases where we are called on to portfolios. Model risk includes: advance funds on behalf of the State. Regulatory changes (for WW risks related to the quality of the projection models (design or example, the statutory increases in life annuities introduced in execution errors, poor quality inputs, impossibility of modelling 2017) or a government decision to renege on its commitments all future situations, etc.); may lead to litigation, with a significant adverse effect on the WW risks related to the use of the models within a necessarily Group’s earnings if the courts rule against us. This could be the limited timeframe (inadequate calculation performance, case in Brazil, where Caixa Seguradora has advanced funds on difficulties in determining the right settings, etc.); behalf of the State. WW risks arising from incorrect analyses of the indicators produced Macro-economic indicators and political developments in using the models (poor interpretation of the results, utilisation our host countries are continuously monitored. In addition, we for purposes that the model was not designed for, lack of have an opportunity to review in detail the situation of the host perspective when analysing the results, poor grasp of the country and any implications for our business during our regular modelling process’s limitations, etc.). discussions with our subsidiaries. 118 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Risk factors 4 In 2018, the election of a new President in Brazil ushered in a Emerging risks new period of political and economic reform. We are keeping a close watch on developments in the country. In Italy, the formation In addition to the risks discussed above, other risks that are of a new government in 2018 led to tensions concerning the currently unknown or are considered minor or not material may country’s budget and sovereign debt. So far, these developments prove to have a material impact on the Group in the future. The have not had any material impact on the Group’s Italian business. Group may also be exposed to emerging risks, corresponding to new or rapidly evolving risks whose impact is very difficult to measure. Risks that are currently unknown or considered minor If the Group’s credit rating were may have a material adverse effect on the Group in the future. to be downgraded, this could lead to an increase in borrowing costs Among these, the Group has identified the disruptive effect of new digital players entering the insurance market and risks One of the key criteria used by bond investors to estimate the associated with new technologies. credit risk associated with an investment is the issuer’s credit rating, particularly in increasingly globalised financial markets The growing regulatory burden experienced in recent years is where it is becoming harder to obtain reliable information and to also considered to be a significant emerging risk. Implementing manage all aspects of risk. new regulations across Europe or in our host countries may prove complicated and expensive. Many different departments may Consequently, any ratings downgrade could drive up the Group’s be concerned by the change, information systems may have borrowing costs and this in turn could have an adverse effect on to be adapted and significant costs may have to be incurred its future earnings, as well as on its ability to raise funds on the for staff training to ensure compliance with the new regulatory bond markets. frameworks. In 2018, the Insurance Distribution directive (IDD), The Group’s ratings are reviewed at regular inter vals by the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. In June 2018, Moody’s assigned (PRIIPs) regulation and the General Data Protection Regulation its A1 insurer financial strength rating with stable outlook to (GDPR) came into effect, and we also had to prepare for the CNP Assurances. This rating was reaffirmed in November 2018. first-time application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 as well as taking into At the end of October 2018, Standard & Poor’s reaffirmed account changes to the Solvency II standard formula. the A insurer financial strength rating with stable outlook awarded to CNP Assurances. These ratings depend on the rating agencies’ opinion and methodology, which may change in the future in a way that is unfavourable to the Group. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements – Subordinated debt. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 119 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Information on financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and measures taken to mitigate such risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy throughout all components of the business 4.2 Information on financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and measures taken to mitigate such risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy throughout all components of the business Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arise The focus of this section is therefore on the financial risks from the Group’s: associated with the effects of climate change arising from our WW investment policy; investment policy. WW insurance business; We are nevertheless aware of the compelling need to reduce the WW internal processes. effects of climate change and in 2018, we decided to set up a Climate Risk Committee in 2019. This Committee will obtain As an insurance company, CNP Assurances contributes to the information and monitor all new developments and initiatives energy and environmental transition mainly through the choice of linked to climate change research. investments held in its asset portfolio. 4.2.1 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arising from the Group’s investment policy Risk exposure and mitigation In the case of forestry assets, our investment strategy has led to a high level of geographic diversification throughout France. Some Our climate risk analyses distinguish between physical risk and areas subject to significant natural hazards have been avoided transition risk. (south-east France, for instance, due to the fire risk). The portfolio’s geographic diversification also reduces these assets’ exposure Physical risk to extreme weather events such as storms or drought. As part of the diversification policy, a woodland investment programme in Our forestry assets are located mainly in France and their Scotland has recently been launched. exposure to physical risk is therefore limited. Our analysis of physical risks associated with our property Transition risk portfolio * based on the two IPCC scenarios provided us with a snapshot at end-2017 of the assets representing high physical The value of our assets is potentially exposed to regulatory, risks in relation to the different climate variations examined. For technological, market and reputational risks. most of the risks, CNP Assurances’ exposure is weak or nonexistent. Only buildings located around the Mediterranean and Risk mitigation in cities that are prone to urban heat islands have a higher risk of For many years, we have used several approaches to manage heatwave or higher average temperatures by 2050. transition risks: WW the identification of coal as the most material risk in 2015 Lastly, in 2018 we started examining the physical risk associated prompted us to dispose of all securities held in companies with the Equities and Bond portfolios in order to extend our vision deriving more than 25% of their revenue from thermal coal of our overall physical risk exposure. and to discontinue investing in companies deriving more than Risk mitigation 15% of their revenue from thermal coal. We stepped up our commitment at the end of 2018 by reducing the proportion Concerning property assets, we intend to use our physical risk of revenue to 10% and banning investments in the companies analysis to reduce our exposure by asking asset managers to that are the most involved in developing new coal fired power propose solutions addressing the risks. stations; * French property assets held directly by CNP Assurances or through wholly owned subsidiaries 120 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Information on financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and measures taken to mitigate such risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy throughout all components of the business 4 WW since 2016, the carbon footprint has been measured on Key indicators and objectives aligned corporate assets and bonds held directly to highlight the with the 2°C scenario companies most exposed to transition risk, i.e., those with the most carbon-intensive businesses. In keeping with our In order to track the risk exposure of our investments, we have set commitment to acting as a responsible shareholder, we four key objectives: engage discussions with their management to ensure that WW reduce the carbon footprint of the directly held equities they are aware of the associated risks and opportunities, portfolio by 47% between 2014 and 2021; and to help them in the transition to a sustainable low-carbon WW reduce greenhouse gas emissions from energy used by economy; directly held properties (measured in teqCO2/sq.m./year) WW we have also tracked the CO2 equivalent emissions avoided by 40% between 2006 and 2021: to help meet France’s since 2012 by renovating buildings. objectives, as part of our low carbon strategy we adjusted our indicator in 2018 by committing to achieving a 40% Since 2017, we have stepped up our efforts to integrate reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from energy used by transition risk by: properties held directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries; WW aligning our Equities portfolio with model portfolios made WW since the end of 2018, we have banned investment in up of shares in European companies whose activities companies that derive over 10% of their revenue from thermal are compatible with or support energy transition targets. coal (versus 15% previously) and in the companies that are the The alignment process is being conducted jointly with most involved in developing new coal fired power stations; La Banque Postale Asset Management (LBPAM) and Mirova WW make €3 billion worth of green investments in 2018, and (Natixis Investment Managers). Our objective is for the €5 billion worth of new investments in favour of the energy management of directly held equities to be aligned with and environmental transition between 2017 and 2021. these model portfolios, which are heavily weighted towards companies that contribute to the energy and environmental These commitments align our objectives with the 2°C scenario: transition; WW the target of reducing the carbon footprint of the portfolio WW in 2018, 2Dii performed an audit of our Equities and of directly held equities reflects a similar trajectory – within Corporate Bond portfolios’ alignment with the objective of a shorter timeframe – to the last AIE estimate that, in order limiting global warming to 2°C. The audit was based on a to meet the Paris agreement objectives (2017 SDS-WEO “Beyond 2°C scenario” (B2DS), corresponding to a 50% scenario), it will be necessary to reduce greenhouse gas chance of limiting the average increase in temperature emissions in the European Union by 42% over the period to 1.75°C, analysed across five sectors – fossil fuels, 2015‑2030; automotive, cement & steel, aviation & shipping, electricity WW the target of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions production – and based on different energy sources (coal, from energy used by directly held properties reflects a similar gas, renewables and oil). trajectory – within a shorter timeframe – to the last AIE estimate that, in order to meet the Paris agreement objectives (2017 SDS-WEO scenario), it will be necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union by 42% over the period 2015‑2030. 4.2.2 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arising from the Group’s insurance business CNP Assurances’ business consists mainly of writing personal our personal risk and term creditor insurance portfolios against insurance and the risks associated with the effects of climate catastrophe risk. change primarily concern mortality and morbidity rates. We take In 2018, we launched a project to consider taking into account this aspect into account in the measurement and management the wider effects of climate change on our insurance business. of underwriting risks, especially mortality and morbidity risks The Climate Risk Committee set up in 2019 will enhance our covered by individual personal risk contracts, employee benefits cross-functional vision of the effects of climate change on both our plans and term creditor insurance. assets and our liabilities. To reduce the consequences of this risk on the insurance portfolio, Lastly, our research teams are participating in industry studies and we follow a broad-based approach to protection, including hold regular discussions with universities and research institutes climate risks, by purchasing reinsurance cover against the risk on this topic. of higher-than-expected mortality rates. All cases of higher-thanexpected mortality are covered. The reinsurance treaty provides In Brazil, reinsurance treaties covering both life and non-life protection against such events as flu pandemics or heatwaves. business will kick in in the case of hydrological, geological or wind-related disasters. We also participate in the Bureau Commun des Assurances Collectives’ natural disaster pool, which enables us to protect 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 121 4 R is k f actors and ris k management Internal control and risk management procedures 4.2.3 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change arising from the Group’s internal processes The Group’s internal processes may give rise to financial risks Furthermore, as part of a virtuous mobility incentive, four electricassociated with the effects of climate change. Failure to control vehicle charging stations were installed in the car park of the the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions or to take into Company’s headquarters. In light of their success, a further four account climate-driven technological or behavioural changes may charging stations will be installed in 2019. have financial consequences. CNP Assurances has adopted energy-saving measures designed Our low-carbon strategy is embodied in the measures taken to to help buildings operate more efficiently. For example, improving reduce the environmental impact of our internal processes. how heating (French sites except Arcueil), air conditioning and ventilation systems are controlled requires the expert management of programmable time settings. Risk exposure and mitigation CNP Assurances also ensures that routine maintenance work Annual greenhouse gas emission audits serve to focus the Group’s includes a search for greater energy efficiency. The most efforts on the most effective action in the areas of business travel, energy-efficient option is always taken when replacing technical building management and paper use. equipment. This ongoing aim of reining in the environmental impact is what guides CNP Assurances’ work on its sites. Risk mitigation Lastly, action taken in recent years to reduce paper use (shared Increasing use of videoconferencing facilities and conference printers, paperless files) have saved several million sheets of calls has helped to reduce car travel. Homeworking, which is paper. covered by an agreement signed in 2018, is also one of the ways that we can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 4.3 Internal control and risk management procedures The Solvency and Financial Condition Report (SFCR) available Concerning the preparation of the separate and consolidated on the CNP Assurances website, www.cnp.fr, includes a detailed financial statements and the Group’s financial communications, description of the Group’s governance (notably, section B3 – Risk the Group Actuarial department has specific responsibility for: management and section B5.1 – Internal control system). Section C WW calculating policyholder dividend rates for all individual of the SFCR presents the Group’s risk profile and includes a policies and pension products; description of the system for managing each material risk. WW checking compliance with certain accounting principles The additional information provided below concerns procedures applicable to the consolidated financial statements (including for the preparation and processing of accounting and financial the performance of liability adequacy tests and impairment information. tests on intangible insurance assets). Internal controls have been established to provide assurance Assessment of underwriting risk concerning: WW compliance with the Group’s reporting deadlines for financial Technical reserves are determined by the Group Actuarial communication purposes; department whose activities include assessing the Group’s WW information consistency; underwriting indicators from different angles (Value of In-Force business (VIF), Value of New Business (VNB), technical reserves WW updating of contractual and financial data underlying the under French GAAP, IFRS and Solvency II). reserve calculations; WW compliance of the work performed with the rules set out in the French Insurance Code and the Group’s accounting principles and policies. 122 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES R is k f actors and ris k management Internal control and risk management procedures 4 The Group Actuarial department also assesses portfolio the process, tracking progress and determining the action to yields and values, particularly for the purpose of justifying the be taken to deal with any problems; recognition and measurement of intangible insurance assets WW first-tier controls performed by the teams in charge of preparing and calculating the value of In-Force business, as well as for the financial statements, with preparation of analysis notes; development projects. The reason for this is that technical items in WW second-tier controls performed by the Group Accounting the financial statements include contractual customer relationships department’s team responsible for analyses and controls and – corresponding to the value of the insurance books of acquired multi-standard reporting. These controls include period‑on‑period subsidiaries – and the related amortisation. At each year-end, analytical reviews by product and reconciliations of actual to results projections and simulations are produced to verify that forecast results. The headquarters accounts are reviewed by a the carrying amount of these intangible assets will be recovered dedicated team; through future profits and that no impairment loss needs to be WW close involvement of the Accounting department in internal recorded. control campaigns. The department’s Methods and Innovations unit prepares For the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in guidelines on technical reserves and MCEV © * calculations, addition to the process described above, instructions are sent to conducts actuarial research and development work, and prepares the subsidiaries before each accounts closing, the consolidation the executive summaries and analysis reports required from the packages are checked (through a combination of programmed Group Actuarial department. controls and controls performed by the Group Consolidation and Reporting department) and frequent exchanges take place Management of system and process upgrades between the accounting teams and local Auditors. System and process upgrades formed part of the Finance The challenges of planning and leading the closing process in programme completed in 2017. a multi-standard environment increased in 2018, due notably to the objective of bringing forward the publication of Solvency The programme included three IT projects that had a major II reports in 2018 and 2019. The Monitoring Accounting and impact on internal control: replacement of the accounting system regulatory Process (MAP) system launched in September 2017 in France, redesign of the Group asset management application continued to be deployed by the Accounting department among and development of the modelling and simulation application. the Group entities that apply Solvency II and perform MCEV © Application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 gives rise to major challenges calculations. By organising the interdependences between in terms of complying with the new requirements and revising the the IFRS process and the Solvency II process, MAP improves accounts closing processes. the quality of accounts production plans in a multi-standard environment. Throughout 2018, the department prepared its response to these challenges by launching projects and initiating the development In addition, a project was launched in 2018 to industrialise the of tools and processes and then by starting to bring the new accounts production process in an IFRS 9 environment, taking into computer applications on stream, especially the IFRS 9-compliant account the requirement for new IFRS 9 disclosures in the Group’s applications. The preparations took into account issues affecting communications. the Group as a whole, to provide assurance that the standards are interpreted uniformly by all entities and that the applications could be rolled out to all entities in either 2018 or 2019. Identification of publication requirements Three departments, each with its own specific skills, are involved in identifying and producing information for the markets: the Investor Accounting and preparation of financial and Shareholder Relations department, the Financial Performance statements department (comprising the Accounting, Actuarial and Budget Controls over the accounts closing process include: Control units) and the Corporate Law department. The operational WW a documented accounts closing process and governance ties forged with correspondents at the French securities regulator procedures organised around committees that meet on (Autorité des Marchés Financiers) also help to enhance the a regular basis (every week during closing and every two financial communication process on an ongoing basis. weeks between two closings) for the purpose of organising * Market Consistent Embedded Value 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 123 124 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 5 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 5.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 5.1.1 Consolidated balance sheet 126 5.1.2 Consolidated income statement 128 5.1.3 Consolidated statement of income and expense recognised in equity – 2018 129 5.1.4 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 131 5.1.5 Consolidated statement of cash flows 133 5.1.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 5.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS239 5.3 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 245 5.3.1 Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 245 5.3.2 Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 247 5.3.3 Commitments received and given 249 5.3.4 Notes to the Company financial statements 250 5.4 OTHER INFORMATION 293 5.4.1 Proposed appropriation of 2018 profit 293 5.4.2 Five-year financial summary 293 5.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS294 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 125 125 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5.1 Consolidated financial statements 5.1.1 Consolidated balance sheet ASSETS (In € millions) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Goodwill 6 253.7 273.2 Value of In-Force business 6 18.8 24.1 Other intangible assets 6 459.7 501.8 Total intangible assets 732.2 799.1 Investment property 8 2,540.0 2,568.1 Held-to-maturity investments 8 396.3 548.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 289,342.7 296,481.3 Securities held for trading 8 81,602.9 81,721.8 Loans and receivables 8 4,891.3 4,970.5 Derivative instruments 8 1,287.7 797.5 Insurance investments 380,061.0 387,088.0 Other investments 7.5 9.2 Investments in equity-accounted companies 4 516.9 65.9 Reinsurers’ share of insurance and financial liabilities 9 21,556.1 22,734.8 Insurance or reinsurance receivables 11 2,991.4 3,334.5 Current tax assets 341.0 532.5 Other receivables 11 5,192.9 4,646.9 Owner-occupied property and other property and equipment 7 311.1 291.5 Other non-current assets 2,275.5 2,280.5 Deferred participation asset 9 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax assets 19 251.6 284.3 Other assets 11,363.5 11,370.3 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,287.1 1,230.9 TOTAL ASSETS 415,524.3 423,298.2 126 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (In € millions) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Share capital 5 686.6 686.6 Share premium account 1,736.3 1,736.3 Revaluation reserve 3,015.7 4,131.6 Cash flow hedge reserve 8 (17.7) (48.4) Undated subordinated notes reclassified in equity 5 1,881.3 1,765.2 Retained earnings 9,653.0 9,060.5 Profit for the period 1,366.7 1,284.5 Translation reserve (541.4) (359.3) Equity attributable to owners of the parent 17,780.6 18,257.1 Non-controlling interests 1,740.3 1,765.9 Total equity 19,520.9 20,023.0 Insurance liabilities (excluding unit-linked) 9 162,500.9 158,653.5 Insurance liabilities (unit-linked) 9 48,223.0 45,822.4 Insurance liabilities 210,723.9 204,475.9 Financial liabilities – financial instruments with DPF (excluding unit-linked) 9 116,227.1 121,580.0 Financial liabilities – financial instruments without DPF (excluding unit-linked) 9 594.6 625.4 Financial liabilities – unit-linked financial instruments 9 7,945.5 8,187.6 Financial liabilities 124,767.3 130,393.0 Derivative financial instruments separated from the host contract 0.0 0.0 Deferred participation reserve 9 22,107.3 30,335.5 Insurance and financial liabilities 357,598.4 365,204.4 Provisions 12 174.1 210.5 Subordinated debt 10 5,336.7 5,300.0 Other financing liabilities 4.8 0.0 Financing liabilities 5,341.6 5,300.0 Operating liabilities represented by securities 11,409.0 10,310.2 Operating liabilities due to banks 182.5 470.1 Liabilities arising from insurance and reinsurance transactions 13 14,330.9 14,262.3 Current taxes payable 264.0 298.5 Current account advances 69.8 49.8 Liabilities towards holders of units in controlled mutual funds 613.1 728.1 Derivative instruments 9 1,193.3 1,110.1 Deferred tax liabilities 19 489.8 915.3 Miscellaneous payables 13 4,336.8 4,416.1 Other liabilities 32,889.3 32,560.4 Liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 415,524.3 423,298.2 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 127 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5.1.2 Consolidated income statement (In € millions) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Premiums written 32,533.7 32,460.0 Change in unearned premiums reserve (218.8) (382.5) Earned premiums 14 32,314.9 32,077.4 Revenue from other activities 14 147.9 160.3 Other operating revenue 0.5 0.2 Net investment income 7,688.7 8,371.7 Gains and losses on disposal of investments 195.0 379.4 Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (2,957.6) 3,293.8 Change in impairment losses on financial instruments 1,131.5 728.6 Investment income before finance costs 18 6,057.6 12,773.4 Income from ordinary activities 38,521.0 45,011.3 Claims and benefits expenses 15 (31,140.3) (37,538.3) Reinsurance result 17 (13.7) 106.2 Expenses of other businesses 6.3 17.9 Acquisition costs 16 (3,954.3) (3,982.0) Amortisation of value of In-Force business and distribution agreements 6 (24.8) (25.1) Contract administration expenses 16 (202.3) (198.8) Other recurring operating income and expense, net 16 (575.4) (617.1) Total other recurring operating income and expense, net (35,904.5) (42,237.1) Recurring operating profit 2,616.5 2,774.2 Other non-recurring operating income and expense, net (35.4) (18.0) Operating profit 2,581.0 2,756.3 Finance costs 18 (248.5) (246.7) Change in fair value of intangible assets 6 1.9 1.8 Share of profit of equity-accounted companies 4 128.9 7.3 Income tax expense 19 (793.3) (895.6) Profit (loss) from discontinued operations, after tax 0.0 0.0 Net profit for the period 1,670.0 1,623.1 Non-controlling interests (303.3) (338.6) Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 1,366.7 1,284.5 Basic earnings per share (in €) 1.92 1.80 Diluted earnings per share (in €) 1.92 1.80 128 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 5.1.3 Consolidated statement of income and expense recognised in equity – 2018 Equity attributable to owners Non-controlling Total (In € millions) of the parent interests equity Net profit for the period 1,366.7 303.3 1,670.0 Income and expense recognised directly in equity Amounts recycled through profit or loss (1,267.3) (87.3) (1,354.6) Available-for-sale financial assets Change in revaluation reserve during the period (8,376.5) (90.8) (8,467.3) Reclassification of proceeds from disposals to profit or loss (1,298.5) (17.9) (1,316.3) Reclassification of impairment losses to profit or loss 168.3 0.6 168.9 Sub-total including deferred participation and deferred taxes (9,506.7) (108.1) (9,614.8) Deferred participation including deferred taxes 8,001.7 86.4 8,088.1 Deferred taxes 389.1 4.2 393.2 Of which, change in revaluation reserve for non-current assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sub-total net of deferred participation and deferred taxes (1,115.9) (17.5) (1,133.5) Cash flow hedge reserve 30.7 0.0 30.7 Change in cash flow hedge reserve during the period 90.0 0.0 90.0 Cash flow hedge reserve recycled through profit or loss during the period (36.8) 0.0 (36.8) Deferred taxes (22.5) 0.0 (22.5) Translation differences (182.0) (69.8) (251.8) Amounts not recycled through profit or loss (12.9) 0.0 (12.9) Actuarial gains and losses (12.9) 0.0 (12.9) Other movements 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total income and expense recognised directly in equity (1,280.2) (87.3) (1,367.4) TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNISED IN EQUITY 86.5 216.0 302.6 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 129 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of income and expense recognised in equity – 2017 Equity attributable to owners Non-controlling Total (In € millions) of the parent interests equity Net profit for the period 1,284.5 338.6 1,623.1 Income and expense recognised directly in equity Amounts recycled through profit or loss 37.3 (144.8) (107.5) Available-for-sale financial assets Change in revaluation reserve during the period (542.1) 33.7 (508.4) Reclassification of proceeds from disposals to profit or loss (1,331.3) (22.8) (1,354.1) Reclassification of impairment losses to profit or loss 240.4 0.0 240.4 Sub-total including deferred participation and deferred taxes (1,633.0) 10.9 (1,622.1) Deferred participation including deferred taxes 1,569.0 12.5 1,581.6 Deferred taxes 336.0 (8.4) 327.7 Of which, change in revaluation reserve for non-current assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sub-total net of deferred participation and deferred taxes 272.1 15.1 287.2 Cash flow hedge reserve (6.5) 0.0 (6.5) Change in cash flow hedge reserve during the period (137.0) 0.0 (137.0) Cash flow hedge reserve recycled through profit or loss during the period 127.1 0.0 127.1 Deferred taxes 3.4 0.0 3.4 Translation differences (228.3) (159.9) (388.1) Amounts not recycled through profit or loss (6.8) 0.0 (6.8) Actuarial gains and losses (6.8) 0.0 (6.8) Other movements 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total income and expense recognised directly in equity 30.5 (144.8) (114.3) TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNISED IN EQUITY 1,315.1 193.8 1,508.8 130 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 5.1.4 Consolidated statement of changes in equity CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY – 2018 Undated Equity Share RevaCash flow subordinated Retained attributable NonShare premium luation hedge notes reclassified earnings Translation to owners of controlling Total (In € millions) capital account reserve reserve in equity and profit adjustments the parent interests equity Equity at 01.01.2018 – IFRS 686.6 1,736.3 4,131.6 (48.4) 1,765.2 10,345.1 (359.3) 18,257.1 1,765.9 20,023.0 Net profit and unrealised and deferred gains and losses for the period (1,115.9) 30.7 1,353.8 (182.0) 86.5 216.0 302.6 WW Dividends paid (576.7) (576.5) (240.9) (817.6) WW Changes in capital/ Merger premium 0.0 0.0 WW Subordinated notes, net of tax 116.1 (82.3) 33.8 33.8 WW Treasury shares, net of tax (8.5) (8.5) (8.5) WW Changes in scope of consolidation (19.0) (19.0) (0.6) (19.6) WW Other movements 7.2 7.2 7.2 EQUITY AT 31.12.2018 686.6 1,736.3 3,015.7 (17.7) 1,881.3 11,019.6 (541.4) 17,780.5 1,740.4 19,520.9 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 131 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY – 2017 Undated Equity Share RevaCash flow subordinated Retained attributable to NonShare premium luation hedge notes reclassified earnings Translation owners of the controlling Total (In € millions) capital account reserve reserve in equity and profit adjustments parent interests equity Equity at 01.01.2017 – IFRS 686.6 1,716.8 3,846.4 (41.9) 1,765.2 9,691.4 (131.1) 17,533.5 1,763.1 19,296.6 Net profit and unrealised and deferred gains and losses for the period 272.1 (6.5) 1,277.7 (228.3) 1,315.1 193.8 1,508.8 WW Dividends paid 0.0 0.0 (549.3) (549.3) (193.2) (742.5) WW Changes in capital/ Merger premium 0.0 19.5 0.0 (19.5) 0.0 WW Subordinated notes, net of tax (48.4) (48.4) (48.4) WW Treasury shares, net of tax (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) WW Changes in scope of consolidation 6.6 (8.0) (1.4) 0.0 (1.4) WW Other movements 6.6 1.5 8.0 2.2 10.2 EQUITY AT 31.12.2017 686.6 1,736.3 4,131.6 (48.4) 1,765.2 10,345.1 (359.3) 18,257.1 1,765.9 20,023.0 132 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 5.1.5 Consolidated statement of cash flows The consolidated statement of cash flows includes: Definition of cash flows from operating WW cash flows of fully consolidated companies; activities WW cash flows arising from Group investments, dividends and Cash flows from operating activities correspond essentially to the other transactions with associates or jointly-controlled entities cash flows of the Group’s revenue-generating activities. accounted for using the equity method. Definition of cash flows from investing Definition of cash and cash equivalents activities Cash and cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid Cash flows from investing activities correspond to cash flows from investments (sight deposits and other instruments) that are readily purchases and sales of investment property and securities, ownerconvertible into known amounts of cash and are subject to an occupied property and equipment and intangible assets. insignificant risk of changes in value. They include units in “ordinary” money market funds but do not Definition of cash flows from financing include units in dynamic funds that are highly sensitive to changes activities in market prices, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the French financial markets authority (Autorité des Marchés Cash flows from financing activities correspond to all cash flows Financiers – AMF) No. 2011-13. This approach analyses leading to a change in the amount and components of equity both the fund prospectus and yield patterns (fund performance, and financing liabilities, as follows: volatility, etc.). WW share issues and cancellations; WW debt issues and repayments; Cash and cash equivalents reported in the statement of cash flows are stated net of bank overdrafts used for cash management WW purchases and sales of treasury shares; purposes. WW dividends paid to owners of the parent and non-controlling shareholders of subsidiaries. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 133 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Operating profit before tax 2,581.0 2,756.3 Gains and losses on disposal of investments (115.6) (610.2) Depreciation and amortisation expense, net 108.4 114.2 Change in deferred acquisition costs (86.9) (307.8) Impairment losses, net (1,145.6) (725.7) Charges to technical reserves for insurance and financial liabilities 3,401.4 7,209.7 Charges to provisions, net (24.0) (30.4) Change in fair value of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (other than cash and cash equivalents) 2,918.2 (3,300.3) Other adjustments 574.9 (249.0) Dividends received from equity-accounted companies 68.0 4.8 Total adjustments 5,698.8 2,105.2 Change in operating receivables and payables (629.5) (1,359.5) Change in securities sold and purchased under repurchase and resale agreements 1,098.9 1,664.8 Change in other assets and liabilities (43.4) (64.4) Income taxes paid, net of reimbursements (636.1) (993.2) Net cash provided by (used by) operating activities 8,069.7 4,109.2 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired (1) (14.0) 78.4 Divestments of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash sold 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions of associates 0.0 0.0 Divestments of associates 0.0 0.0 Net cash provided by (used by) divestments and acquisitions (14.0) 78.4 Proceeds from the sale of financial assets 89,983.8 96,042.9 Proceeds from the sale of investment properties 147.9 375.2 Proceeds from the sale of other investments 0.0 5.0 Net cash provided by (used by) sales and redemptions of investments 90,131.7 96,423.1 Acquisitions of financial assets (98,597.6) (98,415.2) Acquisitions of investment properties (110.7) (451.3) Acquisitions of other investments 0.0 0.0 Net cash provided by (used by) acquisitions of investments (98,708.3) (98,866.5) Proceeds from the sale of property and equipment and intangible assets 5.5 8.7 Purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets (77.0) (52.8) Net cash provided by (used by) sales and purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets (71.5) (44.2) Net cash provided by (used by) investing activities (8,662.1) (2,409.2) Issuance of equity instruments 0.0 0.0 Redemption of equity instruments 0.0 0.0 Purchases and sales of treasury shares (8.5) (0.4) Dividends paid (812.7) (748.1) Net cash provided by (used by) transactions with owners (821.2) (748.5) 134 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 New borrowings 496.0 0.0 Repayments of borrowings (431.6) 0.0 Interest paid on borrowings (321.5) (320.5) Net cash provided by (used by) other financing activities (257.1) (320.4) Net cash provided by (used by) financing activities (1,078.3) (1,068.9) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 19,245.8 18,716.3 Net cash provided by (used by) operating activities 8,069.7 4,109.2 Net cash provided by (used by) investing activities (8,662.1) (2,409.2) Net cash provided by (used by) financing activities (1,078.3) (1,068.9) Effect of changes in exchange rates (4.4) (50.5) Effect of changes in accounting policies and other changes (2) 367.3 (51.1) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE REPORTING DATE 17,938.1 19,245.8 (1) In 2017, the positive amount reported for “Acquisitions of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired” primarily reflected the acquired cash recognised on first-time consolidation of CNP Luxembourg, the OPCI Raspail property fund and SAS Alleray (2) The amount reported under “Effect of changes in accounting policies and other changes” corresponds to reclassifications of cash equivalents as “Ordinary money market funds” Reconciliation of cash flows from financing activities to the amounts reported in the financial statements This table reconciles cash flows from financing activities to the amounts reported in the other financial statements. Other movements correspond to changes in deferred taxes and fair value adjustments to the cash flow hedge reserve recognised directly in equity. 31 DECEMBER 2018 Undated subordinaOther Cash flow ted notes reclassiSubordinated financing (In € millions) hedge reserve fied in equity debt liabilities Total 31.12.2017 (48.4) 1,765.2 5,300.0 0.0 7,016.8 Issue 0.0 496.0 0.0 0.0 496.0 Redemption 0.0 (431.6) 0.0 0.0 (431.6) Total cash items 0.0 64.4 0.0 0.0 64.4 Translation adjustments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value adjustments 36.2 0.0 36.8 0.0 73.0 Changes in scope of consolidation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other movements (5.5) 51.7 0.0 4.8 51.0 Total non-cash items 30.7 51.7 36.8 4.8 124.0 31.12.2018 (17.7) 1,881.3 5,336.7 4.8 7,205.2 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 135 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31 DECEMBER 2017 Undated subordinaOther Cash flow hedge ted notes reclassified Subordinated financing (In € millions) reserve in equity debt liabilities Total 31.12.2016 (41.9) 1,765.2 5,427.1 0.0 7,150.4 Issue 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Redemption 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total cash items 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Translation adjustments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value adjustments (6.5) 0.0 (127.1) 0.0 (133.6) Changes in scope of consolidation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other movements 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total non-cash items (6.5) 0.0 (127.1) 0.0 (133.6) 31.12.2017 (48.4) 1,765.2 5,300.0 0.0 7,016.8 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents reported in the consolidated balance sheet and in the consolidated statement of cash flows (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Cash and cash equivalents (reported in the consolidated balance sheet) 1,287.1 1,230.9 Cash and cash equivalents relating to assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 Operating liabilities due to banks (182.5) (470.1) Securities held for trading 16,833.5 18,485.1 TOTAL (REPORTED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS) 17,938.1 19,245.8 Cash and cash equivalents reported in the consolidated statement WW securities held for trading, consisting of money market mutual of cash flows correspond to: funds reported in the consolidated balance sheet under WW cash and cash equivalents reported in the consolidated “insurance investments”. balance sheet under assets; WW operating liabilities due to banks corresponding to short-term bank loans and overdrafts other than financing liabilities, reported in the consolidated balance sheet under liabilities; 136 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 5.1.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements DETAILED CONTENTS SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE PERIOD AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 138 NOTE 1 Significant events of the period 138 NOTE 2 Subsequent events 138 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 139 NOTE 3 Summary of significant accounting policies 139 S C O P E O F C O N S O L I D AT I O N  144 NOTE 4 Scope of consolidation 144 A N A LY S I S O F T H E M A I N C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E B A L A N C E S H E E T  1 5 5 NOTE 5 Equity155 NOTE 6 Intangible assets 158 NOTE 7 Owner-occupied property and other property and equipment 162 NOTE 8 Insurance investments 164 NOTE 9 Insurance and financial liabilities 186 NOTE 10 Subordinated debt 198 NOTE 11 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 200 NOTE 12 Provisions for liabilities and charges 201 NOTE 13 Liabilities arising from insurance and reinsurance transactions 202 A N A LY S I S O F T H E M A I N C O M P O N E N T S O F T H E I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T  206 NOTE 14 Premium income 206 NOTE 15 Claims and benefits expenses 210 NOTE 16 Administrative expenses and business acquisition costs 210 NOTE 17 Reinsurance result 212 NOTE 18 Investment income 213 NOTE 19 Income tax expense 217 NOTE 20 Segment information 220 O T H E R A N A LY S E S  223 NOTE 21 Contingent liabilities 223 NOTE 22 Related party information 223 NOTE 23 Financial risks 226 NOTE 24 Liquidity risk and asset/liability management 230 NOTE 25 Risks related to insurance and financial liabilities 232 NOTE 26 Commitments given and received 238 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 137 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE PERIOD AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS NOTE 1 Significant events of the period Antoine Lissowski appointed as Chief Executive respectively 51% and 49% of the voting rights and 40% and 60% Officer of CNP Assurances of the economic rights. On 15 November 2018, CNP Assurances’ Board of Directors On the closing date, CSH will transfer to the new joint venture approved Antoine Lissowski’s appointment as Chief Executive the In-Force insurance portfolios for the products included in Officer of CNP Assurances. the scope of the agreement (life insurance, consumer credit life insurance and private pension plans). Conclusion of a binding framework agreement The closing of the transaction is subject to a number of condition with Caixa Seguridade precedents, including in particular its approval by the relevant regulatory and competition authorities. On 30 August 2018, CNP Assurances announced the conclusion of a binding framework agreement providing for the establishment of a new long-term exclusive distribution agreement €500 million perpetual subordinated notes issue until 13 February 2041 in Brazil in the network of Caixa On 20 June 2018, CNP Assurances finalised a €500 million Econômica Federal (CEF), one of the leading Brazilian banks issue of undated subordinated notes with a first call date of and one of the five largest in Latin America. 27 June 2028. The issue is classified as equity under IFRS. The This new agreement builds on the successful track-record of bonds pay a 4.75% fixed rate of interest over the first 10 years CNP Assurances and CEF’s partnership since 2001, through their and the coupon will subsequently be adjusted every five years Caixa Seguros Holding (CSH) joint venture, which demonstrated in line with future benchmark interest rates. Payment of the an ability to combine strong growth, high profitability and regular coupon is discretionary. The notes feature a principal writecash flow generation. down mechanism together with mandatory interest cancellation in the event of non-compliance with solvency requirements, in The new exclusivity perimeter in CEF’s network concern life accordance with the Solvency II directive. insurance, consumer credit life insurance and private pension plans. In line with the terms of the non-binding Memorandum The issue proceeds will be eligible for inclusion in Solvency II of Understanding signed at the end of September 2017, the Restricted Tier 1 regulatory capital. The notes have been rated new distribution agreement will be implemented through a newly BBBby Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 by Moody’s. formed insurance joint venture between CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguridade, the holding company for CEF’s insurance operations, with CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguridade owning NOTE 2 Subsequent events No significant changes occurred after the financial year-end. 138 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTE 3 Summary of significant accounting policies CNP Assurances SA, the parent company of the Group, is a IFRIC 13 – Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 – Agreements société anonyme (joint-stock company) with a Board of Directors, for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 – Transfers of Assets governed by the French Insurance Code (Code des assurances). from Customers, and SIC 31 – Revenue – Barter Transactions It has fully paid-up share capital of €686,618,477. The Involving Advertising Services. Company is registered in the Paris Trade and Companies Register Specific types of contracts dealt with in other standards, such as under no. 341 737 062. leases, insurance policies and financial instruments, are excluded The registered office is located at 4, place Raoul-Dautry, 75015 from the scope of IFRS 15. Paris. The amendments clarifying IFRS 15 published on 12 April 2016 The Group’s principal business is the writing of personal were adopted by the European Union on 31 October 2017 insurance. CNP Assurances’ corporate purpose is to: and are also applicable for accounting periods beginning on or WW write life and endowment insurance; after 1 January 2018. The amendments to the standard, which WW write bodily injury insurance covering accident and health risks; was published in 2014, do not alter the underlying principles but simply clarify the way in which they should be applied. WW hold majority interests in insurance companies. Amendments to the body of the standard are limited. Most of The consolidated financial statements for the year ended the changes concern the Basis for Conclusions and Illustrative 31 December 2018 include the financial statements of the Examples. Company and its subsidiaries, as well as the Group’s interests These amendments are applicable retrospectively in accordance in the results and net assets of jointly-controlled entities and with IAS 8, as if they had formed an integral part of IFRS 15 on associates. They were approved by the Board of Directors on the date of first-time adoption. 20 February 2019. The Group has reviewed its activities falling within the scope of IFRS 15. Revenue recognised under IAS 18 represented 0.29% 3.1 Statement of compliance of consolidated premium income in 2017, and 0.26% in 2018. In accordance with EU directive 1606/2002/EC of 19 July 2002, the consolidated financial statements have been Further to the review of the main sources of revenue subject to prepared in accordance with the IFRSs adopted by the European recognition under IFRS 15, the Group has determined that its Union before 31 December 2018. accounting policies do not require adjustment. The subsidiaries all apply Group accounting policies, as 3.1.1.2 Annual improvements and amendments presented in these notes. Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions, IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency 3.1.1 New accounting standards adopted Transactions and Advance Consideration, and IAS 40 – since 1 January 2018 Transfers of Investment Property were adopted by the European Union during the first quarter of 2018 and are applicable for 3.1.1.1 IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. They with Customers do not have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated IFRS 15 was published on 28 May 2014 and is financial statements. applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after IFRS annual improvements, 2014-2016 cycle: the amendments 1 January 2018, following adoption by the European Union were adopted by the European Union on 8 February 2018 on 22 September 2016. This standard provides a single model and are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or to be applied to all contracts with customers. It replaces the after 1 January 2018. The annual improvements do not have a standards previously dealing with revenue recognition, namely material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. IAS 18 – Revenue and IAS 11 – Construction Contracts, and related interpretations along with the following interpretations: 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 139 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 3.1.2 Application of IFRS 9 deferred to Equity instruments are always measured at FVTPL with the 1 January 2021 (IFRS 4 amendment) exception of those not held for trading. An entity may make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income The final version of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments was published subsequent changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity on 24 July 2014 and was adopted by the European Union instrument that is not held for trading (including realised gains on 22 November 2016. It is effective for accounting periods and losses). Only dividends received from such investments are beginning on or after 1 January 2018. to be recognised in profit or loss. However, the Group has elected to apply the option of deferring IFRS 9 retains the accounting treatment of financial liabilities but application until 1 January 2021 (see below). adds guidance on certain issues, notably the impact of changes This standard, which replaces IAS 39 – Financial Instruments, in own credit risk in profit or loss when non-trading financial sets out accounting principles and disclosure requirements for liabilities are measured at fair value. financial assets and liabilities. 3.1.2.1.2 Impairment The final version of IFRS 9 consolidates the three core phases, IFRS 9 also introduces a new debt instrument impairment i.e., classification and measurement, impairment and hedge model that involves writing off expected credit losses at initial accounting. recognition. Under IAS 39, impairment losses were only taken if there was a recognised risk due to the existence of one or more 3.1.2.1 Main provisions of IFRS 9 objective indicators of impairment. 3.1.2.1.1 Classification and measurement Under the new model, assets move through three stages: IFRS 9 introduces a standard approach to classification and WW at investment: the entity recognises 12-month expected credit measurement of financial assets and contains only three losses and interest income is calculated on the gross carrying classification categories: amortised cost, fair value through other amount of the instrument; comprehensive income (FVTOCI) and fair value through profit or WW stage 2: if there has been a significant increase in credit risk loss (FVTPL). since initial recognition, lifetime expected credit losses are recognised, and interest income is still calculated on the gross As far as debt instruments are concerned, the assessment is carrying amount of the asset; based around two criteria that determine how a financial asset WW stage 3: if a credit event affects the issuer, lifetime expected should be classified and measured: credit losses are recognised and interest income is calculated WW the business model that the entity uses for managing the on the net carrying amount. financial asset; WW the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. 3.1.2.1.3 Hedge accounting IFRS 9 broadens hedge accounting eligibility criteria in exchange IFRS 9 introduces two types of business model as follows: for greater transparency in risk management disclosure. WW the financial asset is held within a business model whose The new model marks an important change that aligns hedge objective is to hold the financial asset to collect the contractual accounting more closely with risk management and enables cash flows. If this is the case, the financial asset is measured entities to disclose these activities more effectively in their at amortised cost; financial statements. For example, IFRS 9 allows entities to hedge WW the financial asset is held within a business model whose the risk components of non-financial items and homogeneous objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows groups of items for all types of risk on a net basis. and selling financial assets. If so, the financial asset must be measured at FVTOCI. IFRS 9 changes certain aspects relating to hedging instruments. In particular, changes in the fair value of the time value of an All other financial assets must be measured at fair value through option used as a hedging instrument may be recognised in profit or loss (FVTPL). An entity may designate a financial asset as OCI. Eligibility also extends to the forward element of a forward measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces contract or the foreign currency basis spread, thus reducing an inconsistency in valuation methods or accounting treatment volatility in the income statement. (sometimes referred to as an accounting mismatch). 140 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 The standard also makes hedge effectiveness testing less rigid. WW the amendment to IFRS 4 requires additional disclosures in the Retrospective and prospective testing (using the 80% to 125% notes during the transition period (2018-2021), concerning bright line) is replaced by a single prospective test based on three the classification of assets and the reporting entity’s exposure effectiveness requirements: there is “an economic relationship” to credit risk on assets meeting the criteria in IFRS 9 (assets for between the hedged item and the hedging instrument; the effect which the contractual cash flows consist solely of payments of of credit risk does not “dominate the value changes” that result principal and interest). from that economic relationship; and the hedge ratio is consistent These additional disclosures are presented in Note 8.11, in with the entity’s risk management approach. accordance with the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements concerning On 12 October 2017, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 9 annual financial statements. – Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation. They were adopted by the European Union on 22 March 2018. 3.1.2.3 Estimated impact for CNP Assurances of applying IFRS 9 3.1.2.2 IFRS 9 transition arrangements The Group is currently reviewing the basis of application and the under the deferral approach potential impact of the new standard. The information presented IFRS 9 was adopted on 22 November 2016 for use in the below corresponds to overall qualitative estimates of the impact European Union for accounting periods beginning on or after of applying IFRS 9 as it currently stands. 1 January 2018. However, the Group has deferred application However, confirmation of these estimates will depend on: until 2021 as its activities are predominantly related to insurance. WW the ongoing examination and interpretation of the final version The publication on 12 September 2016 by the IASB of an of IFRS 17 – Insurance Contracts published on 18 May 2017, amendment to IFRS 4 – Insurance Contracts stipulates how which will replace IFRS 4, and its interaction with IFRS 9; insurance undertakings should apply IFRS 9 in conjunction with WW the adoption of IFRS 17 by the European Commission. IFRS 4. This amendment, which was adopted by the European Commission on 3 November 2017, was issued in response The definitive impact of these reclassifications on the net income to the need to align first-time adoption of IFRS 9 with that of will depend on the options for implementing IFRS 17. Thus, a the new insurance standard (IFRS 17) and provides an option precise valuation remains uncertain. to defer adoption of IFRS 9 for a period of three years until 1 January 2021 (the “deferral approach”). 3.1.3 Main accounting standards and Deferral of application is granted to companies whose activities interpretations approved by the are predominantly related to insurance so that IFRS 9 be European Union but not yet in force implemented concomitantly with the new IFRS Insurance Contracts standard. 3.1.3.1 IFRS 16 – Leases The IASB has also introduced an option to simplify application IFRS 16 – Leases was published on 13 January 2016 and for Groups applying IFRS 9 by allowing associates and joint adopted by the European Union on 31 October 2017; it is ventures accounted for using the equity method to continue to applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after prepare their consolidation packages in accordance with IAS 39 1 January 2019. It replaces IAS 17 – Leases and the related if they are not required to adopt IFRS 9 in their separate financial interpretations (IFRIC 4, SIC 15 and SIC 27). The principal statements. Application of this option by CNP Assurances aims of the new standard are to present the assets and liabilities enables the Group to continue accounting for financial assets in of lessors and lessees more fairly, provide more transparent accordance with IAS 39 until 2021. information, and improve the comparability of financial CNP Assurances fulfils the eligibility criteria for adopting the information presented by entities that lease assets and those deferral approach: that borrow funds to acquire assets outright. The main changes WW first, as of 31 December 2015, its insurance business compared to IAS 17 are as follows: represented more than the 90% threshold for applying this WW all leases will be recognised in the lessees’ balance sheet, approach; providing better visibility of their assets and liabilities; WW second, it is accounted for using the equity method in the WW IFRS 16 introduces a single lease accounting model for consolidated financial statements of its three main shareholders lessees, in which all leases are treated as finance leases; which are financial institutions and which apply IFRS 9 as from 2018. As a result, it will not be required to prepare its consolidation package in accordance with IFRS 9; 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 141 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements WW lessees may elect not to apply IFRS 16 to short-term leases IFRS 17 will apply to: and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (such WW written insurance and reinsurance contracts; as laptops); WW all reinsurance contracts giving rise to a significant insurance risk; WW a new definition of leases: “A lease is a contract, or part of a WW investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature. contract, that conveys the right to use an asset (the underlying asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration”; The new standard requires the insurance component of each WW the accounting treatment of service contracts is not modified contract to be recognised separately from the other components, by IFRS 16. However, the standard provides guidance on such as: separating the “service” component of a complex contract WW certain embedded derivatives; from the “lease” component. WW separate investment components; WW other performance obligations, for example a promise to The Group’s analyses have shown that the impact of applying transfer non-insurance goods or services. IFRS 16 will not be material because of its limited use of leasing solutions. These components will be recognised and measured separately in accordance with the standard that would apply to them if they 3.1.3.2 IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over were separate contracts. Income Tax Treatments When an insurance or reinsurance contract is written, the liability On 7 June 2017, the IASB published IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty will be measured according to the Building Block Approach over Income Tax Treatments. This interpretation was adopted by (BBA), based on the following blocks: the European Union on 23 October 2018; it is applicable for WW discounted present value of future cash flows that relate accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. directly to the fulfilment of the contractual obligations (fulfilment cash flows); 3.1.3.3 Amendments to IAS 28 – Long-term WW a risk margin reflecting the uncertainty about the amount and interests in associates and joint ventures timing of these cash flows; WW a contractual service margin (CSM). The amendments to IAS 28 published on 12 October 2017 were adopted by the European Union on 8 February 2019 and The CSM represents the unearned profit of the group of insurance are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after contracts that the entity will recognise as it provides services in 1 January 2019. the future. It is included in deferred revenue on the liabilities side of the balance sheet and recognised in income as the services are provided. If the group of insurance contracts is expected 3.1.4 Main standards and interpretations to generate a loss, rather than recording a negative CSM the published but not yet approved by expected loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss when the European Union the contracts are written. 3.1.4.1 IFRS 17 – Insurance contracts A second model – the Variable Fee Approach (VFA) – is applicable to insurance contracts with direct participation features IFRS 17 – Insurance Contracts was published on 18 May 2017, that contain the following conditions: representing the culmination of many years’ work by the IASB. IFRS 17 establishes the principles for the recognition, WW the contractual terms specify that the policyholder participates measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts in a share of a clearly identified pool of underlying items; within the scope of the standard. It replaces IFRS 4 for annual WW the entity expects to pay to the policyholder an amount equal reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 (with to a substantial share of the fair value of returns from the comparative information for 2020 to be presented on the same underlying items; basis). WW a substantial proportion of the cash flows the entity expects to pay to the policyholder are expected to vary in line with On 14 November 2018, the IASB proposed a one-year deferral changes in the fair value of the underlying items. of the standard’s effective date so that certain concerns could be addressed. A public consultation on the proposed amendments will take place in 2019 before any changes are confirmed. 142 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 In addition to the General Model (BBA), IFRS 17 also includes 3.1.4.2 Amendments to the following standards an optional simplified measurement approach – the Premium The amendments to IAS 19 published on 7 February 2018 and Allocation Approach (PAA) – which may be applied to: those resulting from the 2015-2017 IFRS annual improvements WW all insurance contracts other than those with direct participation cycle (published on 12 December 2017) have not yet been features provided that the PPA produces a measurement of adopted by the European Union. The IASB currently expects these the liability that would not be materially different from that amendments to be applicable for accounting periods beginning produced applying the BBA; on or after 1 January 2019. WW contracts with a short duration (coverage period of one year or less). Other amendments are due to be applicable as from For the purpose of applying the PPA, the initial liability 1 January 2020. These include amendments to References to corresponds to the premiums received at initial recognition and the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards (published on no CSM is calculated. Acquisition costs may be deferred in 29 March 2018), to IFRS 3 (published on 22 October 2018) assets or recognised as an expense. and to IAS 1 and IAS 8 (published on 30 October 2018). Under IFRS 17, insurance liabilities will be measured at a more The Group is currently studying the potential impact of the granular level. Specifically, they will be divided into portfolios, amendments not applicable from 1 January 2018. as follows: WW each portfolio will comprise contracts subject to similar risks that are managed together. A portfolio will not contain 3.1.5 Application of IAS 29 contracts written more than one year apart; Argentina has been qualified as a hyperinflationary economy WW each portfolio will be divided into three accounting groups since 1 July 2018. when the contracts are initially recognised, for the calculation As a result, IAS 29 – Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary and tracking of the contractual service margin (CSM). The Economies requires the financial statements of entities whose groups are as follows: functional currency is the Argentine peso to be restated. —— contracts that are onerous at initial recognition, —— contracts that at initial recognition have no significant CNP Assurances has two subsidiaries in Argentina, possibility of becoming onerous, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros et CNP SA de Capitalización, whose functional currency is the Argentine peso. —— other contracts. The analysis of the impacts related to the application of this Application of IFRS 17 will have a significant impact on the standard enables the Group to ensure that its accounting policies Group’s consolidated financial statements: do not need to be modified. WW it will modify the presentation of the balance sheet and the notes; WW the consolidated income statement will be renamed the 3.2 Basis of preparation of the consolidated statement of financial performance and will comprise two key financial statements indicators: The following information is incorporated by reference in —— insurance service result, corresponding to insurance the Registration Document, in accordance with Article 28 revenue less amortisation of the CSM and the risk of European Commission Regulation 809/2004/EC dated adjustment, the experience adjustment (difference between 29 April 2004: expected claims and expenses and paid claims and expenses) and expenses on onerous contracts, WW the consolidated financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the related Statutory —— insurance finance income or expenses; Auditors’ report, as presented on pages 112 to 224, and WW it will also lead to a major reorganisation of management pages 225 to 229, respectively, of the Registration Document processes, including statutory accounting, account closing, filed with the AMF on 29 March 2018; management accounting and internal and external reporting WW the consolidated financial statements of CNP Assurances for systems; the year ended 31 December 2016 and the related Statutory WW actuarial modelling tools are also expected to be affected; Auditors’ report, as presented on pages 66 to 171, and WW in addition, the internal organisation of accounting processes pages 172 to 173, respectively, of the Registration Document will need to be adjusted, with the introduction of new filed with the AMF on 6 April 2017. measurement, consolidation and reporting processes. The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions of The effects of applying IFRS 17 are currently being analysed by euros, rounded up or down to the nearest decimal. the Group. IFRS 9 – Financial Assets replaces IAS 39 as from the same dates and the effects of applying these two new standards They have been prepared according to the cost model, except for are being analysed jointly. (i) insurance assets and liabilities and assets and liabilities related to investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature IFRS 17 is in the process of being adopted by the European which have been measured by the methods used in the French Union. The Group is contributing actively to the review of its GAAP accounts, and (ii) financial assets at fair value through implications by the accounting and insurance authorities in profit or loss (financial assets held for trading and financial assets France and the European Union. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 143 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit These estimates and the underlying assumptions are based on or loss), available-for-sale financial assets, investment property past experience, regulatory information, generally accepted held in unit-linked portfolios and derivative instruments separated actuarial principles and other factors considered reasonable from their host contracts, which are measured using the fair value under the circumstances and they are subject to sensitivity model. analyses when this is required by regulations or when such tests back up the assumptions made by the Group. Non-current assets and groups of assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair They ser ve as the basis for the exercise of judgement in value less costs to sell, with the exception of deferred tax determining the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that assets, assets generated by employee benefits, financial assets, cannot be obtained directly from other sources. Actual values may investment property measured at fair value, biological assets be different from these estimates. Estimates and the underlying and assets arising under insurance contracts, all of which are assumptions are reviewed at regular intervals. measured using their own specific valuation basis. The effects of changes in accounting estimates are recognised in The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the period in which the change occurs. IFRSs requires the use of estimates and assumptions that have The accounting policies described below have been applied an impact on the application of accounting policies and on the consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. statements. The main balance sheet headings concerned by such estimates and assumptions include goodwill (particularly with regard They have been applied uniformly by all Group entities. to impairment testing), the value of In-Force business, assets measured at fair value not quoted in an active market, insurancerelated assets and liabilities (technical reserves, deferred participation assets and deferred participation reserves) and deferred taxes. SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION NOTE 4 Scope of consolidation 4.1 Scope of consolidation Power results from existing rights that give the current ability to and associated companies direct an investee’s relevant activities. The rights that confer power may differ depending on the investee’s purpose and design, The consolidated financial statements include the financial structure, the nature of its relevant activities or the way in which statements of subsidiaries, jointly-controlled entities and decisions about the investee are taken. It is generally voting or associates. Other than the regulatory capital requirements of the similar rights that give an investor power, either individually or in insurance subsidiaries, the Group does not have any restrictions combination with other arrangements. If contractual arrangements limiting its access to assets or settling the liabilities of the entities have a bearing on the relevant activities, they need to be within its scope of consolidation. analysed to determine whether rights held are sufficient to confer power. In circumstances where it is difficult to determine whether Subsidiaries an investor’s rights are sufficient to give it power over an investee, it may be necessary to consider evidence of whether it has the A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company. Control is a practical ability to direct the relevant activities unilaterally. function of three elements: power over the investee; exposure, or rights, to variable returns from involvement with the investee; and Exposure or rights to variable returns from involvement with the the ability to use power over the investee to affect the amount of investee are assessed based on the investor’s returns from existing the investor’s returns. arrangements which have the potential to vary as a result of the investee’s performance. An investor assesses whether returns from 144 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 an investee are variable and how variable those returns are on factors, regardless of the percentage of voting rights held. Other the basis of the substance of the arrangement and regardless of indicators of significant influence include representation on the the legal form of the returns. Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the associate and material transactions between CNP Assurances and the Control does not merely result from power over the investee and associate. exposure to variable returns, but from the ability to use power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s returns from The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share its involvement with the investee. Thus, an investor with decisionof the net assets and profits of associates, recognised using the making rights must determine whether it is acting as a principal equity method, from or up to the date when the Group exercises or an agent. or ceases to exercise significant influence. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated. If the Group’s share of an associate’s losses is equal to or greater than the carrying amount of its investment in the entity concerned, New subsidiaries are consolidated from the date when control is the investment is reduced to zero and recognition of the Group’s acquired. Divested subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date share of future losses is discontinued, unless the Group has when control is relinquished. incurred legal or constructive obligations to bear a portion of Non-controlling interests represent the interests of minority future losses or to make payments on behalf of the associate. shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries. The materiality of these This exemption provided for in paragraph 18 of IAS 28 is used non-controlling interests is assessed based on the percentage on a case-by-case basis when the value of an investment in a interest in the share capital of the subsidiary, as well as their company over which the Group exercises significant influence is impact on the consolidated financial statements. determined on the basis of participatory contracts (see Note 9.2). Jointly-controlled entities (joint arrangements) 4.2 Business combinations and other changes A jointly-controlled entity is a contractual arrangement whereby in the scope of consolidation the Group and one or more other parties exercise joint control. Business combinations in which the Group acquires control of one Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an or more businesses are recognised using the purchase method. arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing Business combinations carried out prior to 1 January 2010 control. There are two types of joint arrangement: are recognised in accordance with the accounting principles WW joint operations: a joint arrangement whereby the parties that used to prepare the financial statements for the year ended have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets 31 December 2009. Non-controlling interests (also known as and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. minority interests) are measured at the Group’s proportionate Each joint operator accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues share in the acquiree’s net revalued assets, while adjustments to and expenses relating to its interest in the joint operation and contingent consideration are treated as an adjustment to the cost in accordance with the applicable IFRSs; of the combination. WW joint ventures: a joint arrangement whereby the parties that Business combinations that took place after 1 January 2010 are have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net recognised and measured in accordance with revised IFRS 3. assets of the arrangement. Each joint venturer recognises its Consideration transferred (acquisition cost) is measured at the interest in the joint venture as an investment using the equity acquisition-date fair value of the assets transferred, liabilities method. incurred and equity interests issued by the buyer. The acquiree’s The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s interest identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at in the joint venture, recognised using the equity method, from or the acquisition date. Costs directly attributable to the business up to the date when the Group exercises or ceases to exercise combination are expensed as incurred. joint control. Any excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s proportionate share in the net fair value of the acquiree’s Associates identifiable assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill (full goodwill method). CNP Assurances can choose to measure its An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant non-controlling interests at fair value. influence. Significant influence is defined as the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the Goodwill is calculated at the date control is obtained and associate. is not adjusted after the end of the measurement period. No additional goodwill is recognised on subsequent acquisitions of It is presumed to be exercised when the Group holds at least 20% non-controlling interests. of the associate’s voting rights, directly or indirectly. However, this is only one of the criteria used, and the existence or absence of Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests are significant influence may be determined on the basis of other recognised directly in equity. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 145 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements If the consideration transferred is lower than the Group’s 4.4 Foreign currency translation into proportionate share in the net assets of the acquiree measured the Group’s presentation currency at fair value, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss The functional currency of subsidiaries, in which the majority of for the period. transactions are denominated, is their local currency. The initial accounting for a business combination must be Assets and liabilities of international operations – mainly completed within 12 months of the acquisition date. This international subsidiaries and independent branches – including timeline applies to the measurement of identifiable assets and goodwill and fair value adjustments recorded on consolidation, liabilities, consideration transferred and non‑controlling interests. are translated into euros, i.e., the Group’s presentation currency, In principle, any adjustments made after the measurement period at the closing exchange rate. affecting financial assets or liabilities are recognised in profit or loss, unless they concern errors whose correction leads to an Income and expenses of international operations are translated at adjustment of the purchase price allocation. the exchange rate on the transaction date. For practical reasons, the average exchange rate for the period is used as the rate on the transaction date for currencies that have been subject to only 4.3 Intragroup transactions limited fluctuations during the period. All transactions and balances between fully consolidated companies and all intragroup income and expenses are Translation differences between the exchange rates used to eliminated in full. Losses resulting from the impairment of an asset translate assets and liabilities, and those used to translate income transferred in an intragroup transaction are not eliminated. and expenses are recognised separately in equity as a translation adjustment. 4.5 Consolidated companies and percentage of voting rights at 31 December 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Consolidation Company method Country/City Business % rights % interest % rights % interest 1. Strategic subsidiaries CNP Assurances Full France/Paris Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% CNP Caution Full France/Paris Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arial CNP Assurances Equity France/ Insurance 40.00% 40.00% 40.00% 40.00% method Mons-en-Barœul MFPrévoyance SA Full France/Paris Insurance 51.00% 65.00% 51.00% 65.00% Assuristance (1) Equity France/Paris Insurance 66.00% 66.00% method Filassistance International (1) Equity France/Paris Insurance 66.00% 66.00% method CNP Assurances Compañía Full Argentina/ Insurance 76.47% 76.47% 76.47% 76.47% de Seguros Buenos Aires CNP SA de Capitalización y Full Argentina/ Insurance 65.38% 50.00% 65.38% 50.00% Ahorro p/ fines determinados Buenos Aires CNP Holding Brasil Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Caixa Seguros Holding SA Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 51.75% 51.75% 51.75% 51.75% Caixa Seguros Participações Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Securitarias Ltda Caixa Seguradora Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Caixa Capitalização Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 51.00% 26.39% 51.00% 26.39% Caixa Vida e Previdência Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% 146 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Consolidation Company method Country/City Business % rights % interest % rights % interest Caixa Consórcios Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Caixa Assessoria e Consultoria Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Caixa Saúde Full Brazil/São Paulo Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Previsul Full Brazil/Porto Alegre Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Wiz Soluçoes e Corretagem Equity Brazil/Brasilia Brokerage 25.00% 12.94% 25.00% 12.94% de Seguros SA method Odonto Empresas Convenios Full Brazil/São Paulo Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Dentarios Ltda Holding Caixa Seguros Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Participações em Saude Ltda CNP UniCredit Vita Full Italy/Milan Insurance 57.50% 57.50% 57.50% 57.50% CNP Partners (formerly Vida de Full Spain/Madrid Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Seguros y Reaseguros) CNP Partners Solutions Full Spain/Madrid Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings Full Cyprus/Nicosia Insurance 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% CNP Cyprus Properties (2) Full Cyprus/Nicosia Insurance 100.00% 50.10% CNP Cyprus Tower Ltd Full Cyprus/Nicosia Insurance 100.00% 50.10% 100.00% 50.10% CNP Zois Full Greece/Athens Insurance 100.00% 50.10% 100.00% 50.10% CNP Praktoriaki Full Greece/Athens Insurance 100.00% 50.10% 100.00% 50.10% CNP Cyprialife Full Cyprus/Nicosia Insurance 100.00% 50.10% 100.00% 50.10% CNP Asfalistiki Full Cyprus/Nicosia Insurance 100.00% 50.10% 100.00% 50.10% CNP Luxembourg Full Luxembourg Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% CNP Santander Insurance Life Ltd Full Ireland/Dublin Insurance 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% CNP Santander Insurance Europe Ltd Full Ireland/Dublin Insurance 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% CNP Santander Insurance Full Ireland/Dublin Insurance 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% 51.00% Services Ireland Ltd CNP Europe Life Full Ireland/Dublin Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% CNP Assurances Participações Ltda Full Brazil/Brasilia Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2. Mutual fund units Ecureuil Profil 30 (3) Full France Mutual 96.13% 96.13% fund units Univers CNP 1 FCP Full France Mutual 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% fund units CNP ACP Oblig FCP Equity France Mutual 54.00% 54.00% 49.74% 49.74% method fund units Natixis Ionis Full France Mutual 98.51% 98.51% 100.00% 100.00% fund units CNP ACP 10 FCP Equity France Mutual 43.14% 43.14% 49.82% 49.82% method fund units LBAM Court Terme Full France Mutual 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% fund units 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 147 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Consolidation Company method Country/City Business % rights % interest % rights % interest Ecureuil Profil 90 Full France Mutual 56.64% 56.64% 56.66% 56.66% fund units Vivaccio ACT 5 DEC Full France Mutual 82.35% 82.35% 81.49% 81.49% fund units OPCVM Caixa Seguradora SA Full Brazil Mutual 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% fund units OPCVM Caixa Capitalização SA Full Brazil Mutual 100.00% 26.39% 100.00% 26.39% fund units OPCVM Caixa Vida e Full Brazil Mutual 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Previdencia fund units OPCVM Caixa Consórcios Full Brazil Mutual 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% fund units OPCVM Holding Caixa Seguros Full Brazil Mutual 100.00% 51.75% 100.00% 51.75% Holding SA fund units 3. Property companies and others Assurbail Patrimoine Full France Lease 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% financing AEP 3 SCI Full France NTPC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% CIMO Full France NTPC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% AEP 4 SCI Full France NTPC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% OPCI AEW Imcom 6 Full France OPCI 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SICAC Full France NTPC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% CNP Immobilier Full France NTPC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Assurimmeuble Full France NTPC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% OPCI MTP Invest Full France OPCI 100.00% 98.85% 99.50% 99.50% OPCI AEW Imcom 1 Full France OPCI 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% OPCI AEP 247 Full France OPCI 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% LBP Actifs Immo Full France OPCI 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% SAS Alleray Full France OPCI 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% OPCI Raspail Full France OPCI 100.00% 99.79% 100.00% 100.00% Ecureuil Vie Développement Equity France Brokerage 49.00% 49.00% 49.00% 49.00% method Outlet Invest Full France OPCI 100.00% 100.00% 99.95% 99.95% Coentreprise de Transport FV France Energy 20.00% 20.00% 20.00% 20.00% d’Electricité (4) Holding d’Infrastructures Equity France Energy 54.41% 54.41% Gazières (5) method (1) Assuristance and Filassistance International, set up in partnership with Swiss Life, have been consolidated for the first time in 2018 (2) CNP Cyprus Properties, which was set up as the holding company for the investment in CNP Cyprus Tower Ltd, has been consolidated for the first time in 2018 (3) The Ecureuil Profil 30 fund has been removed from the scope of consolidation because it no longer fulfils the Group’s materiality criteria (4) The investment in Coentreprise de Transport d’Electricité (CTE) is mainly in representation of participatory contracts. For this reason, the Group has chosen to use the exemption from applying the equity method provided for in paragraph 18 of IAS 28 and to measure the CTE shares at fair value through profit or loss (5) Holding Infrastructures Gazières has been consolidated since 30 June 2018 due to its material contribution to the consolidated financial statements 148 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 4.6 Non-consolidated companies 31.12.2018 Company Country/City % interest 1. Other subsidiaries 107 Boétie Elysées France/Paris 100.00% 23-25 Marignan SAS France/Paris 100.00% 270 Investments France/Paris 100.00% 36 Marboeuf SAS France/Paris 100.00% 3i Growth Capital United Kingdom/London 76.92% 85 RICHELIEU France 100.00% Age d’Or Expansion France/Troyes 99.99% Alpinvest Feeder VCV Netherlands/Amsterdam 99.98% Avenir Santé France/Paris 100.00% Azimut France/Paris 71.04% Bridgepoint Europe IV United Kingdom/London 83.33% Cartera Pbtamsi Spain/Madrid 100.00% CBPE VIII United Kingdom/London 100.00% Cleantech Europe II United Kingdom/London 100.00% CNP Formation France/Paris 100.00% CNP Private Equity for Personal Savings France/Paris 100.00% CNP Technologies de l’Information France/Paris 99.80% Cœur Méditerranée France/Paris 70.00% Das Goethe France/Paris 100.00% DIF Infrastructure II Netherlands/Schiphol 53.33% DIWISE France 100.00% Ecureuil Vie Investment France/Paris 100.00% Europe Properties Investments France/Paris 100.00% Filassistance Services France/Paris 100.00% Foncière HID France/Paris 100.00% FSN Capital IV (B) LP Norway/Oslo 100.00% GCK France/Paris 80.00% Geosud France/Rueil Malmaison 98.00% Green Quartz France/Paris 99.90% Immaucom France/Paris 80.00% INFRA VIA 4 France 100.00% Infra-Invest Luxembourg/Luxembourg 100.00% Infra-Invest France France/Paris 100.00% Infrastructure Partners (MS) France/Paris 64.94% Ireland Property Investment Fund Ireland/Dublin 100.00% iSalud Spain/Barcelona 58.40% Kleber 46 France/Paris 100.00% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 149 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31.12.2018 Company Country/City % interest Laiki Brokers (Insurance & Consultancy Services) Ltd Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% Laiki Insurance Agencies Ltd Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% LBPAM Infra 1 France/Paris 52.55% LBPAM Infra 2 France/Paris 55.19% LBPAM Montp Infra France/Paris 100.00% LBPAM Montp RE France/Paris 100.00% LCY Cavendish Place Properties Ltd Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% LCYL Dramas Properties Limited Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% LCYL Karpenisiou Properties Limited Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% LCYL Kiti Properties Limited Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% LCYL Properties Limited Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% Lux Gare France/Paris 100.00% Lyfe France/Paris 100.00% MARFIN REAL ESTATE SRL Romania 100.00% Montagu IV United Kingdom/London 100.00% Montparvie 2 France 100.00% Montparvie 4 France 100.00% Montparvie 5 France 100.00% Montper Entreprises Limited Cyprus/Nicosia 100.00% Natixis Montp France/Paris 100.00% Naturim France/Levallois-Perret 100.00% Neuilly Pilot France/Paris 100.00% New Side France/Paris 100.00% Open CNP France/Paris 100.00% Pantin Logistique France/Paris 100.00% Pays-Bas Retail 2013 BV Netherlands/Amsterdam 100.00% Pial 34 France/Paris 100.00% Prévimut France/Paris 100.00% Schroders France/Paris 100.00% SMCA France/Paris 50.00% Sogestop K France/Paris 100.00% Stam Rei France 99.95% Theemin France/Paris 100.00% US Real Estate 270 SAS France/Paris 100.00% US Real Estate EVJ SAS France/Paris 100.00% Woodland Invest France/Paris 100.00% Ybry Pont de Neuilly France/Paris 100.00% Yellowalto France/Courbevoie 100.00% Youse Home France 100.00% 150 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 31.12.2018 Company Country/City % interest 2. Property companies 5-7 rue Scribe France/Paris 100.00% 83 Avenue Bosquet France/Paris 100.00% A9B Paris France/Paris 100.00% Assurécureuil Pierre France/Paris 99.99% Assurécureuil Pierre 2 France/Paris 100.00% Assurécureuil Pierre 5 France/Paris 100.00% Assurécureuil Pierre 7 France/Paris 99.99% Baudry Ponthieu France/Paris 99.91% Bercy Crystal France/Paris 100.00% Cicoge France/Paris 100.00% Cottages du Bois aux Daims France/Paris 100.00% Farmoric France/Courbevoie 100.00% Foncière Cnp France/Paris 100.00% Foncière ELBP France/Paris 100.00% FPIP France/Paris 100.00% GF de la forêt de Nan France/Paris 100,00% Habimmo France/Paris 99.90% Holdipierre France/Paris 100.00% Issy Desmoulins France/Paris 100.00% Issy Vivaldi France/Paris 100.00% Jesco France/Levallois-Perret 55.00% Lancosme France/Vendoeuvres 80.00% Lesly France/Paris 100.00% Ofelia France/Paris 66.66% OREA France/Levallois-Perret 100.00% Paris 08 France/Paris 100.00% Passage du Faidherbe France/Paris 100.00% Pierre et Labruyère France/Paris 100.00% Pierre Quentin Bauchard France/Paris 99.99% Pyramides 1 France/Paris 100.00% Residavoult France/Paris 100.00% Residential France/Paris 100.00% RSS IMMO France/Paris 99.90% Rue du Bac France/Paris 50.01% Rueil Newton France/Paris 50.00% SA Le Marquis France/Paris 60.00% Saphirimmo France/Paris 100.00% SAS Pyramides 2 France/Paris 100.00% SCI Assurecureuil Pierre 8 France/Paris 100.00% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 151 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31.12.2018 Company Country/City % interest SCI Canopée France/Paris 99.98% SCI De La Cnp France/Paris 100.00% SCI Éole Rambouillet France/Paris 100.00% SCI Equinox France/Paris 99.99% SCI Jasmin France/Paris 99.95% SCI Kureck France/Paris 100.00% SCI Max France/Paris 100.00% SCI Rueil Apollo France/Paris 100.00% Secrets et Boetie France/Paris 100.00% Silk Holding France/Paris 100,00% Sonne France/Neuilly-sur-Seine 99.95% Terre Neuve 4 Immo France/Paris 100.00% Victor Hugo 147 France/Paris 99.98% Wagram 92 France/Paris 100.00% French standard ANC 2016-09 requires details of controlled variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and (iii) the companies that are excluded from the scope of consolidation to ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount be disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. of the investor’s returns. In addition, economic reality is taken The table above presents companies that are over 50%-owned into account when applying the thresholds, with the result that by the Group but whose key indicators do not exceed the certain subsidiaries whose indicators are below the thresholds materiality thresholds for inclusion in the scope of consolidation. are nevertheless consolidated. The materiality thresholds used by the Group are applied to The list of non-consolidated companies and investments in which companies that are over 50%-owned and to other companies CNP Assurances holds a direct interest of more than 10% is that qualify as controlled entities based on the following criteria presented in the Registration Document (in Note 5.4.4 to the in IFRS 10: (i) power over the investee; (ii) exposure, or rights, to annual financial statements). 4.7 Average number of employees of consolidated companies (Headcount) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Management-grade 2,203 2,203 Non-management-grade 2,951 2,800 Total 5,154 5,003 The above headcount does not include the headcount of the companies consolidated by equity method. 152 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 4.8 Summary financial information: consolidated entities with material non-controlling interests CNP Cyprus Caixa Seguros CNP Santander Insurance MFPrévoyance Group CNP UniCredit Vita Insurance Holdings SA (In € millions) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Earned premiums/Revenue 5,452.4 5,261.4 3,368.7 2,605.7 742.7 692.3 157.4 145.3 128.8 137.0 Net profit (100%) 465.6 554.1 32.2 50.6 76.7 63.1 13.7 12.3 1.5 4.6 Net profit – non-controlling interests 228.9 272.2 13.7 21.5 37.6 30.9 6.8 6.2 0.5 1.6 Other comprehensive income (100%) (2.2) (8.1) 14.7 38.1 (1.7) 6.7 (1.3) 6.6 8.3 13.2 Comprehensive income (100%) 463.4 546.0 46.9 88.7 74.9 69.8 12.4 18.9 9.7 17.8 Comprehensive income – noncontrolling interests 227.7 268.4 19.9 37.7 36.7 34.2 6.2 9.5 3.4 6.2 Assets 18,683.9 17,400.4 14,830.4 14,389.9 2,328.2 2,259.6 705.6 700.6 658.9 674.0 Liabilities 16,843.8 15,478.4 13,981.4 13,524.7 1,951.0 1,950.6 492.5 482.5 438.6 450.1 Net assets (100%) 1,840.1 1,922.0 849.0 865.1 377.2 308.9 213.1 218.1 220.4 223.8 Net assets – non-controlling interests 904.8 953.1 360.8 367.7 184.8 151.4 106.4 108.8 77.1 78.3 Net cash provided by (used by) operating activities 2,837.9 2,664.5 1,090.2 280.8 207.0 144.0 24.7 8.2 (9.5) (33.2) Net cash provided by (used by) investing activities (2,464.6) (2,284.9) (1,083.2) (211.1) (186.2) (117.8) (20.6) 7.0 19.0 (0.2) Net cash provided by (used by) financing activities (430.8) (360.1) (26.0) (26.0) 0.0 0.0 (1.1) (17.9) (13.1) 0.0 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (33.1) (15.7) (10.6) (10.6) 0.0 0.0 (5.4) (0.8) 0.0 0.0 4.9 Summary financial information: material The investment in HIG is accounted for using the equity method in joint arrangements CNP Assurances’ consolidated financial statements. Financial information for ACA and HIG is provided in Note 4.11.1. 4.9.1 Significant partnerships At 31 December 2018, the Group has two material partnerships: 4.9.2 Significant associates Arial CNP Assurances and Holding d’Infrastructures Gazières. At 31 December 2018, the Group owns one significant CNP Assurances also holds 40% of the capital of associate: Coentreprise de Transport d’Electricité (CTE). Arial CNP Assurances (ACA) and controls this company jointly CNP Assurances holds a 20% interest in CTE, which has with AG2R-La Mondiale. a 100% equity interest in Réseau de Transport d’Electricité ACA’s corporate purpose is the design, distribution and (RTE). CNP Assurances exercises significant influence over management of collective supplementary employee retirement RTE. However, as the investment in Coentreprise de Transport savings plans and employee benefit plans. d’Electricité (CTE) is mainly in representation of participatory contracts, the Group has chosen to use the exemption from The investment in ACA is accounted for using the equity method applying the equity method provided for in paragraph 18 of in CNP Assurances’ consolidated financial statements. IAS 28 and to measure the CTE shares at fair value through profit The Group also holds 54.41% of the capital of Holding or loss. d’Infrastructures Gazières (HIG), which is controlled jointly with The fair value of the CTE shares at 31 December 2018 was Caisse des Dépôts. Société d’Infrastructures Gazières (SIG), a updated by an independent expert and the value of the shares wholly-owned subsidiary of HIG, holds 25% of the capital of held by CNP Assurances amounts to €1,144 million. GRTgaz, a company specialised in transporting natural gas. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 153 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31.12.2017 (In € millions) Total assets Equity Premium income Profit/(Loss) Coentreprise de Transport d’Electricité (CTE) 8,385.0 5,440.4 0.0 203.2 The above data are extracted from the French GAAP accounts and concern 2017 as the 2018 financial statements were not yet available when these consolidated financial statements were drawn up. The amounts are presented before participation allocation. 4.10 Summary financial information: non-material joint arrangements Partnerships Associates (In € millions) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method in CNP Assurances’ balance sheet 45.8 21.2 0.0 0.0 Contribution to CNP Assurances’ net profit 19.6 6.0 0.0 0.0 Contribution to CNP Assurances’ other comprehensive income 0.9 0.5 0.0 0.0 Contribution to CNP Assurances’ comprehensive income 20.5 6.5 0.0 0.0 During 2018, joint arrangements classified as associates in 2017 were reclassified and Arial CNP Assurances was reclassified as a material joint arrangement (see Note 4.9). The Group’s non-material joint arrangements are Assuristance, Ecureuil Vie Développement, Filassistance International and Wiz Soluçoes e Corretagem de Seguros S.A. 4.11 Information relating to entities accounted for using the equity method 4.11.1 Summary financial information on a 100% basis 31.12.2018 (In € millions) Total assets Equity Premium income Profit/(Loss) Arial CNP Assurances 19,978.9 112.4 973.0 2.1 Assuristance 22.0 21.4 0.0 0.0 Ecureuil Vie Développement 15.2 0.3 0.0 0.0 Filassistance International 61.0 26.4 46.5 4.7 Holding d’Infrastructures Gazières 1,377.1 783.3 0.0 73.7 Wiz Soluçoes e Corretagem de Seguros SA 125.8 57.1 126.7 37.3 CNP ACP OBLIG FCP 1,012.2 1,012.2 0.0 0.0 CNP ACP 10 FCP * 953.7 953.7 0.0 0.0 * Data for CNP ACP 10 FCP correspond to final data at 31 December 2017 31.12.2017 (In € millions) Total assets Equity Premium income Profit/(Loss) Arial CNP Assurances * 19,951.3 111.8 1,013.5 2.4 Ecureuil Vie Développement 13.8 0.3 0.0 0.0 Wiz Soluçoes e Corretagem de Seguros SA. 151.6 42.7 139.5 42.0 CNP ACP OBLIG FCP 984.8 984.8 0.0 0.0 CNP ACP 10 FCP 953.7 953.7 0.0 0.0 * Data for Arial CNP Assurances are provisional figures 154 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 4.11.2 Investments accounted for using the equity method (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 At 1 January 65.9 67.4 Increase in investment 0.0 0.0 Change in accounting method 0.0 0.0 Newly-consolidated companies * 393.7 0.0 Increase in capital 0.0 0.0 Share of profit of equity-accounted companies 128.9 7.3 Share in identifiable net assets (3.6) (4.1) Other movements 0.0 0.0 Dividends received (68.0) (4.8) At 31 December 516.9 65.9 * Holding d’Infrastructures Gazières, Assuristance and Filassistance International were included in the scope of consolidation for the first time in 2018 ANALYSIS OF THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE BALANCE SHEET NOTE 5 Equity Components of equity At 31 December 2018, the insurance subsidiaries and the Group as a whole complied with these minimum Solvency Equity includes share capital, retained earnings, unrealised gains Capital Requirements. and losses from remeasurement at fair value of available-for-sale financial assets net of tax and shadow accounting adjustments, Compliance with these requirements is regularly monitored, adjustments to the capitalisation reserve and subordinated debt primarily through the Own Risk and Solvency Assessments (ORSA) instruments classified in equity due to the discretionary nature of conducted at Group level and at the level of the insurance interest payments (see Note 5.5). subsidiaries in accordance with Solvency II. This information and the solvency capital calculations are reported to France’s insurance supervisor (Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Capital management Résolution ACPR). Under European insurance directives, the Group is required to comply with certain Minimum Capital Requirements at the level of the Company and of each of its European insurance subsidiaries, Treasury shares as well as at the consolidated level. The Group may acquire treasury shares via the liquidity contract set up for the purpose of stabilising the CNP Assurances share price or shares under employee share grant plans (see Note 13.3.2). Treasury shares are recorded as a deduction from equity in the IFRS accounts. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 155 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5.1 Ownership structure Shareholder Number of shares % interest Caisse des Dépôts 280,615,140 40.87% Sopassure (La Banque Postale and BPCE holding company) 248,926,986 36.25% French State 7,645,754 1.11% Total shares held in concert 537,187,880 78.24% Private investors 149,430,597 21.76% of which: CNP Assurances (treasury shares) * 598,643 0.09% TOTAL 686,618,477 100.00% * The terms and conditions of the CNP Assurances liquidity contract currently in force are set out in the resolution submitted to the 2017 Annual General Meeting included in the 2016 Registration Document 5.2 Number of shares Ordinary shares Issued capital 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number of shares outstanding at the beginning of the period 686,618,477 686,618,477 Shares issued during the period 0 0 Number of shares outstanding at the end of the period 686,618,477 686,618,477 5.3 2018 dividends The recommended 2018 dividend amounts to €0.89 per share, The 2017 dividend approved by the Annual General Meeting representing a total payout of €611.1 million. amounted to €0.84 per share, representing a total payout of €576.8 million. It was paid in 2018. 5.4 Basic and diluted earnings per share (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 1,366.7 1,284.5 Charge on deeply-subordinated notes, net of tax (49.7) (48.4) Profit attributable to ordinary shares 1,317.0 1,236.1 Number of ordinary shares at 1 January 686,618,477.0 686,618,477.0 New shares (weighted number) 0.0 0.0 Weighted average number of shares at end of reporting period 686,618,477.0 686,618,477.0 Treasury shares (263,983.6) (123,056.8) Weighted average number of shares at end of reporting period 686,354,493.4 686,495,420.3 Impact of instruments with a potential dilution impact 0.0 0.0 Diluted profit attributable to ordinary shares (in euros per share) 1.92 1.80 Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the reporting period. 156 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 5.5 Undated subordinated notes reclassified in equity Subordinated notes for which the contractual clauses do not stipulate any obligation to repay the nominal amount or pay any compensation are classified as equity instruments. All other dated and undated debt instruments, especially those with a repayment schedule, are classified as financing liabilities in accordance with IAS 32. 31.12.2018 (In € millions) Issuance date Interest rate Currency Amount Subordinated notes (attributable to owners of the parent) 1,881.3 CNP Assurances June 2004 Tec 10 +10 bp, capped at 9% EUR 300.0 March 2005 6.50% until March 2008, then 3% EUR 225.0 +22.5% times 10-year EUR CMS March 2005 6.25% until 2009, then 4 times (10-year EUR CMS EUR 23.8 – 2-year EUR CMS), 9% cap and 2.75% floor June 2005 7% until June 2010, then 10-year CMS +30 bp EUR 75.0 May 2006 5.25% until 16 May 2036,then 3-month Euribor +185 bp EUR 160.0 (including 100 bp step-up at call date) December 2006 3-month Euribor +95 bp until 20 December 2026, EUR 108.0 then 3-month Euribor +195 bp October 2012 Redeemed USD 0.0 November 2014 4% until November 2024, then reset at the 5-year EUR 493.6 fixed swap rate +410 bp June 2018 4% until 2028 then reset at the 5-year fixed swap rate EUR 496.0 +391.4 bp TOTAL 1,881.3 31.12.2017 (In € millions) Issuance date Interest rate Currency Amount Subordinated notes (attributable to owners of the parent) 1,765.2 CNP Assurances June 2004 Tec 10 +10 bp, capped at 9% EUR 300.0 March 2005 6.50% until March 2008, then 3% EUR 225.0 +22.5% times 10-year EUR CMS March 2005 6.25% until 2009, then 4 times (10-year EUR CMS – EUR 23.8 2-year EUR CMS), 9% cap and 2.75% floor June 2005 7% until June 2010, then 10-year CMS +30 bp EUR 75.0 May 2006 5.25% until 16 May 2036, then 3-month Euribor +185 bp EUR 160.0 December 2006 3-month Euribor +95 bp until 20 December 2026, EUR 108.0 then 3-month Euribor +195 bp October 2012 7.5% until October 2018, then reset USD 379.9 at the 6-year fixed swap rate +648.1 bp November 2014 4% until November 2024 then reset EUR 493.6 at the 5-year fixed swap rate +410 bp TOTAL 1,765.2 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 157 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 6 Intangible assets 6.1 Intangible assets by category 31.12.2018 Carrying (In € millions) Cost Amortisation Impairment Reversals amount Goodwill 646.9 0.0 (393.2) 0.0 253.7 Value of In-Force business 344.6 (167.0) (158.8) 0.0 18.8 Distribution agreements 389.9 (79.5) 0.0 0.0 310.3 Software 444.7 (304.3) 0.0 0.0 140.5 Internally-developed software 209.3 (149.5) 0.0 0.0 59.9 Other software 235.4 (154.8) 0.0 0.0 80.6 Other 28.0 (15.6) (3.6) 0.0 8.8 TOTAL 1,854.2 (566.3) (555.6) 0.0 732.2 31.12.2017 Carrying (In € millions) Cost Amortisation Impairment Reversals amount Goodwill 666.4 0.0 (393.2) 0.0 273.2 Value of In-Force business 352.8 (169.9) (158.8) 0.0 24.1 Distribution agreements 390.2 (59.8) 0.0 0.0 330.4 Software 434.8 (272.1) 0.0 0.0 162.7 Internally-developed software 195.5 (132.3) 0.0 0.0 63.2 Other software 239.3 (139.8) 0.0 0.0 99.4 Other 27.2 (14.7) (3.6) 0.0 8.8 TOTAL 1,871.3 (516.6) (555.6) 0.0 799.1 6.2 Goodwill as the smallest group of identifiable assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other Goodwill is equal to the difference between the acquisition cost assets or groups of assets. The Group identifies CGUs by entity to the buyer and the fair value of the corresponding identifiable or group of similar entities. assets and liabilities. Negative goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss. When goodwill is positive, it is stated in the balance sheet at cost Positive goodwill is: less any accumulated impairment losses. It is no longer amortised but tested for impairment: WW recognised in intangible assets when it arises on the acquisition of entities consolidated by the full consolidation method; WW each year on the same date, usually close to the reporting date; or WW included in investments accounted for using the equity method when it arises on the acquisition of an entity accounted for WW more frequently if events or changing market conditions using the equity method; indicate that it may be impaired since it was last tested for WW recognised in the local currency of the acquiree and translated impairment; or into euros at the closing exchange rate when it arises on the WW at the end of a period in which an acquisition has taken place acquisition of an international entity (outside the Eurozone). if there is a marked deterioration in the business environment. For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to cashAn impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount of generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs likely to benefit the CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated is less than from the synergies developed within the scope of the business its carrying amount. The recoverable amount is defined as the combination resulting from the acquisition. A CGU is defined higher of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 158 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 The Group usually calculates value in use as the net asset value with banking partners will be pursued beyond the renewal of the CGU plus the present value of expected future revenues date of current agreements, as well as on forecasts that have from existing portfolios and new business. Projected future been validated by the Board of Directors and extrapolated in revenues are estimated by taking the embedded value of In-Force line with the growth rates generally used within the industry for insurance policies and financial instruments, and the Value of the businesses concerned, and using conservatively estimated New Business. discount rates in line with the weighted average cost of capital. The terminal values of subsidiaries do not assume growth to Expected future cash flows are based on the assumption that infinity. the business will continue over the long-term and that relations 6.2.1 Goodwill by company Net goodwill Net goodwill (In € millions) Original goodwill at 31.12.2018 at 31.12.2017 Caixa Seguros Group 389.9 164.6 184.1 CNP UniCredit Vita 366.5 0.0 0.0 CNP Partners 7.2 0.0 0.0 CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings 81.6 34.8 34.8 CNP Santander Insurance 54.4 54.4 54.4 TOTAL 899.6 253.7 273.2 Caixa Seguros Group At 31 December 2018, the recoverable amount of CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings goodwill was greater than At 31 December 2018, expected future cash flows were its carrying amount. Accordingly, no impairment loss was taken from the 2019-2020 business projections approved by recognised. In addition, a reasonable change in the discount rate management. These projections were prepared considering the applied to future cash flows or a significant reduction in projected current commission agreements with the CEF network. They were business volumes in Greece and Cyprus would not have resulted discounted to present value using an after-tax discount rate of in the recognition of any impairment loss. approximately 7.8%. At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the CNP Santander Insurance recoverable amount of Caixa Seguros goodwill was greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no impairment loss was At 31 December 2018, expected future cash flows were recognised. In addition, a reasonable change in the discount taken from the 2019-2023 business projections approved by rate applied to future cash flows would not have resulted in the management. These projections were extrapolated using a new recognition of any impairment loss. business growth rate of 11% for the period between 2024 and 2029 and discounted to present value using a discount rate of Similarly, an analysis based on projected cash flows through 5.1%. to the end of the current distribution agreement (2021) would not result in an impairment loss being recognised and the same At 31 December 2018, the recoverable amount of would apply in the case of a reasonable change in the discount CNP Santander Insurance goodwill was greater than its carrying rate or projected business volumes used for the test. amount and no impairment loss was recognised. The CNP Santander Insurance acquisition agreement includes CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings an earn-out/earn-in clause based on the performance of the three entities included in the deal. During the purchase price At 31 December 2018, expected future cash flows were allocation process, the earn-out was estimated based on the taken from the 2019-2028 business projections approved by business projections available at the time. These projections were management. These projections were extrapolated using a stable updated, leading to the recognition in the Group’s accounts of an average new business growth rate (of around 2.7% for non-life expense of €11.4 million in 2017 and €26.5 million in 2018 – business, 3% for individual life business and 2% for group life covering the projection period ending in 2023. business) for the period between 2023 and 2028 (the final year of the current distribution agreement) and discounted to present value using a discount rate of approximately 8% for operations in Cyprus. The Greek subsidiary has not been valued since June 2013. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 159 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 6.2.2 Changes in goodwill for the period (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 273.2 309.5 Goodwill recognised during the period 0.0 0.0 Adjustments to provisional accounting 0.0 0.2 Translation adjustment on gross goodwill * (19.5) (29.1) Other movements 0.0 (7.4) Impairment losses recognised during the period 0.0 0.0 Translation adjustment on movements during the period 0.0 0.0 Increase in interest rates 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 Carrying amount at the end of the period 253.7 273.2 * Translation adjustments on gross goodwill concern the Brazilian companies Caixa Seguradora, Previsul and Odonto Empresas Convenios Dentarios Ltda 6.3 Value of In-Force business and distribution The value of In-Force business corresponding to purchased agreements insurance portfolios is generally amortised by the effective interest method over the portfolios’ remaining life. The fair value of insurance contracts and financial instruments with a discretionar y participation feature acquired in a The value of a distribution agreement represents the future business combination or a separate transaction is split into two cash flows expected to result from new business relating to a components, as follows: partner network falling within the scope of such an agreement. WW a liability measured in accordance with the Group’s These intangible assets are estimated based on the terms and accounting policies for insurance contracts and financial conditions specific to each agreement, and are amortised over instruments with a discretionary participation feature; the term of the agreement taking into account a residual value WW an intangible asset (“value of In-Force business”) representing where appropriate. the difference between the fair value of these contracts and the amount described above. 6.3.1 Value of In-Force business Carrying amount Carrying amount at (In € millions) Original value at 31.12.2018 at 31.12.2017 Caixa Seguros Group 123.5 2.7 3.7 CNP UniCredit Vita 175.3 0.0 0.0 CNP Partners 24.0 3.9 6.0 CNP Seguros de Vida 0.9 0.0 0.0 CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings 44.4 9.8 11.0 MFPrévoyance SA 8.3 0.0 0.0 CNP Santander Insurance 14.7 2.5 3.5 TOTAL 391.0 18.8 24.1 160 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 6.3.2 Changes in the value of In-Force business (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Gross amount at the beginning of the period 352.8 355.4 Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 Translation adjustments (8.2) (12.2) Acquisitions for the period 0.0 0.0 Disposals for the period 0.0 0.0 Other movements 0.0 9.5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 Gross amount at the end of the period 344.6 352.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at the beginning of the period (328.7) (333.3) Translation adjustments 7.8 11.5 Amortisation for the period (4.9) (4.8) Impairment losses recognised during the period 0.0 0.0 Impairment losses reversed during the period 0.0 0.0 Disposals for the period 0.0 0.0 Other movements 0.0 (2.1) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at the end of the period (325.8) (328.7) CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 18.8 24.1 6.3.3 Distribution agreements (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 330.4 350.9 Acquisitions for the period 0.0 0.0 Amortisation for the period (19.9) (20.2) Adjustments 0.0 0.0 Impairment losses recognised during the period 0.0 0.0 Translation adjustments (0.1) (0.3) Other movements 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 310.3 330.4 6.4 Software and other intangible assets probable that they will have the effect of increasing the future economic benefits to be derived from the asset and comply with Purchased software licences are recognised as an intangible the other provisions of IAS 38. Costs that do not fulfil the criteria asset at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated for recognition as an asset are recorded in expenses for the impairment losses. period. Directly attributable internal and external costs of developing Software licences and development costs are generally amortised software for internal use, integrating business applications over periods of between five and eight years. and evolutive maintenance are capitalised if, and only if, it is 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 161 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 6.4.1 Internally-developed software (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 63.2 75.9 Acquisitions for the period 13.9 0.6 Amortisation for the period (17.2) (8.9) Impairment losses 0.0 (5.5) Translation adjustments 0.0 0.0 Other movements 0.0 1.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 59.9 63.2 6.4.2 Other software and other intangible assets (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 108.2 108.0 Acquisitions for the period 32.0 33.5 Amortisation for the period (20.1) (20.1) Impairment losses (21.3) 0.0 Translation adjustments (9.3) (13.3) Other movements 0.0 0.2 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 89.5 108.2 NOTE 7 Owner-occupied property and other property and equipment The Group has elected to measure owner-occupied property Maintenance costs are added to the cost of the part of the using the cost model, as allowed by IAS 16. property to which they relate when it is probable that they will generate future economic benefits and they can be measured Under the cost model, properties are measured at cost less reliably. accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Expenses directly attributable to the purchase of a property are included in its cost and depreciated over the useful life of the Borrowing costs directly attributable to acquisition or construction shell. are included in the cost of the asset and expensed once the building is in use. For the purpose of determining depreciation periods, properties Depreciation are considered as comprising five significant parts with different Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write off useful lives: the acquisition or construction cost of each significant part of a WW land; property over its estimated useful life. WW shell and roof structure; Due to the difficulty of reliably determining the residual value WW facades and roofing; of property, investment and owner-occupied properties are WW fixtures; considered as having no residual value. WW technical installations. 162 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 Depreciation periods are based on the estimated useful lives of Impairment the significant parts of each property, with the exception of land In accordance with IAS 36, owner-occupied properties are which is not depreciated. These periods are as follows: tested for impairment at the level of the cash generating unit to WW shell: 50 years; which they belong and are therefore excluded from the scope of WW facades and roofing: 30 years, except for warehouses, impairment tests on investment property. factories, shopping centres and cinemas: 20 years; WW technical installations: 20 years; Property and equipment consists mainly of office equipment and miscellaneous installations. WW fixtures: 10 years. Office systems equipment is depreciated over three years and fixtures, fittings and technical installations over ten years. Owner-occupied property (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 250.3 265.3 Acquisitions 7.4 3.8 Post-acquisition costs included in the carrying amount of property 0.4 0.0 Properties acquired through business combinations 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 (3.1) Depreciation for the period (7.4) (7.7) Impairment losses recognised during the period 0.0 0.0 Impairment losses reversed during the period 0.6 0.0 Translation adjustments (5.2) (8.0) Other movements 17.4 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 263.4 250.3 Other property and equipment (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 41.2 44.0 Acquisitions for the period 22.5 14.9 Depreciation for the period (9.6) (13.8) Disposals for the period (5.0) (1.9) Translation adjustments (1.4) (1.9) Other movements 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 47.6 41.2 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 163 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 8 Insurance investments Classification Valuation method Financial assets are allocated among the following four Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value categories, based on the type of portfolio, the type of financial through profit or loss are subsequently measured at fair value. assets, the specific features of certain financial assets and Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are prioritised application of the criteria defining each category: recognised directly in equity, taking into account the impact on WW financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, liabilities arising from insurance contracts and financial instruments corresponding to assets held for trading and assets with a discretionary participation feature (DPF) (in accordance designated at the outset as being at fair value through profit with the shadow accounting principle, see Note 9.2) and the or loss in accordance with the fair value option. Financial deferred tax effect. assets allocated to this category include assets backing unitlinked liabilities, assets with an embedded derivative that Changes in fair value of financial assets at fair value through is separable from the host contract, assets of consolidated profit or loss are recognised directly in profit or loss, taking into mutual funds and derivative instruments; account the impact on liabilities arising from insurance contracts WW held-to-maturity investments, corresponding to fixed-income and financial instruments with DPF (in accordance with the securities that the Group has the positive intention and ability shadow accounting principle, see Note 9.2) and the deferred to hold to maturity. This classification is applied restrictively tax effect. to certain bonds, held mainly by the Group’s Brazilian Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are subsidiary; measured at amortised cost by the effective interest method. WW loans and receivables, corresponding to non-derivative Commissions and fees paid or received, directly attributable financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts are not quoted in an active market, other than assets classified as recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the held for trading or available-for-sale; instrument. WW available-for-sale financial assets, corresponding to assets that Mutual funds and non-trading property companies are fully are not held with the firm intention of being sold but which the consolidated (in accordance with IFRS 10) or accounted for Group may decide to sell, for example to meet its liquidity using the equity method (in accordance with IAS 28). The level needs. This classification is applied to assets not classified in of control of mutual funds is assessed separately for each fund any of the above three categories. based on the following criteria: WW the relationship between the principal and the agent; Recognition WW the Group’s power over the fund manager; Financial assets are recognised in the balance sheet when the WW the Group’s exposure to variable returns, as assessed by Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the applying a specific threshold. instrument. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets Non-controlling interests in fully consolidated mutual funds are are recorded on the transaction date. reported on a separate line of the consolidated balance sheet, Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value. The carrying “Liabilities towards holders of units in controlled mutual funds”. amount includes directly attributable transaction costs, except in Units in mutual funds are measured using the fund’s most recently the case of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. published net asset value. The underlying financial assets are reported in the consolidated balance sheet under “Insurance investments” based on their contribution to the fund’s net asset Derecognition value. A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the asset is active market is estimated using a valuation technique. Valuation transferred in a transaction that transfers substantially all the risks techniques include using recent arm’s length market transactions and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. between knowledgeable, willing parties, if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models. 164 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 Impairment This approach is based on both the materiality of the decline in fair value and the intrinsic underlying features of the valuation for Financial assets other than those measured at fair value through each asset. profit or loss are tested for impairment at each reporting date. A financial asset has been impaired if there is objective evidence Any subsequent decline in fair value is recognised in profit or loss of impairment based on one or a number of events whose as an impairment expense. impact on the asset’s estimated future cash flows may be reliably A similar method is employed for unlisted variable-income determined. securities. Assets measured at amortised cost and debt instruments available for sale Reversals of impairment losses For debt instruments held to maturity or available for sale, an Available-for-sale financial assets impairment loss related to their fair value is recognised in the income statement if future cash flows are unlikely to be entirely Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on recoverable due to the existence of one or more objective available-for-sale equity instruments are reversed through profit or indicators of impairment. loss when the instrument is derecognised. However, downgrading by a rating agency or widening credit If the fair value of an available-for-sale debt instrument increases spreads do not in themselves constitute objective evidence of in a subsequent period due to new circumstances, e.g., an impairment. One or a combination of the following factors would improvement in the counterparty’s credit rating, the impairment constitute objective evidence of impairment: loss is reversed in profit or loss. WW a credit event as defined by the ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association), namely bankruptcy of the entity Loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments in question, failure to pay, or a reorganisation; If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss WW knowledge of material financial difficulties being experienced decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an by the counterparty that amount to a recognised risk, even in event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the instances where the counterparty has not actually defaulted; previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting WW the existence of certain facilities that would not have been the allowance account, provided that the reversal does not result granted to the counterparty in the absence of financial in a carrying amount of the financial asset that exceeds what difficulties. the amortised cost would have been, had the impairment not been recognised at the date the impairment is reversed. The Available-for-sale equity instruments impairment loss is reversed in profit or loss. At each reporting date, available-for-sale equity instruments are reviewed to determine whether there is any objective evidence Structured entities that they are impaired. This is considered to be the case when CNP Assurances’ business involves investing in different types of there is: financial assets both in policyholder and own-fund portfolios as WW a prolonged decline in fair value: the market price is less than part of asset allocation and financial risk diversification strategies. the average carrying amount over the three years preceding Under IFRS 12, structured entities are entities that have been the reporting date; or designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant WW a significant decline in fair value: the market price at the factor in deciding who controls the entity. In the Group’s case, reporting date represents less than 50% of the average mutual funds and asset-backed security funds fulfil the criteria for carrying amount. classification as structured entities. When objective evidence of impairment is detected, the Details of CNP Assurances’ investments in non-consolidated cumulative unrealised loss previously recorded directly in equity structured entities are disclosed in Note 8.2.4 of the annual is recognised in profit or loss. financial statements, in compliance with paragraph 26 of IFRS 12 Moreover, in all cases where these thresholds have not been (“An entity shall disclose qualitative and quantitative information exceeded but the market price represents less than 70% of the about its interests in unconsolidated structured entities, including, average carrying amount over the previous six months, the Group but not limited to, the nature, purpose, size and activities of the systematically tests all equity instruments on an asset-by-asset structured entity and how the structured entity is financed.”) basis to ascertain whether or not an impairment loss needs to be recognised. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 165 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 8.1 Investment property The recoverable amount of a property is the higher of its value in use and its market price less costs to sell, as determined by Investment property is property (land or building) held to earn annual independent valuations of the Group’s entire property rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for use in portfolio. the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes, or for sale in the ordinary course of business. The purpose of this note is to show depreciation and impairment losses recognised/reversed during the period through profit or The Group has elected to measure investment property using loss in respect of property and the captions impacted by the the cost model (see Note 7 for details), as allowed by IAS 40, movements. except for properties held in unit-linked portfolios which are measured at fair value. It presents: WW the gross carrying amount and accumulated depreciation Details of the fair value of properties measured using the (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) at the cost model are also disclosed in these notes to the financial beginning and end of the period; statements. Fair value corresponds to the probable realisable value of properties and shares in unlisted property companies. It WW a reconciliation of the carr ying amounts of investment is determined on the basis of five-year valuations performed by a property at the beginning and end of the period, showing qualified expert recognised by the ACPR. In the period between (i) additions; (ii) disposals; (iii) depreciation; (iv) impairment two five-year valuations, fair value is estimated at each year-end losses recognised and reversed during the period; (v) the net and the amounts obtained are certified by a qualified expert. exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements into a different presentation currency, and on translation of an international transaction into the presentation Impairment currency of the reporting entity; (vi) transfers to and from At the end of each reporting period, properties are assessed inventories and owner-occupied property; and (vii) other to determine whether there is any indication that they may changes; be impaired. One such indicator is a loss of over 20% of the WW the fair value of investment properties held in unit-linked building’s value measured against cost. If there is evidence of portfolios. impairment, CNP Assurances estimates the recoverable amount of the building concerned. Carrying amount of investment property (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Investment property measured by the cost model Gross value 1,295.7 1,341.0 Accumulated depreciation (261.8) (256.0) Accumulated impairment losses (4.1) (2.2) Carrying amount 1,029.8 1,082.7 Investment property measured by the fair value model Gross value 1,510.2 1,485.4 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 2,540.0 2,568.1 166 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 Investment property at amortised cost (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 1,082.7 1,805.4 Acquisitions 14.1 74.0 Post-acquisition costs included in the carrying amount of property 0.0 0.0 Properties acquired through business combinations 0.0 178.1 Disposals (25.5) (320.7) Depreciation for the period (24.5) (36.5) Impairment losses recognised during the period (0.9) (0.5) Impairment losses reversed during the period 1.8 1.5 Translation adjustments (0.9) (1.4) Other movements (17.1) (617.1) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 1,029.8 1,082.7 Investment property measured by the fair value model (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Carrying amount at the beginning of the period 1,485.4 1,121.1 Acquisitions 93.6 377.3 Post-acquisition costs included in the carrying amount of property 0.0 0.0 Properties acquired through business combinations 0.0 0.0 Disposals (49.9) 0.0 Net gains arising from remeasurement at fair value (15.9) (9.7) Translation adjustments (2.8) (3.3) Other movements (0.2) 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 1,510.2 1,485.4 As explained in the description of significant accounting policies, investment properties backing linked liabilities are measured at fair value, while other investment properties are measured using the cost model. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 167 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 8.2 Investments by category The following tables show the fair value of securities held by the Group, by category and intended holding period. 8.2.1 Investments at 31 December 2018 Unrealised AmortisaImpairFair value Carrying gains and (In € millions) Cost tion ment adjustments amount losses Assets at fair Fixed-rate bonds 11,951.4 value through Variable-rate bonds 20,824.4 profit or loss TCNs (money market securities) 443.7 Equities 4,492.0 Investment funds 39,920.0 Shares in non-trading property companies 1,206.2 Other (including lent securities and repos) 2,765.2 Total 81,602.9 Derivative Derivative instruments instruments (positive fair value) 1,287.6 Derivative instruments (negative fair value) (1,193.3) Total 94.4 Available-forFixed-rate bonds 157,488.1 2,485.8 (0.5) 11,712.6 171,685.9 sale financial Variable-rate bonds 20,770.8 731.6 (25.6) 1,709.7 23,186.4 assets TCNs (money market securities) 2,808.8 0.0 0.0 (0.3) 2,808.4 Equities 13,730.8 0.0 (3,223.0) 4,893.1 15,400.9 Investment funds 45,378.4 0.0 (412.8) 2,189.2 47,154.7 Shares in non-trading property companies 7,042.1 0.0 (234.1) 2,686.1 9,494.1 Non-voting loan stock 42.3 0.0 (5.1) 24.1 61.3 Other (including lent securities and repos) 18,425.6 (367.7) (1.0) 1,494.0 19,550.9 Total 265,686.8 2,849.7 (3,902.1) 24,708.4 289,342.7 Held-toFixed-rate bonds 94.0 94.0 4.5 maturity Variable-rate bonds 176.2 176.2 27.9 investments Other (including lent securities and repos) 126.1 126.1 4.5 Total 396.3 396.3 36.9 Loans and Loans and receivables 4,908.4 (17.1) 4,891.3 0.0 receivables Total 4,908.4 (17.1) 4,891.3 0.0 Investment Investment property at amortised property cost 1,295.7 (261.8) (4.1) 1,029.8 907.7 Investment property measured by the fair value model 1,510.2 1,510.2 Total 2,806.0 (261.8) (4.1) 2,540.0 907.7 TOTAL (3,923.4) 24,708.4 378,867.7 944.6 168 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 TRADITIONAL SAVINGS AND UNIT-LINKED PORTFOLIOS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Carrying amount Traditional (In € millions) Unit-linked savings Total Fixed-rate bonds 6,850.5 5,100.9 11,951.4 Variable-rate bonds 12,502.2 8,322.2 20,824.4 TCNs (money market securities) 42.9 400.8 443.7 Equities 643.8 3,848.3 4,492.0 Investment funds 31,884.3 8,035.7 39,920.0 Shares in non-trading property companies 1,206.2 0.0 1,206.2 Other 1,613.8 1,151.4 2,765.2 TOTAL 54,743.7 26,859.3 81,602.9 Derivative instruments with a positive fair value are recorded as assets and those with a negative fair value are recorded as liabilities. 8.2.2 Investments at 31 December 2017 Unrealised Amor­ Impair­Fair value Carrying gains and (In € millions) Cost tisation ment adjustments amount losses Assets at fair Fixed-rate bonds 12,805.8 value through Variable-rate bonds 19,481.5 profit or loss TCNs (money market securities) 161.6 Equities 5,265.3 Investment funds 41,059.1 Shares in non-trading property companies 1,173.5 Other (including lent securities and repos) 1,775.0 Total 81,721.8 Derivative Derivative instruments (positive fair value) 797.5 instruments Derivative instruments (negative fair value) (1,110.1) Total (312.5) Available-forFixed-rate bonds 154,282.2 2,347.6 (0.5) 14,819.9 171,449.1 sale financial Variable-rate bonds 23,188.1 614.0 (40.4) 2,400.0 26,161.7 assets TCNs (money market securities) 2,012.3 0.0 0.0 (2.4) 2,009.9 Equities 15,076.0 0.0 (4,281.0) 8,518.4 19,313.4 Investment funds 46,537.9 0.0 (294.6) 4,065.9 50,309.2 Shares in non-trading property companies 6,544.3 0.0 (306.1) 2,131.6 8,369.8 Non-voting loan stock 42.3 0.0 (4.0) 25.8 64.1 Other (including lent securities and repos) 16,936.9 (392.8) (106.2) 2,366.3 18,804.2 Total 264,620.0 2,568.7 (5,032.8) 34,325.5 296,481.3 Held-toFixed-rate bonds 158.2 158.2 9.8 maturity Variable-rate bonds 218.7 218.7 27.5 investments Other (including lent securities and repos) 171.8 171.8 8.9 Total 548.7 548.7 46.2 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 169 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements Unrealised Amor­ Impair­Fair value Carrying gains and (In € millions) Cost tisation ment adjustments amount losses Loans and Loans and receivables 4,987.7 (17.1) 4,970.5 0.0 receivables Total 4,987.7 (17.1) 4,970.5 0.0 Investment Investment property at amortised cost 1,341.0 (256.0) (2.2) 1,082.7 909.8 property Investment property measured by the fair value model 1,485.4 0.0 0.0 1,485.4 0.0 Total 2,826.4 (256.0) (2.2) 2,568.1 909.8 TOTAL (5,052.2) 34,325.5 385,977.9 956.0 TRADITIONAL SAVINGS AND UNIT-LINKED PORTFOLIOS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Carrying amount (In € millions) Unit-linked Traditional savings Total Fixed-rate bonds 6,546.9 6,258.9 12,805.8 Variable-rate bonds 10,770.4 8,711.1 19,481.5 TCNs (money market securities) 45.5 116.1 161.6 Equities 415.6 4,849.7 5,265.3 Investment funds 32,283.5 8,775.6 41,059.1 Shares in non-trading property companies 0.0 1,173.5 1,173.5 Other 1,610.4 164.6 1,775.0 TOTAL 51,672.3 30,049.5 81,721.8 8.2.3 Reconciliation of insurance investments in the balance sheet to investments analysed in Notes 8.2.1 and 8.2.2 (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Analysis of investments 378,867.7 385,978.0 Balance sheet – Liabilities – Derivative instruments (negative fair value) (1,193.3) (1,110.1) Balance sheet – Assets – Insurance investments 380,061.0 387,088.0 VARIANCE 0.0 0.0 170 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 8.2.4 Non-consolidated structured entities 8.2.4.1 Non-consolidated structured entities at 31 December 2018 Securitisation vehicles and Investment funds asset-backed financings Structured entities held in (excluding unit-linked) (excluding unit-linked) unit-linked portfolios Gains/ Gains/ Gains/ Carrying (losses) over Carrying (losses) over Carrying (losses) over (In € millions) amount the period amount the period amount the period Securities held for trading 14,110.8 82.7 390.2 4.5 Financial assets designated on initial recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss 12.5 (1.9) 4.1 (0.1) 29,056.8 (2,208.9) Available-for-sale financial assets * 45,232.6 816.5 3,977.4 49.0 Held-to-maturity investments TOTAL ASSETS 59,355.9 897.3 4,371.7 53.3 29,056.8 (2,208.9) * Unlisted debt funds are included in “Securitisation vehicles and asset-backed financing (excluding unit-linked supports)” for an amount of €3,689.4 million as of 31 December 2018 8.2.4.2 Non-consolidated structured entities at 31 December 2017 Securitisation vehicles and Investment funds (excluding asset-backed financings Structured entities held unit-linked) (excluding unit-linked) in unit-linked portfolios Gains/(losses) Gains/(losses) Gains/(losses) Carrying over the Carrying over the Carrying over the (In € millions) amount period amount period amount period Securities held for trading 15,459.0 312.8 430.7 8.6 Financial assets designated on initial recognition as being at fair value through profit or loss 19.6 1.8 4.0 0.2 28,424.2 1,339.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 50,310.7 939.2 287.8 24.4 Held-to-maturity investments TOTAL ASSETS 65,789.3 1,253.8 722.5 33.3 28,424.2 1,339.4 8.3 Measurement of assets recognised In the case of financial instruments whose price is not quoted in at fair value an active market (i.e., no price is quoted or a price is quoted but the market does not qualify as active, as is the case for A financial instrument is considered as traded in an active market certain structured products), fair value prices are estimated using when quoted prices are readily and regularly available from valuation techniques. These are based on: an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or WW prices not freely available provided upon demand by the regulatory agency and these prices represent actual and regularly arrangers or pricing services, or prices provided by an occurring market transactions conducted on an arm’s length basis. external agency that are freely available but where the market The main criteria used in determining whether or not a market is on which the assets are traded is not always active; active is how recent the quoted prices actually are as well as the liquidity of the securities traded. The market in question will WW internal models that maximise the use of observable market be considered inactive if one or more of the following indicators data to measure financial assets. is observed: a sharp fall in the number of transactions, a major increase in settlement costs or volatility, or a rapid widening in Z-spreads. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 171 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements Structured product valuation principles the largest volumes of transactions. The following financial assets are measured at their quoted market price: The aim of the valuation techniques is to obtain estimated values that approximate the economic value of a position using prices WW equities, measured on the basis of quoted prices on their and rates corresponding to the underlying assets or benchmark reference market; interest rates. The prices correspond to the estimated amount that WW mutual fund units, measured at their net asset value; a buyer would be willing to pay to purchase the asset. Actual WW bonds, EMTNs, BMTNs: for each instrument, the value prices could be significantly different from these estimates, due to is determined based on the most recent quoted prices various factors such as credit spreads, market liquidity, the size of available – on the stock exchange, from brokers, trading the position, financing costs, and hedging costs and risks. rooms or trading platforms, the ICMA Price Service (average The valuation techniques used: prices) or BGN (average prices excluding highs and lows), WW make maximum use of market inputs; taking into account liquidity factors in the choice of market; WW BTAN treasury notes, at the prices quoted under the Banque WW incorporate all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price; and de France’s centralised quotation system; WW derivatives listed on an organised market. WW are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments. Level 2: financial instruments measured by standard valuation The prices established by the counterparties are obtained in techniques using mainly observable inputs. principle every month, in particular following the signature of a These include: liquidity letter. The valuations communicated by the counterparties WW certain structured products whose valuation relies on an correspond to an economic value of the securities. internal model based principally on market data; The CNP Assurances Group verifies the reliability of these data WW OTC derivative contracts whose valuation relies on an internal from an evaluation whenever possible (estimated future cash flows model based principally on market data; for example) or questions counterparties as to the methodologies WW money market securities which are not listed anymore used if necessary. The values of the counterparties examined so measured based on the zero coupon price curve plus a far have been confirmed by the CNP Assurances Group, which spread; ensures both the quality of the counterparty valuation methods WW investment property measured based on prices recorded for and the quality of the ratings of the issues and the absence of a similar recent transactions or the rental value of equivalent-type credit incident. properties; WW any other OTC financial instrument. Fair value hierarchies Structured products held by the Group consist of financial Financial instruments are classified in three categories based on instruments for which income is indexed to indices, baskets of the fair value hierarchy, as follows: equities, hedge funds, interest rates and credits. They may also comprise embedded derivatives that can modify the structure of Level 1: financial instruments measured using quoted prices in revenues or repayments. active markets. The Group uses valuations of its complex products prepared The fair value of most financial instruments held by the Group is internally, or by an external valuer, acting as a delegate. They determined based on the quoted market price, whenever quoted include structured products and derivative instruments used for prices are readily and regularly available and represent actual hedging purposes. Due to their complexity, the valuation process and regularly occurring market transactions conducted on an involves using sophisticated models and methods, generally arm’s length basis. The active market for such transactions is the based on a probabilistic approach. market in which the most recent prices were quoted along with 172 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 Overall, these two product categories are valued using market models and the market data required for each model at the calculation date (see table below). Structured products Models/Methods Interest-rate linked structured notes 4-Factor Libor Market Model (LMM) Hybrid Equity Black-FX Model Hull-White 1-Factor Model Equity linked structured notes Dupire model Heston model Dupire hybrid equation Hull-White 1-Factor Model Inflation-indexed complex structured products Jarrow-Yildirim model Asset class Financial instruments Models/Methods Inflation derivatives Inflation swaps Future cash flows discounted using bi-curve model Swaps with Black model an embedded option Caps/floors SABR smile model Hull-White One-Factor Model (stochastic volatility) CMS replication Inflation derivatives Swap inflation Black model SABR smile model Credit derivatives CDS options Black-Scholes formula (Markit volatilities) Equity derivatives Floors Heston model calibrated across the SX5E’s entire implicit volatility surface and Black-Scholes using historical volatility for the EMTXGC and QW1M funds CAC and SX5E puts Black-Scholes model with volatility surface developed based on option prices quoted on Bloomberg JPY swaps (with currency JPY swaps (with currency FX Basket (FXBA) model with Black-Scholes (Reuters volatilities) option at each swaplet) option at each swaplet) Funds Fund options (Quattro) Black Basket model with historical volatility Level 3: financial instruments measured using inputs not based on market. The main valuation techniques are the market multiples observable market data (unobservable inputs). These are defined method, comparisons with recent market transactions and the as inputs based neither on observable market transactions discounted dividends method, corresponding to the techniques involving the same instrument at the measurement date, nor on commonly used to manage these instruments. observable market data available at the same date. In addition, some complex structured securities and for which This category includes the Group unlisted participations as well valuation is obtained through the counterparty are classified in as certain securitisation financial instruments. Unlisted securities this category. are measured using information not available on an active 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 173 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 8.3.1 Valuation methods at 31 December 2018 Category 3: Category 2: estimated estimated market value Category 1: market value using valuation last available using valuation model not quotation of model based based solely assets quoted in on observable on observable (In € millions) an active market market inputs market inputs Total Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss * 73,816.4 7,375.6 1,698.5 82,890.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 263,105.5 18,616.8 7,620.5 289,342.7 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 336,921.9 25,992.4 9,319.0 372,233.2 Investment property at amortised cost 0.0 1,924.1 13.4 1,937.5 Investment property measured by the fair value model 0.0 1,483.2 27.1 1,510.2 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 0.0 3,407.2 40.5 3,447.7 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities – financial instruments without DPF (excluding unit-linked) 594.6 0.0 0.0 594.6 Financial liabilities (linked liabilities) – financial instruments without DPF 3,578.9 0.0 0.0 3,578.9 Derivative financial instruments (liabilities) 0.0 1,193.3 0.0 1,193.3 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 4,173.5 1,193.3 0.0 5,366.8 * Includes derivative financial instruments (assets) During 2018, the Group reviewed the measurement methods Without changing the values, this analysis results in a reallocation applied to certain financial assets not quoted on an active market, of some investments to level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, for an i.e., mainly investment funds, securitisation funds, private equity amount of €9.25 billion as of 31 December 2018. investments, structured products and infrastructure investments. Financial assets classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy can be analysed as follows by type: (In € millions) 31.12.2018 Debt securities 12,136.6 O/w Structured bonds 89.1 Shares in non-trading property companies 10,700.2 Investment funds 228.0 Unit-linked portfolios 1,579.4 Other (including derivative instruments) 1,348.2 TOTAL “LEVEL 2” FINANCIAL ASSETS 25,992.4 174 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 The Group’s derivative instruments are collateralised and the counterparty risk is therefore limited. In addition, the credit value adjustment (“CVA”) is not material, due to the nature of the Group’s forward financial instruments and the calculation base. Financial assets classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy can be analysed as follows by type: (In € millions) 31.12.2018 Debt securities 2,434.8 O/w Structured bonds 332.9 Shares in non-trading property companies 0.0 Investment funds 4,592.9 Unit-linked portfolios 2.1 Other 2,289.2 TOTAL “LEVEL 3” FINANCIAL ASSETS 9,319.0 8.3.2 Valuation methods at 31 December 2017 (pro forma) Category 2: Category 3: estimated estimated market Category 1: market value value using last available using valuation valuation model quotation of assets model based on not based solely quoted in an observable market on observable (In € millions) active market inputs market inputs Total Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 73,185.1 7,697.3 1,636.9 82,519.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 271,073.8 17,665.4 7,742.2 296,481.3 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 344,258.9 25,362.6 9,379.1 379,000.6 Investment property at amortised cost 0.0 1,975.0 17.5 1,992.5 Investment property measured by the fair value model 0.0 1,460.3 25.0 1,485.4 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 0.0 3,435.3 42.6 3,477.9 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities – financial instruments without DPF (excluding unit-linked) 625.4 0.0 0.0 625.4 Financial liabilities (linked liabilities) – financial instruments without DPF 3,952.9 0.0 0.0 3,952.9 Derivative instruments 0.0 1,110.1 0.0 1,110.1 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 4,578.3 1,110.1 0.0 5,688.4 * Includes derivative financial instruments (assets) The Group’s derivative instruments are collateralised and the counterparty risk is therefore limited. In addition, the credit value adjustment (“CVA”) is not material, due to the nature of the Group’s forward financial instruments and the calculation base. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 175 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 8.3.3 Valuation methods at 31 December 2017 (reported) Category 2: estimated Category 3: Category 1: market value estimated market value last available using valuation using valuation model quotation of assets model based on not based solely on quoted in an observable market observable market (In € millions) active market inputs inputs Total Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss * 73,186.1 9,321.4 11.8 82,519.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 271,073.8 25,291.9 115.6 296,481.3 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 344,260.0 34,613.3 127.4 379,000.6 Investment property at amortised cost 0.0 1,975.0 17.5 1,992.5 Investment property measured by the fair value model 0.0 1,460.3 25.0 1,485.4 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 0.0 3,435.3 42.6 3,477.9 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities – financial instruments without DPF (excluding unit-linked) 625.4 0.0 0.0 625.4 Financial liabilities (linked liabilities) – financial instruments without DPF 3,952.9 0.0 0.0 3,952.9 Derivative instruments 0.0 1,110.1 0.0 1,110.1 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 4,578.3 1,110.1 0.0 5,688.4 * Includes derivative financial instruments (assets) Financial assets classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy can be analysed as follows by type: 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 (In € millions) pro forma reported Debt securities 12,169.1 14,519.0 O/w Structured bonds 132.8 480.8 Shares in non-trading property companies 9,340.5 9,340.5 Investment funds 49.3 4,741.0 Unit-linked portfolios 2,971.4 2,971.4 Other (including derivative instruments) 832.3 3,041.4 TOTAL “LEVEL 2” FINANCIAL ASSETS 25,362.6 34,613.3 Financial assets classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy can be analysed as follows by type: 31.12.2017 (In € millions) pro forma Debt securities 2,477.3 O/w Structured bonds 348.0 Shares in non-trading property companies 0.0 Investment funds 4,691.7 Unit-linked portfolios 1.0 Other (including derivative instruments) 2,209.1 TOTAL “LEVEL 3” FINANCIAL ASSETS 9,379.1 176 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 8.3.4 Reconciliation of movements for the period in securities measured using a valuation model not based solely on observable market inputs 31.12.2018 Impact of sales Impact of Transfers of securities sales of RemeasureRemeasureOpening Transfers to from at fair value available-forment at fair ment at fair Closing carrying category 3 category 3 through profit sale financial value through value through ImpairTranslation carrying (In € millions) amount Acquisitions Maturity (additions) (disposals) or loss assets equity profit or loss ment adjustments amount Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 11.8 1.0 0.0 1,625.1 0.0 (0.5) 0.0 0.0 61.1 0.0 0.0 1,698.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 115.7 1,415.8 0.0 7,626.6 0.0 0.0 (1,476.0) (67.0) 0.0 5.8 (0.2) 7,620.6 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 127.5 1,416.8 0.0 9,251.7 0.0 (0.5) (1,476.0) (67.0) 61.1 5.8 (0.2) 9,319.1 Investment property at fair value 25.0 10.6 (5.8) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2.8) 27.1 Investment property at amortised cost 17.5 13.9 (16.1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (1.8) 13.4 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 42.6 24.5 (21.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (4.6) 40.5 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 31.12.2017 (pro forma) Impact of sales of RemeasureRemeasureOpening Transfers to Transfers from securities at fair Impact of sales of ment at fair ment at fair Closing carrying category 3 category 3 value through profit available-for-sale value through value through ImpairTranslation carrying (In € millions) amount Acquisitions Maturity (additions) (disposals) or loss financial assets equity profit or loss ment adjustments amount Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,636.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,639.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 5.4 1.2 0.0 7,734.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 0.0 (0.3) 7,742.2 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 5.4 1.2 0.0 9,371.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 0.0 (0.3) 9,379.1 Investment property at fair value 16.1 12.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (3.3) 25.0 Investment property at amortised cost 20.1 0.0 0.0 0.5 (0.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2.8) 17.5 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 36.2 12.3 0.0 0.5 (0.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (6.1) 42.6 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 177 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31.12.2017 reported Impact of sales of RemeasureRemeasureOpening Transfers to Transfers from securities at fair Impact of sales of ment at fair ment at fair carrying category 3 category 3 value through profit available-for-sale value through value through ImpairTranslation Closing carrying (In € millions) amount Acquisitions Maturity (additions) (disposals) or loss financial assets equity profit or loss ment adjustments amount Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 5.4 1.2 0.0 107.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 0.0 (0.3) 115.6 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 5.4 1.2 0.0 119.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 0.0 0.0 (0.3) 127.4 Investment property at fair value 16.1 12.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (3.3) 25.0 Investment property at amortised cost 20.1 0.0 0.0 0.5 (0.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2.8) 17.5 TOTAL INVESTMENT PROPERTY 36.2 12.3 0.0 0.5 (0.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (6.1) 42.6 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.4 Repurchase agreements/Lent securities represents a liability to the transferee, is recorded in “Operating liabilities represented by securities”. Repurchase and securities lending transactions are part of the Group’s portfolio optimisation strategy. The Group remains exposed to changes in the fair value of securities sold or loaned and has virtually no counterparty risk The securities sold or loaned are not derecognised as the Group exposure due to the margin calls used to safeguard the value of retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. the securities in question. They continue to be carried in the same asset category (with their value adjusted accordingly) and the cash received, which The following table analyses the carrying amount of securities sold under repurchase agreements, by asset category and intended holding period: Carrying amount (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Available-for-sale financial Fixed-rate bonds 11,594.3 10,709.8 assets Equities 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 11,594.3 10,709.8 The following table analyses the carrying amount of lent securities, by asset category and intended holding period: Carrying amount (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Available-for-sale financial Fixed-rate bonds 7,947.8 8,053.9 assets Equities (quoted) 0.0 29.9 TOTAL 7,947.8 8,083.9 178 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 8.5 Movements for the period 8.5.1 2018 Opening Additions to Reversals of Changes Closing carrying Fair value provisions for provisions for in scope of carrying (In € millions) amount Additions Disposals adjustments impairment * impairment * consolidation Other amount Securities held for trading 81,721.8 43,186.2 (37,907.3) (3,351.3) 0.0 0.0 (653.5) (1,392.8) 81,602.9 Derivative instruments (312.5) 645.3 (530.2) 291.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 94.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 296,481.3 109,279.3 (107,758.5) (9,616.8) (168.9) 1,299.5 0.0 (173.2) 289,342.7 Held-to-maturity investments 548.7 34.2 (153.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (33.3) 396.3 Loans and receivables 4,970.5 493.6 (558.7) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (14.1) 4,891.3 Investment property 2,568.1 85.8 (77.6) (16.0) (0.9) 1.6 0.0 (21.0) 2,540.0 TOTAL 385,978.0 153,724.3 (146,985.7) (12,692.3) (169.7) 1,301.1 (653.5) (1,634.4) 378,867.7 * See Note 18.3 8.5.2 2017 Additions to Reversals of Opening carrying Fair value provisions for provisions for Changes in scope Closing carrying (In € millions) amount Additions Disposals adjustments impairment * impairment * of consolidation Other amount Securities held for trading 74,540.6 42,163.9 (35,816.5) 2,762.5 0.0 0.0 53.9 (1,982.6) 81,721.8 Derivative instruments (590.6) 338.7 (28.5) (32.1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (312.5) Available-for-sale financial assets 299,428.6 110,095.5 (111,719.1) (1,621.0) (240.4) 968.1 184.3 (614.6) 296,481.3 Held-to-maturity investments 766.3 38.9 (195.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (61.0) 548.7 Loans and receivables 4,945.3 1,777.7 (1,865.6) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 113.2 4,970.5 Investment property 2,926.5 1,006.0 (912.0) (9.7) (0.5) 1.5 178.1 (621.8) 2,568.1 TOTAL 382,016.7 155,420.7 (150,537.2) 1,099.6 (241.0) 969.5 416.3 (3,166.7) 385,978.0 * See Note 18.3 8.6 Derivative instruments A derivative is a financial instrument or other contract within the b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment scope of IAS 39 with all three of the following characteristics: that is smaller than would be required for other types of a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified contracts that would be expected to have a similar response interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, to changes in market factors; and foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating c) it is settled at a future date. or credit index, or other variable (the “underlying”); Derivative instruments are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss except for instruments designated as hedges whose effectiveness can be demonstrated. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 179 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements Embedded derivatives are separated from their host contract and WW the hybrid (combined) contract is not measured at fair value recognised as derivative instruments when the following three with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. conditions are met: If the Group is unable to measure the embedded derivative WW the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded separately either at acquisition or at a subsequent financial derivative are not closely related to the economic reporting date, the entire combined contract is treated as a characteristics and risks of the host contract; financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or WW a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded loss. derivative would meet the definition of a derivative; The following table analyses derivative instruments recorded in assets (positive fair value) and in liabilities (negative fair value) by maturity: 31.12.2018 Due within Due in Due in Due in Due in 1 year 1 to 5 years 6 to 10 years 11 to 15 years ≥ 15 years Total (In € millions) FV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVSwap 58.0 (44.5) 36.4 (476.9) 0.1 (298.4) 4.2 (86.4) 39.0 (114.9) 137.7 (1,021.1) Cap/floor 4.5 0.0 63.9 0.0 99.6 (0.1) 9.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 177.3 (0.1) Equity 10.4 (1.0) 958.2 (171.1) 4.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 972.7 (172.2) TOTAL 72.9 (45.6) 1,058.5 (648.0) 103.8 (298.4) 13.4 (86.4) 39.0 (114.9) 1,287.6 (1,193.3) 31.12.2017 Due within Due in Due in Due in Due in 1 year 1 to 5 years 6 to 10 years 11 to 15 years ≥ 15 years Total (In € millions) FV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVFV+ FVSwap 6.8 (13.2) 79.6 (520.5) 1.0 (102.6) 4.2 (285.0) 38.0 (118.5) 129.5 (1,039.7) Cap/floor 4.0 0.0 113.0 0.0 59.5 (0.1) 6.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 182.5 (0.1) Equity 5.8 (2.1) 473.8 (68.1) 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 485.5 (70.2) TOTAL 16.5 (15.2) 666.4 (588.6) 66.3 (102.8) 10.3 (285.0) 38.0 (118.5) 797.5 (1,110.1) 8.7 Derivative instruments qualifying Cash flow hedge accounting consists of recognising the effective for hedge accounting portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative in equity. The gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted immediately recognised in profit or loss. The cumulative gains or for in accordance with IAS 39 if they are part of a designated losses recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement hedging relationship as defined by the standard. over the period in which the hedged item impacts profit or loss. For all hedging instruments, the Group (i) documents the hedging If the hedging instrument expires, is sold or no longer qualifies relationship and the risk management objective and strategy for hedge accounting, cumulative gains or losses recognised in for undertaking the hedge, and (ii) assesses the effectiveness equity are recycled to the income statement either immediately or of the hedge at inception and over the life of the hedge by as and when the transaction initially hedged is completed. demonstrating the effectiveness of the hedging relationship both retrospectively and prospectively. 180 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 The fair values of derivatives designated as hedging instruments are as follows: Currency derivatives (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Notional amount 1,208.7 1,184.4 Cash flow hedge reserve 30.7 (43.5) Change in cash flow hedge reserve during the period 90.0 (137.0) Cash flow hedge reserve recycled through profit or loss during the period (36.8) 127.1 Deferred taxes (22.5) 3.4 CNP Assurances has set up three currency swaps to hedge At 31 December 2018, no amount had been recognised in changes in the euro amount of interest and principal due on three profit or loss for the ineffective portion of the hedges. subordinated notes issues denominated in foreign currencies: During the year, the Group hedged the impact of a possible WW the first on sterling-denominated subordinated notes increase in the exchange rate for the Brazilian real against the issued in 2011 hedges payments on the notes through to euro, using options, on cash flows related to the renewal of the 30 September 2021 against fluctuations in the sterling-euro distribution agreements in Brazil. exchange rate; WW the second concerns subordinated notes issued in US dollars The hedging covers part of the upfront payment to be made by in 2013 and hedges payments on the notes through to the Group on the closing date for the new agreements with its 18 July 2019; local partner, Caixa Seguridade. WW the third concerns subordinated notes issued in US dollars in January 2016 and hedges payments on the notes through to 22 January 2029. 8.8 Credit risk 8.8.1 Analysis of the bond portfolio at 31 December 2018 by issuer rating Rating (In € millions) Bond portfolio at fair value % AAA 19,041.3 7.5% AA 118,192.0 46.8% A 45,580.9 18.0% BBB 48,901.7 19.4% <BBB 18,318.1 7.2% NR 2,657.9 1.1% TOTAL 252,692.1 100.0% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 181 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 8.8.2 Analysis of the bond portfolio at 31 December 2017 by issuer rating Rating (In € millions) Bond portfolio at fair value % AAA 19,197.8 7.6% AA 116,106.9 46.2% A 42,645.2 17.0% BBB 51,330.8 20.4% <BBB 18,243.3 7.3% NR 3,887.7 1.5% TOTAL 251,411.7 100.0% 8.9 Classification of investments by category and by geographic region 8.9.1 Classification of investments by geographic region at 31 December 2018 Rest of United (In € millions) France Germany Italy Europe States Brazil Other Total AvailableDebt securities 95,272.7 9,255.5 14,838.4 43,143.1 14,309.5 1,348.3 19,513.3 197,680.8 for-sale Investment funds 35,604.8 237.3 54.9 9,758.8 367.0 0.0 1,131.9 47,154.7 financial assets Equities 9,183.3 3,072.3 515.9 2,146.8 0.0 0.0 482.6 15,400.9 Other 26,602.9 85.8 2.3 2,379.6 11.9 2.0 21.8 29,106.3 Held-forDebt securities 12,805.7 1,009.7 864.5 1,804.9 415.8 13,646.6 2,672.4 33,219.5 trading Investment funds 29,148.9 32.8 16.6 8,930.7 83.0 1,128.4 579.5 39,920.0 and FVO Equities 1,799.7 452.8 336.7 801.0 636.5 159.8 305.4 4,492.0 Other 2,615.1 0.0 158.7 46.6 0.0 1,151.0 0.0 3,971.4 Held-tomaturity investments Debt securities 126.1 0.0 41.8 0.0 0.0 228.5 0.0 396.3 Loans and receivables 3,593.4 0.0 0.1 703.1 0.0 0.0 594.6 4,891.3 Derivative instruments 102.0 0.0 0.0 (7.6) 0.0 0.0 0.0 94.4 Investment property 2,448.7 0.0 0.0 56.6 0.0 34.7 0.0 2,540.0 TOTAL 219,303.2 14,146.1 16,829.9 69,763.7 15,823.7 17,699.4 25,301.6 378,867.7 182 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 (2) Gross Gross Net Gross Gross Net List of countries exposure – exposure – exposure – exposure – exposure – exposure – (for information) carrying amount (1) fair value fair value carrying amount (1) fair value fair value France 76,105.7 85,045.6 6,314.9 72,029.4 82,411.7 5,383.7 Brazil 13,482.3 13,528.7 1,088.8 11,738.7 11,788.2 1,695.6 Spain 9,681.1 10,282.9 959.7 8,685.2 9,276.4 787.1 Italy 9,411.2 10,043.3 804.2 9,393.7 10,515.6 693.7 Belgium 6,900.2 7,543.7 477.2 6,257.3 7,119.6 418.5 Austria 3,640.7 4,018.6 144.2 4,400.6 4,909.2 163.8 Germany 3,254.8 3,565.6 161.7 2,151.8 2,448.5 154.8 Canada 980.2 1,014.0 115.7 781.5 823.9 106.2 Ireland 873.1 937.6 56.3 600.5 665.3 26.5 Portugal 466.1 500.1 51.2 272.3 305.7 7.9 Netherlands 346.6 373.7 26.1 181.6 202.2 7.8 Poland 328.7 351.4 76.9 294.4 324.6 72.7 Finland 88.3 90.0 3.7 91.2 92.2 2.5 Cyprus 80.3 86.7 43.2 58.3 67.5 33.6 Slovenia 78.5 84.9 2.8 140.3 150.6 4.6 Luxembourg 32.8 34.5 16.1 50.3 53.4 18.6 Greece 10.5 9.6 0.1 10.0 10.8 0.1 Sweden 1.2 2.1 0.4 1.2 2.3 0.4 United Kingdom 0.5 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 7,084.9 7,664.9 742.3 5,860.2 6,661.1 631.8 TOTAL 132,847.6 145,178.4 11,085.6 122,998.5 137,828.8 10,210.1 (1) Carrying amount, including accrued coupon (2) Sovereign debt exposure now includes shares held directly by consolidated mutual funds. Data reported at 31 December 2017 have been adjusted accordingly At 31 December 2018, the Group’s gross sovereign debt risk participation obligations and the Group’s policyholder bonus exposure calculated on a fair value basis totalled €145.2 billion, policy (see Note 9.2). The relatively low weighting of contracts or an estimated exposure net of deferred participation and with a guaranteed yield and the Group’s ability to allocate losses deferred taxes of €11.1 billion. Virtually all of the securities on financial assets to policyholders over the long term, reinforces concerned are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. The the validity of this approach to presenting the impact of net Group’s exposure is calculated based on asset values and before exposure. non-controlling interests. The apparent 7.6% ratio of “net exposure” to “gross exposure” The calculation of net exposure has been standardised at Group therefore reflects the deferred tax impact (factor of approximately level and reflects both the current market environment and policies 67.7% corresponding to the impact of the weighted average tax concerning deferred participation: calculating net exposure rate on the Group’s entities) and a deferred participation impact from gross exposure takes account of the impacts of deferred (a 11.3% factor, which corresponds to shareholders’ entitlements to unrealised gains or losses). taxes and deferred participation based on shadow accounting principles. In accordance with these principles, a change in the The combination of these two impacts (taxes and deferred deferred participation reserve is recorded to offset unrealised participation) results in a net exposure to gross exposure ratio of gains or losses on financial assets taking into account contractual 7.6% (67.7% multiplied by 11.3%) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 183 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements The difference between gross and net exposure does not WW unrealised gains, especially on property (€4.2 billion) and necessarily represent the loss that would be borne by on equities (€8.0 billion). These amounts would be taken into policyholders. In particular, the recoverability of successive losses account when testing any deferred participation assets for on sovereign debt is limited by the following: recoverability. WW the amount of the policyholders’ surplus reserves; In the absence of an incurred loss, no other sovereign debt WW the Group’s ability to lower the discretionary participation securities have been impaired. it pays to policyholders. In France, the estimated minimum guaranteed interest rate is approximately 0.3% for a projected DPF rate of around 1.6% at end‑2018; 8.9.2 Classification of investments by geographic region at 31 December 2017 Rest of (In € millions) France Germany Italy Europe United States Brazil Other Total AvailableDebt securities 94,768.5 8,160.8 15,844.7 43,624.5 13,521.3 1,887.6 21,813.3 199,620.7 for-sale Investment funds 36,508.0 281.4 41.8 12,075.0 0.0 0.0 1,403.2 50,309.0 financial assets Equities 11,779.0 3,265.5 821.1 2,939.0 0.0 0.0 508.2 19,313.0 Other 25,574.0 (50.1) 21.3 1,689.2 0.0 2.2 1.4 27,238.1 Held-forDebt securities 12,505.9 1,138.7 721.9 2,014.1 312.0 12,823.1 2,933.3 32,448.9 trading Investment funds 30,120.2 10.8 37.2 8,729.9 62.3 1,085.0 48.7 40,094.0 and FVO Equities 1,806.9 541.9 210.0 954.0 1,238.2 128.9 385.4 5,265.3 Other 3,595.9 0.0 88.6 64.7 0.0 164.3 0.0 3,913.5 Held-tomaturity investments Debt securities 171.8 0.0 41.8 0.0 0.0 335.2 0.0 548.7 Loans and receivables 3,493.2 0.0 0.2 867.9 0.0 0.0 609.2 4,970.5 Derivative instruments (302.7) (2.5) 0.0 (7.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (312.5) Investment property 2,467.9 0.0 0.0 66.3 0.0 33.9 0.0 2,568.1 TOTAL 222,488.8 13,346.4 17,828.6 73,017.5 15,133.8 16,460.2 27,702.7 385,978.0 8.10 Foreign currency balances a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised directly in equity, e.g., when a non-monetary asset is classified as The individual Group entities translate foreign currency available-for-sale, the difference arising on translation of the item transactions into the entity’s functional currency at the exchange is also recognised in equity. Similarly, when a gain or loss on rate on the transaction date. For practical reasons, the last a non-monetary item is recognised directly in profit or loss, the available exchange rate for the month preceding the transaction translation difference is also recognised in profit or loss. date is used as the rate on the transaction date for currencies that have been subject to only limited fluctuations during the period. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency (i.e., denominated in currencies other than the functional At each reporting date, monetary balance sheet items (excluding currencies of Group entities) and which are not covered by available-for-sale financial assets) are translated using the closing foreign exchange derivatives represented less than 0.5% of rate, and the resulting exchange differences are recognised in consolidated assets and liabilities in 2016, 2017 and 2018. profit or loss unless hedge accounting is used as described in Note 8.6 above. In preparation for the United Kingdom’s forthcoming exit from the European Union, the Group has identified all of its exposures Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured using the cost to sterling-denominated assets held directly or through funds. model are translated into euros at the exchange rate on the The review showed that less than 1% of total assets transaction date, while non-monetary assets and liabilities (€378.9 billion) were exposed to a risk of changes in the euro/ measured using the fair value model are translated at the sterling exchange rate. exchange rate on the date of remeasurement at fair value. When 184 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 8.11 Temporary exemption from applying WW a “deferral approach” whereby adoption of IFRS 9 is deferred IFRS 9 for three years until 1 January 2021. IFRS 9 was adopted on 22 November 2016 for use in the The Group qualifies to apply the deferral approach and has European Union for accounting periods beginning on or after elected to defer application of IFRS 9. 1 Januar y 2018. On 3 November 2017, the European It will be required to publish certain additional information Commission also adopted an amendment to IFRS 4 – during the transition period from 2018 to 2021, concerning the Insurance Contracts that was published by the IASB on classification of assets and the Group’s exposure to credit risk on 12 September 2016 and describes how insurance undertakings the assets that fulfil the criteria set out in IFRS 9 (financial assets should apply IFRS 9 in conjunction with IFRS 4. The amendment that give rise to cash flows which are solely payments of principal provides for two approaches to applying IFRS 9: and interest on the principal amount outstanding). WW an “overlay approach”, to be applied by insurance companies that choose to apply IFRS 9 as from 1 January 2018; 8.11.1 Fair value of financial assets by class of asset 31.12.2018 (In € millions) Fair value Financial assets that give Fixed-rate bonds 173,492.0 rise to cash flows which are Variable-rate bonds 19,344.0 solely payments of principal and interest on the principal TCNs (money market securities) 2,838.4 amount outstanding Other 20,819.3 Total 216,493.7 Other financial assets Equities 19,893.0 Shares in non-trading property companies 10,700.3 Investment funds 87,074.7 Fixed-rate bonds 10,242.1 Variable-rate bonds 24,871.4 TCNs (money market securities) 414.0 Other 1,689.5 Derivative financial instruments (assets) 1,287.7 Derivative financial instruments (liabilities) (1,193.3) Total 154,979.5 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables 4,891.3 Investment property Investment property at amortised cost 1,937.5 Investment property measured by the fair value model 1,510.2 Total 8,339.1 TOTAL 379,812.3 IFRS 9/IAS 39 do not apply to investment property which is accounted for in accordance with different standards. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 185 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 8.11.2 Breakdown by credit risk of debt instruments that give rise to cash flows which are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding 31.12.2018 (In € millions) Carrying amount Fair value Assets for which AAA 15,482.0 16,968.7 the credit risk is low AA 103,342.8 114,504.9 A 34,362.6 35,659.5 BBB 41,905.3 43,518.0 Total 195,092.7 210,651.1 Assets for which <BBB 4,739.1 4,836.6 the credit risk is not low NR 988.4 1,006.0 Total 5,727.5 5,842.6 TOTAL 200,820.1 216,493.7 None of the Group entities applied IFRS 9 as of the date of publication of the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 9 Insurance and financial liabilities 9.1 Contract classification 9.2 Insurance contracts and financial Contracts recognised and measured in accordance with IFRS 4 instruments with DPF include: Insurance contracts and financial instruments with DPF are WW insurance contracts (see definition below) that cover a risk for accounted for in accordance with Group accounting policies, as the insured. Examples include personal risk contracts, pension well as with the specific provisions of IFRS 4 concerning shadow contracts, property and casualty contracts and unit-linked accounting and liability adequacy tests. At each reporting date, savings contracts with a guaranteed element; the Group assesses whether its recognised insurance liabilities WW financial instruments with DPF, comprising both traditional net of its insurance assets (deferred participation asset plus other savings contracts with DPF and unit-linked contracts including insurance-related intangible assets) are adequate, using current a traditional savings component with DPF. estimates of future cash flows under the insurance contracts and financial instruments with DPF. Financial instruments without DPF are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 39. This category corresponds to unitlinked savings contracts that do not have any traditional savings Insurance contracts component or guaranteed element. Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance Contracts that do not fulfil the criteria for classification as either risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to insurance contracts or financial instruments without DPF fall within compensate the policyholder or another beneficiary if a specified the scope of: uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder or beneficiary are classified as insurance contracts. WW IFRS 15, when they correspond to the provision of services; or WW IAS 19, for contracts taken out in connection with benefit Insurance risk is a risk other than a financial risk. Financial risk is plans in favour of Group employees. the risk of a possible future change in one or more variables such as a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate or other variable. In the case of a 186 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 non-financial variable, if the variable is not specific to a party to In line with the policy described above, the components of the contract, the risk is financial; otherwise it is an insurance risk. traditional savings contracts written by the Group are not Surrender risk, extension risk or the risk of higher-than-expected unbundled. administrative expenses are not insurance risks, unless they are risks originally incurred by the policyholder that are transferred to Life insurance and savings contracts the Group under an insurance contract. Premiums For each group of contracts with similar characteristics, the significance of the insurance risk is assessed based on a single Premiums on contracts in force during the period are recognised representative contract. Under this approach, the insurance risk in revenue. In the case of group policies that include death may be considered significant although the probability of the insurance, the recognised amount is adjusted to include the group of contracts generating a loss that has a material adverse estimated earned portion of premiums not yet written. effect on the financial statements is remote due to the pooling of risks. Technical and mathematical reserves Reserves for contracts with death cover include the portion of premiums written but not earned during the reporting period. Financial instruments with DPF Contracts that do not expose the Group to an insurance risk or for Mathematical reser ves for traditional savings contracts which the insurance risk is not material are qualified as financial correspond to the difference between the present value of the instruments when they give rise to a financial asset or liability. respective commitments of the Group and the policyholder. Contracts are qualified as financial instruments with DPF when Life premium reserves are determined using a discount rate that they incorporate a contractual or regulatory entitlement to receive, is equal to or less than the conservatively estimated forecast yield as a supplement to guaranteed benefits, additional benefits: on the assets backing the liabilities. WW that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual Insurance liabilities are discounted at a rate that is equal to or benefits; less than the contractual rate, using regulatory mortality tables or WW whose amount or timing is contractually at the Group’s internal experience-based tables if these are more conservative. discretion; and The discount rate applied to annuities takes into account the WW that are contractually based on the performance of a specified effects of a fall in interest rates when the contractual rate is pool of contracts or a specified type of contract, or realised considered too high compared with the expected yield from and/or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of reinvested premiums. assets held by the Group, or the profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity that issues the contract. The general contract administration expense reserve mentioned in Article R.343-3.4 of the French Insurance Code is designed to cover the insurer’s commitment to administer its policies for as Hybrid contracts long as they remain in force. It is determined by the method and Certain contracts written by the Group comprise both an using the assumptions specified in Article 142-6 of regulation insurance component and a deposit component. These two ANC 2015-11. components are unbundled only when the deposit component The reserve corresponds to a prospective estimate of contract can be measured separately and, under the Group’s accounting administration expenses that will not be covered by the policies, the rights and obligations arising from the deposit premium and investment income loading. It is calculated by component would not be recognised if the contract was not group of contracts with similar characteristics, based mainly unbundled. The insurance component of an unbundled contract on policyholder profiles, contract terms and experience-based is accounted for under IFRS 4 and the deposit component under assumptions concerning, for example, costs, surrenders and IAS 39. investment income. The estimation process includes a financial assessment of the options affecting administration expenses for certain contracts. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 187 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2018, the general administration expense Claims reserves are based on the estimated cost of settling the reser ve for savings and pensions contracts amounted to claims, net of any forecast recoveries. €276 million. A deferred participation reserve is recorded for participating When policyholders are entitled to participate in surplus contracts, based on shadow accounting principles. underwriting profits and investment income in addition to the A reserve is also recorded for claims handling expenses. guaranteed minimum yield, any surplus not paid during the period is accumulated in the policyholder surplus reserves. Liability adequacy test This reserve also includes the deferred policyholders’ participation resulting from the use of shadow accounting. At each period end, the Group assesses whether its recognised insurance liabilities, net of its insurance assets (deferred An outstanding claims reserve is set up to cover claims and participation asset, deferred acquisition costs and insurancebenefits outstanding at the reporting date. related intangible assets), are adequate, based on current Mathematical reserves for unit-linked contracts are determined by estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts and reference to the assets backing the linked liabilities. Gains and financial instruments with DPF. The test is performed using assetlosses arising from the remeasurement of these assets at fair value liability management models, by applying a stochastic approach are recognised in profit or loss, to offset the impact of changes in to estimate liabilities according to a wide range of scenarios. the related technical reserves. The models take into account embedded derivatives (policyholder surrender options, guaranteed yields, etc.) and administrative Reserves for guaranteed yields are determined using the Blackexpenses. The test determines the economic value of insurance Scholes method. liabilities corresponding to the average of the stochastic trajectories. Similar-type contracts are grouped together when Disability, accident and health insurance performing the test and the results are analysed at entity level: if the sum of the surrender value and deferred participation (asset Premiums are recognised net of taxes and estimated cancelled or liability), less related deferred acquisition costs and related premiums. intangible assets, is less than the fair value of the recognised Earned premiums for the period are adjusted for: insurance liability, the shortfall is recognised in profit or loss. WW estimated earned premiums not yet written at the period-end; WW the change in the unearned premium reserve (corresponding Shadow accounting to the portion of premiums written during the period that Shadow accounting procedures are designed to address the relates to the next period). risk of an artificial imbalance between assets and liabilities A reserve is recorded to cover timing differences between the valued using different valuation models. When the measurement coverage of risks and their financing in the form of insurance of liabilities, deferred acquisition costs or the value of In-Force premiums. business is directly affected by realised gains and losses on assets, a deferred participation reserve is recorded in insurance The escalating risks reserve for Term Creditor Insurance business liabilities to offset the unrealised gains or losses in financial amounted to €236 million at 31 December 2018. This reserve assets. Deferred participation is accounted for in the same way is calculated prospectively and covers the difference between the as the underlying, i.e., by adjusting either profit or the revaluation present values of the respective future commitments of the insurer reserve. and the insured. The calculation uses regulatory valuation rates of interest and takes into account experience-based biometric The deferred participation reserve is determined by multiplying risk assumptions (incidence of death and disability risk, and/ fair value adjustments to assets by the estimated participation or disability persistency risk) and behavioural assumptions rate corresponding to the contractual obligations associated with (surrenders) based on historical data for the portfolio concerned. each portfolio. The estimated participation rate takes into account regulatory and contractual participation clauses, as well as the The escalating risk reserve for lifetime long-term care contracts Group’s profit‑taking programme and policyholder bonus policy. totalled €385 million at 31 December 2018. This reserve also Participation rates applied to unrealised gains and losses for covers the difference between the present values of the respective shadow accounting purposes are the same as the rates applied future commitments of the insurer and the insured. The calculation to consolidation adjustments for the purpose of determining takes into account experience-based biometric risk assumptions deferred participation. (incidence of long-term care risk and persistency risk) based on historical data for the portfolio concerned, regulatory mortality The portion of gains or losses attributable to policyholders tables and a discount rate determined by reference to the is determined based on the terms of participating contracts. structure of the asset portfolio held to cover these commitments. Shadow accounting is not applied to non-participating contracts that fall outside the scope of regulations requiring payment of a Claims are recognised in the period in which they are incurred. guaranteed minimum participating dividend. The amount recorded covers both reported claims and estimated claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). 188 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 The amount of deferred participation calculated for each entity Inward reinsurance under shadow accounting principles is recognised either in Inward reinsurance contracts give rise to a significant insurance liabilities as a deferred participation reserve or in assets as a risk and are therefore accounted for in the same way as deferred participation asset. insurance contracts. Testing deferred participation assets for recoverability 9.3 Financial instruments without DPF (IAS 39) Financial instruments without DPF are initially recorded at fair Deferred participation assets are tested for recoverability to value. Loading on premiums is recognised in “Revenue from other ensure that the amount calculated based on the participation activities”. rates estimated as described previously and in accordance with the going concern principle, is recoverable out of future actual Unit-linked contracts are subsequently measured at fair value, with or unrealised profits and will not result in liability inadequacy changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. vis-à-vis the Group’s economic obligations. Recoverability testing Traditional savings investment contracts are subsequently uses the same methods as liability adequacy testing described measured at fair value, corresponding to their surrender value. above and testing is performed at the level of each group of contracts in order to factor portfolio segregation arrangements into the assessment. 9.4 Deferred participation asset/reserve Pursuant to the recommendation of the French National The adjustments made in application of IFRS 4 lead to the Accounting Board (Conseil National de la Comptabilité CNC) recognition of deferred policyholders’ participation in assets or of 19 December 2008 concerning the recognition of deferred liabilities. participation assets in the consolidated accounts of insurance According to IFRS 4 accounting standards, there are two types of companies, the recoverability of these amounts is enhanced by deferred participation. the Group’s conservative assessment of its ability to continue to hold its assets. In particular, no future retained fund flows have been taken into account. Moreover, the Group has demonstrated 9.4.1 Unconditional participation the recoverability of the deferred participation assets using All differences in the calculation base of future rights between unprecedented surrender rates. the separate financial statements and the consolidated financial statements are recognised in the deferred participation reserve. Reinsurance This applies in particular to policyholder rights in positive and Outward reinsurance negative fair value adjustments and restatements of the separate Premiums, claims and technical reserves are stated before financial statements of Group entities. Their amount is adjusted reinsurance. Ceded amounts are recognised under the using a method that is consistent with the initial measurement and “Reinsurance result” line item of the income statement. the pattern of recognition in profit or loss of fair value adjustments and restatements. Ceded technical reserves are tested for impairment at each reporting date. If there is objective evidence that these reserves are impaired, as a result of an event that occurred after initial 9.4.2 Conditional participation recognition, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced by This corresponds to the difference in rights between the separate recording an impairment loss in the income statement. For and consolidated financial statements, whose payment depends reinsurance assets secured by collateral, the estimated discounted on a management decision or the occurrence of an event. cash flows from the asset take into account cash flows from the These rights are recognised only when the event or management sale of the collateral, net of the estimated cost of obtaining decision is highly probable. Conditional participation also execution of the guarantee, regardless of whether or not such arises from the application of the shadow accounting technique sale is considered probable. described in Note 9.2. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 189 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 9.5 Analysis of insurance and financial liabilities The following tables show the sub-classifications of insurance liabilities that require separate disclosure under IFRS: 9.5.1 Analysis of insurance and financial liabilities at 31 December 2018 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Non-life technical reserves 7,996.2 7,460.3 535.8 Unearned premium reserves 976.1 934.1 42.0 Outstanding claims reserves 5,172.6 4,738.6 433.9 Bonuses and rebates (including claims equalisation reserve on Group business maintained in liabilities) 62.0 58.4 3.6 Other technical reserves 1,785.5 1,729.2 56.3 Liability adequacy test reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Life technical reserves 202,727.7 185,751.3 16,976.4 Unearned premium reserves 1,807.7 1,768.5 39.2 Life premium reserves 192,640.7 175,998.7 16,641.9 Outstanding claims reserves 2,801.2 2,593.4 207.7 Policyholder surplus reserves 5,013.1 4,938.4 74.7 Other technical reserves 465.0 452.2 12.8 Liability adequacy test reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial instruments with DPF 120,593.8 116,863.7 3,730.1 Life premium reserves 111,994.6 108,566.5 3,428.1 Outstanding claims reserves 2,286.4 2,191.5 94.9 Policyholder surplus reserves 6,312.8 6,105.7 207.1 Other technical reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Liability adequacy test reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial instruments without DPF 4,173.4 3,859.6 313.9 Derivative financial instruments separated from the host contract 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred participation reserve 22,107.3 22,107.3 0.0 TOTAL INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 357,598.4 336,042.3 21,556.1 Deferred participation asset 0.0 0.0 0.0 190 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 9.5.2 Analysis of insurance and financial liabilities at 31 December 2017 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Non-life technical reserves 8,862.6 7,460.1 1,402.5 Unearned premium reserves 934.6 873.2 61.4 Outstanding claims reserves 5,872.9 4,778.5 1,094.5 Bonuses and rebates (including claims equalisation reserve on Group business maintained in liabilities) 67.5 66.6 0.8 Other technical reserves 1,987.6 1,741.8 245.8 Liability adequacy test reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Life technical reserves 195,613.3 178,684.7 16,928.6 Unearned premium reserves 1,725.2 1,645.6 79.6 Life premium reserves 186,095.2 169,478.3 16,616.9 Outstanding claims reserves 2,633.6 2,467.0 166.5 Policyholder surplus reserves 4,481.4 4,428.6 52.8 Other technical reserves 677.8 665.1 12.7 Liability adequacy test reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial instruments with DPF 125,814.7 121,744.8 4,069.9 Life premium reserves 117,491.4 113,717.4 3,774.0 Outstanding claims reserves 2,415.4 2,307.2 108.3 Policyholder surplus reserves 5,907.8 5,720.2 187.6 Other technical reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Liability adequacy test reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial instruments without DPF 4,578.3 4,244.5 333.8 Derivative financial instruments separated from the host contract 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred participation reserve 30,335.5 30,335.5 0.0 TOTAL INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 365,204.4 342,469.6 22,734.8 Deferred participation asset 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.6 Change in technical reserves This note presents changes in technical reserves by category, such as those arising from changes in the assumptions applied to measure insurance liabilities. Each change with a material impact on the consolidated financial statements is shown separately. Movements are presented before and after reinsurance. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 191 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 9.6.1 Changes in mathematical reserves – life insurance 9.6.1.1 Changes in mathematical reserves – life insurance – at 31 December 2018 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Mathematical reserves at the beginning of the period 303,586.9 283,195.9 20,390.9 Premiums 27,855.9 27,087.3 768.6 Extinguished liabilities (benefit payments) (27,011.6) (25,755.9) (1,255.7) Locked-in gains 6,318.3 5,888.8 429.5 Change in value of linked liabilities (2,625.5) (2,625.4) (0.1) Changes in scope (acquisitions/divestments) 36.1 36.9 (0.8) Outstanding fees (1,827.1) (1,752.1) (75.0) Surpluses/deficits (4.3) (4.3) 0.0 Currency effect (1,372.0) (1,372.0) 0.0 Changes in assumptions (3.2) 1.4 (4.6) Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deconsolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other (393.7) (210.9) (182.8) Mathematical reserves at the end of the period 304,559.7 284,489.6 20,070.0 9.6.1.2 Changes in mathematical reserves – life insurance – at 31 December 2017 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Mathematical reserves at the beginning of the period 302,009.7 281,391.8 20,618.0 Premiums 27,180.9 26,305.9 875.0 Extinguished liabilities (benefit payments) (29,749.5) (28,234.6) (1,515.0) Locked-in gains 6,659.9 6,202.9 457.0 Change in value of linked liabilities 1,617.1 1,631.3 (14.2) Changes in scope (acquisitions/divestments) 30.3 31.4 (1.1) Outstanding fees (1,819.1) (1,743.4) (75.6) Surpluses/deficits (4.1) (4.1) 0.0 Currency effect (1,755.9) (1,755.9) 0.0 Changes in assumptions 1.8 1.8 0.0 Newly-consolidated companies 150.8 150.8 0.0 Deconsolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other (735.2) (782.0) 46.7 Mathematical reserves at the end of the period 303,586.9 283,195.9 20,390.9 192 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 9.6.2 Changes in technical reserves – non-life insurance 9.6.2.1 Changes in technical reserves – non-life insurance – at 31 December 2018 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Outstanding claims reserves at the beginning of the period 5,866.1 4,771.6 1,094.5 Claims expenses for the period 1,696.8 1,497.4 199.4 Prior period surpluses/deficits 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total claims expenses 1,696.8 1,497.3 199.4 Current period claims settled during the period (1,671.2) (1,509.7) (161.5) Prior period claims settled during the period (18.8) (12.5) (6.3) Total paid claims (1,690.0) (1,522.2) (167.8) Changes in scope (acquisitions/divestments) (688.7) 0.0 (688.7) Currency effect (18.9) (15.5) (3.4) Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 0.0 0.0 0.0 Outstanding claims reserves at the end of the period 5,165.1 4,731.2 433.9 9.6.2.2 Changes in technical reserves – non-life insurance – at 31 December 2017 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Outstanding claims reserves at the beginning of the period 5,474.9 4,394.1 1,080.7 Claims expenses for the period 2,093.8 1,677.3 416.5 Prior period surpluses/deficits 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total claims expenses 2,093.8 1,677.3 416.5 Current period claims settled during the period (1,660.6) (1,265.5) (395.1) Prior period claims settled during the period (13.6) (11.6) (2.0) Total paid claims (1,674.2) (1,277.1) (397.1) Changes in scope (acquisitions/divestments) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency effect (28.3) (22.7) (5.6) Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 0.0 0.0 0.0 Outstanding claims reserves at the end of the period 5,866.1 4,771.6 1,094.5 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 193 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 9.6.3 Changes in mathematical reserves – financial instruments with DPF 31.12.2018 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Mathematical reserves at the beginning of the period 4,578.3 4,244.5 333.8 Premiums 341.3 337.3 4.0 Extinguished liabilities (benefit payments) (476.9) (467.2) (9.7) Locked-in gains 22.2 22.2 0.0 Change in value of linked liabilities (130.2) (126.3) (3.9) Changes in scope (acquisitions/divestments) (113.2) (113.2) 0.0 Currency effect (67.1) (67.1) 0.0 Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deconsolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 19.1 29.5 (10.4) Mathematical reserves at the end of the period 4,173.4 3,859.6 313.9 31.12.2017 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Mathematical reserves at the beginning of the period 4,800.7 4,468.5 332.3 Premiums 412.3 408.5 3.8 Extinguished liabilities (benefit payments) (675.2) (659.2) (16.0) Locked-in gains 35.5 35.5 0.0 Change in value of linked liabilities 101.0 83.2 17.8 Changes in scope (acquisitions/divestments) (40.7) (40.7) 0.0 Currency effect (98.7) (98.7) 0.0 Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deconsolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 43.5 47.5 (4.0) Mathematical reserves at the end of the period 4,578.3 4,244.5 333.8 194 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 9.7 Deferred participation (shadow accounting adjustments) This note breaks down the sources of deferred participation arising from the use of shadow accounting. The amount of deferred participation calculated for each entity under shadow accounting principles is recognised either in liabilities as a deferred participation reserve, or in assets as a deferred participation asset (see Note 9.2). 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Deferred participation asset/reserve (In € millions) DPA DPR Total DPA DPR Total Deferred participation on remeasurement of assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.0 1,275.1 (1,275.1) 0.0 1,415.2 (1,415.2) Deferred participation on remeasurement of assets at fair value through equity 0.0 20,832.2 (20,832.2) 0.0 28,920.3 (28,920.3) Deferred participation on adjustment of claims equalisation reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 0.0 22,107.3 (22,107.3) 0.0 30,335.5 (30,335.5) The following table analyses year-on-year changes: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 (In € millions) DPA DPR DPA DPR Deferred participation at the beginning of the period 0.0 30,335.5 0.0 30,713.6 Deferred participation on remeasurement of securities at fair value through profit or loss 0.0 (140.2) 0.0 1,078.4 Deferred participation on remeasurement of securities at fair value through equity 0.1 (8,088.1) 0.0 (1,456.5) Other movements 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of change in recoverability rate 0.0 0.0 Deferred participation at the end of the period 0.1 22,107.3 0.0 30,335.5 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 195 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 9.8 Changes in financial liabilities – linked liabilities 9.8.1 Changes in 2018 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Linked liabilities at the beginning of the period 50,057.1 47,978.8 2,078.3 Entries (new contracts, transfers between contracts, replacements) 10,669.4 10,522.4 146.9 Revaluation (fair value adjustments, incorporation of policyholder surplus) (1,956.0) (1,952.5) (3.5) Exits (paid benefits and expenses) (4,396.6) (4,318.4) (78.2) Entries/exits related to portfolio transfers (119.1) (134.5) 15.4 Outstanding fees deducted (390.8) (378.2) (12.6) Surpluses/deficits 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of changes in assumptions (0.1) (0.1) 0.0 Translation adjustment (1,340.2) (1,340.2) 0.0 Newly-consolidated companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 66.0 187.3 (121.2) Linked liabilities at the end of the period * 52,589.7 50,564.7 2,025.0 * Refer to reconciliation table in Note 9.8.3 9.8.2 Changes in 2017 Before Net of (In € millions) reinsurance reinsurance Reinsurance Linked liabilities at the beginning of the period 43,253.3 41,423.6 1,829.7 Entries (new contracts, transfers between contracts, replacements) 9,402.7 9,221.9 180.8 Revaluation (fair value adjustments, incorporation of policyholder surplus) 2,720.0 2,700.7 19.3 Exits (paid benefits and expenses) (4,147.6) (4,056.7) (90.9) Entries/exits related to portfolio transfers 685.7 618.6 67.0 Outstanding fees deducted (338.8) (328.0) (10.7) Surpluses/deficits 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of changes in assumptions 0.1 0.1 0.0 Translation adjustment (1,721.0) (1,721.0) 0.0 Newly-consolidated companies 53.9 53.9 0.0 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 148.7 65.5 83.2 Linked liabilities at the end of the period * 50,057.1 47,978.8 2,078.3 * Refer to reconciliation table in Note 9.8.3 196 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 9.8.3 Balance sheet reconciliation (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial liabilities – linked liabilities – balance sheet 56,168.5 54,010.0 Changes in financial liabilities – linked liabilities other than IAS 39 52,589.7 50,057.1 Changes in financial liabilities – linked liabilities – IAS 39 3,578.9 3,952.9 VARIANCE 0.0 0.0 9.9 Credit risk on reinsured business WW for quota-share treaties where the asset is not held by CNP Assurances, the breakdown of ceded insurance liabilities The purpose of this note is to provide an analysis of credit risk by reinsurer is as follows. related to outward reinsurance contracts by reinsurer: WW excess-of-loss contracts have been placed with reinsurers who are rated between BBB+ and AA+; 9.9.1 Credit risk on reinsured business at 31 December 2018 CEDED TECHNICAL RESERVES Credit rating Amount (in € millions) % A 16,954.5 78.65% A2,757.7 12.79% AA1.5 0.01% A+ 1,507.4 6.99% BBB+ 2.7 0.01% 332.4 1.54% Total ceded technical reserves 21,556.1 100.00% The credit ratings of the reinsurers were reclassified from AAto A+ for €1,423.9 million and from “Without rating” to A for €721.1 million. 9.9.2 Credit risk on reinsured business at 31 December 2017 CEDED TECHNICAL RESERVES Credit rating Amount (in € millions) % A 17,396.8 76.52% A2,732.0 12.02% AA1,400.5 6.16% A+ 88.9 0.39% BBB+ 2.9 0.01% 1,113.6 4.90% Total ceded technical reserves 22,734.8 100.00% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 197 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 10 Subordinated debt 10.1 Subordinated debt at 31 December 2018 Due Due Due Due Due in Issuance Amount in Amount within in 1 to in 5 to in 10 to more than Fair (In € millions) date Interest rate currency Currency in euros 1 year 5 years 10 years 15 years 15 years Undated value * Dated subordinated debt 4,672.1 0.0 1,200.0 0.0 0.0 3,472.1 0.0 4,966.6 CNP Assurances Apr. 2011 6.875% until Sept. 2021, EUR 700.0 700.0 802.5 then 12-month Euribor +440 bp CNP Assurances Apr. 2011 7.375% until Sept. 2021, 300 GBP 335.4 335.4 366.7 then 12-month Libor +448.2 bp CNP Assurances Sept. 2010 6.00% (Actual/Actual) until 2020, EUR 750.0 750.0 811.4 then 3-month Euribor (Actual/360) +447.2 bp CNP Assurances June 2003 4.7825% until 2013, then 3-month EUR 200.0 200.0 204.8 Euribor +200 bp from 24 June 2013 CNP Assurances June 2014 4.25% fixed, revisable every 5 years EUR 500.0 500.0 525.4 after the first 11 years – Annual (Actual/ 365) CNP Assurances Dec. 2015 4.5% until June 2027, EUR 750.0 750.0 786.7 then 3-month Euribor +460 bp CNP Assurances Jan. 2016 6% throughout the life of the notes 500 USD 436.7 436.7 452.0 CNP Assurances Oct. 2016 1.875% throughout the life of the EUR 1,000.0 1,000.0 1,017.1 notes Undated (perpetual) subordinated debt 664.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 664.7 648.1 CNP UniCredit Vita Oct. 2003 6-month Euribor +150 bp EUR 45.0 45.0 42.6 CNP Assurances Nov. 2004 4.93% until 2016, then 3-month EUR 90.0 90.0 80.2 Euribor +160 bp from 15 Nov. 2016 CNP Assurances Nov. 2004 3-month Euribor +70 bp until 2016, EUR 93.0 93.0 82.9 then 3-month Euribor +160 bp CNP Assurances July 2013 6.875% until July 2019, 500 USD 436.7 436.7 442.3 then reset at the 6-year fixed swap rate +500.0 bp TOTAL 5,336.7 0.0 1,200.0 0.0 0.0 3,472.1 664.7 5,614.7 * The fair value of financial liabilities (IAS 39) is disclosed in accordance with IFRS 7. If subordinated debt had been measured at fair value through profit or loss instead of at amortised cost, the impact would have been a profit of €472.1 million before tax at 31 December 2018 The fair values of linked liabilities are presented in Note 9.8. The fair values of financial instruments without DPF (Note 9.5) are not presented as the amounts involved are not material. IFRS 7 includes certain exemptions from the requirement to disclose the fair values of financial instruments with DPF. The Group considers that it fulfils the exemption criteria, particularly in light of the work under way in connection with IFRS 17 regarding the fair value of these instruments None of the Group’s subordinated debt issues are subject to financial covenants. The Group has contracted three cash flow hedges, on sterling-denominated subordinated notes issued in 2011 and on US dollardenominated subordinated notes issued in 2013 and 2016. 198 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 10.2 Subordinated debt at 31 December 2017 Issuance Due Due Due Due Due in Amount in Amount within in 1 to in 5 to in 10 to more than (In € millions) date Interest rate currency Currency in euros 1 year 5 years 10 years 15 years 15 years Undated Fair value * Dated subordinated debt 4,655.0 0.0 1,000.0 200.0 0.0 3,455.0 0.0 5,376.5 CNP Assurances Apr. 2011 6.875% until Sept. 2021, EUR 700.0 700.0 860.8 then 12-month Euribor +440 bp CNP Assurances Apr. 2011 7.375% until Sept. 2021, 300.0 GBP 338.1 338.1 402.4 then 12-month Libor +448.2 bp CNP Assurances Sept. 2010 6.00% (Actual/Actual) until 2020, EUR 750.0 750.0 865.4 then 3-month Euribor (Actual/360) +447.2 bp CNP Assurances June 2003 4.7825% until 2013, then 3-month EUR 200.0 200.0 216.4 Euribor +200 bp from 24 June 2013 CNP Assurances June 2014 4.25% fixed, revisable every 5 years EUR 500.0 500.0 583.9 after the first 11 years – Annual (Actual/ 365) CNP Assurances Dec. 2015 4.5% until June 2027, then 3-month EUR 750.0 750.0 889.8 Euribor +460 bp CNP Assurances Jan. 2016 6% throughout the life of the notes 500.0 USD 416.9 416.9 501.8 CNP Assurances Oct. 2016 1.875% throughout the life of the notes EUR 1,000.0 1,000.0 1,056.1 Undated (perpetual) subordinated debt 644.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 644.9 673.4 CNP UniCredit Vita Oct. 2003 6-month Euribor +150 bp EUR 45.0 45.0 48.4 CNP Assurances Nov. 2004 4.93% until 2016, then 3-month EUR 90.0 90.0 90.4 Euribor +160 bp from 15 Nov. 2016 CNP Assurances Nov. 2004 3-month Euribor +70 bp until 2016, EUR 93.0 93.0 93.4 then 3-month Euribor +160 bp CNP Assurances July 2013 6.875% until July 2019, then reset at 500.0 USD 416.9 416.9 441.3 the 6-year fixed swap rate +500.0 bp TOTAL 5,300.0 0.0 1,000.0 200.0 0.0 3,455.0 644.9 6,049.9 * The fair value of financial liabilities (IAS 39) is disclosed in accordance with IFRS 7. If subordinated debt had been measured at fair value through profit or loss instead of at amortised cost, the impact would have been €389.0 million before tax at 31 December 2017 The fair values of linked liabilities are presented in Note 9.8. The fair values of financial instruments without DPF (Note 0) are not presented as the amounts involved are not material. IFRS 7 includes certain exemptions from the requirement to disclose the fair values of financial instruments with DPF. The Group considers that it fulfils the exemption criteria, particularly in light of the work under way in connection with IFRS 17 regarding the fair value of these instruments None of the Group’s subordinated debt issues are subject to financial covenants. The Group has contracted three cash flow hedges, on sterling-denominated subordinated notes issued in 2011 and on US dollardenominated subordinated notes issued in 2013 and 2016. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 199 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 11 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 11.1 Insurance and reinsurance receivables This note discloses details of insurance and reinsurance receivables at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Earned premiums not yet written 1,809.6 2,357.4 Other insurance receivables 697.5 681.9 Reinsurance receivables 484.4 295.2 TOTAL 2,991.4 3,334.5 Of which, doubtful receivables 5.0 4.6 ANALYSIS BY MATURITY 31.12.2018 Due within Due in 1 Due in more (In € millions) 1 year to 5 years than 5 years Earned premiums not yet written 1,809.6 0.0 0.0 Other insurance receivables 686.4 10.3 0.8 Reinsurance receivables 484.4 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 2,980.4 10.3 0.8 31.12.2017 Due within Due in 1 Due in more (In € millions) 1 year to 5 years than 5 years Earned premiums not yet written 2,357.4 0.0 0.0 Other insurance receivables 657.3 20.6 4.0 Reinsurance receivables 290.8 3.7 0.7 TOTAL 3,305.5 24.3 4.7 11.2 Other receivables (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Receivables from employees 0.9 0.6 Prepaid payroll charges and other taxes 107.4 511.2 Sundry receivables 5,084.6 4,135.1 TOTAL 5,192.9 4,646.9 200 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 NOTE 12 Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions cover commercial, employee-related and tax risks resulting in obligations that will most likely give rise to an outflow of resources, the amount of which may be reliably determined. 12.1 Provisions for liabilities and charges – 2018 Provisions for claims and (In € millions) litigation Other Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 71.9 138.5 210.5 New provisions set up during the period and increases in existing provisions 91.4 17.9 109.2 Amounts utilised during the year (3.6) (79.5) (83.0) Surplus provisions released during the period (52.5) (2.7) (55.2) Change due to the passage of time and/or a change in the discount rate 0.0 0.0 0.0 Translation adjustments (7.2) (0.4) (7.5) Changes in scope of consolidation 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.5 (0.5) 0.0 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 100.5 73.4 173.9 12.2 Provisions for liabilities and charges – 2017 Provisions for claims and (In € millions) litigation Other Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2017 82.5 168.2 250.6 New provisions set up during the period and increases in existing provisions 63.7 60.6 124.3 Amounts utilised during the year (0.6) (86.3) (86.9) Surplus provisions released during the period (64.5) (3.2) (67.8) Change due to the passage of time and/or a change in the discount rate 0.0 0.0 0.0 Translation adjustments (9.1) (0.5) (9.7) Changes in scope of consolidation 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications 0.0 (0.1) (0.1) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 71.9 138.5 210.5 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 201 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 13 Liabilities arising from insurance and reinsurance transactions 13.1 Liabilities arising from insurance and reinsurance transactions This note discloses details of insurance and reinsurance liabilities at 31 December 2018 and at 31 December 2017. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Cash deposits received from reinsurers 11,919.6 12,088.7 Liabilities arising from insurance transactions 1,536.2 1,335.3 Liabilities arising from reinsurance transactions 835.8 764.9 Deferred acquisition costs 39.3 73.4 TOTAL 14,330.9 14,262.3 ANALYSIS BY MATURITY 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Due Due in Due in Due Due in Due in within 1 to more than within 1 to more than (In € millions) 1 year 5 years 5 years 1 year 5 years 5 years Cash deposits received from reinsurers 11,814.8 104.8 0.0 11,972.9 115.8 0.0 Liabilities arising from insurance transactions 1,535.9 0.2 0.0 1,282.1 44.8 8.4 Liabilities arising from reinsurance transactions 835.8 0.0 0.0 764.9 0.0 0.0 Deferred acquisition costs 23.0 14.1 2.2 4.6 58.1 10.7 TOTAL 14,209.6 119.1 2.2 14,024.5 218.7 19.1 13.2 Other liabilities (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Wages, salaries and bonuses payable 387.1 409.8 Accrued payroll charges and other taxes 1,276.2 1,256.1 Sundry payables 2,673.6 2,750.2 TOTAL 4,336.8 4,416.1 13.3 Employee benefits – IAS 19 Employee benefit obligations are recognised in full in the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 19, except for share grants which are recognised and measured in accordance with IFRS 2. Short-term benefits are benefits that are expected to be settled in full within twelve months of the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services. They therefore consist mainly of wages, social security contributions, profit-sharing and bonuses, paid annual leave and non-monetary benefits (such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised goods or services). 202 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 13.3.1 Employee benefit plans Early-retirement plans Obligations under early-retirement plans are measured at the Time-savings accounts and employee retirement discounted present value of probable future benefit payments and savings plans recognised as a liability. A time-savings account system has been set up for CNP Assurances’ employees, entitling them to save up their rights Business start-up grants to paid leave or to monetise these rights immediately or at a Financial assistance given to employees to set up a new business future date. or acquire an existing business is recognised in the balance Internal agreements stipulate that rights accumulated in the sheet. time-savings account may be credited to a PERCO employee retirement savings plan and qualify for a matching employer Discount rate contribution. The discount rate corresponds to the yield on investment grade corporate bonds that are traded in an active market (or the Post-employment benefits government bond rate if no active market exists) with maturities Post-employment benefits include: that match the duration of the benefit obligation. WW pension plans; WW other post-employment benefits. Accounting treatment They are classified as defined contribution or defined benefit Assets of funded plans are segregated and managed separately plans based on their main terms. from the Group’s assets, and any funding surplus or deficit is recognised in the balance sheet. Defined benefit pension plan Liabilities under unfunded plans are recognised in the balance sheet. The annuity and financial risks arising from the retirement of plan participants are covered by an insurance policy. The Group recognises gains and losses on post-employment defined benefit plans directly in equity. Actuarial gains and losses Obligations under defined benefit plans and the related costs on other long-term benefits are recognised directly in profit or are measured by the projected unit credit method. The amount loss. recognised in the balance sheet for pension obligations corresponds to the difference between the projected benefit Actuarial losses recognised in current profit for defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets. plans comprise two elements: The actuarial assumptions used to measure defined benefit WW current service cost and past service cost; obligations vary depending on economic conditions in the WW interest cost (reflecting the unwinding of any discounting to country in which the plan has been set up. present value) less the expected return on plan assets. Pension plans in the international entities 13.3.2 Share-based payment Several defined contribution plans and a limited number of defined benefit plans have been set up throughout the different Accounting treatment of employee share grants Group entities. The related obligations are non-material from a The shares held for allocation when the share grants vest are Group perspective. recorded as a deduction from equity. The difference between the average cost of the shares and their fair value at the grant Length-of-service awards payable to employees on date is recognised in equity, with no impact on profit or loss. retirement and jubilees The cost of the employee services received in exchange for the grants is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares, in Obligations for the payment of length-of-service awards and accordance with IFRS 2, and is recognised in employee benefits jubilees are measured by the projected unit credit method and expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment recognised as a liability. to equity. The cost recognised in profit or loss takes into account the estimated number of grantees at each reporting date and the cost of managing the shares. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 203 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 13.3.3 Main assumptions Discount rate The discount rate corresponds to the yield on investment-grade corporate bonds (rated AA) with maturities that match the duration of the benefit obligation in accordance with IAS 19. Defined benefit plan obligations in France were discounted to present value based on the French government bond (OAT) rate. This change did not have a material impact on the measurement of obligations. Duration Discount Expected future Expected return on Plan (years) rate salary increases Inflation plan assets Retirement benefits 11 1.40% 2.00% Included in salary increases n/a Jubilees 8 0.95% 2.00% Included in salary increases n/a Article 39 of the French Tax Code 5 0.58% 2.00% Included in salary increases 0.58% Time-savings account system 5 0.59% 2.00% Included in salary increases n/a New early retirement plan 2 -0.04% 2.00% Included in salary increases n/a Other plans: Italy 25 1.40% 1.50% 1.25% n/a The short-term measure introduced by the French government Mortality tables to help employees ease into retirement is applicable from The Group based its calculations on prospective mortality tables 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. It allows full-time by generation, particularly table TGH05-TGF05 for obligations employees who have decided on their retirement date to reduce in France. their working hours in the run-up to retirement in exchange for an adjustment to their salary. 13.3.4 Recognised benefit obligations Post-employment benefit plans (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Projected benefit obligation 208.8 227.7 Fair value of plan assets 0.3 0.2 Projected benefit obligation net of plan assets 209.1 228.0 Unrecognised past service cost 0.0 0.0 Liability recognised in the balance sheet – defined benefit plans 209.1 228.0 Liability recognised in the balance sheet – defined contribution plans 53.1 62.5 Total liability recognised in the balance sheet for post-employment benefit plans 262.2 290.5 Other long-term benefit obligations 17.9 19.0 Of which length-of-service and jubilee awards 17.9 19.0 Total liability recognised in the balance sheet for long-term benefit obligations * 280.1 309.5 * Benefit obligations are mainly carried in the books of the French and Italian entities (€277.5 million and €1.2 million, respectively) 204 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 13.3.5 Analysis of long-term benefit costs Post-employment benefit plans (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Current service cost (net of employee contributions) 9.9 9.4 Interest cost 1.5 1.7 Expected return on plan assets for the period 0.0 0.0 Curtailments and settlements 0.0 0.0 Amortisation of past service cost 0.0 0.0 Post-employment benefit expense – defined benefit plans 11.4 11.2 Post-employment benefit expense – defined contribution plans 2.8 15.9 TOTAL POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT EXPENSE 14.2 27.0 13.3.6 Reconciliation of the amounts recorded in the balance sheet for defined benefit plans Post-employment benefit plans (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 At 1 January (1) 228.0 200.7 Effect of changes in exchange rates (2) 0.0 0.0 Post-employment benefit expense 11.4 11.2 Employer’s contributions (3) (7.3) (6.6) Benefits paid (4) (9.7) (8.7) Actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity (5) (17.2) 3.4 Actuarial gains and losses recognised through profit 3.9 6.8 Changes in scope of consolidation 0.0 21.2 Non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 AT 31 DECEMBER 209.1 228.0 (1) Net plan assets/(liabilities) carried in the balance sheet at 1 January for defined benefit plans (2) Defined benefit plan (costs)/income (3) Management fees paid on plan assets (4) Fees paid by the Group (or rebilled by Caisse des Dépôts) (5) Actuarial gains and losses recognised immediately in equity 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 205 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 13.3.7 Change in actuarial gains Post-employment benefit plans (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity at the beginning of the period 140.0 136.6 Actuarial gains and losses related to changes in discount rates (3.5) 2.1 Actuarial gains and losses related to changes in retirement age assumptions 0.0 0.0 Actuarial gains and losses related to changes in technical rates 0.0 0.0 Actuarial gains and losses related to annuity contributions 0.0 0.0 Actuarial gains and losses related to changes in staff turnover rate assumptions (2.0) (1.3) Actuarial gains and losses related to changes in payroll tax assumptions 0.9 (0.7) Actuarial gains and losses related to historical loss adjustments 21.7 3.3 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity at the end of the period 157.1 140.0 13.3.8 Sensitivity analysis rates of interest and mortality tables. Employee benefit obligations are most sensitive to a change in the discount rate: A 25-bp In accordance with IAS 19, the Group analyses the sensitivity of change in this rate, for the French entities, would result in a 2% its employee benefit obligations in relation to changes in discount increase or decrease in employee benefit obligations. rates, employee turnover rates, rate of salary increases, valuation ANALYSIS OF THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE INCOME STATEMENT NOTE 14 Premium income Premium income comprises: Service contracts WW earned premiums; Contracts that do not expose the Group to an insurance risk WW loading on premiums on financial instruments without DPF or for which the insurance risk is not material are qualified as (IAS 39), reported under “Revenue from other activities”. service contracts when they do not give rise to any financial asset or liability. In accordance with IFRS 15, revenue from the rendering of services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date, provided that the transaction’s outcome can be estimated reliably. 206 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 14.1 Earned premiums and revenue from other activities Business segment and contract type (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Insurance contracts 27,692.4 28,753.2 WW Life 24,938.1 25,399.5 Pure premiums 23,110.7 23,580.4 Loading 1,827.4 1,819.2 WW Non-life 2,754.3 3,353.7 Pure premiums 1,888.2 2,377.8 Loading 866.0 975.9 Financial instruments with DPF 4,622.5 3,324.2 Pure premiums 4,584.5 3,281.2 Loading 38.0 43.1 Earned premiums 32,314.9 32,077.4 Revenue from other activities (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial instruments without DPF 62.3 62.7 Premium loading on financial instruments without DPF (IAS 39) 51.7 49.6 Loading on technical reserves for financial instruments without DPF 10.6 13.1 IFRS 15 * 85.4 93.1 Other activities 0.2 4.5 TOTAL 147.9 160.3 * IFRS 15 is applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. It has replaced IAS 18 (see Note 3.1.1.1) 14.2 Reconciliation to reported premium income (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Earned premiums 32,314.9 32,077.4 Premium loading on financial instruments without DPF (IAS 39) 51.7 49.6 TOTAL 32,366.6 32,127.0 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 207 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 14.3 Premium income by partner (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 La Banque Postale 8,529.7 9,207.6 BPCE 7,129.4 7,989.8 Amétis 270.3 316.6 CNP Patrimoine 2,157.7 939.5 Financial institutions 1,256.5 1,533.0 Companies and local authorities 1,709.4 2,261.9 Mutual insurers 484.7 524.2 International subsidiaries 10,795.4 9,306.6 Other 33.7 47.8 TOTAL PREMIUM INCOME 32,366.6 32,127.0 14.4 Premium income by business segment (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Savings 20,641.8 19,728.2 Pensions 5,089.3 4,984.1 Personal Risk 1,737.7 1,957.6 Term creditor insurance 4,074.9 4,392.6 Health insurance 448.8 675.9 Property & Casualty 374.0 388.7 Sub-total Personal Risk and other 6,635.5 7,414.8 Other business segments 0.0 0.0 TOTAL PREMIUM INCOME 32,366.6 32,127.0 14.5 Premium income by company (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 CNP Assurances 21,401.9 22,639.0 Caixa Seguros Group 5,452.4 5,261.4 CNP UniCredit Vita 3,368.7 2,605.7 CNP Santander Insurance 742.8 692.3 CNP Luxembourg 615.9 179.6 CNP Partners 378.3 330.6 CNP Cyprus Insurance holdings 157.4 145.3 MFPrévoyance SA 128.8 137.0 CNP Caution 92.9 95.4 CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros 27.5 40.9 CNP Europe Life 0.0 0.0 TOTAL PREMIUM INCOME 32,366.6 32,127.0 208 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 14.6 Premium income by country Under IFRS Under French GAAP (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 France 21,571.2 22,820.5 21,604.6 22,934.0 Brazil 5,452.4 5,261.4 5,722.5 5,541.6 Italy 3,638.3 2,851.3 3,671.2 2,892.1 Luxembourg 615.9 179.6 615.9 179.6 Germany 482.9 469.5 482.9 469.5 Spain 263.0 221.3 263.0 221.2 Cyprus 153.4 142.8 156.6 146.3 Poland 83.1 67.3 83.1 67.3 Argentina 27.5 40.9 27.5 40.9 Denmark 22.2 18.1 22.2 18.1 Norway 21.4 24.3 21.4 24.3 Austria 13.4 11.8 13.4 11.8 Portugal 5.0 6.4 5.0 6.4 Ireland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other 16.9 11.8 17.5 12.1 TOTAL PREMIUM INCOME 32,366.6 32,127.0 32,706.8 32,565.4 14.7 Direct and inward reinsurance premiums (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Direct business premiums 30,043.4 29,376.2 Inward reinsurance premiums 2,323.2 2,750.9 TOTAL PREMIUM INCOME 32,366.6 32,127.0 14.8 Reconciliation of net new money (French GAAP) to premium income (IFRS) (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net new money (French GAAP) 32,706.8 32,565.4 Restatement of net new money (French GAAP) from financial instruments without DPF (IAS 39) (391.9) (488.0) IFRS premium loading on financial instruments without DPF (IAS 39) 51.7 49.6 IFRS PREMIUM INCOME 32,366.6 32,127.0 French GAAP net new money includes the total deposit period is measured using a French GAAP indicator that does not component of financial instruments without DPF (IAS 39) while make any distinction between the different types of contract and IFRS premium income includes only the premium loading on these their respective measurement methods under IFRS based on their instruments. The Group’s performance and new business for the separate components. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 209 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 15 Claims and benefits expenses This note shows assets, liabilities, income and expenses generated by insurance contracts. IFRS 4 and IAS 39 insurance contracts and financial instruments with DPF (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Incurred claims 11,806.4 12,393.4 Endowments due 148.6 342.9 Benefits due 1,037.2 975.0 Surrenders 15,331.8 17,734.9 Credited interest and policyholder dividends included in paid benefits (106.5) (108.8) Benefit and claim handling expenses 158.7 156.1 Claims and benefits 28,376.3 31,493.5 Change in technical reserves – insurance contracts 4,240.2 8,843.6 Change in technical reserves – financial instruments with DPF (7,764.9) (11,405.0) Change in other technical reserves (365.6) 152.2 Change in technical reserves (3,890.3) (2,409.2) Credited interest 848.0 949.5 Policyholder dividends 5,806.3 7,504.4 Credited interest and policyholder dividends 6,654.3 8,453.9 Claims and benefits expenses 31,140.3 37,538.3 NOTE 16 Administrative expenses and business acquisition costs Acquisition costs and operating expenses WW non-under writing costs correspond to costs related to businesses that have no technical link to the insurance Underwriting expenses are presented by function: business. WW claim and benefit handling expenses include the costs of the Cost recognition and allocation: departments responsible for paying claims, endowments and WW operating expenses are initially recognised by nature and are periodic benefits and processing surrenders; then reallocated by function; WW acquisition costs include all selling, distribution and WW costs recognised by nature that relate to a single function administrative expenses incurred for the acquisition of new are posted to the function concerned without applying any contracts; allocation key. WW contract administration expenses include all the costs of managing In-Force business; Other costs are analysed between: WW investment management costs include all internal and external WW corporate costs, which are allocated to the operating centres costs of managing asset portfolios and financial expenses; using statistical cost allocation keys or actual business data; WW other underwriting costs correspond to overhead expenses that WW operating costs, as adjusted to include corporate costs, which cannot be allocated rationally to the other functions; are allocated to the functions using a specific allocation key for each business. 210 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 16.1 Expenses analysed by function (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Commissions (3,802.3) (4,038.1) Expenses analysed by function (152.0) 56.1 Acquisition costs (3,954.3) (3,982.0) Contract administration expenses (202.3) (198.8) Other underwriting income and expenses (374.4) (393.6) Other income and expenses (168.7) (189.5) Employee profit-sharing (32.3) (34.0) Other recurring operating income and expense, net (575.4) (617.1) TOTAL (4,732.0) (4,797.9) 16.2 Expenses analysed by nature (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Depreciation and amortisation expense and impairment losses (60.3) (52.4) Employee benefits expense (474.6) (479.2) Taxes other than on income (55.0) (35.7) Other * (357.2) (396.1) TOTAL (947.1) (963.5) * Details of fees paid to the Statutory Auditors are presented in Note 16.5 As these tables only include line item disclosures required under IAS 1, total expenses analysed by nature do not tie back to total expenses analysed by function. 16.3 Administrative expenses, net (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Administrative expenses * WW Excluding international subsidiaries and other businesses 611.1 611.7 WW Including international subsidiaries and other businesses 922.5 937.7 * Excluding Amétis network expenses 16.4 Analysis of commission expense (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 BPCE 1,033.0 974.3 La Banque Postale 607.3 572.0 Other 2,162.0 2,491.8 TOTAL 3,802.3 4,038.1 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 211 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 16.5 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors MAZARS PwC Amount (2) % Amount (2) % (In € thousands) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Audit Audit of the financial statements of the Company and the Group 1,914 1,666 78% 71% 2,414 2,446 78% 81% Issuer 1,161 984 48% 42% 1,189 991 39% 33% Fully consolidated companies 753 682 31% 29% 1,225 1,455 39% 48% Other audit and special engagements (1) 488 669 20% 29% 641 578 21% 19% Issuer 424 475 17% 20% 521 531 17% 18% Fully consolidated companies 64 194 3% 8% 120 47 4% 1% Sub-total 2,401 2,335 98% 100% 3,054 3,024 99% 100% Other services rendered by the Auditors to the fully consolidated companies Legal, tax and labour-law advisory services 39 2% 0% 30 0 1% 0% Other Sub-total 39 0 2% 0% 30 0 1% 0% TOTAL 2,440 2,335 100% 100% 3,084 3,024 100% 100% (1) “Other audit and special engagements” mainly concern the issue of subordinated notes, the review of MCEV , the review of the English translation of the Registration © Document, the review of sustainable development indicators and the review of internal control processes linked to the processing of unclaimed life insurance settlements (2) Excluding recoverable taxes NOTE 17 Reinsurance result (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Ceded premiums (1,096.7) (1,645.6) Change in ceded technical reserves 1,061.9 1,768.8 Reinsurance commissions received 177.0 330.9 Investment income (155.9) (347.8) TOTAL (13.7) 106.2 212 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 NOTE 18 Investment income 18.1 Investment income and expense This note discloses the main income, expenses, profits and losses generated by financial assets and liabilities that have been recognised in profit or loss or directly in equity for 2018 and 2017. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Available-for-sale Income from debt securities 259.0 26.1 financial assets Interest income 5,290.5 5,750.9 Income from other financial assets 1,838.1 2,158.8 Capital gains and losses on disposals 19.4 389.8 Impairment 1,024.6 727.7 Net income from available-for-sale financial assets 8,431.5 9,053.4 Held-to-maturity Income from debt securities 0.0 0.0 investments Interest income 41.7 46.1 Other income & charges 0.0 0.0 Impairment 0.0 0.0 Net income from held-to-maturity investments 41.7 46.1 Loans and Interest income (0.9) 5.1 receivables Other income (95.4) 0.0 Impairment 106.0 0.0 Net income from loans and receivables 9.7 5.1 Financial assets at Profit (loss) on securities held for trading (2,458.3) 3,955.0 fair value through Profit (loss) on derivative instruments held for trading and hedging (81.2) (147.8) profit or loss Capital gains and losses on disposals 198.9 (64.8) Net income (expense) from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (2,340.6) 3,742.3 Investment property Rent and other revenue 91.8 69.6 Fair value adjustments 14.5 15.6 Capital gains and losses on disposals 72.2 54.4 Net income from investment property 178.4 139.6 Other investment expenses (263.1) (213.0) Dilution gain 0.0 0.0 TOTAL INVESTMENT INCOME 6,057.6 12,773.4 Interest on subordinated debt at amortised cost (262.8) (258.0) Interest on subordinated debt at fair value 0.0 0.0 Finance costs Cash flow hedges 14.3 11.3 Total finance costs (248.5) (246.7) TOTAL INVESTMENT INCOME NET OF FINANCE COSTS 5,809.2 12,526.7 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 213 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements RECONCILIATION OF INVESTMENT INCOME AND EXPENSES TO THE AMOUNTS REPORTED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT (In € millions) 31.12.2018 Investment income before finance costs 6,057.6 Finance costs (248.5) TOTAL 5,809.2 18.2 Fair value adjustments to assets The following tables show fair value adjustments to assets in 2018 and 2017. 18.2.1 Fair value adjustments to assets – 2018 Investments held Investments held Movements (In € millions) at 31.12.2018 at 31.12.2017 in 2017 Assets at fair value Fixed-rate bonds 11,951.4 12,805.8 (854.5) through profit or loss Variable-rate bonds 20,824.4 19,481.5 1,343.0 TCNs (money market securities) 443.7 161.6 282.2 Equities 4,492.0 5,265.3 (773.3) Investment funds 39,920.0 41,059.1 (1,139.1) Shares in non-trading property companies 1,206.2 1,173.5 32.7 Other (including lent securities and repos) 2,765.2 1,775.0 990.2 Total 81,602.94 81,721.8 (118.8) Derivative Derivative instruments (positive fair value) 1,287.7 797.5 490.1 instruments Derivative instruments (negative fair value) (1,193.3) (1,110.1) (83.2) Total 94.4 (312.5) 406.9 Available-for-sale Fixed-rate bonds 171,685.9 171,449.1 236.8 financial assets Variable-rate bonds 23,186.4 26,161.7 (2,975.3) TCNs (money market securities) 2,808.4 2,009.9 798.6 Equities 15,400.9 19,313.4 (3,912.5) Investment funds 47,154.8 50,309.2 (3,154.4) Shares in non-trading property companies 9,494.1 8,369.8 1,124.3 Non-voting loan stock 61.3 64.1 (2.8) Other (including lent securities and repos) 19,550.9 18,804.2 746.7 Total 289,342.7 296,481.3 (7,138.6) Held-to-maturity Fixed-rate bonds 98.6 168.0 (69.5) investments Variable-rate bonds 204.1 246.2 (42.1) Other (including lent securities and repos) 130.6 180.7 (50.1) Total 433.2 594.9 (161.7) Loans and Loans and receivables 4,891.3 4,970.6 (79.2) receivables Total 4,891.3 4,970.6 (79.2) Investment property Investment property at amortised cost 1,937.5 1,992.5 (55.0) Investment property measured by the fair value model 1,510.2 1,485.4 24.9 Total 3,447.8 3,477.9 (30.1) TOTAL 379,812.3 386,934.0 (7,121.6) 214 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 18.2.2 Fair value adjustments to assets – 2017 Investments held Investments held Movements (In € millions) at 31.12.2017 at 31.12.2016 in 2017 Assets at fair value Fixed-rate bonds 12,805.8 11,408.6 1,397.2 through profit or loss Variable-rate bonds 19,481.5 20,877.4 (1,395.9) TCNs (money market securities) 161.6 242.9 (81.3) Equities 5,265.3 3,606.1 1,659.2 Investment funds 41,059.1 37,266.0 3,793.1 Shares in non-trading property companies 1,173.5 1,028.7 144.8 Other (including lent securities and repos) 1,775.0 110.9 1,664.1 Total 81,721.8 74,540.6 7,181.2 Derivative Derivative instruments (positive fair value) 797.5 654.3 141.2 instruments Derivative instruments (negative fair value) (1,110.1) (1,244.9) 134.8 Total (312.5) (590.6) 278.1 Available-for-sale Fixed-rate bonds 171,449.1 176,586.1 (5,137.0) financial assets Variable-rate bonds 26,161.7 30,294.2 (4,132.5) TCNs (money market securities) 2,009.9 3,186.3 (1,176.4) Equities 19,313.4 17,725.3 1,588.1 Investment funds 50,309.2 47,794.8 2,514.4 Shares in non-trading property companies 8,369.8 6,430.7 1,939,1 Non-voting loan stock 64.1 59.9 4,2 Other (including lent securities and repos) 18,804.2 17,351.2 1,453.0 Total 296,481.3 299,428.6 (2,947.3) Held-to-maturity Fixed-rate bonds 168.0 343.3 (175.3) investments Variable-rate bonds 246.2 282.9 (36.7) 180.7 181.8 (1.1) Total 594.9 808.0 (213.1) Loans and Loans and receivables 4,970.6 4,945.3 25.3 receivables Total 4,970.6 4,945.3 25.3 Investment property Investment property at amortised cost 1,992.5 2,748.2 (755.7) Investment property measured by the fair value model 1,485.4 1,121.1 364.3 Total 3,477.9 3,869.3 (391.4) TOTAL 386,934.0 383,001.3 3,932.7 18.2.3 Reconciliation of fair value adjustments to the amounts reported in the “Investments” note (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fair value of investments 379,812.3 386,933.9 Unrealised gains and losses, net (944.6) (956.0) Carrying amount of investments 378,867.7 385,977.9 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 215 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 18.3 Impairment This note discloses the nature and amount of impairment losses on financial assets recognised in profit or loss, by significant category of financial assets. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Available-for-sale financial assets (168.9) (240.4) Fixed-rate bonds 0.0 0.0 Variable-rate bonds 0.0 (17.7) TCNs (money market securities) 0.0 0.0 Equities (33.3) (32.3) Equity investment funds (0.4) 0.0 Non-voting loan stock (1.2) 0.0 Other (including mutual fund units) (134.0) (190.4) Held-to-maturity investments 0.0 0.0 Loans and receivables 0.0 0.0 Total impairment expense (168.9) (240.4) Available-for-sale financial assets 1,299.5 968.1 Fixed-rate bonds 0.0 7.0 Variable-rate bonds 14.8 4.0 TCNs (money market securities) 0.0 0.0 Equities 1,016.5 827.0 Equity investment funds 6.7 34.2 Non-voting loan stock 0.1 0.0 Other (including mutual fund units) 261.4 95.9 Held-to-maturity investments 0.0 0.0 Loans and receivables 0.0 0.0 Total impairment reversals 1,299.5 968.1 NET CHANGE IN IMPAIRMENT PROVISIONS 1,130.6 727.7 216 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 NOTE 19 Income tax expense Group relief and tax base of investments in subsidiaries, associates and branches and interests in joint arrangements, except where the CNP Assurances and its main French subsidiaries have elected following conditions are met: to file a consolidated tax return under French group relief rules. The main companies in the tax group are CNP Assurances WW CNP Assurances, as the parent, investor, joint venturer or joint and its subsidiaries Montparvie 2, CNP Caution, CICOGE operator is able to control the timing of the reversal of the SA (a property investment company), Âge d’Or Expansion, temporary difference; and SAS THEEMIM, AEP 3, AEP 4, Assur‑immeuble, Pyramides 2, WW it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in Ecureuil Vie Investment, 270 Investment, US Real Estate EVJ, the foreseeable future. US Real Estate 270, Pial 34, Passage du Faidherbe, Alleray, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset at the level of each Yellowalto, FPIP, Lyfe, Sogestop K, Foncière HID, Pierre et Surene, taxable entity or tax group. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 23-25 Marignan, 36 Marbeuf, 46 Kleber, 46 Kleber Holding, arising from changes in asset values and from the recognition Infra Invest France, Neuilly Pilot, 41 rue Ybry Holding, Ybry Pont of deferred participation are calculated and tracked separately. Neuilly, Geosud and Friedensallee. Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward when it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available Current and deferred taxes to permit their realisation. Net deferred tax assets resulting from Income tax expense reported in the income statement includes the offsetting of deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised both current and deferred taxes. when sufficient taxable profit can be expected to be generated to permit their realisation. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are Deferred taxes are recognised on temporary differences between not discounted. the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base. In accordance with IAS 12, a deferred tax liability is recognised for The following table discloses the main components of income all taxable temporary differences between the carrying amount tax expense. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Current tax (803.3) (939.0) Deferred tax 10.0 43.5 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (793.3) (895.6) Profit for the period 1,670.0 1,623.1 Tax rate 32.20% 35.56% INCOME TAX EXPENSE (793.3) (895.6) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 217 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Tax proof (In € millions) Rate Amount Rate Amount Profit before tax 2,463.3 2,518.7 Income tax at the standard French tax rate (1) 34.43% (848.1) 34.43% (867.2) Permanent differences (2) -0.52% 12.9 0.83% (20.9) Effects of changeover to the equity method (3) -1.80% 44.4 -0.10% 2.5 Capital gains and losses taxed at reduced rate -0.92% 22.7 -3.35% 84.3 Effects of changes in tax rates (4) 1.86% (45.7) 4.70% (118.3) Tax credits and tax loss carryforwards used -1.28% 31.6 -1.50% 37.7 Other 0.45% (11.0) 0.55% (13.7) TOTAL 32.20% (793.3) 35.56% (895.6) (1) Including the current additional contribution of 3.3%, the theoretical tax rate for 2018 is 34.43% (2) The 2018 Finance Act has eliminated the 3% “contribution additionnelle” surtax on distributed earnings introduced in 2012 and payable by French companies subject to corporate income tax that pay dividends (with some exceptions), after France’s Constitutional Council held the surtax to be unconstitutional in a ruling dated 6 October 2017. To help offset the negative effect on public finances of these refunds, the French State has introduced a new “exceptional” surtax payable by large corporates (Amended 2017 Finance Act dated 1 December 2017). Based on the size of its business (in terms of premium income), the surtax payable by CNP Assurances in 2017 represented 30% of its French income tax liability and amounted to around €94.6 million. This represented an additional tax cost of €31.5 million compared to the €63.1 million refund of the 3% tax on distributed earnings (excluding interest) (3) Application of the equity method to account for HIG had a positive effect on income tax expense, with: i) on the one hand, revenue that had already been taxed and was therefore recognised on a net-of-tax basis; and ii) on the other hand, tax-deductible policyholder rights generated by this revenue, recorded on a before-tax basis (4) Including the effects of differences in foreign tax rates and changes in statutory tax rates. This caption also includes the effects of the change in the French tax rate provided for in the 2018 Finance Act that were recognised in the 2017 consolidated financial statements and updated at 31 December 2018 The reduced rate of 25% (versus 33 1/3% currently) will contribution sociale surtax will continue to apply). The rates be phased in over the period until 2022, depending on applicable to CNP Assurances over the period to 2022 will be the company. As from 2022, the 25% rate will apply as follows: 33% in 2018, 31% in 2019, 28% in 2020, 26.5% to all profits whatever the taxpayer’s revenue (the 3.3% in 2021 and 25% in 2022. Deferred taxes on: (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fair value adjustments to financial assets held for trading (237.1) 99.7 Deferred participation asset/reserve 184.7 (112.9) Fair value adjustments to other financial assets 31.0 7.9 Shadow accounting adjustments to items recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 Revaluations of owner-occupied property reclassified as investment property 0.0 0.0 Timing differences 0.0 0.0 Other 11.4 (38.2) TOTAL (10.0) (43.5) 218 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 This table presents total deferred tax assets and liabilities by type of temporary difference. 31.12.2018 Sources of temporary differences (In € millions) Assets Liabilities Net Goodwill 10.0 (1.0) 9.0 Value of In-Force business 0.0 (1.6) (1.6) Distribution agreements 0.0 (38.7) (38.7) Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investment property 0.0 (73.6) (73.6) Financial assets 0.2 (6,628.4) (6,628.2) Investments in equity-accounted companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reinsurers’ share of insurance and financial liabilities 163.5 0.0 163.5 Owner-occupied property and other property and equipment 0.0 (0.8) (0.8) Deferred acquisition costs 0.0 (7.5) (7.5) Other assets 163.9 0.0 163.9 Capitalisation reserve 0.0 0.0 0.0 Subordinated debt 9.0 0.0 9.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 227.6 0.0 227.6 Financing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Insurance and financial liabilities 0.0 (2.7) (2.7) Deferred participation asset/reserve 5,931.2 0.0 5,931.2 Other liabilities 0.0 (1.6) (1.6) Credit from tax loss carryforwards 31.1 (18.8) 12.3 Asset-liability netting (6,285.0) 6,285.0 0.0 NET DEFERRED TAX ASSET OR LIABILITY 251.6 (489.8) (238.2) Sources of temporary differences 31.12.2017 (In € millions) Assets Liabilities Net Goodwill 12.4 (1.0) 11.3 Value of In-Force business 0.0 (2.0) (2.0) Distribution agreements 0.0 (41.1) (41.1) Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investment property 0.0 (67.5) (67.5) Financial assets 0.9 (9,545.7) (9,544.8) Investments in equity-accounted companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 Reinsurers’ share of insurance and financial liabilities 162.7 0.0 162.7 Owner-occupied property and other property and equipment 0.9 0.0 0.9 Deferred acquisition costs 2.5 0.0 2.5 Other assets 251.4 0.0 251.4 Capitalisation reserve 0.0 0.0 0.0 Subordinated debt 8.0 0.0 8.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 219.8 0.0 219.8 Financing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Insurance and financial liabilities 0.0 (0.2) (0.2) Deferred participation asset/reserve 8,366.5 0.0 8,366.5 Other liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Credit from tax loss carryforwards 1.3 0.0 1.3 Asset-liability netting (8,742.2) 8,742.2 0.0 NET DEFERRED TAX ASSET OR LIABILITY 284.3 (915.3) (631.0) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 219 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 20 Segment information In accordance with IFRS 8, the Group’s reportable business WW general expenses: expenses allocated to each reportable segments are based on the internal reporting system approved segment based on customary cost allocation keys; by the Group’s Executive Committee, regarded as the chief WW EBIT: operating profit adjusted for net fair value adjustments to operating decision maker as defined by IFRS 8. financial assets (i.e., excluding sensitivity to changing market prices), finance costs, taxes and non-controlling interests. The choice of geographical segmentation is based on a EBIT is a key indicator of profit by reportable segment multi-criteria organisation linked to the Group’s strategic priorities based on analyses by Group senior management. It is the (geography, activities, networks) and the allocation of goodwill to margin generated by the insurance business after deducting mainly geographical cash-generating units. It has been adopted administrative expenses. EBIT corresponds to attributable profit in order to present geographic segments as the Group’s operating for the period adjusted for: segments based on the definitions in IFRS 8 paragraphs 8 and 10. —— finance costs, —— share of profit of equity-accounted companies, The three geographic segments are: —— non-recurring items, WW France; —— income taxes on the above items, WW Latin America; —— non-controlling interests, net of tax, WW Europe excluding France. —— f a i r v a l u e a d j u s t m e n t s t o t h e t r a d i n g p o r t f o l i o The Group’s internal reporting system is based on the following (corresponding to unrealised gains and disposal gains on indicators: financial instruments recognised at fair value through profit WW premium income and revenue from other activities: earned or loss), net of tax, and premiums and revenue from other activities, including —— net capital gains on equity securities and property, after non-controlling interests and ceded premiums. Premium non-recurring write-downs on the portfolio and goodwill income and revenue from other activities is an indicator of (corresponding to disposal gains on equity instruments underwriting volume; classified as available-for-sale financial assets and WW total revenue: net insurance revenue plus revenue from write-downs on financial instruments and property assets), own-fund portfolios, including non-controlling interests but net of tax; net of ceded premiums. It is the margin before deducting WW segment assets and liabilities: until 31 December 2015, administrative expenses; assets and liabilities under IFRS were broken out by reportable WW net insurance revenue: sum of insurance loading, underwriting segment and presented in the notes to the consolidated results and reinsurance results, net of commission paid to financial statements. On the assets side, only “Goodwill and distribution partners, including non-controlling interests but the value of In-Force business” and “Financial investments and net of ceded premiums. It is the margin generated by the investments in associates” were tracked by reportable segment insurance business before deducting administrative expenses; on a regular basis. 220 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 20.1 Income statement by business segment at 31 December 2018 Europe (In € millions) France Latin America excl. France Total IFRS Premium income * 21,571.2 5,479.8 5,315.5 32,366.6 Total revenue 2,514.3 1,099.5 232.2 3,846.0 Administrative expenses (611.1) (186.6) (124.8) (922.5) EBIT 1,903.2 913.0 107.4 2,923.5 Finance costs (248.5) Share of profits and losses of equity-accounted companies 23.3 Income tax expense (900.7) Non-controlling interests (304.1) Fair value adjustments and net gains (losses) 89.0 Non-recurring items (215.8) Profit attributable to owners of the parent 1,366.7 * A reconciliation of earned premiums to premium income is presented in Note 14 RECONCILIATION OF EBIT TO OPERATING PROFIT (In € millions) 31.12.2018 EBIT 2,923.5 Net fair value adjustments (113.9) Net gains/(losses) on equities and property 213.7 Non-recurring items (324.5) Transactions with equity-accounted entities (117.8) Operating profit 2,581.0 RECONCILIATION OF DESENSITISED INCOME TAX EXPENSE TO REPORTED INCOME TAX EXPENSE (In € millions) 31.12.2018 Income tax expense (desensitised income statement) (900.7) Tax on the following items: Net fair value adjustments 61.1 Net gains/(losses) on equities and property (73.9) Non-recurring items 108.0 Associates 12.2 Income tax expense (reported) (793.3) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 221 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements RECONCILIATION OF DESENSITISED NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS TO REPORTED NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS (In € millions) 31.12.2018 Non-controlling interests (desensitised income statement) (304.1) Impact of non-controlling interests on the following items: Net fair value adjustments 1.4 Net gains/(losses) on equities and property (1.4) Non-recurring items 0.7 Non-controlling interests (reported) (303.3) 20.2 2017 income statement by geographic segment (In € millions) France Latin America Europe excl. France Total IFRS Premium income * 22,820.5 5,302.3 4,004.2 32,127.0 Total revenue 2,388.2 1,189.8 248.7 3,826.8 General expenses (611.7) (209.3) (116.7) (937.7) EBIT 1,776.5 980.5 132.0 2,889.1 Finance costs (246.7) Share of profits and losses of equity-accounted companies 7.3 Income tax expense (1,001.3) Non-controlling interests (336.5) Fair value adjustments and net gains (losses) 200.0 Non-recurring items (227.3) Profit attributable to owners of the parent 1,284.5 * A reconciliation of earned premiums to premium income is presented in Note 14 RECONCILIATION OF EBIT TO OPERATING PROFIT (In € millions) 31.12.2017 EBIT 2,889.1 Net fair value adjustments 49.1 Net gains on equities and property 259.5 Non-recurring items (441.4) Operating profit 2,756.3 RECONCILIATION OF DESENSITISED INCOME TAX EXPENSE TO REPORTED INCOME TAX EXPENSE (In € millions) 31.12.2017 Income tax expense (desensitised income statement) (1,001.3) Tax on the following items: Net fair value adjustments (11.2) Net gains/(losses) on equities and property (97.8) Non-recurring items 214.7 Income tax expense (reported) (895.6) 222 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 RECONCILIATION OF DESENSITISED NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS TO REPORTED NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS (In € millions) 31.12.2017 Non-controlling interests (desensitised income statement) (336.5) Impact of non-controlling interests on the following items: Net fair value adjustments 0.3 Net gains/(losses) on equities and property (1.8) Non-recurring items (0.6) Non-controlling interests (reported) (338.6) OTHER ANALYSES NOTE 21 Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is: Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the balance sheet but are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, except WW a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose when it is not probable that they will give rise to an outflow of existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or nonresources. occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group; or Contingent liabilities are regularly reviewed to determine WW a present obligation that arises from past events but is not whether an outflow of resources has become probable or can be recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of measured with sufficient reliability. If this is the case, a provision resources embodying economic benefits will be required to is recognised in the financial statements for the period in which settle the obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be the change in probability or measurability occurs. measured with sufficient reliability. NOTE 22 Related party information Two parties are related if one controls or exercises significant Transactions and outstanding amounts between the parent influence over the policy decisions of the other, or if both parties company and its fully-consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated in are subject to significant influence from the same third-party entity full and do not appear in the consolidated financial statements. or person. For infor mation, CNP Assurances received a total of Related parties are determined based on their relationship €321.7 million in dividends from subsidiaries during the with CNP Assurances, the parent company of the Group, and period, comprising €121.8 million from its French subsidiaries, mainly consist of its shareholders and entities controlled by €180.2 million from its Brazilian subsidiaries, €14.4 million these shareholders or by CNP Assurances (including the entities from CNP UniCredit Vita and €5.4 million from CNP Cyprus accounted for using the equity method) and members of senior Insurance Holdings. management (see Note 22.5). The list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is provided in Note 4. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 223 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 22.1 Transactions with shareholders and their subsidiaries (In € millions) Income Expenses Assets Liabilities Inward reinsurance – Claims and benefits, technical reserves 0.0 1,544.9 0.0 3,348.5 Outward reinsurance – Claims and benefits, technical reserves 577.1 0.0 11,968.3 0.0 Commissions 0.0 1,640.4 0.0 488.5 Service fees 14.9 3.0 3.4 0.9 Employee benefits expense 0.0 7.9 0.0 2.1 Rent 0.0 2.1 0.0 0.0 Provision expense 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial income and loans 132.4 1.0 7.8 1.9 Financial expenses and borrowings 0.0 312.9 0.0 0.0 Dividends 0.0 444.8 0.0 0.0 Based on the IAS 24 definition, the Group’s shareholders (Caisse Claims and employee benefits mainly concern various expenses des Dépôts, BPCE and La Banque Postale), their subsidiaries rebilled by Caisse des Dépôts to CNP Assurances and the costs and joint ventures and the companies over which they exercise of managing service contracts reinvoiced to La Banque Postale significant influence are all related parties. Prévoyance in accordance with IFRS 15. Commissions correspond to revenue received by BPCE 2017 dividends paid to the Group’s shareholders in 2018 and La Banque Postale on the sale of products managed by amounted to €576.7 million, comprising amounts of CNP Assurances. €235.7 million, €104.3 million and €104.8 million paid to Caisse des Dépôts, BPCE and La Banque Postale, respectively. 22.2 Transactions with equity-accounted entities The insurance undertakings accounted for using the equity method are Arial CNP Assurances, Assuristance, Filassistance International and Wiz Soluçoes e Corretagem de Seguros SA. (In € millions) Income Expenses Assets Liabilities Inward reinsurance – Claims and benefits, technical reserves 0.0 343.4 0.0 4,640.0 Outward reinsurance – Claims and benefits, technical reserves 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Commissions 0.0 11.6 0.0 11.6 Service fees 2.9 0.1 9.4 0.0 Employee benefits expense 4.4 1.1 0.9 1.4 Rent 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Provision expense 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial income and loans 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Financial expenses and borrowings 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Dividends 61.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 224 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 22.3 Transactions with associates respect of termination benefits for the Chief Executive Officer (corresponding to the vested rights of the current Chief The Group received €62.6 million in dividends from the Executive Officer during his period as an employee prior Coentreprise de Transport d’Electricité (CTE) joint venture, which to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer) and the two is accounted for as an associate. Deputy Chief Executive Officers totalled €1,402,662. No amounts have been provided for or recognised in respect of 22.4 Terms and conditions of guarantees termination benefits for the Chairman or the Chief Executive given and received Officer because the Group has no payment obligations towards them in this regard. Guarantees given to related and equity-accounted companies WW Share-based payment: no share-based payments were made mainly concern reinsurance transactions (cash deposits) and pledges: in 2018 to the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officers or the members of the Board of Directors. WW Arial CNP Assurances: —— Cash deposits received:  €1,408.0 million, In 2017 —— Pledges given:  €3,747.2 million; WW Short-term benefits: the short-term benefits (including salaries, WW BPCE: bonuses, directors’ fees and benefits in kind) paid to the —— Cash deposits paid:  €11,768.1 million, Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the three Deputy Chief —— Pledges given:  €2,935.2 million. Executive Officers and the members of the Board of Directors amounted to €2,687,489.28. 22.5 Management remuneration WW Long-term benefits: the cumulative amounts provided for or The total remuneration paid to the Chairman, the Chief Executive recognised in respect of pension or other retirement benefits Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officers and the members of for the Chief Executive Officer (corresponding to the vested the Board of Directors is presented below, together with details rights of the current Chief Executive Officer during his period of their remuneration by category. as an employee prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer) and the two Deputy Chief Executive Officers totalled In 2018 €10,239,925. No amounts were provided for or recognised in respect of pension or other retirement benefits for the WW Short-term benefits: the short-term benefits (including salaries, Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer because the Group bonuses, directors’ fees and benefits in kind) paid to the had no payment obligations towards them in this regard. Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the three Deputy Chief WW Termination benefits: the termination benefits payable to the Executive Officers and the members of the Board of Directors members of senior management are provided for in their amounted to €2,713,426.98. employment contracts or in the collective agreement. The WW Long-term benefits: the cumulative amounts provided for or cumulative amounts provided for or recognised in respect recognised in respect of pension or other retirement benefits of termination benefits for the Chief Executive Officer for the Chief Executive Officer (corresponding to the vested (corresponding to the vested rights of the current Chief rights of the current Chief Executive Officer during his period Executive Officer during his period as an employee prior to as an employee prior to his appointment as Chief Executive his appointment as Chief Executive Officer) and the three Officer) and the two Deputy Chief Executive Officers totalled Deputy Chief Executive Officers totalled €1,265,862. €10,391,036. No amounts have been provided for or No amounts were provided for or recognised in respect of recognised in respect of pension or other retirement benefits termination benefits for the Chairman or the Chief Executive for the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer because Officer because the Group had no payment obligations the Group has no payment obligations towards them in this towards them in this regard. regard. WW Share-based payment: no share-based payments were made WW Termination benefits: the termination benefits payable to in 2017 to the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief the members of senior management are provided for in Executive Officers or the members of the Board of Directors. their employment contracts or in the collective agreement. The cumulative amounts provided for or recognised in 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 225 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements NOTE 23 Financial risks 23.1 Credit risk The Group is also exposed to currency risk on its operations in Brazil and on the translation of the financial statements of its local The Group’s credit risk policies are presented in section 5 of this subsidiaries. Registration Document on Corporate Governance and Internal Control. Simulations are performed of the impact of a 20% decline in the Real exchange rate. In the absence of hedging, this Note 8.8 to the consolidated financial statements analyses the scenario would have a negative impact of less than 5% on profit Group’s bond portfolio by issuer rating. attributable to owners of the parent. The hedging policy consists of purchasing currency options as protection against the risk of a 23.2 Currency risk fall in the Brazilian currency. The impact of a 20% decline in the Real exchange rate after hedging would be less than 2% of profit Most portfolios covering insured liabilities are invested in assets attributable to owners of the parent. denominated in the insurance company’s functional currency. As a result, portfolio exposure to currency risks is limited Lastly, exchange differences on translating the financial statements (e.g., net-of-hedging exposure to a currency other than the euro of the Brazilian subsidiaries may have an impact on equity. represents less than 5% of the investments of French companies of the CNP Assurances Group). 23.3 Interest rate risk on financial assets In addition, the Group performs currency stress-tests to assess the This note provides additional information about the Group’s impact on profit and equity of a 10% increase in the euro-dollar exposure to interest rate risk on financial assets and liabilities, and euro-sterling exchange rates as it is marginally exposed on by category. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in dollars or sterling. The cumulative estimated impact for the US dollar and the pound sterling represents less than 2% of recurring operating profit. The impact of the euro’s appreciation against the dollar and sterling is analysed at half-yearly intervals and commented on when the amounts involved are material. 23.3.1 Caps and floors The following tables show the nominal amount of caps and floors by strike price and remaining term at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. 23.3.1.1 Caps and floors at 31 December 2018 Residual life (In € millions) 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years ≥ 10 years Total ≥ 0% and < 1% 2,864.0 1,095.5 404.4 7.3 11.2 4.7 2.1 1.0 0.0 0.0 4,390.3 ≥ 1% to < 2% 18.6 1.5 2.5 0.5 12.6 0.0 25.3 1.0 0.0 0.0 62.1 ≥ 2% to < 3% 306.1 0.5 8,770.0 6,850.0 6,000.0 56.9 72.3 108.5 3.0 2.0 22,169.3 ≥ 3% and < 4% 200.2 4,900.0 0.0 0.0 1,597.0 10,176.0 2,544.5 0.0 0.0 555.0 19,972.7 ≥ 4% to < 5% 940.0 502.2 2,261.7 3,820.0 2.3 5,732.2 5,568.9 0.0 20.1 430.0 19,277.4 ≥ 5% and < 6% 1,184.2 301.3 0.0 1,850.0 1,910.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 5,245.5 ≥ 6% to < 7% 0.0 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 2.0 TOTAL 5,513.2 6,802.1 11,438.7 12,527.9 9,533.1 15,969.8 8,213.1 111.4 23.1 987.0 71,119.3 226 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 23.3.1.2 Caps and floors at 31 December 2017 Residual life (In € millions) 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years ≥ 10 years Total ≥ 0% to < 1% 1,708.5 708.4 1,096.2 202.8 3.6 8.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3,728.1 ≥ 1% to < 2% 841.0 900.0 0.0 200.6 0.0 6.8 0.2 29.9 0.0 0.0 1,978.4 ≥ 2% to < 3% 500.0 0.0 0.0 8,770.0 6,850.0 6,000.0 54.0 71.0 0.0 0.0 22,245.0 ≥ 3% and < 4% 700.0 0.0 4,900.0 0.0 0.0 1,594.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 210.0 7,404.0 ≥ 4% to < 5% 2,293.0 940.0 450.0 2,310.0 3,820.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 158.0 9,971.0 ≥ 5% and < 6% 2,410.0 882.7 300.0 200.0 1,850.0 1,910.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 7,553.5 ≥ 6% to < 7% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 8,452.5 3,431.1 6,746.2 11,683.4 12,523.6 9,519.4 54.2 101.7 0.0 368.0 52,880.0 23.3.2 Effective interest rates This note shows effective interest rates on fixed-rate bonds and Effective interest rates are presented for the Group’s main zero coupon bonds at the purchase date and at the end of the insurance subsidiaries: reporting period. WW France; WW Italy; WW Brazil; WW Spain. 23.3.2.1 Effective interest rates at purchase 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fixed-rate debt Fixed-rate Fixed-rate debt Fixed-rate securities bonds securities bonds France EUR 2.69% EUR 2.96% Italy EUR 2.69% EUR 2.42% Brazil BRL 8.99% BRL 9.37% Spain EUR 2.35% EUR 2.54% 23.3.2.2 Effective interest rates at balance sheet date 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fixed-rate debt Fixed-rate Fixed-rate debt Fixed-rate securities bonds securities bonds France EUR 0.28% EUR 0.19% Italy EUR 2.56% EUR 2.48% Brazil BRL 7.33% BRL 7.40% Spain EUR 0.94% EUR 0.46% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 227 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 23.3.3 Carrying amounts by maturity 23.3.3.1 Carrying amounts by maturity at 31 December 2018 Type of instrument Due within Due in 1 Due in 2 Due in 3 Due in 4 Due in more (In € millions) 1 year to 2 years to 3 years to 4 years to 5 years than 5 years Total Fixed-rate bonds 26,387.2 21,468.8 23,839.3 21,234.4 24,348.2 63,996.8 181,274.7 Zero coupon bonds 2,091.9 648.8 665.3 740.2 2,188.2 12,522.9 18,857.2 Adjustable-rate bonds 2.6 4.8 0.0 0.0 108.1 1,597.2 1,712.7 Variable-rate bonds 2,883.7 1,337.6 2,327.1 1,522.5 1,543.1 2,441.6 12,055.6 Fixed-rate inflation-indexed bonds 668.7 1,482.5 928.2 209.6 3,131.8 5,118.0 11,538.7 Other bonds 1,768.9 2,553.0 1,162.3 1,741.3 1,125.0 6,982.8 15,333.3 TOTAL 33,803.1 27,495.4 28,922.2 25,447.9 32,444.5 92,659.1 240,772.2 23.3.3.2 Carrying amounts by maturity at 31 December 2017 Type of instrument Due within Due in 1 Due in 2 Due in 3 Due in 4 Due in more (In € millions) 1 year to 2 years to 3 years to 4 years to 5 years than 5 years Total Fixed-rate bonds 23,913.2 20,661.4 22,104.9 25,288.1 19,581.0 72,030.9 183,579.5 Zero coupon bonds 742.9 2,177.8 665.2 656.7 738.7 14,200.0 19,181.3 Adjustable-rate bonds 5.0 3.4 21.6 3.9 1.1 1,759.8 1,794.9 Variable-rate bonds 1,419.7 2,698.5 1,247.6 2,028.0 1,559.3 2,084.2 11,037.3 Fixed-rate inflation-indexed bonds 172.6 681.8 1,518.9 964.6 212.9 8,455.8 12,006.7 Other bonds 2,441.2 1,768.5 2,525.1 1,147.6 1,728.9 6,457.4 16,068.8 TOTAL 28,694.7 27,991.4 28,083.3 30,089.0 23,821.9 104,988.1 243,668.4 23.3.4 Carrying amounts by maturity – held-to-maturity investments 23.3.4.1 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 Carrying amount of financial instruments measured at amortised cost Due within Due in 1 Due in 2 Due in 3 Due in 4 Due in more (In € millions) 1 year to 2 years to 3 years to 4 years to 5 years than 5 years Total Held-to-maturity investments 65.1 41.8 91.8 0.0 0.0 71.6 270.3 Loans and receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 65.1 41.8 91.8 0.0 0.0 71.6 270.3 23.3.4.2 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 Carrying amount of financial instruments measured at amortised cost Due within Due in 1 to Due in 2 to Due in 3 to Due in 4 to Due in more (In € millions) 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years than 5 years Total Held-to-maturity investments 99.8 63.9 41.8 95.9 0.0 75.5 377.0 Loans and receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 99.8 63.9 41.8 95.9 0.0 75.5 377.0 228 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 23.3.5 Average life of securities The following tables show the average remaining life of securities, weighted by carrying amount, in years. 23.3.5.1 Average life of securities – 31 December 2018 France Italy Brazil Spain 5.38 3.22 2.62 4.16 23.3.5.2 Average life of securities – 31 December 2017 France Italy Brazil Spain 5.47 3.32 1.96 4.19 23.4 Sensitivity of MCEV© to market risks curve is extrapolated using the Smith-Wilson method from a last liquid point at 20 years with convergence on the ultimate Sensitivity analyses are performed to efficiently identify and forward rate of 4.05% at 40 years. For Brazil, the last manage earnings and equity volatility. One of the key analyses liquid point is at 10 years with convergence on the ultimate used by management concerns the sensitivity of Market Consistent forward rate of 5.35% at 50 years. For the determination Embedded Value (MCEV©) to market and insurance risks. of the reference yield curve, the Group has chosen to align The Group’s embedded value reporting is based on European its approach with Solvency II requirements, by applying a Insurance CFO Forum Market Consistent Embedded Value credit risk adjustment and a volatility adjustment to the swap Principles (MCEV © Principles) introduced in June 2008, as curve where permitted. No matching adjustment is applied amended in October 2009 and updated in April 2016. for Group entities. The valuation techniques used to measure financial options The market risk sensitivity of MCEV © is tested to measure the are based on market consistent financial assumptions at impact of interest rate and equity volatilities. MCEV© principles 31 December 2018. and the Group’s traditional value reporting procedure cover CNP Assurances SA, the Group’s main subsidiaries in France, The calculation of embedded value necessarily relies on the rest of Europe and Latin America. The sensitivities analysed numerous assumptions with respect to economic conditions, in 2018 were aligned with Solvency II requirements and were operating conditions, policyholders’ behaviour, taxes and other as follows: factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Actual WW the impact of an immediate positive or negative 50-basis future experience may vary from that assumed in the calculation point change in the swap curve. This would result in: of the embedded value. —— a revaluation of bond prices, MCEV© is the sum of: —— a 50-basis point adjustment to the reinvestment rate for all WW adjusted net asset value (ANAV), which corresponds to categories of assets, and the market value of assets attributable to shareholders after —— a change in discount rates. deducting intangible assets, subordinated debt and other The impact on mathematical reserves for unit-linked portfolios items included in In-Force covered business. Adjusted net asset is not measured; value is determined on the valuation date at consolidated WW the impact of an immediate 25% fall in equity and property level excluding non-controlling interests and breaks down into prices. This shock implies a 25% fall in the market value Required Capital and Free Surplus; of equities and property assets, as well as a decrease in WW the value of In-Force business, corresponding to the present the mathematical provisions of unit‑linked business for the value of future profits (PVFP) net of taxes generated on In-Force proportion invested in equity and property. business at the measurement date. MCEV© principles state that the reference yield curve may be determined based on the The results of all sensitivity analyses are net of tax and nonswap curve, as adjusted if appropriate to achieve alignment controlling interests and, if applicable, net of policyholder with Solvency II requirements. For the Eurozone, the yield participation. Copyright © Stichting CFO Forum Foundation 2008 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 229 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements SENSITIVITY OF MCEV© TO INTEREST RATE AND EQUITY VOLATILITIES AT 31 DECEMBER 2018: 50 bp increase 50 bp decrease 25% decrease (In € millions) in interest rates in interest rates in equity prices Impact on MCEV© * 1,337.8 (1,871.7) (2,644.2) * The calculation of the impact on MCEV© is based on estimated data. SENSITIVITY OF MCEV© TO INTEREST RATE AND EQUITY VOLATILITIES AT 31 DECEMBER 2017: 50 bp increase 50 bp decrease 25% decrease (In € millions) in interest rates in interest rates in equity prices Impact on MCEV© * 1,248.4 (1,157.8) (2,763.4) Sensitivity to insurance risks is presented in Note 25. NOTE 24 Liquidity risk and asset/liability management 24.1 Liquidity risk 24.1.1 Future cash flows from assets This note discloses future cash flows from assets (redemptions, interest payments, etc.) by period. 24.1.1.1 Future cash flows from assets at 31 December 2018 Intended holding period More than (In € millions) Within 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 years Available-for-sale financial assets 31,410 108,598 52,877 31,976 Assets held for trading and assets measured at FV 3,233 6,781 1,899 1,517 Held-to-maturity investments 172 158 0 72 Loans and receivables 0 0 0 0 24.1.1.2 Future cash flows from assets at 31 December 2017 Intended holding period More than (In € millions) Within 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 years Available-for-sale financial assets 24,161 105,761 64,971 29,316 Assets held for trading and assets measured at FV 2,365 6,229 3,353 1,538 Held-to-maturity investments 109 381 0 75 Loans and receivables 0 0 0 0 230 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Consolidated financial statements 5 24.1.1.3 Payment projections by maturity This note discloses estimated future payments on savings, pension and Property & Casualty contracts, including total and partial surrenders. The total of these projections is higher than the liabilities reported in the balance sheet because the cash flows are capitalised. 24.1.1.4 Payment projections by maturity at 31 December 2018 Within 1 to 5 5 to 10 to More than (In € millions) 1 year years 10 years 15 years 15 years Insurance and financial liabilities (incl. linked liabilities) 19,429.2 64,725.2 64,517.8 45,473.8 137,383.6 24.1.1.5 Payment projections by maturity at 31 December 2017 Within 1 to 5 to 10 to More than (In € millions) 1 year 5 years 10 years 15 years 15 years Insurance and financial liabilities (incl. linked liabilities) 19,365.3 65,010.7 64,376.1 45,927.0 139,218.7 24.1.2 Contracts with immediate surrender option (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Contracts with immediate surrender option 268,834.4 264,336.3 Contracts with no immediate surrender option 66,656.8 70,532.6 Contracts with an immediate surrender option represented a total The maximum surrender risk indicated above does not take into liability of €268.8 billion at 31 December 2018 (€264.3 billion account the behaviour of policyholders, who tend to significantly at 31 December 2017). This amount, corresponding to insurance extend the effective duration of their contracts, as reflected in and financial liabilities recognised in the balance sheet, relates Note 24.1.1.3. to products with a clause allowing for their surrender or transfer by the policyholder. 24.2 Asset/Liability management Term creditor products, Group employee benefits products, certain annuity products and “Madelin Act” pension products do The Group’s ALM policy is presented in section 5 of this not include a surrender or transfer option. Registration Document on Corporate Governance and Internal Control. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 231 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 24.3 Reconciliation of unit-linked assets and liabilities (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Investment properties held to cover linked liabilities 1,231.6 2,167.6 Financial assets held to cover linked liabilities 54,743.7 51,672.3 Investments accounted for using the equity method held to cover linked liabilities (consolidated mutual funds and non-trading property companies) 0.0 0.0 Other assets held to cover linked liabilities (e.g., non-financial assets held by consolidated non-trading property companies) 0.0 0.0 TOTAL ASSETS HELD TO COVER LINKED LIABILITIES – CARRYING AMOUNT 55,975.2 53,839.9 Linked liabilities – financial instruments without DPF 7,945.5 8,187.6 Linked liabilities – insurance contracts and financial instruments with DPF (other than guaranteed capital reserves) 48,223.0 45,822.4 TOTAL LINKED LIABILITIES 56,168.5 54,010.0 Guaranteed capital reserves 1.4 1.6 TOTAL LINKED LIABILITIES 56,169.9 54,011.6 The asset/liability mismatch on unit-linked contracts mainly relates linked liabilities for which no related assets are included in the to outstanding claims reserves and other reserves included in table above. NOTE 25 Risks related to insurance and financial liabilities 25.1 Management of risks related Asset and liability projections are produced annually and are to insurance and financial liabilities used to calculate policyholder dividend rates for the year, as well as to produce budgets and multi-year business plans. CNP Assurances’ insurance businesses expose it to a number of risks, particularly those relating to product development, The Group’s risk management policy is presented in section 5 calculating adequate reserves and devising its reinsurance of this Registration Document on Corporate Governance and strategy. Internal Control. The Group has established management information systems designed to ensure that it fulfils its objectives. 25.2 Contract terms and conditions These management information systems: WW analyse risk-adjusted profitability during the product launch 25.2.1 Types of insured risk by class process; of business WW roll down Group objectives to the level of the individual The Group offers a full range of insurance products both inside businesses; and outside France. WW analyse the components of profit and value creation and the The main individual insurance products are savings products and basis used for underwriting and pricing decisions, as well as deferred annuity contracts with or without contingency insurance. determining the appropriate pricing and reserving strategies; The savings range includes products that combine a traditional WW track risks with a technical component; savings component and one or several unit-linked components. WW optimise reinsurance strategies. Group policies are mainly defined contribution pension plans, These routine analyses are supported by stress-tests performed on points-based pay-as-you-go Group pension plans, employee key economic and technical assumptions to measure their impact benefits plans and term creditor insurance. on the Group’s performance indicators. 232 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 In addition, the Group’s subsidiaries in Brazil (Caixa Seguradora) unit-linked products are subjected to an internal analysis and and in Cyprus and Greece (CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings) selection process before being marketed. Unit-linked contracts write property & casualty and liability insurance. As commitments also expose the Group to the surrender risk described above, under property & casualty and liability insurance are marginal to the extent that surrenders also reduce the calculation base in relation to those arising from the life and protection insurance for the asset loading. For this type of contract, the insurer’s written by the Group, no details are provided here of the specific commitment is limited to the additional cover provided under risks associated with these contracts. the contract, consisting generally of a guaranteed death benefit. A bear market combined with higher-than-expected The Group is exposed to the risks inherent in marketing and losses could severely hit earnings on savings products. pricing new products. These risks are managed through specific processes and by dedicated committees. Pension products give rise to mainly financial Insurer risks differ depending on the type of policy: and underwriting risks Risks associated with annuity-based pension portfolios concern: Savings contracts give rise to mainly financial risks WW the benefit payment period, which is not known in advance; Savings contracts fall into two broad categories: WW the interest rate, corresponding to the return on the capital WW traditional savings contracts where the insurer may offer a managed by the insurer. capital guarantee plus a share of the investment yield. The For these contracts, results are determined by long-term financial insurer may also commit to paying a guaranteed yield topped management policies and actual mortality rates compared with up with a share of the investment yield. The yield guarantee is assumptions. Technical reserves are generally calculated using for a fixed period. These guarantees give rise to financial risks regulatory mortality tables based on statistical data on population (see section 4.1.2 – Risk factors linked to the financial markets trends. In certain cases, experience-based data is also used. and Note 25.4 – Risk associated with guaranteed yields on Earnings or equity are potentially exposed to the risk that actual insurance and financial liabilities). Most savings contracts demographic trends may turn out to be significantly different to include an early surrender option for a contractually fixed those predicted in the mortality tables or to the risk that yields amount. The policy surrender rate will depend on stock market on plan assets will fall significantly short of the valuation rate of performance, the performance of contracts being marketed interest used in the pricing model. by the competition, policyholder behaviour (e.g., a need to raise cash), customer confidence, and tax-related matters. A wave of surrenders could materially impact earnings or Personal risk policies give rise to mainly even solvency in extreme conditions. Traditional savings underwriting risks products are exposed to surrender risk in the event of a sharp Personal risk/protection contracts comprise various types of and rapid increase in interest rates. This would generate guarantees covering such risks as death, temporary or permanent unrealised losses, some of which would be recognised disability, long-term care, health and unemployment. directly in equity, thus impacting both earnings and solvency (see section 4.1.2 – Interest rate risk); The Group establishes risk selection and reinsurance policies and WW unit-linked contracts, where the policyholder bears the financial monitors statistical data concerning the policyholder base and risk and the insurer’s commitment is limited to guaranteeing related loss ratios. In addition, products are subject to regular the liquidity of the underlying assets. If the underlying assets pricing reviews based on loss experience to ensure that margins cannot be sold on the market, this may result in a loss for the remain adequate. insurer who would have an obligation to settle the amount Asymmetric information available to policyholders and insurers due to the policyholder (in the event of death, surrender of gives rise to a risk of anti-selection, although this is attenuated the policy or otherwise) without being able to finance the by the use of medical questionnaires, deferred periods and/or payout using the proceeds from the sale of the assets. In other measures. addition, because the policyholder bears the financial risk, the presentation of the product is governed by detailed The Group’s business may be affected by the occurrence of rules, giving rise to a compliance risk (see section 4.1.2 natural or man-made catastrophes. Aside from the immediate – Compliance risk). Lastly, the insurer is also exposed to a effects of a wave of global climate-related disasters, acts of financial risk to the extent that a fall in value of the assets terrorism, the spread of pandemics, or fallout from global held in the unit-linked portfolio reduces the calculation base for warming, such events could also significantly impact the results of the asset loading. The various risks have been identified and certain personal insurance businesses. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 233 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements The increase in the legal retirement age in France has also had WW defined benefit plans (Article 39) funded by contributions an adverse impact as benefits are payable until the policyholder based on total payroll. The contributions are paid into a retires. mutual fund. When each plan participant retires, the total amount of future pension benefits is transferred from the mutual The Term Creditor Insurance business also exposes the Group fund to the pension fund. Benefits are paid in the form of to a surrender risk in connection with the early repayment of the annuities; insured loan (which is all the more likely during a period of low WW p o i n t s b a s e d p a y a s y o u g o G r o u p p e n s i o n p l a n s interest rates) or a cancellation risk (since the Hamon Act came into effect in 2014, insureds are free to cancel their policy during (Article L.441‑1) giving rise to the payment of annuities the first year of the loan and following the Bourquin amendment corresponding to the number of points earned during the applicable from 1 January 2018, the cancellation right will be contribution period multiplied by the value of one point. Annuities exercisable annually). An unexpectedly high surrender rate would are adjusted based on changes in the value of a point; modify the average contract duration and could adversely affect WW immediate and deferred annuity contracts, giving rise to the the business’s profitability. payment of annuities immediately or at the end of a specified period. In addition, death/disability policies with potentially long benefit payment periods, such as long-term care insurance, give rise to Contracts to fund length-of-service awards payable to employees financial risks because part of the related profit is derived from in France on retirement are also qualified as pension contracts. the investment income generated during the benefit payment Under these contracts, the insurer’s liability for the payment of period and may be adversely affected by unfavourable financial benefits is limited to the amount held in the related fund. market trends (such as declining interest rates). Personal risk contracts comprise various types of primary Although the main risks to which the Group is exposed are set guarantees covering such risks as death, temporary or permanent out in this section, the list is by no means exhaustive and other disability, long-term care, health and unemployment. The main risks that are currently unknown or are considered minor or not types of contracts are as follows: material may prove to have a material impact on the Group in WW term life insurance, renewable term insurance, long-term the future. The Group may also be exposed to emerging risks, insurance and whole life insurance contracts, which pay a corresponding to new or continually evolving risks whose impact lump sum in the case of death or permanent disability of the is very difficult to measure. Risks that are currently unknown or insured. Most of them include an accidental death option considered minor may have a material adverse effect on the whereby the death benefit provided for under the primary Group in the future. guarantee is doubled or tripled; WW contracts paying a temporary or life annuity to dependent children or the spouse on the death of the insured; 25.2.2 Description of the main WW death/disability contracts providing for the payment of a policyholder guarantees lump sum in the case of death of the insured or a per diem Traditional savings contracts give rise to a commitment to pay a allowance for temporary disability or a lump sum or annuities capital sum. These contracts generally pay a minimum yield plus for permanent disability. Temporary disability benefits are policyholder dividends. payable on a monthly basis, in some cases after a waiting Unit-linked savings contracts do not involve any capital period; guarantee for the insurer as only the number of units is WW term creditor contracts, which cover all or part of an guaranteed. The exception is contracts that also include death outstanding loan in the case of death of the insured, or and/or disability cover. For these contracts, the insurer’s monthly repayments – less a specified deductible – during a commitment is limited to any positive difference between period of temporary disability or until the insured is recognised cumulative gross or net premiums and the value of the units. as being permanently disabled, or all or part of the monthly repayments in the case of permanent disability, or all or part Pension contracts – which give rise to a commitment to pay a life of the monthly repayments after a waiting period in the case annuity – fall into the following categories: of unemployment. Death cover is compulsory and the loan will WW voluntary individual pension accounts (Article 82) giving rise not be paid out until evidence of cover is provided; to the payment of a life annuity from retirement. Retirement WW long-term care insurance contracts, providing for the payment age is decided by the insured and a reversionary pension of a fixed annuity covering part of the cost of long-term care. may be paid to a named beneficiary. The contract includes The amount of the annuity depends on the option selected by an option to convert the annuity into a lump sum; the insured; WW compulsory individual pension accounts (Article 83) giving WW supplementary health insurance contracts, which cover rise to the payment of a life annuity. The total annuities paid all or part of the healthcare costs incurred by the insured, to the insured are based directly on the insured’s salary during the insured’s spouse and dependent children, that are not the contribution period and a reversionary pension may be reimbursed by the social security authorities. paid to a named beneficiary; 234 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 In addition, the Group’s subsidiaries in Brazil (Caixa Seguros) and the next premium payment date or the contract expiry and in Cyprus and Greece (CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings) date. They are recorded for all types of contracts; write property & casualty and liability insurance. The cover WW premium deficiency reserves cover the portion of claims provided under these contracts is determined in accordance and benefits and the related handling costs for the period with local insurance regulations. Commitments under property & between the reporting date and the earliest possible premium casualty and liability insurance are marginal in relation to those adjustment date or the contract expiry date that is not covered arising from the personal insurance written by the Group. by the unearned premium reserve; WW outstanding claims reserves cover the estimated principal 25.2.3 Participation clauses amounts and internal and external expenses payable to settle all outstanding claims, including total future annuity payments. Traditional savings contracts, certain group personal risk contracts and certain pension contracts include participation clauses. Under the terms of these clauses, the parties agree to share – on 25.3.2 Modelling objectives the basis defined in the contract – part of the income generated Technical reserves are modelled based on current accounting by the investment of the funds corresponding to the contract’s standards. In particular, mortality tables, discount rates and technical reserves and, in the case of pension and personal risk investment yield assumptions may be selected based on a contracts, part of the underwriting result. Solvency II approach. Most contracts contain a discretionary participation feature, whereby the participation allocated to the insured is determined 25.3.3 Procedure for determining the main by the insurer as part of its marketing policy subject to compliance assumptions with the contract terms and the applicable laws. Participation is determined based on investment income for the year and the The assessment of technical reserves is supported by: insurer has full discretion over the volume of capital gains realised WW detailed knowledge of effective dates and the timing of during the period. The insured do not have individual rights to accounting recognition and processing of the various technical the participation until it is allocated to benefits or mathematical and management events, as well as of the exact specifications reser ves. Participation that has not yet been allocated is of period-end processing operations and their scheduling, in accumulated in the policyholders’ surplus reserve. order to accurately determine the underwriting and loss years; WW the creation of files at each period-end to check the Participation rates are determined based on the local accounts. consistency of reserves with technical flows; WW recurring audits of management system calculations, based on 25.3 Valuation of insurance liabilities random tests and detailed repeat calculations; (assumptions and sensitivities) WW detailed risk assessments, based on prospective guaranteed yield calculations taking into account commitments in excess 25.3.1 Technical reserve models of regulatory limits, and on detailed statistical and other analyses of personal risk contracts, including loss monitoring Technical reserves are defined as follows: (by contract/underwriting year/loss year) and tracking of the WW mathematical reserves correspond to the difference between utilisation of reserves. the present values of the respective commitments of the insurer and the insured; WW policyholder surplus reserves correspond to the participation 25.3.4 Assumptions used to calculate attributed to the contract beneficiaries that is not payable in reserves bonuses in the year following the one in which the surplus Technical reserves for non-life insurance do not have to be was generated; discounted under French insurance regulations (with the exception WW general administrative expense reserves are intended to cover of the annuity component). future contract administration costs that are not otherwise Mathematical reserves for individual savings products are stated covered; net of deferred participation and withdrawals, in accordance WW escalating risks reserves correspond to the difference between with the applicable regulations. the present values of the respective commitments of the insurer and the insured under temporary and permanent disability Mathematical reserves for individual and Group pension plans and long-term care contracts; (with the exception of Article L.441 plans) are calculated using the discount rate applicable at the contractual date (i.e., WW unearned premium reserves cover the portion of written and the contractual rate) or the premium payment date or benefit accrued premiums for the period between the reporting date settlement date, depending on the type of policy. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 235 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements Reserves for group personal risk products and term creditor 25.3.6 Assumption correlations insurance are generally calculated based on discount rates. Apart from the use of dynamic surrender rates reflecting the All other assumptions are determined by reference to internal correlation between surrender rates and the level of guaranteed experience-based data. yields for liability adequacy testing purposes, correlations among the various assumptions are not taken into account. 25.3.5 Use of different assumptions Certain assumptions use data extrapolated from past experience 25.3.7 Sensitivity of MCEV© to changes in or prospective data that draw upon: surrender rates and loss ratios WW economic, demographic, social, legislative, regulatory or Uncertainties concerning insurance cash flows mainly relate to the financial trends; timing of surrenders and the payment of death and other benefits. WW policyholder behaviour (surrender rate, renewal/non-renewal At 31 December 2018, a 10% fall in surrender rates would rate, etc.); have a positive impact of €270 million on MCEV©. A 5% fall in WW factors specific to life insurance such as mortality, morbidity observed losses would have a positive impact of €219 million on or longevity. MCEV© for mortality and disability risks, and a negative impact While the assumptions used appear reasonable at the of €59 million for longevity risks. measurement date, actual future experience may be significantly different. 25.4 Risk associated with guaranteed yields The keys used to allocate unrealised gains between technical on insurance and financial liabilities reserves and own-funds were re-calibrated in 2016. A method Traditional savings contracts with a guaranteed yield have been has been developed based on historical payments to insureds classified by level of commitment, as follows (in declining order): and referral agents, representing a robust and simple approach WW contracts offering a guaranteed minimum yield and a that is consistent with the Group’s practices. guaranteed profit participation when the contract matures; In addition, the related documentation has been enhanced to WW contracts offering an enhanced yield (generally 75% of the provide a better audit trail. TME rate) over a maximum of eight years; WW contracts offering a guaranteed minimum yield representing less than 60% of the TME rate at the time of payment. Technical reserves on traditional savings contracts are analysed by guaranteed yield in the following tables: 31.12.2018 Guaranteed yield Technical (In € millions) reserves % 0% (1) 192,420.7 57.4% ]0%-2%] 12,527.9 3.7% ]2%-3%] 6,335.0 1.9% ]3%-4%] 2,131.1 0.6% ]4%-4.5%] 5,085.9 1.5% >4.5% (2) 1,276.0 0.4% Unit-linked 56,168.5 16.7% Other (3) 59,546.1 17.7% TOTAL 335,491.1 100.0% (1) Corresponds to technical reserves for life insurance contracts without a guaranteed yield (2) Technical reserves for contracts with a guaranteed yield of more than 4.5% mainly concern Caixa Seguros in Brazil, where bond rates are above 7% (see Note 23.3) (3) Comprises all other technical reserves, except for mathematical reserves and linked liabilities, i.e., non-life technical reserves, policyholder surplus reserves and claims reserves 236 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements 5 31.12.2017 Guaranteed yield (In € millions) Technical reserves % 0% (1) 188,564.1 56.3% ]0%-2%] 13,621.6 4.1% ]2%-3%] 10,441.7 3.1% ]3%-4%] 2,234.1 0.7% ]4%-4.5%] 5,146.7 1.5% >4.5% (2) 1,363.6 0.4% Linked liabilities 54,010.0 16.1% Other (3) 59,486.9 17.8% TOTAL 334,868.9 100.0% (1) Corresponds to technical reserves for life insurance contracts without a guaranteed yield (2) Technical reserves for contracts with a guaranteed yield of more than 4.5% mainly concern Caixa Seguradora in Brazil, where bond rates are above 7% (see Note 23.3) (3) Comprises all other technical reserves, except for mathematical reserves and linked liabilities, i.e., non-life technical reserves, policyholder surplus reserves and claims reserves 25.5 Concentration of insurance risk WW Group policies: a) accidental death and disability risks on all group policies (direct business net of risks ceded to co-insurers, and all 25.5.1 Use of reinsurance to reduce quota-share reinsurance purchased from CNP Assurances by concentrations of insurance risk employee benefits institutions and mutual insurers) are covered The Group’s reinsurance programmes are designed to avoid through the Bureau Commun des Assurances Collectives pool earnings fluctuations and increase its underwriting capacity. (Décès­IPA3 policy). The system provides successively for the The objectives of the reinsurance policy defined by the Board of retention of the two largest claims per insurer, €600 million in Directors are as follows: co-insurance cover (of which CNP Assurances’ share is 30%) WW to implement a reinsurance programme covering direct and reinsurance cover purchased by the pool from external business and inward reinsurance written for provident reinsurers. This external reinsurance cover exists in six layers institutions and subsidiaries; (of which CNP Assurances has only underwritten mandatory WW to protect underwriting results by entering into non-proportional layers 2, 3 and 4): layer 1:20 XS €30 million; layer 2: 150 treaties which are geared to the size of the Group and XS €50 million; layer 3: 200 XS €200 million; layer 4: 200 provide excess-of-loss cover per occurrence (catastrophe risk) XS €400 million; level 5: 100 XS €600 million; level 6: 300 and excess-of-loss per insured and excess mortality cover XS €700 million. A loss event is defined as involving three or (pandemic risk); more victims; WW to share risks on large-scale new business. b) risks insured by CNP Assurances for employee benefits institutions and mutual insurers are fully reinsured on the market. This concerns stop-loss cover provided under the 25.5.2 Loss exposure per catastrophe relevant partnership agreements (90% XS 110% or 30% XS and per occurrence 110%) All portfolios are covered by catastrophe/accident excess-of-loss All term creditor insurance and employee benefits portfolios are reinsurance obtained from professional reinsurers. also covered beyond €2 million for high capital payouts in the WW Individual policies: accidental death and permanent and total case of IPA3 accidental death of an insured. disability risks for all portfolios of individual policies (direct Reinsured portfolios are analysed each year, covering: business and inward reinsurance written by CNP Assurances for its CNP UniCredit Vita and CNP Partners subsidiaries) are WW the age pyramid, risk dispersion and concentration of insured reinsured on the market as follows: for each catastrophic loss populations; event – defined as an event involving at least three victims – WW the number, size and cause of paid claims, including a the Group retains €400 thousand per event and the reinsurers detailed analysis of the largest claims; cover €10 million per event and €20 million per year. WW underwriting and reinsurance results. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 237 5 F inancia l S tatements Consolidated financial statements All term creditor insurance portfolios have been reinsured 25.5.3 Counterparty risk on reinsurance against partial losses from pandemic risks since 2016 under balances a treaty arranged through the Bureau Commun des Assurances Collectives. In 2018, the original treaty was replaced by a new The Group regularly checks the solvency of its reinsurance treaty with a reinsurance pool offering enhanced cover. The treaty partners. The discriminating criteria applied for the selection of covers a 0.05% increase in the mortality rate beyond an average these partners include their credit rating. In addition, reinsurers rate of 0.15% (based on number of deaths), subject to a 0.05% must be domiciled in a country approved by the Compliance deductible and a maximum reinsurance payout of €50 million. department. The reinsurers’ commitment amounts to €155 million. The Excess-of-loss contracts have been placed with reinsurers who are treaty covers the pandemic risk excluded from the coverage of rated between BBB+ and AA+. (see Note 9.9). accidental death/disability resulting from catastrophic events. Reinsurance balances are net settled at quarterly, half-yearly or 25.5.4 Insurance-related legal risks annual intervals depending on the treaty. There are currently no The Group’s insurance-related legal risks and its risk management disputed balances. policy are presented in section 5 of this Registration Document on Corporate Governance and Internal Control. NOTE 26 Commitments given and received Under IFRS, forward financial instruments are recognised in the Reported commitments given and received now include the value balance sheet. of collateralised debt obligations transferred under securities lending/borrowing and repurchase/resale transactions. COMMITMENTS GIVEN (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financing commitments 1,718.1 136.4 Guarantees 1,492.8 1,124.5 Securities commitments 8,813.4 7,042.0 Securities commitments correspond to securities pledged to rate on the day of the transaction on August 28, 2018, reinsurers under the terms of outward reinsurance contracts. was recorded as a financing commitment. At the exchange rate as of 31 December 2018, this commitment amounted An amount of R$ 4.65 billion to be paid, in the framework to €1.04 billion. of the binding memorandum of understanding concluded with Caixa Seguridade, the subsidiary of Caixa Econômica Federal The currency risk associated with the upfront payment has been (CEF) regrouping its insurance activities (see Note 1), on the hedged (Note 8.7). closing date, i.e., €0.96 billion, converted at the exchange COMMITMENTS RECEIVED (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financing commitments 0.0 0.0 Guarantees 12,582.2 11,715.1 Securities commitments 10,635.1 11,435.0 Securities commitments correspond to securities pledged by ceding insurers under the terms of inward reinsurance contracts. 238 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 5 5.2 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditor’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, Opinion Independence In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying the independence rules applicable to us, for the period from consolidated financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year 1 January 2018 to the date of our report and in particular ended 31 December 2018. we did not provide any non‑audit ser vices prohibited by Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 or the French In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. and fair view of the results of its operations for the year then ended, as well as of the financial position and the assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December 2018 in accordance Justification of assessments – Key audit with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by matters the European Union. In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823‑9 and The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report R.823‑7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) to the Audit and Risk Committee. relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in Basis for opinion our audit of the consolidated financial statements, as well as how we addressed those risks. Audit framework These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the We conducted our audit in accordance with professional consolidated financial statements as a whole, and therefore standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit contributed to the opinion we formed as expressed above. evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to We do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the provide a basis for our audit opinion. consolidated financial statements. Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the “Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 239 5 F inancia l S tatements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements MEASUREMENT OF THE ESCALATING RISKS RESERVE FOR LONG-TERM CARE AND TERM CREDITOR POLICIES (See Note 9.2 to the consolidated financial statements) Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk A reserve for escalating risks is recorded to cover timing differences We examined the procedures by which the methodology for between the coverage of risks and their financing in the form determining the escalating risks reserve is implemented. In of insurance premiums. This reserve is constituted prospectively particular, we carried out the following procedures with the by comparing the insurer’s future commitments with those of the guidance of our internal experts in risks and models: policyholder. French regulations do not specify all of the inputs to WW we examined the mathematical design of the actuarial model be used to calculate this reserve. to verify that it did not contain any material misstatement that At 31 December 2018, other technical reserves, which are could distort the calculation result, in particular by recalculating analysed in Note 9.2 to the consolidated financial statements, the reserves; included the escalating risks reserve for long‑term care policies in WW we assessed the consistency of the key assumptions used to an amount of €385 million and the escalating risks reserve for the determine the reserve, which included in particular: Term Creditor Insurance business in an amount of €236 million —— determining homogeneous risk classes (within which the before reinsurance. offsetting of positive and negative escalating risks reserves calculated on a case-by-case basis is possible) linked to the We deemed this risk to be a key audit matter in view of the segmentation used for pricing, sensitivity of the calculation of the escalating risks reserve for long—— the principles and methodologies for determining the term care and Term Creditor policies to the choice of the following discount rate, key assumptions, which require a significant degree of judgement —— the principles and methodologies for determining the from management: surrender rate and the related sensitivity tests, WW the discount rate used on the long-term care risk; —— the principles and methodologies for determining the WW the experience-based tables prepared according to observations experience-based tables, and analyses established on the basis of portfolio data; —— the principles for determining escalating risk reser ve WW the surrender behaviour of policyholders, in particular given the coefficients and their proper application for case-by-case uncertainty in relation to surrender behaviour caused by the calculations. Bourquin amendment to the Sapin II law. 240 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 5 MEASUREMENT OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE RESERVES (See Note 9.2. to the consolidated financial statements) Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk General administrative expense reserves are intended to cover We examined the procedures by which the methodology future administrative costs of individual Savings and Pensions for determining general administrative expense reserves is policies and Group Pensions policies, which are not covered by implemented. We carried out the following procedures with the the loading on premiums or the fees levied on financial products guidance of our internal experts in risks and models: provided for by these policies. WW assessing compliance with the requirements of the applicable At 31 December 2018, other technical reserves, which are regulations; analysed in Note 9.2 to the consolidated financial statements, WW analysing the application scope of the reserves and the included general administrative expense reserves in an amount assumptions for grouping policies together in order to verify of €276 million. their homogeneity; WW verifying the consistency of the assumptions used with the past We deemed this risk to be a key audit matter due to the sensitivity data and/or data used to project future results (administrative of these reserves to: expenses, surrender rates, etc.); WW a situation of persistently low yields; WW verifying on a sample basis the consistency of the underlying WW the quality of the underlying data; data used for the calculation with the contractual provisions WW the assumptions used to model future results. pertaining to fees levied on policies; The main inputs used are as follows: WW analysing the procedures for determining the yield curve WW policy data; applied to mathematical reserves in order to determine forecast WW the historical actual costs linked to the management investment income; of the activity. WW carrying out, on a sample basis, an independent measurement, for the purpose of assessing the accuracy of the calculations. The main assumptions concerned: WW the level of aggregation at which positive future results are offset against negative future results for homogeneous categories of contracts; WW the estimated future contractual fees that may be levied, subject to compliance with the guarantees given to policyholders; WW the future investment yield; WW administrative costs and in particular the types of costs to be taken into account, which depend on the procedure for allocating costs by function; WW future surrender and coverage reduction rates. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 241 5 F inancia l S tatements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements MEASUREMENT OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE RESERVES (See Note 8.3. to the consolidated financial statements) Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk The financial investments included in the balance sheet of We performed the following procedures: CNP Assurances at 31 December 2018 for a net amount of WW assessing the control system associated with the valuation €380,585 million, represented 92% of the total balance sheet. process, particularly by verifying that controls put in place by Financial investments are measured at fair value at the end of management exist and effectively implemented; the reporting period. For most of the asset portfolio, determining WW verifying that the estimates of these values determined by this value accounting is not especially problematic given that the management are based on an appropriate justification of the assets are listed on the markets. measurement method and of the figures used; However, the risk concerning the measurement fair value is WW obtaining the most recent valuations available prepared by considered greater for assets that are not listed on liquid markets, experts and fund managers; as indicated in Note 8.3 to the consolidated financial statements, WW working with our internal experts in risks and models in order to: such as structured debt securities, venture-capital funds, loan funds —— perform an independent calculation and a sensitivity analysis and unlisted securities and derivatives. on a sample of structured securities, Some of these investments are valued on the basis of models and —— analyse the appropriateness of the assumptions and inputs assumptions. The techniques adopted by management for their used in the valuation models for the Co-entreprise de measurement therefore involve significant judgements as regards Transport d’Electricité (CTE). the methods, assumptions and data to be used. In light of the materiality of outstandings and the sensitivity of the valuation of these unlisted financial assets to management’s choices in terms of calculation methodologies and inputs, we deemed the correct measurement of unlisted financial assets to be a key audit matter. Specific verifications Report on other legal and regulatory As required by law and regulations, and in accordance with requirements professional standards applicable in France, we have also verified the information pertaining to the Group presented in the Appointment of the Statutory Auditors management report of the Board of Directors. We were appointed Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances by We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the Annual General Meetings held on 18 May 1998 for Mazars the consistency with the consolidated financial statements, it and on 25 May 2010 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. being specified that it is not our responsibility give an opinion At 31 December 2018, Mazars and PricewaterhouseCoopers on the fair presentation and the consistency with consolidated Audit were in the twenty-first year and the ninth year of total financial statements of the supervisory information (SCR coverage uninterrupted engagement, respectively. ratio) given in the management report in accordance with Article L.356‑23 of the French Insurance Code (Code des assurances). Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for We attest that the Board of Directors’ management report includes the consolidated financial statements the consolidated non-financial information statement required under Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. Management is responsible for preparing consolidated financial However, in accordance with Article L.823-10 of the French statements presenting a true and fair view in accordance with Commercial Code, we have not verified the fair presentation International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by and consistency with the consolidated financial statements of the the European Union and for implementing the internal control information given in that statement, which will be the subject of a procedures it deems necessary for the preparation of financial report by an independent third party. statements free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 242 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F inancia l S tatements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 5 In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management As specified in Article L.823‑10‑1 of the French Commercial is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as Code, our audit does not include assurance on the viability or a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to quality of management of the Company. going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, A more detailed description of our responsibilities as Statutory unless it expects to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. Auditors in the scope of the audit of the consolidated financial The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the statements is set out in the appendix to this report, and is an financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control integral part hereof. and risk management systems, as well as, where applicable, any Internal Audit systems, relating to the preparation and processing Report to the Audit and Risk Committee of accounting and financial information. We submit a report to the Audit and Risk Committee which These consolidated financial statements have been approved by includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit the Board of Directors. and the audit programme implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report any significant deficiencies in Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors internal control that we have identified regarding the procedures relating to the audit of the consolidated for the preparation and processing of accounting and financial financial statements information. Our report to the Audit and Risk Committee includes the risks of Objective and audit approach material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements and which constitute the key audit matters that we are statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance required to describe in this report. about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high We also provide the Audit and Risk Committee with the level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) in accordance with professional standards will always detect a No. 537‑2014, confirming our independence within the material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from meaning of the rules applicable in France, as defined in particular fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in in Articles L.822‑10 to L.822‑14 of the French Commercial Code the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and the financial statements. related safeguard measures with the Audit and Risk Committee. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, 4 March 2019 The Statutory Auditors PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AUDIT MAZARS Bénédicte Vignon Olivier Leclerc 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 243 5 F inancia l S tatements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the financial statements As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional WW assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditors exercise going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit professional judgement throughout the audit. evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt They also: on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This WW identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or date of the audit report. However, future events or conditions error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going risks, and obtain audit evidence considered to be sufficient concern. If the Statutory Auditors conclude that a material and appropriate to provide a basis for their opinion. The risk uncertainty exists, they are required to draw attention in the of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or are inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion or a disclaimer the override of internal control; of opinion; WW obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the WW evaluate the overall presentation of the consolidated financial audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate statements and assess whether these statements represent the in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; fair presentation; WW evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used WW obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by financial information of the entities or business activities management and the related disclosures in the notes to the within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated consolidated financial statements; financial statements. The Statutory Auditors are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed thereon. 244 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 5.3 Parent company financial statements 5.3.1 Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 5.3.1.1 Assets Yearon-year (In € thousands) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 change Intangible assets 5.1 67,090 69,972 -4.1% Investments 291,960,755 291,519,997 0.2% Land and buildings 5.1 12,141,460 11,796,327 2.9% Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates * 5.1 and 5.4.1 9,305,586 6,511,322 42.9% Other investments 270,285,215 273,017,857 -1.0% Cash deposits with ceding insurers 5.2.1 228,494 194,491 17.5% Assets held to cover linked liabilities 5.2.1 33,996,013 34,238,862 -0.7% Reinsurers’ share of technical reserves 21,224,185 22,325,061 -4.9% Unearned premium and unexpired risks reserves 0 0 0.0% Life premium reserves 18,511,152 18,806,518 -1.6% Outstanding life claims reserves 284,719 260,960 9.1% Outstanding non-life claims reserves 371,849 1,021,807 -63.6% Policyholder surplus reserve – life 281,748 239,809 17.5% Bonus and rebate reserve – non-life 3,557 826 330.7% Claims equalisation reserve 15,880 16,818 -5.6% Other life technical reserves 0 0 0.0% Other non-life technical reserves 40,411 229,011 -82.4% Linked liabilities 1,714,869 1,749,312 -2.0% Receivables 5.3 7,161,114 7,028,218 1.9% Insurance receivables 5.3 2,124,468 2,549,940 -16.7% Earned premiums not yet written 5.3 1,711,427 2,259,819 -24.3% Other insurance receivables 5.3 413,041 290,121 42.4% Reinsurance receivables 5.3 456,763 239,736 90.5% Other receivables 5.3 4,579,882 4,238,542 8.1% Prepaid payroll costs 5.3 152 95 59.7% Prepaid and recoverable taxes 5.3 564,679 693,845 -18.6% Other 5.3 4,015,051 3,544,602 13.3% Other assets 724,973 608,478 19.1% Property and equipment 171,830 167,167 2.8% Current accounts and cash on hand 541,801 438,549 23.5% Treasury shares 5.5.2 11,342 2,762 310.7% Accrued income and prepaid expenses 5.7.1 and 5.7.2 9,469,135 9,101,725 4.0% Prepaid interest and rental revenue 5.7.1 and 5.7.2 2,571,352 2,811,320 -8.5% Deferred acquisition costs 5.7.1 and 5.7.2 155 182 -14.9% Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 5.7.1 and 5.7.2 6,897,628 6,290,223 9.7% TOTAL ASSETS 364,603,265 364,892,313 -0.1% * Debt funds held in the form of interests previously classified as other investments are now considered as meeting the definition of subsidiaries and affiliates within the meaning of Article 330-2 of ANC Regulation 2015-11. The funds have therefore been reclassified at 31 December 2018 (for a carrying amount of €2.7 billion) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 245 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.3.1.2 Equity and liabilities Yearon-year (In € thousands) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 change Equity 5.6 12,070,405 11,405,467 5.8% Share capital 5.5.1 and 5.6 686,618 686,618 0.0% Additional paid-in capital 5.6 1,736,332 1,736,332 0.0% Revaluation reserve 5.6 38,983 38,983 0.0% Other reserves 5.6 6,315,155 6,129,704 3.0% Retained earnings 5.6 2,127,957 1,671,303 27.3% Net profit for the year 5.6 1,165,360 1,142,526 2.0% Subordinated debt 8 7,183,484 7,063,611 1.7% Technical reserves 268,507,242 269,860,626 -0.5% Unearned premium and unexpired risks reserves 58,226 59,862 -2.7% Life premium reserves 5.8 244,995,930 246,522,997 -0.6% Outstanding life claims reserves 4,357,072 4,345,603 0.3% Outstanding non-life claims reserves 4,708,243 5,381,840 -12.5% Policyholder surplus reserve – life 12,217,856 11,261,886 8.5% Bonus and rebate reserve – non-life 54,248 59,783 -9.3% Claims equalisation reserves 380,351 403,847 -5.8% Other life technical reserves 307,223 285,487 7.6% Other non-life technical reserves 1,428,092 1,539,321 -7.2% Linked liabilities 34,128,965 34,352,524 -0.7% Provisions for liabilities and charges 5.7.3 57,034 122,864 -53.6% Cash deposits received from reinsurers 5.3 11,814,847 11,972,937 -1.3% Other liabilities 5.3 27,164,416 26,591,221 2.2% Liabilities arising from insurance transactions 5.3 1,094,572 939,302 16.5% Liabilities arising from reinsurance transactions 5.3 798,647 690,270 15.7% Bank borrowings 5.3 181,660 398,871 -54.5% Other liabilities 5.3 25,089,537 24,562,778 2.1% Other borrowings, deposits and guarantees received 5.3 8,779,057 9,091,304 -3.4% Accrued payroll costs 5.3 365,774 389,586 -6.1% Accrued payroll and other taxes 5.3 667,815 635,343 5.1% Other payables 5.3 15,276,891 14,446,545 5.7% Deferred income and accrued expenses 5.7.1 and 5.7.2 3,676,872 3,523,064 4.4% TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 364,603,265 364,892,313 -0.1% 246 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 5.3.2 Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 5.3.2.1 Non-life technical account 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 YearNon-life technical account on-year (In € thousands) Notes Gross Reinsurance Net Net change Earned premiums 6.11 1,826,457 (100,852) 1,725,604 1,962,470 -12.1% Premiums 1,824,821 (100,852) 1,723,969 1,960,376 -12.1% Change in unearned premiums reserve and unexpired risks reserve 1,636 0 1,636 2,094 -21.9% Allocated investment income 153,884 0 153,884 165,804 -7.2% Other underwriting income 3,318 0 3,318 2,960 12.1% Paid claims and benefits and change in claims reserves (1,476,266) 120,137 (1,356,129) (1,503,683) -9.8% Paid claims and expenses (2,177,463) 770,094 (1,407,368) (1,163,220) 21.0% Change in outstanding claims reserves 701,197 (649,958) 51,239 (340,462) -115.0% Change in other technical reserves 122,049 (188,600) (66,551) 19,056 -449.2% Policyholder rebates 6.8 (41,534) 2,731 (38,802) (65,516) -40.8% Acquisition costs and administrative expenses (516,652) 32,145 (484,507) (492,035) -1.5% Acquisition costs (430,988) 0 (430,988) (580,246) -25.7% Contract administration expenses (85,664) 0 (85,664) (89,760) -4.6% Reinsurance commissions received 0 32,145 32,145 177,971 -81.9% Other underwriting expenses (16,990) 0 (16,990) (35,856) -52.6% Change in claims equalisation reserve 9,185 (938) 8,246 (74,337) -111.1% NON-LIFE UNDERWRITING RESULT 6.2 63,450 (135,378) (71,928) (21,136) 240.3% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 247 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.3.2.2 Life technical account 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 YearLife technical account on-year (In € thousands) Notes Gross Reinsurance Net Net change Premiums 6.11 20,161,736 (814,231) 19,347,505 19,608,985 -1.3% Investment income 6.1 10,903,543 (274,330) 10,629,213 10,414,610 2.1% Investment revenues 6.1 7,653,005 (274,330) 7,378,676 7,706,889 -4.3% Other investment income 6.1 1,253,359 0 1,253,359 817,317 53.4% Profits on disposal of investments 6.1 1,997,178 0 1,997,178 1,890,404 5.6% Mark-to-market gains on assets held to cover linked liabilities 1,950,964 (34,025) 1,916,939 2,795,997 -31.4% Other underwriting income 85,431 (191) 85,240 35,564 139.7% Paid claims and benefits and change in claims reserves (22,087,354) 1,269,585 (20,817,769) (23,326,120) -10.8% Paid claims and expenses (22,076,027) 1,245,825 (20,830,202) (23,060,164) -9.7% Change in outstanding claims reserves (11,327) 23,759 12,433 (265,956) -104.7% Change in life premium reserves and other technical reserves 7,334,028 (330,651) 7,003,376 5,528,201 26.7% Life premium reserves 5.8 7,117,888 (295,930) 6,821,958 9,703,090 -29.7% Linked liabilities 223,560 (34,443) 189,117 (4,140,917) -104.6% Other technical reserves (7,420) (278) (7,698) (33,972) -77.3% Policyholder dividends 6.8 (6,562,466) 43,246 (6,519,220) (7,227,269) -9.8% Acquisition costs and administrative expenses (2,337,468) 124,627 (2,212,841) (2,129,854) 3.9% Business acquisition costs (1,077,598) 0 (1,077,598) (1,019,469) 5.7% Policy administration expenses (1,259,870) 0 (1,259,870) (1,241,774) 1.5% Reinsurance commissions received 0 124,627 124,627 131,389 -5.1% Investment expenses 6.1 (3,593,503) 5,602 (3,587,900) (2,768,540) 29.6% Internal and external investment management expenses and interest 6.1 (567,301) 0 (567,301) (547,957) 3.5% Other investment expenses 6.1 (1,182,560) 5,602 (1,176,957) (1,040,953) 13.1% Losses on disposal of investments 6.1 (1,843,642) 0 (1,843,642) (1,179,630) 56.3% Mark-to-market losses on assets held to cover linked liabilities (4,485,982) 151,794 (4,334,188) (1,352,277) 220.5% Other underwriting expenses (247,540) 1,858 (245,681) (258,551) -5.0% Investment income transferred to the non-technical account 0 0 0 0 0.0% LIFE UNDERWRITING RESULT 6.2 1,121,389 143,285 1,264,674 1,320,747 -4.2% 248 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 5.3.2.3 Non-technical account Non-technical account Year-on-year (In € thousands) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 change Non-life underwriting result 6.2 (71,928) (21,136) 240.3% Life underwriting result 6.2 1,264,674 1,320,747 -4.2% Investment income 6.1 611,079 576,807 5.9% Investment revenues 6.1 424,204 426,841 -0.6% Other investment income 6.1 72,056 45,267 59.2% Profits on disposal of investments 6.1 114,819 104,699 9.7% Allocated investment income 0 0 0.0% Investment expenses 6.1 (206,270) (153,334) 34.5% Internal and external investment management expenses and interest 6.1 (32,614) (30,348) 7.5% Other investment expenses 6.1 (67,664) (57,653) 17.4% Losses on disposal of investments 6.1 (105,992) (65,333) 62.2% Investment income transferred to the technical account (153,884) (165,804) -7.2% Other income 6.6 47,809 13,989 241.8% Other expenses 6.6 (13,730) (22,202) -38.2% Non-recurring items 6.6 58,687 19,574 199.8% Non-recurring income 6.6 82,926 99,195 -16.4% Non-recurring expenses 6.6 (24,239) (79,621) -69.6% Employee profit-sharing (21,938) (21,083) 4.1% Income tax expense 6.7 (349,139) (405,031) -13.8% NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,165,360 1,142,526 2.0% 5.3.3 Commitments received and given (In € thousands) Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 1. Commitments received 77,221,525 56,937,781 1a. Commitments related to securities, other assets or revenue (1) 7 73,405,281 56,937,781 1b. Other commitments received (3) 3,816,243 0 2. Commitments given 57,058,513 56,590,985 2a. Sureties, bonds and guarantees provided 11,252,713 11,064,792 2b. Securities and other assets purchased under resale agreements 4,803 4,586 2c. Other commitments related to securities, other assets or revenue (1) 7 34,438,384 37,490,053 2d. Other commitments given (2) 11,362,612 8,031,553 3. Securities lodged as collateral by reinsurers (3) 10,618,075 13,809,156 (1) Commitments related to forward financial instruments are presented in Note 7 (2) Other commitments given relate mainly to assets pledged under inward reinsurance treaties as well as the commitment given under the agreement with Caixa Seguridade for R$ 4.65 billion to be paid on the closing date (i.e., €0.96 billion at the exchange rate of 28 August 2018). This commitment amounted to €1.04 billion at 31 December 2018 (3) Other commitments received in 2017 were reported for €2.4 billion under “Securities lodged as collateral by reinsurers” 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 249 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.3.4 Notes to the Company financial statements DETAILED CONTENTS NOTE 1 Significant events of the year 251 NOTE 2 Subsequent events 252 NOTE 3 Change in accounting policies 252 NOTE 4 Accounting policies and principles 252 NOTE 5 Notes to the balance sheet 261 NOTE 6 Notes to the income statement 283 NOTE 7 Off-balance sheet commitments 290 NOTE 8 Disclosures related to subordinated debt 291 250 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 CNP Assurances is a French société anonyme (joint-stock WW hold majority interests in insurance companies. company) with a Board of Directors, governed by For this purpose, it may: Articles L.225-17 to L.225-56 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), with capital of €686,618,477. WW hold interests in undertakings whose business contributes to In accordance with its licence and Article 2 of its Articles of fulfilling the Company’s corporate purpose; and generally; Association, the Company’s corporate purpose is to: WW carry out any and all directly or indirectly related operations WW write accidental injury and health insurance; that facilitate development of the business or fulfilment of the corporate purpose. WW write bodily injury insurance covering accident and health risks; NOTE 1 Significant events of the year 1.1 Antoine Lissowski appointed Caixa Seguridade, the holding company for CEF’s insurance as Chief Executive Officer of operations, with CNP Assurances and Caixa Seguridade owning respectively 51% and 49% of the voting rights and 40% and 60% CNP Assurances of the economic rights. On 15 November 2018, CNP Assurances’ Board of Directors On the closing date, CSH will transfer to the new joint venture approved Antoine Lissowski’s appointment as Chief Executive the In-Force insurance portfolios for the products included in Officer of CNP Assurances. the scope of the agreement (life insurance, consumer credit life insurance and private pension plans). 1.2 Conclusion of a binding framework The closing of the transaction is subject to a number of condition agreement with Caixa Seguridade precedents, including in particular its approval by the relevant regulatory and competition authorities. On 30 August 2018, CNP Assurances announced the conclusion of a binding framework agreement providing for the establishment of a new long-term exclusive distribution 1.3 €500 million perpetual subordinated agreement until 13 February 2041 in Brazil in the network of notes issue Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF), one of the leading Brazilian banks and one of the five largest in Latin America. On 20 June 2018, CNP Assurances finalised a €500 million issue of undated subordinated notes with a first call date of This new agreement builds on the successful track-record of 27 June 2028. The bonds pay a 4.75% fixed rate of interest CNP Assurances and CEF’s partnership since 2001, through their over the first ten years and the coupon will subsequently be Caixa Seguros Holding (CSH) joint venture, which demonstrated adjusted every five years in line with future benchmark interest an ability to combine strong growth, high profitability and regular rates. Payment of the coupon is discretionary. The notes feature cash flow generation. a principal write‑down mechanism together with mandatory The new exclusivity perimeter in CEF’s network includes life interest cancellation in the event of non-compliance with solvency insurance, consumer credit life insurance and private pension requirements, in accordance with the Solvency II directive. plans. In line with the terms of the non-binding Memorandum The issue proceeds will be eligible for inclusion in Solvency II of Understanding signed at the end of September 2017, the Restricted Tier 1 regulatory capital. The notes have been rated new distribution agreement will be implemented through a newly BBBby Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 by Moody’s. formed insurance joint venture between CNP Assurances and 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 251 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements NOTE 2 Subsequent events None. NOTE 3 Change in accounting policies None. NOTE 4 Accounting policies and principles CNP Assurances’ financial statements are prepared in 4.2 Intangible assets accordance with French generally accepted accounting principles (ANC Regulation 2015-11 dated 26 November 2015 Intangible assets, including the cost of integrating business as amended by ANC Regulation 2016-12 dated applications and purchased software licenses, are measured and 12 December 2016) and the French Insurance Code (Code des recognised in accordance with ANC Regulation 2014‑03 dated Assurances). 5 June 2014 (book I, title II, chapter I, section 3) on the general chart of accounts. The financial year runs from 1 January to 31 December. Intangible assets are amortised over five or eight years, CNP Assurances is the consolidating entity for the corresponding to the best estimate of the assets’ useful lives. CNP Assurances Group. Internally developed software is amortised from the date on which it is put in production. Licences are amortised from the 4.1 Equity date of purchase. Assets no longer used by the Company are scrapped. 4.1.1 Capital and reserves Share issuance costs are deducted from the related premiums. 4.3 Investing activities In their statutory accounts, French insurers are required to accumulate realised gains on bonds in a capitalisation reserve that can be used to offset realised losses in order to smooth 4.3.1 Measurement revenues from bond portfolios classified under Article R.343‑9 Investments are measured at historical cost less transaction costs, of the French Insurance Code. Up until 1 January 2010, gains with the exception of: credited to the reserve were excluded from the calculation of WW investments held in unit-linked por tfolios, which are taxable profit. Effective from 1 January 2010, gains credited measured at their period-end realisable value in accordance to the reserve are included in taxable profit and losses charged with Article 222‑5 of ANC Regulation 2015-11 dated against the reserve are deducted. 26 November 2015, with a corresponding adjustment to the linked liability; 4.1.2 Treasury shares WW investments subject to legal revaluation requirements. Treasury shares, corresponding mainly to shares acquired to stabilise the CNP Assurances share price, are recorded in “Marketable securities”. 252 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Investment property Bonds, notes and other fixed income securities In accordance with ANC Regulation 2014‑03 dated Bonds, notes and other fixed income securities are recognised at 5 June 2014, each significant part of a building is measured their purchase price less accrued interest which is recorded in the separately at cost less accumulated depreciation and any income statement at the end of the reporting period. accumulated impairment losses. For all portfolios, the premium or discount corresponding to the Borrowing costs incurred during the construction period are difference between the redemption price and the purchase price, recognised as an expense. excluding accrued interest, is recognised over the remaining life of the securities by the yield-to-maturity method for fixed rate For the purpose of determining depreciation periods, properties securities and the straight-line method for variable rate securities. are considered as comprising five significant parts with different useful lives: In accordance with Article 122‑1 of ANC Regulation 2015‑11 WW land; of 26 November 2015, the same basis of calculation is used WW shell and roof structure; for all amortisable securities covered by Articles R.343‑9 and R.343‑10 of the French Insurance Code. WW facades and roofing; WW fixtures; WW technical installations. 4.3.2 Depreciation of buildings Maintenance and upkeep costs are capitalised by significant part Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write off provided that future economic benefits are expected to flow from the acquisition or construction cost of each significant part of a the work and they can be estimated reliably. property over its estimated useful life. Expenses directly attributable to the purchase of a property are Due to the difficulty of reliably determining the residual value included in its cost and depreciated over the useful life of the shell. of property, investment and owner-occupied properties are considered as having no residual value. Rental income is recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis. Depreciation periods are based on the estimated useful lives of the significant parts of each property, with the exception of land Accumulated depreciation was calculated retrospectively in which is not depreciated. These periods are as follows: the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2005: by allocating WW shell: 50 years; the original cost of each property among its significant parts, WW facades and roofing: 30 years except for warehouses, and recalculating depreciation for the period from the date of factories, shopping centres and cinemas: 20 years; acquisition to 1 January 2005, based on the estimated useful life of each part. WW technical installations: 20 years; WW fixtures: 10 years. A simplified approach was used to allocate the amortised cost of each building at 1 January 2005 to its significant parts, based on the breakdown observed for similar reference buildings in the 4.3.3 Specific provisions for impairment following eight categories: of property and securities WW “Haussmann” style residential buildings; Provisions for impairment are recorded in accordance with WW modern and semi-modern residential buildings; ANC Regulation 2015‑11 dated 26 November 2015 (book I, WW “old” office buildings; title II, chapter 3). WW modern and semi-modern office buildings; WW shopping centres and cinemas; Securities classified under Article R.343‑9 WW business premises; of the French Insurance Code WW high-rise residential buildings; In accordance with Article 123‑1, CNP Assurances assesses WW high-rise office buildings. “whether or not there is a recognised counterparty risk arising from one or a number of events that have occurred since initial The percentage of a building’s value represented by each recognition, and whether the related impairment loss can be significant part was determined based on the obser ved estimated reliably”. average percentage for buildings in each of the eight reference categories. Debt securities classified under Article R.343‑9 are written down when there is a recognised risk of issuer default. The potential Fixtures and fittings were allocated to the other significant parts in impairment loss arising from the deterioration in issuer risk is view of their non-material amounts. estimated by the Company using a multi-criteria approach. In the event of an improvement in the issuer’s situation, the impairment Equity investments loss is reversed in proportion to this improvement. Equities are recognised at their purchase price excluding transaction costs. Dividends are recognised in the payment period, excluding tax credits which are netted against income tax expense. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 253 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Securities classified under Article R.343‑10 was reduced back to 20%, for both French and foreign securities. of the French Insurance Code The 20% threshold continued to be applied in 2018. Securities classified under Article R.343‑10 are reviewed at each The following securities must also be tested for impairment: period-end to determine whether they have suffered an other-thanWW securities for which a provision has already been recognised; temporary impairment in value, in accordance with Article 123‑6 WW securities for which there is objective evidence that the of ANC Regulation 2015‑11. Company may not be able to recover all or part of the This regulation represents a continuation of the rules that carrying amount of the investment; applied prior to its adoption, including the “other-thanWW securities that have been trading consistently over the past temporary impairment” rule which has been applicable since six months at a discount of at least 30% in a highly volatile 1 Januar y 1995. The provisions for other-than-temporar y market; impairment of assets recorded at that date were recognised WW securities that have (i) lost more than 50% of their carrying directly in opening equity, with no impact on profit. amount at the reporting date, (ii) behaved abnormally since the reporting date, or (iii) been subject to an unfavourable Property assessment by CNP Assurances. At the end of each reporting period, properties are assessed Amortisable securities classified under Article R.343‑10 to determine whether there is any indication that they may be In accordance with Article 123‑7‑1, amortisable securities impaired. classified under Article R.343‑10 that CNP Assurances has the One such indicator is a fall in value to more than 20% below positive intention and ability to hold to maturity are only written cost. If there is evidence of impairment, CNP Assurances down if there is a recognised credit risk. estimates the recoverable amount of the property concerned. In accordance with Article 123‑7‑2, amortisable securities The recoverable amount of a property is the higher of its classified under Article R.343‑10 that CNP Assurances does not value in use and its appraisal value, as determined by annual have the positive intention or the ability to hold to maturity are independent valuations of the entire property portfolio. The tested for impairment taking into account all the identified risks recoverable amount is prorated between the land and shell and the intended holding period. components based on the property’s carrying amount. b) Amount of the provision Securities classified under Article R.343‑10 The amount of the provision always corresponds to the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount. a) Criteria for assessing whether an asset is subject to other-than-temporary impairment Therefore, if the asset is intended to be sold in the short-term, the recoverable amount is the market price. The criteria used to determine whether an asset is subject to otherthan-temporary impairment depend on the nature of the asset and If the Company has the positive intention and ability to hold onto the associated risk: the assets, given the stability of its insurance liabilities and its asset rotation policy, the recoverable amount takes account of the Equity investments classified under Article R.343‑10 intended holding period. A range of indicators such as sustained losses or negative The recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries and business plan projections are considered as objective evidence affiliates takes account of the investees’ earnings outlook and of other‑than‑temporary impairment. business plan projections. It is based on the value in use of the securities determined using a multi-criteria approach and a longOther non-amortisable securities classified under Article R.343‑10 term perspective. Article 123-10 states that one criterion supporting the The recoverable amount of other equities and mutual fund units presumption of other-than-temporary impairment is a steep fall in is based on their fair value as determined using a multi-criteria the securities’ market value over a long period in sharp contrast approach, capitalised over the probable holding period for the to the performance of the securities’ market. In the case of corresponding assets at the risk-free rate plus a conservatively French equities, there is a presumption of other-than-temporary estimated risk premium (capitalisation rate corresponding to the impairment if their market value is more than 20% below cost, or TME rate +500 bp), or at the average market rate for the last 30% if the market is highly volatile. These rules are transposed month of the period. The probable holding period reflects the and adapted as necessary to the characteristics of the investments Company’s ability and intention to hold these financial assets. concerned, particularly mutual funds and foreign securities. A provision of €2,008 million for other-than-temporary impairment After the volatility caused by the 2008 crisis, in 2012 the was recorded on equities and mutual fund units. threshold for the presumption of other-than-temporary impairment 254 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 4.3.4 General provisions for impairment insurance supervisor. In the period between two five-yearly of property, equities and other valuations, realisable value is estimated at each year-end securities and the amounts obtained are certified by an independent expert. The recoverable amount of a property is the higher The Company has set up a liquidity risk reserve. of its value in use and its net market price, as determined by In accordance with Article R.343‑5 of the French Insurance Code annual valuations of the Company’s entire property portfolio; amending certain rules applicable to investor insurance companies, WW the sale value of unlisted securities is determined as the fair this reserve is used to record any overall decline in the aggregate value corresponding to the price that would be obtained in carrying amount of (i) amortisable assets classified under an arm’s length transaction, taking into account their value in Article R.343‑10 that CNP Assurances does not have the positive use for the Company. intention or the ability to hold to maturity, and (ii) non‑amortisable In accordance with Article R.343‑5 of the French Insurance assets classified under Article R.343‑10, when the impairment is Code, the liquidity risk reserve is calculated based on average covered by Article R.343‑5 of said Code. prices for the month of December. The Company elected to defer recognition of the liquidity risk The basis used to calculate the reserve includes “unrealised losses reserve, as allowed by Article R.343‑6 of the French Insurance on forward financial instruments provided for in Articles R.332-­45 Code. to R.332-47 of the French Insurance Code that have as their Article A.343‑1‑2 of the French Insurance Code stipulates that underlying the assets referred to in Article R.343‑10”. These the duration of liabilities should be measured based on year-byunrealised losses are included for the portion that exceeds the year projections of cash outflows (total and partial surrenders value of the securities or cash put up as collateral. Unrealised and death benefit) over a 50-year period. The timing of cash gains are only included if they are guaranteed as provided for outflows may vary for a number of different reasons, notably due in Article R.332-56, i.e., there is a master agreement between to policyholders’ surrender options, and the cash flows are not issuer and holder whereby unrealised gains and losses are discounted. The duration has been limited to eight years in order secured by collateral. to obtain a whole number. Forward financial instruments not secured by collateral are Based on this duration, the liquidity risk reserve is deferred over excluded from the calculation of unrealised gains and losses not an eight-year period. The deferred expense is recorded in the covered by provisions. non‑technical account, by crediting account 753 “Increase in the deferred liquidity risk reserve” and debiting account 379 “Deferred liquidity risk reserve”. For more information, refer to 4.3.5 Disposals and exchanges Note 5.10. Gains and losses on disposals of investments are calculated using the FIFO method as if they were held in a single portfolio in In accordance with Article R.322-6 of the French Insurance accordance with the applicable regulations. Code, the expense deferred pursuant to Article R.343‑6 is deducted from distributable profit as defined in Article L.232-11 They are recognised in profit or loss on the actual date of sale. of the French Commercial Code from the profit defined in Gains or losses realised on shares tendered to a public exchange Article L.232-12, paragraph 2, of said Code. offer are calculated based on the best estimate of the offerer’s share price which may correspond to: Realisable value WW the average share price over the offer period; or Realisable value is defined as follows for the purposes of WW the closing share price on the date the results of the offer are calculating the liquidity risk reserve: published by the competent regulatory body. WW the realisable value of marketable securities and listed shares is the average of the prices quoted over the 30 days preceding the reporting date, or the most recent available 4.3.6 Allocation of financial income quoted price; Net investment income (excluding adjustments to assets held WW the realisable value of mutual fund units is the average of the in unit-linked portfolios) is split between (i) income generated bid prices quoted over the 30 days preceding the reporting by the investment of funds corresponding to technical reserves date, or the most recent available quoted price; (including the capitalisation reserve) which is recorded in the WW the realisable value of property and shares in unlisted property technical account, and (ii) income generated by own-funds companies is determined on the basis of five-yearly valuations portfolios (excluding the capitalisation reserve), recorded in the performed by an independent expert recognised by the non-technical account. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 255 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 4.3.7 Translation of foreign currency In the balance sheet, the foreign currency accounts are translated transactions into euros at the spot rate on the reporting date or the most recent available spot rate. CNP Assurances applies ANC Regulation 2015‑11 (book II, title IV) concerning the translation of foreign currency transactions by Translation differences on structural positions, measured based insurance undertakings. on the difference between the rate on the transaction date (historical rate) and the closing rate, are recognised both on and Foreign currency transactions include: off-balance sheet. WW expenses billed or contractually denominated in foreign currencies; Translation differences on operational positions are recorded in account 665 “Exchange losses” or account 765 “Exchange WW income billed or contractually denominated in foreign gains”. currencies; WW technical reserves denominated in foreign currencies in In accordance with Article 241‑6, unrealised gains and losses on application of Article R.343‑2 of the French Insurance Code; operational positions at 31 December 2018 were recognised in WW debts and other payables denominated in foreign currencies; the income statement. WW loans and other receivables denominated in foreign currencies; 4.3.8 Forward financial instruments WW acquisitions, disposals and other transactions involving CNP Assurances manages its exposure to financial risks using i) properties located in countries where transactions are financial instruments traded over the counter or on organised normally denominated in a currency other than the euro, and markets. These instruments are used solely for macro-hedging ii) shares in unlisted property companies whose assets include strategies. such properties, for the portion of the transaction amount corresponding to the properties’ value; Since 1 January 2003, the Company has applied standard CRC WW transactions involving non-amortisable debt securities and 2002-09 relating to forward financial instruments. property rights other than those involving the properties Hedges have been set up to manage exposure to: referred to above, where the transaction currency is not the WW interest rate risk on the bond portfolio and the portfolio of euro; insurance policies with a yield guarantee; WW commitments given and received, where settlement of the WW the risk of a fall in equity prices; commitment will involve a foreign currency transaction within the meaning of this article; WW currency risk. WW amortisation, depreciation, impairment losses, provisions and repayments related to foreign currency transactions within the Interest rate risk meaning of this article. Interest rate hedges comprise: They are recognised in the transaction or settlement currency in WW floors which increase in value as interest rates fall and caps the foreign currency accounts (use of multi-currency accounting which gain in value as interest rates rise; system) in accordance with Article 241‑2 of ANC Regulation WW put options on bonds whose value increases as bond prices 2015‑11. rise. In application of Article 241‑5 of this Regulation, a distinction is made between: Credit spread risk WW asset and liability transactions that generate a “structural” Part of the Company’s exposure to a significant deterioration of position. For insurers, these mainly consist of net investments in credit spreads is hedged by CDS index options. strategic foreign operations, the dotation capital provided to These instruments offset a fall in value of fixed rate bonds held in foreign branches and the financing of both in foreign currency. the Company’s portfolios. These assets are unlikely to be sold and their measurement should not be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates; Equity risk WW other transactions denominated in foreign currency that generate an “operational” position. These operational Part of the Company’s equities portfolio is hedged by options that positions represent the insurance undertaking’s shortor increase in value as stock prices fall. medium-term foreign exchange exposure arising in the normal In light of the volumes and the resulting financial impact, partial course of business that is affected by fluctuations in exchange hedging of the equities portfolio is based around a dynamic rates. hedging strategy designed to optimise gains from market Separate accounts are also used to record both structural and opportunities as well as the overall cost of the hedging strategy. operational positions in each currency both onand off-balance sheet. 256 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Currency risk WW Gains and losses from yield strategies are recognised over the life of the forward financial instrument and any residual flows Currency hedging strategies were set up: are recognised in profit when the hedge is unwound. WW for the Brazilian real to hedge the currency risk on Caixa Seguros Holding’s profit for the year; WW for the Brazilian real to hedge the assets of CNP Assurances 4.4 Property and equipment Participações Ltda, which is owned by CNP Assurances; Property and equipment consist mainly of office and computer WW following the renewal of the distribution agreements with equipment and miscellaneous installations. Caixa Econômica Federal, currency hedges in the form of currency options were set up to protect against a rise in the They are recognised at cost and depreciated over their estimated Brazilian real against the euro. The hedge covers part of useful lives ranging from three years for office systems equipment the payment to be made on the closing date for the new to ten years for fixtures, fittings and technical installations. agreements with its local partner, Caixa Seguridade; WW for th e poun d sterl ing, when sterl ing-d eno m i na t e d subordinated notes were issued in 2011; 4.5 Life insurance and savings contracts WW for the US dollar, when dollar-denominated perpetual subordinated notes were issued in 2013; 4.5.1 Premiums WW for the US dollar, when dollar-denominated perpetual Premiums on contracts in force during the period are recognised subordinated notes were issued in 2016. in revenue. The amount recorded includes the estimated earned portion of Accounting treatment premiums not yet written. WW All forward financial instruments held at the reporting date are disclosed in the summary of investments included in the notes to the financial statements, immediately below the hedged 4.5.2 Technical and mathematical reserves investment. Reserves for contracts that provide death cover include the portion WW Securities pledged or received as collateral without any of premiums written but not earned during the reporting period. transfer of title are measured at their realisable value in the Mathematical reser ves for traditional savings contracts schedule of commitments given or received. correspond to the difference between the present value of the WW The time value and intrinsic value of the initial premium are not respective commitments of the Company and the policyholder. recognised separately, whatever the type of instrument. Insurance liabilities are discounted at a rate that is equal to the highest contractual rate, using regulatory mortality tables or Investment or divestment strategy internal experience-based tables if these are more conservative. WW The premium corresponding to the time value and intrinsic CNP Assurances also has a regulatory option to defer any value is carried in an adjustment account until the hedge is changes in mortality tables as the effects of such a change are unwound. By way of an exception, premiums on caps and not systematically allocated to policies. The discount rate applied floors are deferred over the life of the hedge. to annuities takes into account the effects of a fall in interest rates WW The settlement of debit or credit balances on margin accounts, when the contractual rate is considered too high compared with other periodic flows and balancing adjustments are kept in the the expected yield from reinvested premiums. adjustment account over the life of the hedge. Mathematical reserves are zillmerised provided that this does not WW When the hedge is unwound, the balance on the adjustment give rise to a negative amount for a given policy. Zillmerisation account, or the gain or loss on the forward financial instrument consists of deducting from mathematical reserves the present is included in the purchase or sale price of the investment. value of acquisition expenses included in premiums. The premium loading for zillmerisation corresponds to the contractual policy Yield strategy terms. WW Income and expenses received or receivable and paid or Acquisition costs incurred when a contract is written are payable on forward financial instruments are recognised in recognised as an asset for the amount of the zillmerisation the income statement over the planned life of the hedge by the variance (i.e., the difference between the mathematical reserves effective yield method. carried in the balance sheet in accordance with Article L.343‑1 WW Alternatively, they may be recognised on a straight-line basis if of the French Insurance Code and the amount of the same the effect of the difference of method is not material. reserves if these acquisition costs had not been included in the insureds’ obligations), in accordance with Article 151‑2 of ANC Regulation 2015‑11. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 257 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements A matching deferred acquisition costs reserve is recognised in An escalating risks reserve is recorded to cover timing differences liabilities in accordance with Article R.3313-7 of the French between the coverage of risks and their financing in the form of Insurance Code. insurance premiums. The general contract administration expense reserve mentioned The escalating risks reserve for Term Creditor Insurance business in Article R 343-3.4 of the French Insurance Code is designed to amounted to €229 million at 31 December 2018. This reserve cover the insurer’s commitment to administer its policies for as long is calculated prospectively and covers the difference between the as they remain in force. It is determined by the method and using present values of the respective future commitments of the insurer the assumptions specified in Article 142-6 of ANC Regulation and the insured. The calculation uses regulatory valuation rates 2015-11. of interest and takes into account experience-based biometric risk assumptions (incidence of death and disability risk, and/ The reserve corresponds to a prospective estimate of contract or disability persistency risk) and behavioural assumptions administration expenses that will not be covered by the (surrenders) based on historical data for the portfolio concerned. premium and investment income loading. It is calculated by group of contracts with similar characteristics, based mainly The escalating risk reserve for lifetime long-term care contracts on policyholder profiles, contract terms and experience-based totalled €380 million at 31 December 2018. This reserve also assumptions concerning, for example, costs, surrenders and covers the difference between the present values of the respective investment income. future commitments of the insurer and the insured. The calculation takes into account experience-based biometric risk assumptions At 31 December 2018, the general administration expense (incidence of long-term care risk and persistency risk) based on reser ve for savings and pensions contracts amounted to historical data for the portfolio concerned, regulatory mortality €249 million. tables and a discount rate determined by reference to the When policyholders are entitled to participate in surplus structure of the asset portfolio held to cover these commitments. underwriting profits and investment income in addition to the An equalisation reserve is set up to cover fluctuations in loss ratios guaranteed minimum yield, any surplus not paid during the on group policies that provide bodily injury cover. period is accumulated in the policyholder surplus reserve. Claims are recognised in the period in which they are incurred. An outstanding claims reserve is set up to cover claims and The amount recorded covers both reported claims and estimated benefits outstanding at the reporting date. claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). Reserves for claims handling expenses correspond to costs Claims reserves are based on the estimated cost of settling the that will be incurred by the insurer or its representative for the claims, net of any forecast recoveries. settlement of claims. A reserve is recorded for claims handling expenses based on a For contracts with a yield guarantee, if the actual asset yield calculated percentage of actual expenses. at the reporting date, reduced by one-fifth, is less than the rate obtained by multiplying total guaranteed interest by average mathematical reserves for the contracts, a financial contingency 4.7 Reinsurance reserve is recorded in accordance with Article R.343‑3‑5 of the French Insurance Code and Article 142‑8 of ANC Regulation 2015‑11. 4.7.1 Outward reinsurance An equalisation reserve is set up to cover fluctuations in loss ratios Premiums, claims and technical reserves are stated before on group policies that provide death cover. reinsurance. Ceded amounts are recognised under the “Reinsurance result” line item of the income statement. Mathematical reserves for unit-linked contracts are determined by reference to the assets backing the linked liabilities. Gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of these assets at fair value 4.7.2 Inward reinsurance are recognised in profit or loss, to offset the impact of changes in Inward reinsurance is recognised based on information received the related technical reserves. from ceding insurers or on estimates if the information received is incomplete. 4.6 Disability, accident and health insurance 4.8 Third-party accounts and accrual accounts Premiums are recognised net of taxes and estimated cancelled premiums. Earned premiums for the period are adjusted for: These accounts are governed by ANC Regulation 2015‑11 WW estimated earned premiums not yet written at the period-end; (book III, title III, chapter IV) dated 26 November 2015 on the WW the change in the unearned premium reserve (corresponding financial statements of insurance undertakings. to the portion of premiums written during the period that relates to the next period). 258 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 4.9 Employee benefit obligations WW acquisition costs include all selling, distribution and administrative costs incurred for the acquisition of new Employee benefit obligations are covered in full by provisions. contracts; WW contract administration expenses include all the costs of Short-term benefits are benefits that are expected to be settled managing In-Force business; in full within twelve months of the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services. They WW investment costs include all internal and external costs of therefore consist mainly of wages, salaries and social security managing asset portfolios together with financial expenses; contributions, profit-sharing and bonuses, paid annual leave and WW other underwriting costs correspond to overhead expenses that non-monetary benefits (such as medical care, housing, cars and cannot be allocated rationally to the other functions. free or subsidised goods or services). Non-underwriting costs correspond to costs related to businesses that have no technical link to the insurance business. 4.9.1 Time-savings accounts and employee They are recorded and allocated as follows: retirement savings plans WW operating expenses are initially recognised by nature and cost A time-savings account system has been set up for centre and are then reallocated by function; CNP Assurances’ employees, entitling them to save up their rights WW the allocation is based on rules that depend on the activity to paid leave or to monetise these rights immediately or at a performed by the cost centre. future date. Costs are analysed by function: Internal agreements stipulate that rights accumulated in the WW either directly based on the nature of the activity (new business time-savings account may be credited to a PERCO employee acquisition costs, claims management, etc.); or retirement savings plan and qualify for a matching employer WW indirectly using statistical cost allocation keys or actual contribution. business data. 4.9.2 Length-of-service awards payable to 4.11 Plan Épargne Retraite Populaire (PERP) employees on retirement and jubilees and Plan Épargne Retraite Entreprise Obligations for the payment of length-of-service awards and (PERE) jubilees are measured by the projected unit credit method and recognised as a liability. The PERP and PERE pension plans sold by CNP Assurances are accounted for in accordance with ANC Regulation 2015‑11 (book II, title III). A special segregated portfolio has been set up 4.9.3 Discount rate for these operations to safeguard the policyholder’s right to make The discount rate corresponds to the interest rate for investmentwithdrawals following the occurrence of certain events. A set of grade corporate bonds traded in an active market with maturities subsidiary accounts is kept for each PERP and PERE plan. that match the duration of the benefit obligation. The separate PERP and PERE plan accounts are presented to the Supervisory Board. 4.9.4 Accounting treatment Transfers between the plan portfolios and the Company’s general Actuarial gains and losses on long-term benefit obligations are portfolio are recognised as a sale/purchase in the respective recognised directly in profit or loss. portfolios and the gain or loss on disposal is recognised using The cost recognised in profit for defined-benefit plans comprises the FIFO method. two elements: In the plan accounts: WW current service cost, past service cost and actuarial gains and WW the underwriting profit and financial income generated on losses, included in operating expenses; the plan during the year are accumulated in the policyholder WW interest cost less the expected return on plan assets, included surplus reserve; in financial expenses. WW in the case of an aggregate unrealised loss on the nonamortisable assets in the segregated portfolio, an amount 4.10 Acquisition costs and administration corresponding to the loss is recognised in the liquidity risk reserve; expenses WW the capitalisation reserve is calculated for the segregated PERP Underwriting expenses are presented by function: portfolio and reclassified to other life technical reserves for WW claim and benefit handling expenses include the costs of the PERP and PERE plans. departments responsible for paying claims, endowments and Other assets and liabilities are measured using the accounting periodic benefits and processing surrenders; principles applied by the Company and described above. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 259 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements When a liquidity risk reserve is recorded in the subsidiary balance sheet. This mechanism, which may be applied until accounts of a PERP or a PERE plan, the expense deferral recorded 31 December 2018, is designed to facilitate the development pursuant to Article R.343‑6 of the French Insurance Code is of Eurocroissance funds through the transfer, within the limits recognised in the Company accounts and has no impact on the specified in the Decree, of part of the unrealised gain on plan’s subsidiary accounts. traditional funds not yet allocated to policyholders with rights to these funds. 4.12 Additional special technical reserves for the French civil servant pension plan 4.14 Taxation (“L.441‑1 préfon retraite” plan) CNP Assurances markets a number of points-based pay-as-you-go Group 4.14.1 Group relief pension plans (Article L.441-1). Pursuant to Article R.441‑21 of CNP Assurances and its main French subsidiaries have elected the French Insurance Code, the theoretical mathematical reserve to file a consolidated tax return under French group relief rules. (“PMT”) required to meet annuity payments is calculated based The main companies in the tax group are CNP Assurances on the number of points earned at the reporting date. and its subsidiaries Montparvie 2, CNP Caution, CICOGE In accordance with Article R.441‑7 of the French Insurance SA (a property investment company), Âge d’Or Expansion, Code, the special technical reserve (“PTS”) is determined: SAS THEEMIM, AEP 3, AEP 4, Assur-immeuble, Pyramides 2, Ecureuil Vie Investment, 270 Investments, US Real Estate EVJ, WW by adding to the opening special technical reserve: US Real Estate 270, Pial 34, Passage du Faidherbe, Alleray, —— the premiums received, net of the premium loading and taxes, Yellowalto, FPIP, Lyfe, Sogestop K, Foncière HID, Pierre et Surene, —— the total investment income and expense generated by the 23-25 Marignan, 36 Marbeuf, 46 Kleber, 46 Kleber Holding, assets representing the special technical reserve; Infra Invest France, Neuilly Pilot, 41 rue Ybry Holding, Ybry Pont WW by deducting: Neuilly, Geosud and Friedensallee. —— paid benefits, —— the administrative expense loading. 4.14.2 Tax credit to aid competitiveness The ratio used to determine whether it is necessary to record a and promote employment (Crédit supplementary special technical reserve (“PTSC”) now includes impôt compétitivité emploi – CICE) in the numerator net unrealised gains and losses on the assets The CICE tax credit scheme is designed to boost the representing the PTS. competitiveness of French businesses. A new special technical reserve must now also be set up, the The tax credit is assessed on total payroll subject to payroll special standby technical reserve (“PTSR”). According to the taxes for the calendar year, excluding the portion of salaries French Insurance Code, the value of the pension point may now representing more than 2.5 times the national minimum wage be reduced, provided that the basis for applying the reduction is and excluding overtime pay. For 2018, the tax credit amounted explained in the plan’s documentation. Details of how the PTSR to 6% of payroll calculated as described above. and the PTSC are to be used to cover the PMT are provided in Decrees 2017‑1173 and 2017‑1172, and in Articles R.441‑7, In accordance with ANC guidelines dated 28 February 2014, R.441‑7‑1 and R.441‑21 of the French Insurance Code. the CICE tax credit is recorded in a special sub-account of CNP Assurances’ current points-based pension plans do not “Payroll costs” The CICE is deducted from the income tax allow for any reduction in the value of the point. payable by the Company. These reserves are recorded in the plans’ subsidiary accounts in The €1.3 million CICE tax credit for 2018 was used to finance accordance with Article R.441‑12 of the French Insurance Code. competitiveness improvements through investments, training and exploration of new markets. 4.13 Pooled Deferred Diversification Reserve 4.14.3 Deferred taxes CNP Assurances has decided to use the mechanism for No provisions for deferred taxes are recorded in the Company’s temporarily transferring assets that are a source of unrealised accounts. gains from general reserves to the Eurocroissance reserve, as allowed by Decree 2016‑959 dated 13 July 2016 and the government order of the same date concerning the option of 4.15 Consolidation temporarily transferring assets to commitments that give rise to the recognition of a diversification reserve. An asset is a source CNP Assurances, the parent company, is fully consolidated by of an unrealised gain if its immediate sale under current market CNP Assurances Group. conditions would generate a profit compared to its value in the 260 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 NOTE 5 Notes to the balance sheet 5.1 Changes in intangible assets, buildings, and investments in subsidiaries and affiliates Gross Gross at Gross at (In € thousands) 01.01.2018 Additions Disposals Transfers * 31.12.2018 Intangible assets 316,254 21,022 1,326 0 335,950 Software 316,254 21,022 1,326 335,950 Land and buildings 12,142,573 1,826,727 1,544,471 51 12,424,880 Forests 102,204 2,720 1,710 0 103,214 Developed property 237,865 123 3,161 5,621 240,449 Shares in unlisted property companies 11,789,049 1,816,051 1,536,415 51 12,068,736 Property investments in progress 13,455 7,833 3,186 (5,621) 12,480 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 6,978,851 899,882 622,199 2,576,650 9,833,184 Investments in subsidiaries 4,657,923 535,948 263,393 1,925,246 6,855,724 Investments in affiliates 2,320,928 363,935 358,807 651,404 2,977,460 TOTAL 19,437,678 2,747,631 2,167,996 2,576,701 22,594,014 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions Gross at Gross at (In € thousands) 01.01.2018 Increases Decreases Transfers * 31.12.2018 Amortisation of software 246,282 22,711 133 268,861 Depreciation of buildings 106,491 4,632 209 0 110,914 Provisions for impairment of land 2,248 253 364 0 2,138 Provisions for impairment of buildings 0 0 0 0 0 Provisions for impairment of shares in property companies 237,507 40,175 107,325 11 170,368 Provisions for impairment of investments in subsidiaries 415,495 80,847 19,798 196 476,740 Provisions for impairment of other investments 52,034 2,682 3,858 0 50,858 TOTAL 1,060,057 151,300 131,687 207 1,079,878 * The “Transfers” column includes the reclassification of unlisted debt funds for €2.6 billion at 31 December 2017 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 261 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Carrying amount (gross amount less depreciation, amortisation and provisions) Gross at Net at (In € thousands) 01.01.2018 Increases Decreases Transfers * 31.12.2018 Intangible assets 69,972 (1,689) 1,193 0 67,090 Software 69,972 (1,689) 1,193 0 67,090 Land and buildings 11,796,327 1,781,667 1,436,573 40 12,141,460 Forests 99,955 2,466 1,346 0 101,076 Developed property 131,374 (4,509) 2,951 5,621 129,536 Shares in unlisted property companies 11,551,543 1,775,876 1,429,090 40 11,898,369 Property investments in progress 13,455 7,833 3,186 (5,621) 12,480 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 6,511,322 816,353 598,543 2,576,454 9,305,586 Investments in subsidiaries 4,242,428 455,100 243,594 1,925,050 6,378,984 Investments in affiliates 2,268,894 361,253 354,949 651,404 2,926,602 TOTAL 18,377,620 2,596,331 2,036,309 2,576,494 21,514,136 * The “Transfers” column includes the reclassification of unlisted debt funds for €2.6 billion at 31 December 2017 5.2 Investments 5.2.1 Summary of investments (In € thousands) Gross amount Carrying amount * Realisable value I Investments (balance sheet captions 3 & 4) 1) Property investments and property investments in progress 12,416,622 12,133,203 16,157,752 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 2) Equities and other variable income securities, other than mutual fund units 29,105,960 26,569,671 30,958,236 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 840,673 585,732 799,033 3) Mutual fund units (other than those in 4) 25,467,404 25,370,960 28,361,024 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 4) Units of mutual funds invested exclusively in fixed-income securities 27,714,624 27,714,624 27,845,588 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 5) Bonds and other fixed income securities 197,656,439 199,806,932 215,505,145 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 1,104,423 535,715 (689,985) 6) Mortgage loans 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 7) Other loans 123,000 123,000 127,491 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 * Including €2,008 million in provisions for other-than-temporary impairment of equities and mutual fund units 262 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 (In € thousands) Gross amount Carrying amount * Realisable value 8) Deposits with ceding insurers 228,494 228,494 228,494 9) Cash deposits (other than those in 8) and guarantees and other investments 343,452 343,452 343,452 10) Assets backing unit-linked contracts 33,996,013 33,996,013 33,996,013 Investment property 0 0 0 Variable income securities other than mutual fund units 0 0 0 Mutual funds invested exclusively in fixed-income securities 0 0 0 Other mutual fund units 0 0 0 Bonds and other fixed income securities 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 11) Other forward financial instruments 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: investment or divestment strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: yield strategy 0 0 0 Forward financial instruments: other 0 0 0 12) Total of lines 1 to 11 328,997,104 327,407,796 353,632,243 a) of which: investments measured in accordance with Article R.343‑9 195,787,761 197,372,878 211,992,956 investments measured in accordance with Article R.343‑10 98,941,202 95,766,778 107,371,146 investments measured in accordance with Article R.343‑13 33,996,013 33,996,013 33,996,013 investments measured in accordance with Article R.343‑11 272,128 272,128 272,128 b) of which: securities representing technical reserves other than those listed below 292,580,602 290,937,759 314,117,554 securities pledged to cover commitments to employee benefits institutions or covering managed investment funds 0 0 0 securities deposited with ceding insurers (including ceding insurers whose commitments are guaranteed by the Company) 8,813,431 8,813,431 8,813,431 securities allocated to special technical reserves for other business in France 8,836,351 9,342,297 10,994,678 other allocated or unallocated investments 18,766,720 18,314,308 19,706,580 c) of which: investments and forward financial instruments in OECD member countries 328,133,621 326,576,319 351,937,650 investments and forward financial instruments in countries that are not members of the OECD 863,483 831,477 1,694,593 II Assets representing technical reserves (other than investments and reinsurers’ share of technical reserves) Accrued interest 2,607,688 2,607,688 2,607,688 Cash at bank 360,141 360,141 360,141 Other 2,812,874 2,812,874 2,812,874 Total assets representing technical reserves 5,780,703 5,780,703 5,780,703 TOTAL 334,777,807 333,188,499 359,412,947 * Including €2,008 million in provisions for other-than-temporary impairment of equities and mutual fund units 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 263 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.2.2 Investments in government bonds Issuer government Gross exposure – (In € millions) carrying amount (1) Net exposure (2) France 75,248 5,619 Italy 6,170 462 Belgium 6,737 408 Spain 9,108 800 Austria 3,633 130 Brazil 0 0 Portugal 413 29 Netherlands 333 21 Ireland 870 49 Germany 2,846 120 Greece 10 0 Finland 88 3 Poland 278 31 Luxembourg 33 15 Sweden 0 0 Slovenia 78 3 Canada 973 109 Supranational issuers 6,505 569 Other 383 40 TOTAL 113,707 8,406 (1) Carrying amount including accrued interest (2) The calculation of net exposure has been standardised at Group level and reflects both the current market environment and policies concerning deferred participation: calculating net exposure from gross exposure takes account of the impacts of deferred taxes and deferred participation based on shadow accounting principles under IFRS 5.3 Receivables and payables by maturity Receivables More than (In € thousands) Total Within1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Insurance receivables 2,124,468 2,119,385 5,084 Earned premiums not yet written 1,711,427 1,711,427 Other insurance receivables 413,041 407,958 5,084 Reinsurance receivables 456,763 456,763 Other receivables 4,579,882 4,579,882 Prepaid payroll costs 152 152 Prepaid and recoverable taxes 564,679 564,679 Other 4,015,051 4,015,051 Called and unpaid capital 0 0 TOTAL 7,161,114 7,156,030 5,084 264 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Payables More than (In € thousands) Gross amount Within 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Cash deposits received from reinsurers 11,814,847 11,814,847 Other liabilities 27,164,416 27,097,921 66,494 Liabilities arising from insurance transactions 1,094,572 1,094,350 222 Liabilities arising from reinsurance transactions 798,647 798,647 Bank borrowings 181,660 181,660 Other liabilities 25,089,537 25,023,265 66,272 Negotiable debt securities issued by the Company Other borrowings, deposits and guarantees received 8,779,057 8,712,785 66,272 Accrued payroll costs 365,774 365,774 Accrued payroll and other taxes 667,815 667,815 Other payables 15,276,891 15,276,891 TOTAL 38,979,263 38,912,768 66,494 5.4 Subsidiaries and affiliates 5.4.1 Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates Total at 31.12.2018 Affiliates Subsidiaries ImpairCarrying ImpairCarrying ImpairCarrying (In € thousands) Shares Other ment amount Shares Other ment amount Shares Other ment amount Insurance companies ARIAL CNP ASSURANCES 43,380 43,380 43,380 43,380 AVENIR SANTÉ 1,099 401 1,500 1,099 401 1,500 CAIXA SEGUROS HOLDING 434,906 434,906 434,906 434,906 CNP ASSURANCES BRASIL HOLDING LTDA 8,128 8,128 8,128 8,128 CNP ASSURANCES COMPAÑIA DE SEGUROS 20,788 7,379 13,409 20,788 7,379 13,409 CNP CAUTION 464,917 464,917 464,917 464,917 CNP CYPRUS INSURANCE HOLDINGS LIMITED 145,915 15,457 130,458 145,915 15,457 130,458 CNP EUROPE LIFE LIMITED 13,526 13,526 13,526 13,526 CNP LUXEMBOURG 32,000 32,000 32,000 32,000 CNP PARTNERS 173,929 173,929 173,929 173,929 CNP UNICREDIT VITA 726,775 309,155 417,620 726,775 309,155 417,620 MFPRÉVOYANCE 67,853 67,853 67,853 67,853 CNP SANTANDER INSURANCE EUROPE DAC 111,670 111,670 111,670 111,670 CNP SANTANDER INSURANCE LIFE DAC 199,926 199,926 199,926 199,926 CNP SANTANDER INSURANCE SERVICES IRELAND LIMITED 2,400 2,400 2,400 2,400 SINO-FRENCH LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED 6,125 6,125 0 6,125 6,125 0 Sub-total 2,453,337 401 338,116 2,115,621 49,505 0 6,125 43,380 2,403,832 401 331,992 2,072,241 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 265 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Total at 31.12.2018 Affiliates Subsidiaries ImpairCarrying ImpairCarrying ImpairCarrying (In € thousands) Shares Other ment amount Shares Other ment amount Shares Other ment amount Other companies 270 INVESTMENTS 125,573 374,050 499,623 125,573 374,050 499,623 3i GROWTH CAPITAL F 15,516 15,516 15,516 15,516 ÂGE D’OR EXPANSION 6,668 2,200 1,309 7,558 6,668 2,200 1,309 7,558 ALPINVEST FEEDER (EURO) V C.V. 34,792 34,792 34,792 34,792 ASSURISTANCE 13,427 13,427 13,427 13,427 AXA INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 AZIMUT 9,147 9,147 0 9,147 9,147 0 BABYLON INVESTMENTS BV 48,441 48,441 48,441 48,441 BRIDGEPOINT EUROPE IV G 8,575 8,575 8,575 8,575 CANTIS 0 62 62 0 62 62 CARTERA PBTAMSI 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 CBPE CAPITAL VIII SPECIAL INVESTORS 9,614 2,841 6,773 9,614 2,841 6,773 CLEANTECH EUROPE II SPECIAL INVESTORS 13,350 1,843 11,507 13,350 1,843 11,507 CNP ASSURANCES PARTICIPAÇÕES LTDA 554,573 61,861 492,712 554,573 61,861 492,712 CNP FORMATION 37 17 20 37 17 20 CNP PRIVATE EQUITY FOR PERSONAL SAVINGS 48,204 48,204 48,204 48,204 CNP TECHNOLOGIES DE L’INFORMATION 914 4,000 4,914 914 4,000 4,914 CREDICOOP AFAVyDC 7,460 7,460 0 7,460 7,460 0 CTE 1,084,046 1,084,046 1,084,046 1,084,046 DIF INFRASTRUCTURE II 37,190 37,190 0 37,190 37,190 0 DIWISE 50 50 50 50 ECUREUIL VIE DÉVELOPPEMENT 18 1,000 1,018 18 1,000 1,018 ECUREUIL VIE INVESTMENT 328,338 50,000 378,338 328,338 50,000 378,338 FILASSISTANCE SERVICES 228 228 228 228 FORESTIÈRE CDC 2,567 3,233 5,799 2,567 3,233 5,799 FSN CAPITAL IV (B) L.P. 11,119 11,119 11,119 11,119 GEOSUD 139,488 139,488 139,488 139,488 GROUPEMENT PROPRIETES CDC CNP 6 6 6 6 HOLDING D’INFRASTRUCTURES GAZIÈRES 420,471 420,471 420,471 420,471 INFRA VIA 2,416 2,416 2,416 2,416 INFRA-INVEST 6,265 6,265 6,265 6,265 INFRA-INVEST FRANCE 102,001 94,473 24,914 171,560 102,001 94,473 24,914 171,560 INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS (MORGAN STANLEY) 43,341 4,894 38,447 43,341 4,894 38,447 INTER EXPANSION FONGEPAR 6,062 6,062 6,062 6,062 LANCOSME 61 50 111 61 50 111 LYFE 100 150 40 210 100 150 40 210 MERIDIAM INFRASTRUCTURE 103,584 103,584 103,584 103,584 266 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Total at 31.12.2018 Affiliates Subsidiaries ImpairCarrying ImpairCarrying ImpairCarrying (In € thousands) Shares Other ment amount Shares Other ment amount Shares Other ment amount MERIDIAM TRANSITION 149,989 149,989 149,989 149,989 MONTAGU IV (SCOTS FEEDER) 10,152 10,152 10,152 10,152 MONTPARVIE 2 675 675 675 675 MONTPARVIE IV 5 8,223 8,228 5 8,223 8,228 MONTPARVIE IV 5 5 5 5 OPEN CNP 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 SMCA 2,000 610 1,390 2,000 610 1,390 SOGESTOP K 156 82 74 156 82 74 SOGESTOP L 18,626 18,626 18,626 18,626 YOUSE HOME 100 100 100 100 CNP LOANS INFRA 3 (PART) 150 150 150 150 CNP LOANS INFRA 6 (PART) 150 150 150 150 ISODEV GEN 2 (UNITS) 62 62 62 62 LBPAM INFRASTRUCTURE 1 130,995 130,995 130,995 130,995 LBPAM INFRASTRUCTURE 2 180,750 180,750 180,750 180,750 LBPAM MONTPARNASSE INFRASTRUCTURE 363,030 363,030 363,030 363,030 LBPAM MONTPARNASSE REAL ESTATE 651,002 651,002 651,002 651,002 LBPAM REAL ESTATE 2 130,210 130,210 130,210 130,210 NATIXIS MONTPARNASSE 228,900 228,900 228,900 228,900 SCHRODERS SECURITISATION (FRANCE) FCT 227,338 227,338 227,338 227,338 Other companies * 1,510,071 37,273 1,472,798 1,510,071 37,273 1,472,798 Sub-total 6,842,006 537,440 189,481 7,189,965 2,923,660 4,294 44,733 2,883,222 3,918,345 533,146 144,749 4,306,743 Total by type 9,295,343 537,841 527,598 9,305,586 2,973,165 4,294 50,858 2,926,602 6,322,178 533,547 476,740 6,378,984 TOTAL 9,833,184 527,598 9,305,586 2,977,460 50,858 2,926,602 6,855,724 476,740 6,378,984 * Corresponds to venture-capital investment funds in which CNP owns less than 50% of the capital This note does not include shares in property companies which are reported in the balance sheet under “Land and buildings” and on the line “Shares in unlisted property companies” in Note 5.1 “Changes in intangible assets, buildings, and investments in subsidiaries and affiliates” 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 267 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.4.2 Financial income and expenses received from and paid to subsidiaries and affiliates (In € thousands) Subsidiaries Affiliates 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Financial expenses 82,086 5,933 88,019 42,904 Financial income 468,551 189,240 657,791 776,639 5.4.3 Receivables from and payables to subsidiaries and affiliates (In € thousands) Subsidiaries Affiliates 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Receivables 23,135 (8,657) 14,478 43,722 Other receivables 23,135 (8,657) 14,478 43,722 Prepaid and recoverable taxes 14,400 0 14,400 14,400 Other 8,735 (8,657) 78 29,322 Other liabilities 286,531 414,863 701,394 875,164 Other payables 286,531 414,863 701,394 875,164 5.4.4 Subsidiaries and affiliates (Articles L.233‑1 and L.233‑2 of the French Commercial Code) Reserves Carrying Subsidiaries and amount of Loans and and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of investment receiProfit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment (o/w unpaid) Interest vables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector A Investments with a carrying amount in excess of 1% of CNP Assurances’ share capital I Subsidiaries (over 50%-owned) 23‑25 MARIGNAN 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property SAS (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 31,291 6,971 104,478 85,726 85,726 100.00% 58,352 6,492 2,424 2,503 company 4, place Raoul Dautry Investment 270 INVESTMENTS (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 32,129 85,158 491,245 125,573 125,573 100.00% 374,050 0 64,819 38,554 fund 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property 36 MARBŒUF SAS (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 28,317 95 52,840 55,694 55,694 100.00% 20,745 3,079 1,777 762 company 16 Palace Street London Investment 3i GROWTH CAPITAL F SW1E 5JD UK EUR n/a n/a n/a 15,516 1,133 76.92% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property A9B PARIS (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 10,000 98,903 239,806 99,991 99,991 100.00% 131,609 2,354 2,056 0 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property AEP 247 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 170,319 (2,454) 174,789 161,102 161,102 100.00% 0 8,347 2,688 12,881 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property AEW IMCOM 1 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 146,198 (2,888) 169,447 102,119 102,119 100.00% 19,889 6,967 5,189 4,836 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property AEW IMCOM 6 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 342,192 (11,741) 523,701 258,699 258,699 83.33% 137,499 36,919 26,260 17,488 company ALPINVEST FEEDER Jachthavenweg 118 1081 KJ Investment (EURO) V C.V. Amsterdam Netherlands EUR n/a n/a n/a 34,792 27,456 99.98% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund ASSURBAIL 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PATRIMOINE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 183,233 157,041 356,393 214,588 214,588 99.99% 0 11,429 7,289 7,940 company ASSURECUREUIL 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PIERRE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 19,312 13,634 40,665 58,138 58,138 85.83% 0 6,272 4,820 4,883 company ASSURECUREUIL 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PIERRE 3 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 199,624 157,500 642,693 252,165 252,165 77.98% 189,779 7,137 34,996 26,515 company ASSURECUREUIL 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PIERRE 4 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 101,740 73,245 181,385 168,599 168,599 100.00% 2,761 0 1,543 42,323 company ASSURECUREUIL 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PIERRE 5 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 3,362 1,679 10,566 8,225 8,225 100.00% 511 1,958 1,730 1,101 company 268 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Reserves Carrying Subsidiaries and amount of Loans and and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of investment receiProfit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment (o/w unpaid) Interest vables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property ASSURIMMEUBLE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 713,000 856,541 1,595,539 1,704,552 1,704,552 100.00% 0 9,709 13,715 9,240 company 4, place Raoul Dautry DiversificaASSURISTANCE (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 20,344 789 29,192 13,427 13,427 66.00% 0 19 6,292 3,948 tion 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property BAUDRY PONTHIEU (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 4,460 36,543 95,088 44,559 44,559 99.90% 50,270 5,646 2,253 2,335 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property BERCY CRYSTAL (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 5,000 45,032 127,042 50,000 50,000 100.00% 70,486 11,241 2,860 1,900 company BRIDGEPOINT 30, Warwick Street London Investment EUROPE IV G W1B 5AL UK EUR n/a n/a n/a 8,575 6,008 83.34% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund SCN Quadra 01 Lote A Caixa SEGUROS Ed. N°1 15°, 16° e 17° HOLDING (6) Andares Brasilia Brazil EUR 690,819 1,023 941,981 434,906 434,906 50.75% 0 0 241,692 177,815 Insurance 71-73, avenue des ChampsProperty CANOPÉE (1) Elysées 75008 Paris France EUR 47,210 0 69,440 47,200 47,200 99.98% 0 6,610 20,857 2,066 company Almagro, 36, 2ª planta Investment CARTERA PBTAMSI 28010 Madrid Spain EUR n/a n/a n/a 15,000 14,110 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund CBPE CAPITAL VIII 2, George Yard London Investment SPECIAL INVESTORS EC3V 9DH UK GBP n/a n/a n/a 9,614 6,193 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property CICOGE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 37,320 63,758 117,017 198,990 198,990 99.99% 0 6,515 11,722 8,857 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property CIMO (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 178,759 102,199 306,049 506,886 506,886 100.00% 0 16,366 14,326 23,290 company CLEANTECH EUROPE II 140, Brompton Road London Investment SPECIAL INVESTORS SW3 1HY UK EUR n/a n/a n/a 13,350 10,312 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund Setor Comercial Norte, Quadra CNP ASSURANCES 01, Bloco A, n°77, BRASIL HOLDING Sala 1702, parte Edificio n°1, LTDA (6) CEP 70710‑900 Brasilia Brazil EUR 5,446 21,737 31,982 8,128 8,128 100.00% 0 0 4,272 2,407 Insurance CNP ASSURANCES M.T. de Alvear 1541 COMPAÑÍA DE (C1060AAC) 1001 SEGUROS (6) Buenos Aires Argentina EUR 3,947 10,226 44,842 20,788 13,409 76.47% 0 27,459 5,471 0 Insurance na Alameda Santos 1293 conj. CNP ASSURANCES 63 CEP 70710-900 DiversificaPARTICIPAÇÕES LTDA (5) São Paulo Brazil EUR 338,730 3,428 357,542 554,573 492,712 100.00% 0 0 14,728 0 tion 4, place Raoul Dautry CNP CAUTION (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 258,735 195,686 752,783 464,917 464,917 100.00% 0 85 27,204 0 Insurance CNP CYPRUS 64 Arch. Makarios III ave. INSURANCE & 1 Karpenisiou Str. HOLDINGS LIMITED (6) 1077 Nicosia Cyprus EUR 90 145,076 165,197 145,915 130,458 50.10% 0 0 9,017 777 Insurance Embassy House, Herbert Park CNP EUROPE LIFE Lane, Ballsbridge LIMITED (6) Dublin 4 Ireland EUR 3,809 18,430 95,251 13,526 13,526 100.00% 0 0 (2,596) 0 Insurance 10, rue de Reims L-2417 CNP LUXEMBOURG (6) Luxembourg Luxembourg EUR 32,000 (5,806) 936,057 32,000 32,000 100.00% 0 615,852 (2,532) 0 Insurance El Plantio Calle Ochandiano n°10 Planta 2a CNP PARTNERS 28023 Madrid Spain EUR 138,287 66,189 2,426,201 173,929 173,929 99.50% 0 378,344 2,321 0 Insurance CNP PRIVATE EQUITY FOR PERSONAL 20, place Vendôme Investment SAVINGS 75001 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 50,091 50,091 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund CNP SANTANDER Block 8 Harcourt INSURANCE EUROPE Centre Charlotte Way DAC (6) Dublin 2 Ireland EUR 53,000 42,694 888,110 111,670 111,670 51.00% 0 245,624 31,083 0 Insurance CNP SANTANDER Block 8 Harcourt INSURANCE LIFE Centre Charlotte Way DAC (6) Dublin 2 Ireland EUR 103,600 99,311 1,430,512 199,926 199,926 51.00% 0 497,156 44,858 0 Insurance Piazza Durante 11 CNP UNICREDIT VITA (1) 20131 Milan Italy EUR 381,699 435,128 14,830,385 726,775 417,620 57.50% 0 3,368,748 32,204 12,830 Insurance 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 269 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Reserves Carrying Subsidiaries and amount of Loans and and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of investment receiProfit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment (o/w unpaid) Interest vables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector CŒUR 128, boulevard Raspail Property MÉDITERRANÉE (4) 75006 Paris France EUR 42,559 128 68,829 28,619 28,619 70.00% 12,933 0 1,508 2,295 company COTTAGES DU BOIS 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property AUX DAIMS (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 1,131 13,203 25,752 11,301 11,301 100.00% 14,100 1,823 (19) 0 company WTC Schiphol Airport, Tower D, 10th Floor Schiphol Boulevard DIF 269 1118 BH Schiphol InfrastrucINFRASTRUCTURE II (5) Netherlands EUR 20 0 2,062 37,190 0 53.33% 0 57,296 2,291 0 ture ECUREUIL VIE 4, place Raoul Dautry Investment INVESTMENT (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 10,935 347,191 445,697 328,338 328,338 100.00% 50,000 0 36,326 16,293 fund 71-73, avenue des ChampsProperty ÉQUINOX (1) Elysées 75008 Paris France EUR 41,404 (23,215) 59,169 41,400 13,410 99.98% 47,637 1,933 (6,802) 0 company Tour Majunga, La Défense 9 6, place de la Pyramide 92800 Property FARMORIC (5) Puteaux France EUR 281,050 15 323,512 176,605 176,605 100.00% 54,639 0 5,251 5,250 company 4, rue Auber Property FONCIÈRE CNP (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 2,250 62,750 121,300 29,603 29,603 100.00% 77,697 4,322 416 25,000 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property FONCIÈRE ELBP (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 17,814 158,214 405,508 178,131 178,131 100.00% 217,312 15,749 (1,179) 0 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property FONCIÈRE HID (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 4,370 6,999 54,157 11,300 11,300 100.00% 40,900 4,036 700 481 company Akersgaten 20 NO-0158 Investment FSN CAPITAL IV (B) L.P. Oslo Norway SEK n/a n/a n/a 11,119 8,638 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 15, Boulevard F.W. Raiffeisen Property GCK (1) L-2411 Luxembourg EUR 10,529 2,126 23,443 100,994 100,994 80.00% 0 13,392 6,479 5,182 company 2, rue des Martinets 92569 Rueil Malmaison InfrastrucGEOSUD (5) France EUR 122,140 0 173,711 139,488 139,488 98.00% 0 0 7,601 0 ture HOLDING D’INFRASTRUCTURES 4, place Raoul Dautry InfrastrucGAZIÈRES (2) 75015 Paris France EUR 603,907 167,938 886,145 420,471 420,471 54.41% 0 0 114,251 61,114 ture 128, boulevard Raspail Property HOLDIPIERRE (5) 75006 Paris France EUR 138,098 (6,097) 143,550 95,030 95,030 100.00% 5,805 5,779 5,703 7,124 company 4, rue Auber Property IMMAUCOM (3) 75009 Paris France EUR 194,478 0 197,240 132,776 132,776 80.00% 0 2,655 2,490 3,154 company INFRA-INVEST 4, place Raoul Dautry InfrastrucFRANCE (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 10,201 50,597 159,017 102,001 77,087 100.00% 94,473 0 2,308 1,336 ture INFRASTRUCTURE 6, place de la République PARTNERS (MORGAN Dominicaine, InfrastrucSTANLEY) (5) 75017 Paris France USD 18,601 0 23,199 43,341 12,141 64.94% 0 4,672 4,554 0 ture George’s Court, 54‑62 IRELAND PROPERTY Townsend Street Property INVESTMENT FUND (5) Dublin 2 Ireland EUR 303,809 11,296 328,015 314,450 314,450 100.00% 0 3,551 11,567 12,500 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property ISSY VIVALDI (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 3,310 29,718 69,762 33,010 33,010 100.00% 34,362 2,855 (97) 132 company 71-73, avenue des ChampsProperty JASMIN (1) Elysées 75008 Paris France EUR 19,010 0 44,770 19,000 19,000 99.95% 22,745 3,370 1,993 1,938 company 4, rue Auber Property JESCO (5) 75009 Paris France EUR 40,801 4,238 39,354 28,051 28,051 55.00% 21,035 6,252 (1,355) 0 company 4, rue Auber Property KLEBER 46 (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 936 179 4,422 45,858 45,858 100.00% 22,704 2,413 1,347 546 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property LBP ACTIFS IMMO (5) 75008 Paris France EUR 469,292 (1,515) 509,282 384,251 384,251 100.00% 8,720 19,678 7,598 4,809 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property LESLY (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 45,071 2 106,733 45,071 45,071 100.00% 57,096 3,597 (883) 302 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property LUX GARE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 435 4,902 23,259 12,219 12,219 100.00% 15,798 1,626 8 271 company 270 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Reserves Carrying Subsidiaries and amount of Loans and and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of investment receiProfit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment (o/w unpaid) Interest vables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector 62, rue Jeanne d’Arc MFPRÉVOYANCE (5) 75640 Paris Cedex 13 France EUR 81,774 101,060 620,238 67,853 67,853 51.00% 0 128,223 6,607 0 Insurance MONTAGU IV 2 More London Riverside Investment (SCOTS FEEDER) London SE1 2AP UK EUR n/a n/a n/a 10,152 7,741 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property MTP INVEST (3) 75008 Paris France EUR 527,014 (14,363) 766,318 407,833 407,833 97.81% 265,684 18,622 15,775 13,708 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property NEUILLY PILOT (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 950 6,190 17,300 15,907 15,907 100.00% 9,548 857 (45) 0 company 4, rue Auber Property NEW SIDE (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 1,947 37,001 95,149 38,939 38,939 100.00% 52,959 5,897 1,860 1,811 company 128, boulevard Raspail Property OPCI RASPAIL (5) 75006 Paris France EUR 552,465 225,438 1,227,931 918,574 918,574 84.02% 480,788 0 9,310 7,906 company 4, place Raoul Dautry DiversificaOPEN CNP (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 22,000 (24) 20,949 30,000 26,000 100.00% 0 0 (1,049) 0 tion 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property OREA (3) 75008 Paris France EUR 60,565 2,606 74,815 86,829 65,026 100.00% 5,099 4,824 1,857 2,084 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PANTIN LOGISTIQUE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 5,810 32,708 111,371 71,508 71,508 100.00% 60,215 7,695 841 0 company 4, rue Auber Property PARIS 08 (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 42,091 9 49,817 42,091 42,091 100.00% 5,060 2,579 658 842 company Naritaweg 165, Telestone 8 PAYS-BAS RETAIL 1043 BV Amsterdam Property 2013 BV (3) The Netherlands EUR 0 19,710 49,666 17,500 17,500 100.00% 28,500 0 1,121 0 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PIAL 34 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 15,001 82,195 268,809 141,001 141,001 100.00% 169,667 0 (489) 0 company 4, rue Auber Property RESIDENTIAL (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 33,801 (1,268) 34,350 33,801 33,801 100.00% 205 2,035 (320) 0 company 91-93, Boulevard Pasteur Property RUE DU BAC (1) 75015 Paris France EUR 25,240 143,143 233,570 86,192 86,192 50.01% 26,515 14,584 7,342 3,424 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property SAPHIRIMMO (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 6,767 102,445 228,526 109,205 109,205 99.99% 105,096 9,499 4,310 1,205 company SAS ALLERAY 128, boulevard Raspail Property SQUARE 15 (5) 75006 Paris France EUR 10,000 59,224 240,060 118,592 118,592 100.00% 116,947 0 51,934 2,295 company 4, place Raoul Dautry Property SCI DE LA CNP (1) 75015 Paris France EUR 59,711 35,661 103,469 143,169 143,169 100.00% 5,000 6,557 2,660 6,445 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property SECRETS ET BOÉTIE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 4,201 28,583 81,813 42,001 42,001 100.00% 45,205 3,899 1,482 1,176 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property SILK HOLDING (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 27,592 9,567 88,254 54,437 54,437 100.00% 49,064 0 1,277 697 company 66, avenue Charles de Gaulle 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine Property SONNE (5) France EUR 2 13,534 55,645 14,127 14,127 99.95% 41,024 2,287 (618) 0 company TERRE NEUVE 4 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property IMMO (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 6,601 59,423 148,679 66,001 66,001 100.00% 76,360 10,152 4,224 3,829 company 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property THEEMIM (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 26,636 59,652 99,285 84,646 84,646 100.00% 7,432 0 5,318 7,432 company US REAL ESTATE 4, place Raoul Dautry Property 270 SAS (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 120,012 375 230,799 120,012 120,012 100.00% 115,087 0 5,877 4,603 company US REAL ESTATE 4, place Raoul Dautry Property EVJ SAS (5) 75015 Paris France EUR 120,063 376 230,795 120,063 120,063 100.00% 115,018 0 5,875 4,586 company 4, rue Auber Property WAGRAM 92 (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 7,925 (2,075) 22,891 17,718 17,718 100.00% 15,392 1,819 514 0 company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun Property WOODLAND INVEST 75009 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 8,000 8,000 100.00% 3,000 n/a n/a 0 company YBRY PONT 128, boulevard Raspail Property DE NEUILLY (3) 75006 Paris France EUR 10,501 96,715 233,749 106,493 106,493 100.00% 119,832 0 5,288 4,533 company 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 271 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Reserves Carrying Subsidiaries and amount of Loans and and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of investment receiProfit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment (o/w unpaid) Interest vables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector Tour Majunga, La Défense 9 6, place de la Pyramide Property YELLOWALTO (5) 92800 Puteaux France EUR 8,717 78,869 244,369 101,273 101,273 99.99% 177,126 0 140 131 company 128, boulevard Raspail Property RESIDAVOUT (3) 75006 Paris France EUR 2,834 25,324 47,529 28,331 28,331 100.00% 18,889 0 52 0 company 66, avenue Charles de Gaulle EUROPE PROPERTIES 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine Property INVESTMENTS (5) France EUR 37 2 194,268 10,074 10,074 100.00% 183,888 0 (141) 0 company 129, rue de Turenne AZIMUT 75003 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 9,147 0 71.04% 0 n/a n/a 0 Insurance GF DE LA FORÊT 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun DE NAN 75009 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 11,659 11,659 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 Forests SCHRODERS SECURITISATION 8-10, rue Lamennais Investment (FRANCE) FCT 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 227,338 227,338 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund LBPAM MONTPARNASSE REAL 34, rue de la Fédération Investment ESTATE 75737 Paris Cedex 15 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 651,002 651,002 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund LBPAM MONTPARNASSE 34, rue de la Fédération Investment INFRASTRUCTURE 75737 Paris Cedex 15 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 363,030 363,030 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund NATIXIS 21, quai d’Austerlitz 75634 Investment MONTPARNASSE Paris Cedex 13 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 228,900 228,900 100.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund LBPAM 34, rue de la Fédération Investment INFRASTRUCTURE 2 75737 Paris Cedex 15 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 180,750 180,750 55.19% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund LBPAM 34, rue de la Fédération Investment INFRASTRUCTURE 1 75737 Paris Cedex 15 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 130,995 130,995 52.55% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund II Affiliates (10% to 50% owned) 32 Grosvenor Gardens Investment 17 CAPITAL FUND 3 London SW1 W0DH UK EUR n/a n/a n/a 43,299 29,700 10.04% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property 5/7 RUE SCRIBE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 479 32,505 82,468 7,302 7,302 15.00% 6,414 4,926 3,198 522 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property ACTIPIERRE EUROPE (5) 75008 Paris France EUR 578,622 18,504 650,079 75,091 75,091 10.52% 0 30,215 22,952 3,068 company ALPINVEST SECONDARIES FUND Jachthavenweg 118 1081 KJ Investment LUX EURO MASTER VI Amsterdam Netherlands EUR n/a n/a n/a 78,691 20,776 22.47% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 1 pl. André Malraux Investment ALVEN CAPITAL IV 75001 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 6,900 6,540 10.26% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund ARDIAN EXPANSION FUND IV TRIPLE C 20 place Vendôme Investment CO‑INVEST 75001 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 10,000 9,900 45.45% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 32, avenue Emile Zola ARIAL 59370 Mons-en-Baroeul CNP ASSURANCES (5) France EUR 10,848 90,837 20,009,147 43,380 43,380 40.00% 0 0 2,882 0 Insurance 40 rue du Colisée 75008 Investment AXA DBIO Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 12,198 6,461 15.48% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund AXA INFRASTRUCTURE 20, place Vendôme 75001 InfrastrucPARTNERS (5) Paris France EUR 455,733 4,113 468,387 9,000 973 12.90% 0 0 3,732 0 ture 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property AXE FRANCE (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 5,001 56,498 128,974 43,085 43,085 50.00% 29,618 10,380 3,459 1,634 company Amstelveenseweg 760, BABYLON 1081JK Amsterdam InfrastrucINVESTMENTS BV (5) Netherlands EUR 108,382 0 273,025 48,441 48,441 44.44% 72,000 220 188 2,228 ture 41, avenue de Friedland Investment CDC CAPITAL III 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 17,840 10,640 36.29% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 272 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Carrying Reserves amount of Subsidiaries and investment and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of (o/w Loans and Profit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment unpaid) Interest receivables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector 41, avenue de Friedland Investment CDC CAPITAL III B 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 8,541 506 46.43% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 128, boulevard Raspail Property CERTIVIA SICAV (5) 75006 Paris France EUR 49,526 0 81,316 20,000 11,000 13.33% 0 0 (1,317) 0 company Carinthia House, 9‑12, CLEARSIGHT The Grange GY1 4BF TURNAROUND St Peter Port Guernsey Investment FUND II Channel Islands EUR n/a n/a n/a 16,913 15,701 15.62% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund CLEARSIGHT TURNAROUND Churerstrasse 23 CH-8808 Investment FUND III Pfäffikon Switzerland EUR n/a n/a n/a 24,008 16,744 11.02% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund CLEARSIGHT TURNAROUND Churerstrasse 23 CH-8808 Investment FUND IV Pfäffikon Switzerland EUR n/a n/a n/a 25,000 6,422 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund Adolfo Alsina N°633 Piso 3 CREDICOOP Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos DiversificaAFAVyDC (3) Aires Argentina EUR 731 (18) 1,015 7,460 0 29.84% 0 0 150 0 tion 69‑17, rue de Miromesnil InfrastrucCTE (5) 75008 Paris France EUR 2,700,009 0 8,385,028 1,084,046 1,084,046 20.01% 0 0 203,215 62,640 ture 152, avenue de Malakoff Investment D&P PME IV 75116 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 11,259 302 28.71% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund DBAG FUND VI FEEDER GMBH & Boersenstrasse 1 D-60313 Investment CO KG Frankfurt-am-Main Germany EUR n/a n/a n/a 13,587 11,890 26.56% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property DÉFENSE CB3 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 4,500 33,788 121,470 31,328 13,741 25.00% 21,745 1 (8,846) 0 company 11, rue Scribe Investment EMZ 7-I 75009 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 13,040 4,587 11.90% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property EUROFFICE (4) 75008 Paris France EUR 83,402 (29,295) 55,239 24,119 10,636 18.48% 0 0 736 0 company 4, rue Auber Property FARMAN (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 25,000 136,746 227,711 80,872 80,872 50.00% 27,414 16,476 9,036 4,314 company 33, avenue Pierre Mendès Property FLI (4) France 75013 Paris EUR 104,500 930,837 1,349,740 49,802 41,984 11.48% 0 6,056 6,056 489 company FONCIÈRE 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property ECUREUIL II (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 45,188 1,063 87,382 13,729 10,673 21.77% 7,951 0 0 854 company FONDS DE CONSOLIDATION ET DE DEVELOPPEMENT 59 rue de la Boétie CS Investment DES ENTREPRISES II 10017 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 16,541 6,984 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun GF FRANCE EST (5) 75009 Paris France EUR 24,479 4,265 30,179 7,092 7,092 28.97% 0 2,645 1,295 302 Forests 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property GREEN RUEIL (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 9,110 77,883 209,126 45,546 45,546 50.00% 55,525 15,426 4,596 2,282 company HEMISPHERE 33, avenue Pierre Mendès Property HOLDING (5) France 75013 Paris France EUR 6,715 58,302 66,196 11,863 11,665 20.00% 0 0 1,082 1,782 company 50‑56, rue de la Procession Property ÎLOT 13 (1) 75015 Paris France EUR 45,000 0 88,174 22,500 22,500 50.00% 18,089 9,395 4,754 1,400 company INITIATIVE & 96 avenue d’Iéna Investment FINANCE II 75783 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 16,000 9,872 11.43% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund Grafenaustrasse 7 Investment INVISION V FEEDER 6300 Zug Switzerland EUR n/a n/a n/a 15,674 11,514 23.38% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 4, rue Auber Property LIBERTÉ (1) 75009 Paris France EUR 25,350 58,827 232,482 51,003 51,003 50.00% 60,878 19,485 11,828 7,798 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property LOGISTIS (3) 75008 Paris France EUR 710,103 189,626 1,537,618 71,034 71,034 10.91% 0 56,207 90,441 5,523 company 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 273 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Carrying Reserves amount of Subsidiaries and investment and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of (o/w Loans and Profit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment unpaid) Interest receivables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector 5 allée Scheffer L-2520 Luxembourg Property LOGISTIS LUX (3) Luxembourg EUR 165,125 199,540 1,208,498 30,371 30,371 10.91% 44,736 36,686 56,208 0 company 5 allée Scheffer MERIDIAM L-2520 Luxembourg InfrastrucINFRASTRUCTURE (5) Luxembourg EUR 542,059 493,953 1,047,673 103,584 103,584 17.64% 0 0 110,559 4,081 ture MERIDIAM 4 Place de l’Opéra InfrastrucTRANSITION (5) 75002 Paris France EUR 27,431 0 21,622 149,989 77,900 42.86% 0 0 (6,692) 0 ture 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property OFELIA (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 12,609 23,417 37,292 11,916 11,916 33.33% 45,731 0 1,257 395 company 10 avenue Kleber Property OFFICE CB 21 (3) 75016 Paris France EUR 384,087 6,024 395,876 82,553 82,553 25.00% 0 0 5,723 1,037 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property OPC 1 (5) 75008 Paris France EUR 69,400 (1,101) 80,679 6,946 6,946 19.67% 0 4,720 7,663 533 company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property OPC 2 (5) 75008 Paris France EUR 77,145 18 110,066 27,505 27,505 42.14% 0 7,709 5,549 2,329 company 34 boulevard Haussman Investment ORKOS III 75009 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 7,942 1,804 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 12 rue de Penthièvre Investment PARTECH GROWTH 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 40,000 28,880 14.40% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund PARTECH 12 rue de Penthièvre Investment INTERNATIONAL VI 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 7,706 7,246 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 12 rue de Penthièvre Investment PARTECH VENTURES V 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 8,096 1,723 13.92% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund PBW II REAL ESTATE 5 allée Scheffer L-2520 Property FUND (3) Luxembourg Luxembourg EUR 31 99,118 143,066 51,946 14,863 14.57% 0 16 (886) 0 company PLACEMENT 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property CILOGER 3 (5) 75008 Paris France EUR 108,302 9,353 124,162 10,118 7,610 36.28% 0 17,146 6,506 7,440 company POLARIS PRIVATE Malmøgade 3 DK-2100 Investment EQUITY IV Copenhagen Denmark DKK n/a n/a n/a 40,175 14,532 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux Property PYRAMIDES 1 (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 19,603 3,926 61,929 9,706 9,706 45.00% 10,039 0 13,210 1,133 company QUADRILLE 16 place de la Madeleine Investment TECHNOLOGIES III 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 15,000 10,500 11.11% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 11‑13, avenue de Friedland Property RUEIL NEWTON (1) 75008 Paris France EUR 3,115 28,002 62,621 15,508 15,508 50.00% 15,114 2,416 (640) 0 company 128, boulevard Raspail Property SILVERSTONE (5) 75006 Paris France EUR 92,449 (6,498) 97,645 16,422 16,422 19.61% 980 0 6,559 0 company SOCIÉTÉ DU CENTRE 7, place du ChancelierCOMMERCIAL DE Adenauer 75016 Paris Property LA DÉFENSE (1) France EUR 3,048 1 358,011 27,567 27,567 22.00% 37,685 93,104 55,536 14,706 company SOFINNOVA 17, rue de Surène Investment CAPITAL VII 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 25,000 23,750 10.42% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund SOFINNOVA 17, rue de Surène Investment CAPITAL VIII 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 18,750 7,500 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 62, rue Jeanne d’Arc DiversificaSOGESTOP L (5) 75640 Paris Cedex 13 France EUR 22,897 19,728 42,632 18,626 18,626 50.00% 0 0 (21) 0 tion 128, boulevard Raspail Property SUNLIGHT (3) 75006 Paris France EUR 95,288 57 98,854 38,269 38,269 46.98% 0 0 3,458 2,138 company TRILANTIC CAPITAL 375, Park Avenue 30th Floor Investment PARTNERS V (EUROPE) New York NY 10152 USA EUR n/a n/a n/a 49,737 37,502 12.77% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund UNICAPITAL INVESTMENTS V 12, avenue Matignon Investment GLOBAL PRIVATE EQUITY 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 7,706 7,706 21.47% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 41, rue Delizy Investment LDX SME III 93500 Pantin France EUR n/a n/a n/a 20,032 10,000 10.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 274 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Carrying Reserves amount of Subsidiaries and investment and affiliates CurShare retained Cost of (o/w Loans and Profit (In € thousands) Headquarters rency capital earnings Total assets investment unpaid) Interest receivables Revenue or loss Dividends Sector SOFINNOVA 17, rue de Surène Investment CROSSOVER I S.L.P. 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 79,778 3,989 19.94% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund ALVEN CAPITAL IV 1, pl. André Malraux Investment OPPORTUNITY F 75001 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 7,000 2,730 12.99% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund LATOUR CO-INVEST 2, rue Washington Investment HYGEE 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 7,163 7,163 16.28% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 34, rue de la Fédération Investment LBPAM REAL ESTATE 1 75737 Paris Cedex 15 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 56,483 56,483 48.33% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 34, rue de la Fédération Investment LBPAM REAL ESTATE 2 75737 Paris Cedex 15 France EUR n/a n/a n/a 130,210 130,210 50.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 5 allée Scheffer L-2520 Investment SELF 1 Luxembourg Luxembourg EUR n/a n/a n/a 44,979 44,979 46.39% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 14, rue Bergère Investment BNPIP GSCD 75009 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 260,215 260,215 33.79% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 32, rue de Monceau Investment LYXOR ESDF 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 21,255 21,255 33.34% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 5 allée Scheffer L-2520 Investment SELF 2 Luxembourg Luxembourg EUR n/a n/a n/a 141,772 141,772 31.87% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 17, Cours Valmy 92987 Paris La Défense Investment LYXOR DETTE MIDCAP France EUR n/a n/a n/a 35,908 35,908 20.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 117, avenue des Champs Elysées Investment IDINVEST 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 9,114 9,114 17.80% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund PREDIREC IMMO 58 bis, rue La Boétie Investment 2019 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 13,679 13,679 17.79% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 14, rue Bergère 75009 Investment BNP SME Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 40,269 40,269 15.00% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund AVIVA INVESTORS 2, rue du Fort Bourbon Investment ALTERNATIVES L -1249 Luxembourg EUR n/a n/a n/a 9,353 9,353 14.71% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 32, rue de Monceau Investment SOFIPROTEOL 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 15,951 15,951 14.64% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 32, rue de Monceau Investment TIKEHAU NOVO 2018 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 10,228 10,228 14.16% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 32, rue de Monceau Investment TIKEHAU CLLF 75008 Paris France EUR n/a n/a n/a 14,184 14,184 13.04% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund 2-4, rue Eugène Ruppert L-2453 Luxembourg Investment AXA INFRA SENIOR 1 Luxembourg EUR n/a n/a n/a 100,298 100,298 10.58% 0 n/a n/a 0 fund B Investments with a carrying amount of less than 1% of CNP Assurances’ share capital French subsidiaries ------25,781 23,720 --353,820 ----5,967 International subsidiaries ------8,728 8,728 --381,776 ----0 French affiliates ------84,976 58,487 --34,113 ----2,895 Foreign affiliates ------35,286 15,215 --881 ----4,760 C Aggregate information (A+B) French subsidiaries ------11,826,489 11,702,963 --4,697,169 ----448,979 --International subsidiaries ------3,490,352 3,025,193 --397,574 ----194,100 --French affiliates ------2,858,296 2,516,068 --209,395 ----107,785 --Foreign affiliates ------769,809 557,155 --72,881 ----11,070 --(1) Provisional data at 31 December 2018 (2) Data at 31 October 2018 (3) Data at 30 September 2018 (4) Data at 30 June 2018 (5) Data at 31 December 2017 (6) Data at 31 December 2018 (IFRS) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 275 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.4.5 Entities of which CNP Assurances is a general partner Company Legal form Headquarters 107 BOÉTIE ELYSÉES Non-trading property company 128, boulevard Raspail – 75006 Paris – France 13/15 VILLE L’EVÊQUE Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France 5/7 RUE SCRIBE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France 27 PROVENCE Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France 85 RICHELIEU Non-trading property company 128, boulevard Raspail – 75006 Paris – France A9B PARIS Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France AIC LA DAME BLANCHE Non-trading property company 139-147, rue Paul Vaillant-Couturier – 92240 Malakoff – France AMIRAL BRUIX Non-trading property company 6, place de la Pyramide – Tour Majunga – 92908 La Défense – France AMP Capital Wagram 92 Property Investment (WAGRAM 92) Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France ASSURECUREUIL PIERRE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France ASSURECUREUIL PIERRE 3 Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France ASSURECUREUIL PIERRE 4 Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France ASSURECUREUIL PIERRE 5 Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France ASSURIMMEUBLE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France BAUDRY PONTHIEU Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France BAUME MIROMESNIL Non-trading property company 128, boulevard Raspail – 75006 Paris – France BERCY CRYSTAL Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France CANOPÉE Non-trading property company 71-73, avenue des Champs-Elysées – 75008 Paris – France CANTIS Intercompany partnership 16-18, place du Général Catroux – 75017 Paris – France CAPTIVA CAPITAL PARTNERS III Partnership limited by shares 39, rue Alphonse Munchen – L2172 Luxembourg – Luxembourg CIMO Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France CITY HALL Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France CNP IMMOBILIER Non-trading property company 4, place Raoul Dautry – 75015 Paris – France CNP TECHNOLOGIES DE L’INFORMATION Intercompany partnership 4, place Raoul Dautry – 75015 Paris – France COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS Partnership limited by shares 2-4, rue Eugène Ruppert – L2453 Luxembourg – Luxembourg COTTAGES DU BOIS AUX DAIMS Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France CŒUR PASSY Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France CRYSTAL DÉFENSE Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France DALLE 3 Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France DAS GOETHE Non-trading property company 66, avenue Charles de Gaulle – 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine – France DISTRIPOLE PORTE DE FRANCE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France EdR REAL ESTATE Partnership limited by shares 20, boulevard Emmanuel Servais – L2535 Luxembourg – Luxembourg ÉOLE RAMBOUILLET Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France ÉQUINOX Non-trading property company 71-73, avenue des Champs-Elysées – 75008 Paris – France FARMAN Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France FLI Non-trading property company 33, avenue Pierre Mendès France – 75013 Paris – France FONCIÈRE CNP Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France FONCIÈRE ELBP Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France GF BAUFFREMONT Non-trading company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun – 75009 Paris – France 276 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Company Legal form Headquarters GF DE BREVES Non-trading property company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun – 75009 Paris – France GF DE LA FORÊT DE NAN Non-trading company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun – 75009 Paris – France GF DE LA GRANDE HAYE Non-trading company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun – 75009 Paris – France LA FORÊT GÉRÉE III GF DE L’ILE DE FRANCE Forestry partnership 41, avenue Gambetta – 92928 Paris La Défense – France GF FRANCE EST Non-trading property company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun – 75009 Paris – France LA FORÊT GÉRÉE IV GF PICARDIE NAVARRE Forestry partnership 41, avenue Gambetta 92928 Paris La Défense GF SELLIÈRES VAUCHASSIS Non-trading company 8 bis, rue de Chateaudun – 75009 Paris – France GREEN QUARTZ Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France GREEN RUEIL Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France GROUPEMENT PROPRIÉTÉS CDC CNP Non-trading company 45 avenue Victor-Hugo – 93530 Aubervilliers – France HABIMMO Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France HEMISPHERE HOLDING Non-trading company 33, avenue Pierre Mendès France – 75013 Paris – France ISSY DESMOULINS Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France ISSY ÎLOT 13 Non-trading property company 50-56, rue de la Procession – 75015 Paris – France ISSY VIVALDI Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France JASMIN Non-trading property company 71-73, avenue des Champs-Elysées – 75008 Paris – France JESCO Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France JULIE Non-trading property company 91-93, Boulevard Pasteur – 75015 Paris – France L’AMIRAL Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France DOMAINE DE LANCOSME Partnership Château Robert – 36500 Vandoeuvre – France LESLY Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France LIBERTÉ Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France MASSENA NICE Non-trading property company 6, place de la Pyramide – Tour Majunga – 92908 La Défense – France MAX Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France MONTAGNE DE LA FAGE Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France MTP ERLON Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France NATURE ÉQUIPEMENTS 1 Non-trading property company 28, avenue Victor Hugo – 75116 Paris – France NATURIM Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France NEW SIDE Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France NEXT ESTATE INCOME FUND Partnership limited by shares 44, avenue J-F Kennedy – L1855 Luxembourg – Luxembourg PANTIN LOGISTIQUE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France PARIS 08 Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France PARVIS BELVÉDÈRE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France PASSAGE DU FAIDHERBE Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France PÉGASE Non-trading property company 7, place du Chancelier-Adenauer – 75016 Paris – France RASPAIL Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France RESIDAVOUT Non-trading property company 128, boulevard Raspail – 75006 Paris – France RESIDENTIAL Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France RSS IMMO Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France RUE DE RENNES (136) Non-trading property company 6, place de la Pyramide – Tour Majunga – 92908 La Défense – France 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 277 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Company Legal form Headquarters RUE DU BAC Non-trading property company 91-93, Boulevard Pasteur – 75015 Paris – France RUEIL NEWTON Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France SAPHIRIMMO Non-trading property company 22, rue du Docteur Lancereaux – 75008 Paris – France SCI ALLERAY Non-trading property company 128, boulevard Raspail – 75006 Paris – France SCI DE LA CNP Non-trading property company 4, place Raoul Dautry – 75015 Paris – France SECRETS ET BOÉTIE Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France SICAC Non-trading property company 4, place Raoul Dautry – 75015 Paris – France SOCIÉTÉ DU CENTRE COMMERCIAL DE LA DÉFENSE Non-trading property company 7 place du Chancelier-Adenauer – 75016 Paris – France SONNE Non-trading property company 66, avenue Charles de Gaulle – 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine – France TERRE NEUVE 4 IMMO Non-trading property company 11-13, avenue de Friedland – 75008 Paris – France VENDÔME EUROPE Non-trading property company 6, place de la Pyramide – Tour Majunga – 92908 La Défense – France VICTOR HUGO 147 Non-trading property company 4, rue Auber – 75009 Paris – France WEINBERG REAL ESTATE PARTNERS Partnership limited by shares 46A avenue J.F. Kennedy – L1855 Luxembourg – Luxembourg WHITEHALL 2008 Partnership limited by shares 2, rue du Fosse – L – 1536 Luxembourg 5.5 Ownership structure 5.5.1 Composition of share capital Number of shares 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number of ordinary shares outstanding 686,618,477 686,618,477 Number of shares held in treasury (598,643) (143,695) Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights 686,019,834 686,474,782 5.5.2 Treasury shares MOVEMENTS OVER THE REPORTING PERIOD Movements Number of shares Purchases 6,245,463 Sales 5,790,515 NUMBER OF TREASURY SHARES AND VALUE AT PERIOD END Movements 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number of treasury shares 598,643 143,695 Carrying amount of treasury shares in euros 11,341,844 2,761,716 278 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 5.6 Reserves, equity, revaluation reserve Appropriation of Change for (In € thousands) Type of reserve 31.12.2017 2017 profit 2018 profit the period 31.12.2018 Share capital Statutory 686,618 686,618 Additional paid-in capital Statutory 1,736,332 1,736,332 Forest revaluation reserve Tax-driven 38,983 38,983 Long-term capital gains reserve Tax-driven 1,396,309 1,396,309 Capitalisation reserve Tax-driven 2,159,257 76,265 2,235,522 Guarantee fund reserve Tax-driven 68,257 1,077 69,334 Discretionary reserves Other 2,276,216 (1,077) 2,275,139 Contingency reserve Other 338,850 338,850 Retained earnings * 1,562,118 565,839 2,127,957 Net profit for the year 1,142,526 (1,142,526) 1,165,360 1,165,360 TOTAL 11,405,467 (576,687) 1,165,360 76,265 12,070,405 * Retained earnings include the reclassification of €109 million at 31 December 2017 from “Adjustments to property” 5.7 Other disclosures concerning the balance sheet 5.7.1 Accrued income and prepaid expenses/Accrued expenses and deferred income 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Accrual accounts (In € thousands) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Accrued interest 2,571,352 2,811,320 Deferred acquisition costs 155 182 Deferred expenses 0 0 Prepaid expenses 19,545 26,990 Accrued income 59,725 50,944 Amortisation by the effective interest method (income) 5,409,072 4,921,236 Accrued income and prepaid expenses related to forward financial instruments 1,409,285 1,291,054 Deferred income 47,680 49,157 Amortisation by the effective interest method (expense) 3,215,095 3,072,477 Unearned interest income (4,304) (2,065) Accrued expenses and deferred income related to forward financial instruments 418,401 403,496 TOTAL 9,469,135 3,676,872 9,101,725 3,523,064 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 279 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.7.2 Accrued receivables and payables Accrued income Accrued expenses Balance sheet items (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Other receivables 300,775 185,400 248,064 157,339 WW Prepaid payroll costs 0 WW Other 300,775 185,400 248,064 157,339 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 2,631,077 2,862,263 WW Prepaid interest and rental revenue 2,571,352 2,811,320 WW Deferred acquisition costs WW Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 59,725 50,944 Other liabilities 1,938,198 2,037,093 WW Accrued payroll costs 363,238 386,668 WW Other payables 1,574,960 1,650,426 TOTAL 2,931,852 3,047,663 2,186,262 2,194,432 Deferred income Prepaid expenses Balance sheet items (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 6,838,058 6,239,461 WW Deferred acquisition costs 155 182 WW Amortisation by the effective interest method 5,409,072 4,921,236 WW Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 19,545 26,990 WW Accrued income and prepaid expenses related to forward financial instruments 1,409,285 1,291,054 Deferred income and accrued expenses 3,676,872 3,523,064 WW Deferred income 47,680 49,157 WW Amortisation by the effective interest method 3,215,095 3,072,477 WW Unearned interest income (4,304) (2,065) WW Accrued expenses and deferred income related to forward financial instruments 418,401 403,496 TOTAL 3,676,872 3,523,064 6,838,058 6,239,461 280 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 5.7.3 Provisions for liabilities and charges Type of provision (In € thousands) Purpose 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Revaluation provision Revaluation of the property portfolio 2,400 2,422 Other provisions Provision for litigation and miscellaneous risks 54,634 120,442 TOTAL 57,034 122,864 5.7.4 Assets denominated in foreign currency Foreign currency amount Amount in euros Balance sheet item Currency (In thousands) (In € thousands) Other investments 3,550,644 US dollar 2,141,128 1,869,980 Swedish krona 826,461 80,593 Swiss franc 136,880 121,466 Canadian dollar 55,781 35,746 Pound sterling 1,072,336 1,198,770 Japanese yen 30,718,600 244,089 5.8 Change in life premium reserves before reinsurance (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 In the income statement 1. Change in life premium reserves (7,117,888) (10,345,863) 2. Effect of changes in exchange rates (1,004) (505) 3. Credited interest and policyholder dividends paid directly out of investment income for the year 4,014,702 3,948,946 Credited interest 695,650 870,260 Policyholder dividends 3,319,052 3,078,686 4. Use of policyholder surplus reserve 1,576,515 1,553,677 TOTAL (1,527,675) (4,843,745) In the balance sheet Change in mathematical reserves 1. Life premium reserves – end of period 244,995,930 246,522,997 2. Life premium reserves – start of period (246,522,997) (251,403,677) TOTAL (1,527,068) (4,880,680) 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 281 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5.9 Mathematical reserves for PERP plans (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Insurance liabilities (excluding linked liabilities) – mathematical annuity reserves for annuity payments 1,092,794 1,059,840 Linked liabilities 146,585 162,208 Special mathematical reserves for points-based pension liabilities 412,108 383,917 TOTAL 1,651,487 1,605,965 5.10 Liquidity risk reserve (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total net unrealised gain or loss – Article R.343‑5 assets 11,604,369 16,642,093 Liquidity risk reserve included in other technical reserves 0 0 Deferred charge to the liquidity risk reserve 0 0 Actual net profit, excluding impact of transfers to liquidity risk reserve 1,165,360 1,142,526 282 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 NOTE 6 Notes to the income statement 6.1 Investment income and expenses 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Income and expenses Other from investments financial in subsidiaries and income and (In € thousands) affiliates expenses 2018 total Investment income Revenues from investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 392,521 (262,695) 129,827 163,055 Revenues from property investments 1,938 489,345 491,283 502,703 Revenues from other investments 96,079 6,091,634 6,187,713 6,710,837 Other financial revenues (commissions, fees) 142,777 851,281 994,057 757,136 Investment revenues 633,316 7,169,564 7,802,880 8,133,730 Other investment income 23,656 1,301,759 1,325,415 862,583 Profits on disposal of investments 819 2,111,178 2,111,997 1,995,103 Total investment income 657,791 10,582,502 11,240,292 10,991,416 Investment expenses Financial expenses (commissions, fees, interest, overdraft charges, etc.) 0 599,915 599,915 578,305 Other investment expenses 83,529 1,161,092 1,244,621 1,098,606 Losses on disposal of investments 4,490 1,945,144 1,949,634 1,244,963 Total investment expenses 88,019 3,706,152 3,794,170 2,921,874 NET INVESTMENT INCOME 569,772 6,876,350 7,446,122 8,069,542 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 283 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 6.2 Underwriting income and expenses Life Other individual Other single or individual Individual flexible regular term life premium life premium life Single or policies (and policies (and policies (and flexible voluntary voluntary voluntary premium participation participation participation Group death Classes 1-19 endowment group group group insurance (In € thousands) policies policies) policies) policies) contracts Earned premiums 874,604 89,221 10,515,583 63,379 1,907,803 Claims and benefits 220,594 30,321 18,174,668 61,327 702,528 Change in life premium reserves and other technical reserves 619,861 883 (8,943,762) (13,408) (26,811) Mark-to-market gains and losses on assets held to cover linked liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 Underwriting profit (loss) 34,149 58,017 1,284,676 15,459 1,232,086 Business acquisition costs 3,170 12,614 121,044 6,411 811,019 Other contract administration costs, net 23,291 4,716 1,061,371 2,524 91,938 Acquisition and contract administration costs, net 26,461 17,330 1,182,415 8,935 902,958 Net investment income 216,557 440 5,784,332 11,725 5,895 Credited interest and policyholder dividends 185,980 389 5,466,221 11,872 (10,252) Net 30,577 51 318,111 (146) 16,148 Ceded premiums 3,007 79 323,791 107 139,022 Reinsurers’ share of claims and benefits 7,051 0 810,515 1,814 18,648 Reinsurers’ share of change in life premium reserves and other technical reserves (2,262) 0 (364,406) (1,760) 31,286 Reinsurers’ share of policyholder surplus (1,116) 0 40,359 5 207 Reinsurance commissions received 311 0 49,356 11 56,436 Reinsurance result 978 (79) 212,033 (37) (32,445) UNDERWRITING RESULT 39,243 40,659 632,406 6,341 312,831 Other information Policy surrenders 219,544 278 10,094,374 27,406 0 Gross credited interest 2,911 421 626,504 10,234 921 Technical reserves – end of period 5,387,525 48,265 224,864,292 682,362 1,284,635 Technical reserves – beginning of period * 4,362,546 47,368 228,814,291 690,489 1,283,979 * Technical reserves at the beginning of the period take into account the reclassification of an amount of €47.4 million from “Other individual regular premium life policies” to “Single premium endowment policies” 284 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 Policies Single or flexible Regular giving rise to premium unitpremium unitArticle transfers to the Group life linked life or linked life or L.441-1 Eurocroissance Inward insurance endowment endowment group PERP diversification reinsurance contracts policies policies policies contracts reserve (life) TOTAL 46,580 3,874,000 2,835 301,777 85,558 1,798 2,398,597 20,161,736 291,611 1,426,223 32,172 582,344 45,439 2,510 517,615 22,087,354 (246,266) (326,505) (31,006) (293,175) 6,591 5,988 1,913,581 (7,334,028) 0 (2,364,566) 6,832 0 (17,285) 0 (42,231) (2,417,250) 1,234 409,717 8,501 12,608 16,243 (6,700) (74,830) 2,991,160 (5,234) 62,207 (42) 12,252 2 13 54,141 1,077,598 8,345 204,561 562 (84) 16,505 0 6,582 1,420,312 3,111 266,768 520 12,169 16,507 13 60,723 2,497,909 83,037 275,510 18,939 226,674 46,121 6,713 365,370 7,041,313 44,450 133,753 11,190 455,507 45,857 0 217,500 6,562,466 38,586 141,758 7,749 (228,833) 264 6,713 147,870 478,847 37,652 143,731 0 166,819 0 0 23 814,231 34,047 67,714 0 306,036 0 0 0 1,245,825 (6,316) (48,784) 0 89,201 0 0 (3,851) (306,892) 1,960 1,838 0 0 0 0 (8) 43,246 503 18,010 0 0 0 0 0 124,627 (7,457) (104,953) 0 228,418 0 0 (3,881) 292,576 29,253 179,753 15,730 24 0 0 8,435 1,264,674 5,710 879,610 14,579 46,618 37,517 1,797 214,071 11,541,503 47,132 47 7,270 0 0 0 210 695,650 4,030,149 32,192,310 494,746 15,769,696 1,713,877 275,809 9,439,817 296,183,485 4,182,373 32,403,705 515,133 15,606,207 1,662,347 176,331 7,214,200 296,958,968 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 285 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements Non-life Categories 20-39 Individual bodily Group bodily Inward (In € thousands) injury policies injury policies reinsurance Total Earned premiums 13,730 1,374,718 438,009 1,826,457 1a. Earned premiums 13,654 1,377,651 433,516 1,824,821 1b. C  hange in earned premium and unexpired risks reserve (75) 2,933 (4,494) (1,636) Claims and benefits 105,359 812,377 427,297 1,345,032 2a. Paid claims and expenses (3,433) 1,676,717 504,178 2,177,463 2b. Change in outstanding claims reserves 108,792 (864,340) (76,882) (832,430) Underwriting profit (loss) (91,630) 562,341 10,713 481,424 Business acquisition costs 1,086 429,186 716 430,988 Other contract administration costs, net (2,295) 87,834 13,798 99,336 Acquisition and contract administration costs, net (1,209) 517,019 14,513 530,324 Investment income 2,162 109,826 41,896 153,884 Policyholder dividends 3,004 30,141 8,389 41,534 Net (842) 79,685 33,508 112,350 Reinsurers’ share of earned premiums 0 100,852 0 100,852 Reinsurers’ share of paid claims 0 770,094 0 770,094 Reinsurers’ share of outstanding claims reserves 0 (839,496) 0 (839,496) Reinsurers’ share of policyholder dividends 0 2,731 0 2,731 Reinsurance commissions received 0 32,145 0 32,145 Reinsurance result 0 (135,378) 0 (135,378) UNDERWRITING RESULT (91,263) (10,372) 29,707 (71,928) Other information Provisions for unearned premiums and unsettled claims (closing balance) 24 22,144 36,057 58,226 Provisions for unearned premiums and unsettled claims (opening balance) 99 19,211 40,551 59,862 Outstanding claims reserve (closing balance) 8,002 3,133,728 1,566,514 4,708,243 Outstanding claims reserve (opening balance) 8,082 3,743,429 1,630,306 5,381,816 Other technical reserves (closing balance) 141,031 1,067,022 220,039 1,428,092 Other technical reserves (opening balance)* 29,146 1,283,551 226,624 1,539,321 * Other technical reserves at the beginning of the period do not include policyholder surplus reserves, reserves for bonuses and rebates or claims equalisation reserves 6.3 Transfer of unrealised gains In accordance with the government order dated 13 July 2016 to the Eurocroissance reserve (paragraph 1), unrealised capital gains representing 0.027188% were transferred from the general reserve to the Eurocroissance Information about the temporary mechanism for the transfer of reserve. assets to the diversification reserve for Eurocroissance insurance Unrealised capital gains before the transfer represented liabilities. 9.077100% (information disclosed in accordance with In 2018, net new money corresponding to transfers to paragraph 2 of the above order). Eurocroissance contracts totalled €95,569,996.71. Unrealised capital gains after the transfer represented 9.075024% (information disclosed in accordance with paragraph 3 of the above order). 286 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 6.4 Payroll costs Payroll costs break down as follows: Year-on-year (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 change Wages and salaries 177,869 180,443 -1.4% Payroll taxes 63,206 87,635 -27.9% Other 9,340 9,526 -2.0% TOTAL 250,416 277,604 -9.8% 6.5 Commissions Direct insurance and inward reinsurance commissions for the year amounted to €2,583,517 thousand. The total includes all types of commissions paid to the Company’s distribution partners. 6.6 Breakdown of non-recurring, non-technical income and expenses Income statement items (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Other (non-technical) income 47,809 13,989 Interest income from miscellaneous loans 40 131 Other non-technical income 465 34 Reversals from the capitalisation reserve credited to the non-technical account 47,303 13,824 Other (non-technical) expenses 13,730 22,202 Transfers to the capitalisation reserve from the non-technical account 1,986 1,626 Other non-technical expenses 11,744 20,576 Non-recurring income 82,926 99,195 Income relating to prior years 0 0 Other non-recurring income 5,967 14,107 Reversals of provisions for contingencies 76,959 85,088 Gains on disposal of owner-occupied property 0 0 Non-recurring expenses 24,239 79,621 Losses relating to prior years 0 0 Other non-recurring expenses 12,047 11,757 Impairment expense 1,196 13,197 Additions to provisions for contingencies 10,996 54,668 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 287 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 6.7 Income tax expense Income tax expense Year-on-year (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 change Tax expense on recurring profit 349,139 405,031 Tax (benefit) expense on non-recurring operations 0 0 Income tax expense 349,139 405,031 -13.8% 6.8 Policyholder participation in underwriting profit and investment income Description (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 A. Policyholder participation 6,604,000 7,341,421 7,586,075 7,889,060 8,157,002 A1. Policyholder dividends and credited interest 5,653,564 5,558,439 5,630,283 6,397,087 6,918,687 A2. Change in the policyholder surplus reserve 950,435 1,782,982 1,955,793 1,491,973 1,238,315 B. Policyholder participation – Article A.132‑10 B1. Average mathematical reserves (1) 236,786,781 240,717,692 240,486,098 237,085,421 230,820,659 B2. Minimum policyholder participation 3,361,261 3,691,567 4,218,763 4,569,340 4,901,854 B3. Actual policyholder participation (2) 4,305,144 5,047,472 5,410,830 5,711,896 6,067,746 B3a. Policyholder dividends and credited interest 3,465,973 3,345,328 3,471,829 4,299,236 4,830,193 B3b. Change in the policyholder surplus reserve 839,171 1,702,144 1,939,000 1,412,659 1,237,553 (1) Half of the sum of opening and closing mathematical reserves for contracts (Article A.132-10) (2) Actual participation (expense for the period, including credited interest) for contracts (Article A.132-10) 6.9 Employee information The number of employees by category as of 31 December 2018 was as follows: Status Year-on-year (number of employees) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 change Management-grade 1,776 1,777 -0.1% Non-management-grade 981 1,026 -4.4% TOTAL 2,757 2,803 -1.6% The above figures do not include employees of the CNP TI intercompany partnership. 288 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 6.10 Management remuneration The following disclosures present the cumulative remuneration and A provision of €707,151 was recorded for the current Chief the remuneration by category of the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Officer’s vested termination benefit entitlement the members of the Board of Directors, including the Chairman. earned during his period as an employee prior to his appointment. WW Share-based payments: no share-based payments were made 2018 by the Company in 2018. No stock options or performance WW Short-term benefits: the short-term benefits (salaries, bonuses, shares were granted to any senior executives or members of directors’ fees and benefits in kind) paid to the members of the Board in 2018. the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances, including the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, in 2018 amounted to €1,370,832. 2017 WW Long-term benefits: the cumulative amounts provided for, or WW Short-term benefits: the short-term benefits (salaries, bonuses, recognised, in respect of pension or other retirement benefits directors’ fees and benefits in kind) paid to the members of for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances, including the Board of Directors total €0. No provision was recorded Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive because the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Officer, in 2017 amounted to €1,252,208. Board of Directors are not entitled to any long-term benefits. WW Long-term benefits: the cumulative amounts provided for, or A provision of €4,194,612 was recorded for the current recognised, in respect of pension or other retirement benefits Chief Executive Officer’s vested long-term benefit entitlement for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board earned during his period as an employee prior to his of Directors total €0. appointment. WW Termination benefits: no termination benefits were paid to WW Termination benefits: no termination benefits were paid to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the members of the Board in 2017. Directors or the members of the Board in 2018. No provision WW Share-based payments: no share-based payments were made was recorded because the Chief Executive Officer, the by the Company in 2017. No stock options or performance Chairman of the Board of Directors and the members of the shares were granted to any senior executives or members of Board are not entitled to any termination benefits. the Board. 6.11 Premium income by geographic segment Gross premiums Premium income by geographical segment (In € thousands) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Change France 21,411,500 22,747,557 -5.9% International 576,692 200,758 187.3% Italian branch 81,741 68,316 19.7% Spanish branch 688 1,013 -32.1% Germany (premiums written under EU freedom of services directive) 100 (103) -197.5% Luxembourg subsidiary 494,163 131,531 275.7% TOTAL 21,988,192 22,948,315 -4.2% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 289 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 6.12 Fees paid to the Auditors Fees paid to the Auditors in 2018 (In € thousands) Audit Mazars % PricewaterhouseCoopers % Audit of the financial statements of the Company and the Group (1) 1,161 73% 1,189 70% CNP Assurances 1,161 1,189 Other audit and special engagements (2) 424 27% 521 30% TOTAL 1,585 100% 1,710 100% (1) Including the audit of the IFRS 9 appendices and information systems migrations (2) “Other duties and services directly related to the assignment carried out by the Statutory Auditors” include services relating to the issue of debt securities, review of MCEV© calculations, review of the English translation of the Registration Document and review of sustainable development indicators NOTE 7 Off-balance sheet commitments Amounts at 31.12.2018 Remaining life Strategy by type of forward financial instrument Commitments Commitments More than (In € thousands) received given 1 year or less 1 to 5 years 5 years Yield strategy Equity instruments Purchases of calls and puts (5,721,732) 1,573,638 (7,237,771) (57,599) Sales of calls and puts (3,464,565) 341,080 (3,805,645) Interest rate instruments Purchases of caps 71,340,500 5,120,000 35,049,000 31,171,500 Sales of caps 29,952,500 1,860,000 27,304,000 788,500 Swaps Receive positions 7,786,514 1,058,532 4,315,237 2,412,745 Pay positions 7,950,449 1,019,063 4,340,654 2,590,732 TOTAL RECEIVED 73,405,282 7,752,170 32,126,465 33,526,646 TOTAL GIVEN 34,438,384 3,220,143 27,839,009 3,379,232 NET COMMITMENT 38,966,898 4,532,027 4,287,457 30,147,414 290 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements 5 NOTE 8 Disclosures related to subordinated debt REDEEMABLE SUBORDINATED NOTES Total issue Issuance Cur(In millions of Total issue Interest First call date Legal form ISIN rency issue currency) (In € millions) rate date Tiering Maturity Caisse Nationale des Caisses 4.7825% until Subordinated notes d’Epargne et de 24 June 2013, then 24.06.2003 Fixed/variable rate Prévoyance EUR 200 200 Euribor +200 bp Passed Tier 2 23.06.2023 Caisse Nationale des Caisses 4.93% until Subordinated notes d’Epargne et de 15 Nov. 2016, then 15.11.2004 Fixed/variable rate Prévoyance EUR 90 90 Euribor +160 bp 15.11.2016 Tier 1 Undated Caisse Nationale 3-month Euribor +70 bp des Caisses until 15 Nov. 2016, Subordinated notes d’Epargne et de then 3-month Euribor 15.11.2004 Fixed/variable rate Prévoyance EUR 93 93 +160 bp 15.11.2016 Tier 1 Undated 6% until Sept. 2020, Subordinated notes then 3-­month Euribor 14.09.2010 Fixed/variable rate FR0010941484 EUR 750 750 +447.2 bp 14.09.2020 Tier 2 14.09.2040 7.375% until Sept. 2021, Subordinated notes then 2-­month 07.04.2011 Fixed/variable rate FR0011034065 GBP 300 335 Libor +448.2 bp 30.09.2021 Tier 2 30.09.2041 6.875% until Sept. 2021, Subordinated notes then 12-month 07.04.2011 Fixed/variable rate FR0011033851 EUR 700 700 Euribor +440 bp 30.09.2021 Tier 2 30.09.2041 4.25% until June 2025, Subordinated notes then reset at the 5-year 05.06.2014 Fixed/variable rate FR0011949403 EUR 500 500 fixed swap rate +360 bp 05.06.2025 Tier 2 05.06.2045 4.5% until June 2027, Subordinated notes then 3-­month 10.12.2015 Fixed/variable rate FR0013066388 EUR 750 750 Euribor +460 bp 10.06.2027 Tier 2 10.06.2047 Subordinated notes 6% throughout 22.01.2016 Fixed/variable rate FR0013101599 USD 500 437 the life of the notes 22.01.2029 Tier 2 22.01.2049 Subordinated notes 1.875% until 20.10.2016 Fixed/variable rate FR0013213832 EUR 1,000 1,000 October 2022 Tier 3 20.10.2022 TOTAL REDEEMABLE SUBORDINATED NOTES 4,883 4,855 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 291 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Parent company financial statements SUBORDINATED NOTES Total issue Issuance Cur(In millions of Total issue Interest First call date Legal form ISIN rency issue currency) (In € millions) rate date Tiering Maturity Subordinated notes Tec 10 +10 bp, 21.06.2004 Variable rate FR0010093328 EUR 250 250 capped at 9% Passed Tier 1 Undated Subordinated notes Tec 10 +10 bp, 24.09.2004 Variable rate FR0010093328 EUR 50 50 capped at 9% Passed Tier 1 Undated 6.25% until 2009, then 4 times (10-year EUR Subordinated notes CMS – 2-year EUR CMS), 11.03.2005 Variable rate FR0010167296 EUR 24 24 9% cap and 2.75% floor Passed Tier 1 Undated 6.5% until Mar. 2008, Subordinated notes then 3% + (10-year 11.03.2005 Variable rate FR0010167247 EUR 225 225 CMS * 22.5%) Passed Tier 1 Undated Subordinated notes 7% until June 2010, 27.06.2005 Variable rate FR0010203026 EUR 75 75 then 10-year CMS +30 bp Passed Tier 1 Undated 5.25% until 16 May 2036, then 3-month Euribor Subordinated notes +185 bp (including 100 bp 16.05.2006 Variable rate FR0010318386 EUR 160 160 step-up at call date) 16.05.2036 Tier 1 Undated 3-month Euribor +95 bp Subordinated notes until 20 Dec. 2026, then 20.12.2006 Variable rate FR0010406082 EUR 108 108 3‑month Euribor +195 bp 20.12.2026 Tier 1 Undated 6.875% until July 2019, Subordinated notes then reset at the 6-year 18.07.2013 Fixed rate FR0011538461 USD 500 437 fixed swap rate +500 bp 18.07.2019 Tier 1 Undated 4% until November 2024, Subordinated notes then reset at the 5-year 18.11.2014 Fixed rate FR0012317758 EUR 500 500 fixed swap rate +410 bp 18.11.2024 Tier 1 Undated 4.75% until 2028, then Subordinated notes reset at the 5-year fixed 27.06.2018 Fixed rate FR0013336534 EUR 500 500 swap rate +391.4 bp 27.06.2028 Tier 1 Undated TOTAL SUBORDINATED DEBT 2,392 2,328 TOTAL SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES 7,275 7,183 292 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Other information 5 5.4 Other information 5.4.1 Proposed appropriation of 2018 profit Net profit for the year ended 31 December 2018 totalled The dividend will be paid as from 30 April 2019 and the €1,165,360,175.81 and retained earnings brought forward shares will trade ex-dividend on NYSE Euronext Paris from from the prior year amounted to €2,127,957,079.72, resulting 26 April 2019. in distributable profit of €3,293,317,255.53. Private shareholders resident in France for tax purposes will The General Meeting therefore resolves: be entitled to 40% tax relief on their dividends pursuant to WW to pay a total dividend of €611,090,444.53, shared Article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code. between all shareholders; The total dividend will be reduced by the amount of dividends not WW to transfer the balance of €2,682,226,811.00 to retained paid on any treasury shares held by the Company, which ill be earnings. transferred to the retained earnings account in accordance with The dividend paid on each of the 686,618,477 shares making Article L.225-210 of the French Commercial Code. up the share capital at the date of the General Meeting will amount to €0.89. 5.4.2 Five-year financial summary 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Share capital (in € thousands) 686,618 686,618 686,618 686,618 686,618 Number of ordinary shares outstanding 686,618,477 686,618,477 686,618,477 686,618,477 686,618,477 Results of operations (in € thousands) Premium income excluding tax 21,988,192 22,948,315 24,044,660 24,344,274 21,988,755 Earnings before tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions (EBTDA) 1,514,500 1,547,557 1,343,167 1,508,238 1,035,412 Income tax expense 349,139 405,031 248,283 233,421 285,006 Net profit 1,165,360 1,142,526 1,094,883 1,274,817 714,073 Earnings per share (in €) Earnings before tax, depreciation, amortisation and provisions (EBTDA) 2.21 2.25 1.96 2.20 1.51 Net profit 1.70 1.66 1.59 1.86 1.04 Dividend per share * 0.89 0.84 0.80 0.77 0.77 Prepaid payroll costs Average number of employees 2,757 2,803 2,883 2,897 2,908 Total payroll and benefits (in € thousands) 250,416 277,604 273,079 271,750 287,594 * Recommended 2018 dividend subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2019 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 293 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements 5.5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditor’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, Opinion Independence In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying the independence rules applicable to us, for the period from financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 1 January 2018 to the date of our report and in particular we 31 December 2018. did not provide any non‑audit services prohibited by Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 or the French Code of Ethics In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company at 31 December 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French Justification of assessments – Key audit accounting principles. matters The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823‑9 and to the Audit and Risk Committee. R.823‑7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to the risks of material misstatement Basis for opinion that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements, as well as how we Audit framework addressed those risks. We conducted our audit in accordance with professional These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the financial standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit statements as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to we formed as expressed above. We do not provide a separate provide a basis for our audit opinion. opinion on specific items of the financial statements. Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the “Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. 294 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements 5 MEASUREMENT OF THE ESCALATING RISKS RESERVE FOR LONG-TERM CARE AND TERM CREDITOR POLICIES (See Note 4.6 to the financial statements) Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk A reserve for escalating risks is recorded to cover timing differences We examined the procedures by which the methodology for between the coverage of risks and their financing in the form determining the escalating risks reserve is implemented. In of insurance premiums. This reserve is constituted prospectively, particular, we carried out the following procedures with the by comparing the insurer’s future commitments with those of the guidance of our internal experts in risks and models: policyholder. French regulations do not specify all of the inputs to WW examining the mathematical design of the actuarial model be used to calculate this reserve. to verify that it did not contain any material misstatement At 31 December 2018, other technical reserves, which are that could distort the calculation result, in particular by analysed in Note 4.6 to the financial statements, included the recalculating the reserves; escalating risks reserve for long‑term care policies in an amount WW assessing the consistency of the key assumptions used to of €380 million and the escalating risks reserve for the Term determine the reserve, which included in particular: Creditor Insurance business in an amount of €229 million before —— determining homogeneous risk classes (within which the reinsurance. offsetting of positive and negative escalating risks reserves calculated on a case-by-case basis is possible) linked to the We deemed this risk to be a key audit matter in view of the segmentation used for pricing, sensitivity of the calculation of the escalating risks reserve for long—— the principles and methodologies for determining the term care and Term Creditor policies to the choice of the following discount rate, key assumptions, which require a significant degree of judgement —— the principles and methodologies for determining the from management: surrender rate and the related sensitivity tests, WW the discount rate used on the long-term care risk; —— the principles and methodologies for determining the WW the experience-based tables prepared according to observations experience-based tables, and analyses established on the basis of portfolio data; —— the principles for determining escalating risk reserve WW the surrender behaviour of policyholders, in particular given the coefficients and their proper application for case-by-case uncertainty in relation to surrender behaviour caused by the calculations. Bourquin amendment to the Sapin II law. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 295 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements MEASUREMENT OF GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE RESERVES (See Note 4.5.2 to the financial statements) Description of risk How our audit addressed this risk General administrative expense reserves are intended to cover We examined the procedures by which the methodology future administrative costs of individual savings and pensions for determining general administrative expense reserves is policies and Group pensions policies, which are not covered by implemented. We carried out the following procedures with the the loading on premiums or the fees levied on financial products guidance of our internal experts in risks and models: provided for by these policies. WW assessing compliance with the requirements of the applicable At 31 December 2018, other technical reserves, which are regulations; analysed in Note 4.5.2 to the financial statements, included WW analysing the application scope of the reserves and the general administrative expense reserves in an amount of assumptions for grouping policies together in order to verify €249 million. their homogeneity; WW verifying the consistency of the assumptions used with the past We deemed this risk to be a key audit matter due to the sensitivity data and/or data used to project future results (administrative of these reserves to: expenses, surrender rates, etc.); WW a situation of persistently low yields; WW verifying on a sample basis the consistency of the underlying WW the quality of the underlying data; data used for the calculation with the contractual provisions WW the assumptions used to model future results. pertaining to fees levied on policies; WW analysing the procedures for determining the yield curve The main inputs used are as follows: applied to mathematical reserves in order to determine forecast WW policy data; investment income; WW the historical actual costs linked to the management of the WW carrying out, on a sample basis, an independent measurement, activity. for the purpose of assessing the accuracy of the calculations. The main assumptions concerned: WW the level of aggregation at which positive future results are offset against negative future results for homogeneous categories of contracts; WW the estimated future contractual fees that may be levied, subject to compliance with the guarantees given to policyholders; WW the future investment yield; WW administrative costs and in particular the types of costs to be taken into account, which depend on the procedure for allocating costs by function; WW future surrender and average reduction rates. 296 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements 5 Specific verifications an impact in the event of a public cash or exchange offer, we verified the consistency of said information with the underlying In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, documents provided to us. Based on this work, we have no we have also performed the specific verifications required by matters to report with regard to this information. French law. Other information Information given in the management report and the other documents concerning the Company’s In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the purchase of investments financial position and the financial statements and controlling interests and the identity of shareholders and provided to the shareholders holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and management report. the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents provided to the shareholders with respect Report on other legal and regulatory to the financial position and the financial statements, except as requirements explained below, it being specified that it is not our responsibility to give an opinion on the fair presentation and the consistency Appointment of the Statutory Auditors with the financial statements of the prudential information (SCR We were appointed Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances by coverage ratio) taken from the repor t provided for in the Annual General Meetings held on 18 May 1998 for Mazars Article L.355-5 of the French Insurance Code (Code des and on 25 May 2010 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. assurances). At 31 December 2018, Mazars and PricewaterhouseCoopers Concerning the fair presentation and the consistency with the Audit were in the twenty-first year and the ninth year of total financial statements of the information on supplier payment terms uninterrupted engagement, respectively. referred to in Article D.441-4 of the French Commercial Code, we have the following matter to report: as explained in the management report, the information does not include insurance Responsibilities of management and those and reinsurance transactions because the Company considers charged with governance for the financial that they do not fall within the scope of the disclosure requirement statements in accordance with the circular issued by the Fédération Management is responsible for preparing financial statements Française de l’Assurance dated 22 May 2017. presenting a true and fair view in accordance with French accounting principles and for implementing the internal control Report on corporate governance procedures it deems necessary for the preparation of financial statements free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate or error. governance sets out the information required by Articles L.225‑37‑3 and L.225‑37‑4 of the French Commercial Code. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going Concerning the information given in accordance with the concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going requirements of article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless Code relating to remuneration and benefits received by corporate it expects to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. officers and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your and risk management systems, as well as, where applicable, any Company from companies controlling it or controlled by it. Based Internal Audit systems, relating to the preparation and processing on this work, we attest to the accuracy and fair presentation of of accounting and financial information. this information. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Concerning the information given in accordance with the Directors. requirements of Article L.225‑37‑5 of the French Commercial Code relating to items that the Company deems liable to have 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 297 5 F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors Report to the Audit and Risk Committee relating to the audit of the financial We submit a report to the Audit and Risk Committee which statements includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit programme implemented, as well as the results Objective and audit approach of our audit. We also report any significant deficiencies in Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our internal control that we have identified regarding the procedures objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the for the preparation and processing of accounting and financial financial statements as a whole are free of material misstatement. information. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is Our report to the Audit and Risk Committee includes the risks of not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were professional standards will always detect a material misstatement of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and which constitute the key audit matters that we are required to are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, describe in this report. they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. We also provide the Audit and Risk Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) As specified in Article L.823‑10‑1 of the French Commercial No. 537‑2014, confirming our independence within the Code, our audit does not include assurance on the viability or meaning of the rules applicable in France, as defined in particular quality of management of the Company. in Articles L.822‑10 to L.822‑14 of the French Commercial Code A more detailed description of our responsibilities as Statutory and in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where Auditors in the scope of the audit of the financial statements is set appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and the out in the appendix to this report, and is an integral part hereof. related safeguard measures with the Audit and Risk Committee. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, 4 March 2019 The Statutory Auditors PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AUDIT MAZARS Bénédicte Vignon Olivier Leclerc 298 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES F i n a n c i a l S tat e m e n t s Statutory Auditors’ report on the company financial statements 5 Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the financial statements As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional WW assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditors exercise going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit professional judgement throughout the audit. They also: evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists WW identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained and obtain audit evidence considered to be sufficient and up to the date of the audit report. However, future events or appropriate to provide a basis for their opinion. The risk of conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is a going concern. If the Statutory Auditors conclude that a higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve material uncertainty exists, they are required to draw attention collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial the override of internal control; statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or are WW obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate opinion; in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an WW evaluate the overall presentation of the financial statements opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control; and assess whether these statements represent the underlying WW evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by presentation. management and the related disclosures in the notes to the financial statements; 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 299 300 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6 S H A R E C A P I TA L A N D OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE 6.1 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL 302 6.1.1 Share capital, par value of the shares 302 6.1.2 Historical changes in share capital 302 6.1.3 Historical changes in ownership structure 303 6.2 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE 305 6.2.1 Ownership structure 305 6.2.2 Shareholders’ Agreement 307 6.3 LISTING OF CNP ASSURANCES SHARES 308 6.4 DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND POLICY 309 6.4.1 Appropriation and distribution of profit (Article 28 of the Articles of Association) 309 6.4.2 Dividend record 309 6.4.3 Dividend policy 309 6.5 DELEGATIONS OF COMPETENCE AND FINANCIAL AUTHORISATIONS 310 6.5.1 Delegation of competence given to the Board of Directors to issue shares 310 6.5.2 Delegation of competence given to the Board of Directors to grant shares 310 6.5.3 Summary table of the delegations of competence granted by the Annual General Meeting to the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances 310 6.5.4 Transactions carried out in 2018 under the share buyback programme authorised by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of 27 April 2018 312 6.5.5 Authorisation to implement a share buyback programme 313 6.5.6 Authorisation to issue and buy back bonds, notes or other debt securities 314 6.6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S CAPITAL 315 6.6.1 Guarantees and endorsements 315 6.6.2 Discretionary and statutory profit-sharing plans 315 6.6.3 Employee stock options 316 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 301 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Information about the Company’s capital 6.1 Information about the Company’s capital 6.1.1 Share capital, par value of the shares Amount of fully subscribed and paid-up share capital at 31 December 2018: €686,618,477, divided into 686,618,477 shares with a par value of €1. 6.1.2 Historical changes in share capital Between 1987 and the legislative reform of 16 July 1992, CNP Assurances was a public industrial and commercial institution with no share capital within the meaning of the French Act of 24 July 1966. The changes in the capital of CNP Assurances since it became an insurance company limited by shares on 9 December 1992 are set out below: Aggregate Description of Number of par value of Net Total number Share Date the transactions new shares new shares premium of shares capital Initial capital Shares issued for cash 2,500 FRF 250,000 (1) n/a 2,500 FRF 250,000 23.11.1990 Shares issued in payment and 20.12.1991 for assets and paid up by capitalising debt 47,500 FRF 4,750,000 (1) n/a 50,000 FRF 5,000,000 01.01.1992 Shares issued in payment FRF 4,243,612,960 for assets acquired from (credited to reserve CNP EPIC 28,500,000 FRF 2,850,000,000 (1) accounts) 28,550,000 FRF 2,855,000,000 23.04.1993 Shares issued for cash 3,170,000 FRF 317,000,000 (1) FRF 538,900,000 31,720,000 FRF 3,172,000,000 27.10.1994 Four-for-one share split 95,160,000 n/a n/a 126,880,000 FRF 3,172,000,000 18.09.1998 Shares issued for cash 9,803,922 FRF 245,098,050 (2) FRF 1,254,902,016 136,683,922 FRF 3,417,098,050 15.12.2000 Employee rights issue 443,786 FRF 11,094,650 (2) FRF 67,620,016.78 137,127,708 FRF 3,428,192,700 01.01.2001 Capital increase paid up by capitalising reserves, carried out in connection with the conversion of the capital into euros n/a €25,886,223.98 (3) n/a 137,127,708 €548,510,832 21.06.2002 Employee rights issue 726,356 €2,905,424 (3) €17,105,683.80 137,854,064 €551,416,256 25.06.2004 Employee rights issue 731,402 €2,925,608 (3) €20,508,512.08 138,585,466 €554,341,864 22.12.2004 Employee rights issue 49,836 €199,344 (3) €1,678,476.48 138,635,302 €554,541,208 06.02.2007 Rights issue 9,902,521 €39,610,084 (3) €630,003,024.65 148,537,823 €594,151,292 06.07.2010 Four-for-one share split (4) n/a n/a n/a 549,151,292 €594,151,292 24.07.2012 2011 scrip dividends 49,348,883 €49,348,883 (4) €339,520,315.04 643,500,175 €643,500,175 28.05.2013 2012 scrip dividends 43,118,302 €43,118,302 (4) €395,826,012.36 686,618,477 €686,618,477 (1) Par value of FRF 100 (2) Par value of FRF 25 (3) Par value of €4 (4) Par value of €1 n/a: not applicable 302 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Information about the Company’s capital 6 6.1.3 Historical changes in ownership structure Date Percentage of CNP Assurances’ capital held directly or indirectly by employees 31.12.2002 1.26% 31.12.2003 Approximately 1.08% 31.12.2005 Approximately 1.15% 31.12.2006 Approximately 1.00% 31.12.2007 Approximately 0.58% 31.12.2008 0.60% 31.12.2009 0.37% 31.12.2010 0.36% 31.12.2011 0.35% 31.12.2012 0.33% 31.12.2013 0.29% 31.12.2014 0.23% 31.12.2015 0.27% 31.12.2016 0.21% 31.12.2017 0.20% 31.12.2018 0.20% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 303 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Information about the Company’s capital Percentage of CNP Assurances’ capital held directly or indirectly by the signatories of the Date Shareholders’ Agreement dated 2 September 1998 French State 2.24% 31.12.1998 Caisse des Dépôts 40.04% La Poste 20.00% CENCEP 12.50% 31.12.1999 French State 2.24% Caisse des Dépôts 40.04% La Poste 20.00% CENCEP 12.48% 31.12.2000 French State 1.73% Caisse des Dépôts 39.91% La Poste 19.93% CENCEP 12.45% 31.12.2001 French State 1.18% Caisse des Dépôts 36.88% Sopassure 35.87% 31.12.2002 French State 1.18% Caisse des Dépôts 36.88% Sopassure 35.87% 31.12.2003 French State 1.17% Caisse des Dépôts 36.69% Sopassure 35.68% 31.12.2004 French State 1.17% Caisse des Dépôts 36.49% Sopassure 35.48% 31.12.2005 French State 1.17% Caisse des Dépôts 36.49% Sopassure 35.48% 31.12.2006 French State 1.17% Caisse des Dépôts 36.49% Sopassure 35.48% 31.12.2007 French State 1.09% Caisse des Dépôts 40.00% Sopassure 35.48% Since 31.12.2014 French State 1.11% Caisse des Dépôts 40.87% Sopassure 36.25% 304 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Information about the Company’s ownership structure 6 6.2 Information about the Company’s ownership structure 6.2.1 Ownership structure 2016 financial year Number of shares: 686,618,477 Number of voting rights: 1,225,139,499 Shareholders Number of shares % share capital % voting rights (1) Caisse des Dépôts 280,615,940 40.87% 45.81% Sopassure (La Banque Postale and BPCE holding company) 248,926,986 36.25% 40.64% French State 7,645,754 1.11% 1.25% TOTAL SHARES HELD IN CONCERT (2) (3) 537,188,680 78.24% 87.69% Public, Company employees and other 149,429,797 21.76% 12.31% of which: CNP Assurances (treasury shares) 121,661 0.02% TOTAL CNP ASSURANCES SHARES 686,618,477 100.00% 100.00% (1) The difference between the percentage share capital and percentage voting rights corresponds to treasury shares that are stripped of voting rights and to the double voting rights awarded on 3 April 2016 (2) The concert shares are the result of the Shareholders’ Agreement, the main terms of which are outlined in section 6.2.2 of this Registration Document. A total of 82,231,488 CNP Assurances shares (including 42,956,024 held by Caisse des Dépôts, 38,105,074 by Sopassure and 1,170,390 by the French State) included in the total shares held in concert in the above table correspond to scrip dividends paid on 24 July 2012 and 28 May 2013. These shares are excluded from the definition of “pact shares” in the Shareholders’ Agreement signed on 2 September 1998 by the shareholders acting in concert. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no other shareholder owns more than 5% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights (3) The Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances issued their special report on related-party agreements and commitments on 23 March 2017 (see section 5.8 of the 2016 Registration Document) As allowed by law, all fully paid-up shares that had been registered in the name of the same shareholder for at least two years as of 2 April 2016 were given double voting rights. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 305 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Information about the Company’s ownership structure 2017 financial year Number of shares: 686,618,477 Number of voting rights: 1,224,983,856 Shareholders Number of shares % share capital % voting rights (1) Caisse des Dépôts 280,615,540 40.87% 45.82% Sopassure (La Banque Postale and BPCE holding company) 248,926,986 36.25% 40.64% French State 7,645,754 1.11% 1.25% TOTAL SHARES HELD IN CONCERT (2) (3) 537,188,280 78.24% 87.71% Public, Company employees and other 149,430,197 21.76% 12.29% of which: CNP Assurances (treasury shares) 143,695 0.02% TOTAL CNP ASSURANCES SHARES 686,618,477 100.00% 100.00% (1) The difference between the percentage share capital and percentage voting rights corresponds to treasury shares that are stripped of voting rights and to double voting rights (2) The concert shares are the result of the Shareholders’ Agreement, the main terms of which are outlined in section 6.2.2 of this Registration Document. A total of 82,231,488 CNP Assurances shares (including 42,956,024 held by Caisse des Dépôts, 38,105,074 by Sopassure and 1,170,390 by the French State) included in the total shares held in concert in the above table correspond to scrip dividends paid on 24 July 2012 and 28 May 2013. These shares are excluded from the definition of “pact shares” in the Shareholders’ Agreement signed on 2 September 1998 by the shareholders acting in concert To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no other shareholder owns more than 5% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights (3) The Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances issued their special report on related-party agreements and commitments on 12 March 2018 (see section 3.6 of the 2017 Registration Document) 2018 financial year Number of shares: 686,618,477 Number of voting rights: 1,224,235,192 Shareholders Number of shares % share capital % voting rights (1) Caisse des Dépôts 280,615,140 40.87% 45.84% Sopassure (La Banque Postale and BPCE holding company) 248,926,986 36.25% 40.67% French State: 7,645,754 1.11% 1.25% TOTAL SHARES HELD IN CONCERT (2) (3) 537,187,880 78.24% 87.76% Public, Company employees and other 149,430,597 21.76% 12.24% of which: CNP Assurances (treasury shares) 598,643 0.09% TOTAL CNP ASSURANCES SHARES 686,618,477 100.00% 100.00% (1) The difference between the percentage share capital and percentage voting rights corresponds to treasury shares that are stripped of voting rights and to double voting rights (2) The concert shares are the result of the Shareholders’ Agreement, the main terms of which are outlined in section 6.2.2 of this Registration Document. A total of 82,231,488 CNP Assurances shares (including 42,956,024 held by Caisse des Dépôts, 38,105,074 by Sopassure and 1,170,390 by the French State) included in the total shares held in concert in the above table correspond to scrip dividends paid on 24 July 2012 and 28 May 2013. These shares are excluded from the definition of “pact shares” in the Shareholders’ Agreement signed on 2 September 1998 by the shareholders acting in concert. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no other shareholder owns more than 5% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights (3) The Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances issued their special report on related-party agreements and commitments on 4 March 2019 (see section 3.6 of the 2018 Registration Document) 306 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Information about the Company’s ownership structure 6 6.2.2 Shareholders’ Agreement The Shareholders’ Agreement represents the decisive factor among those that would influence the outcome of a takeover bid listed in Article L.225‑37‑5 of the French Commercial Code. MAIN TERMS OF THE CNP ASSURANCES SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENT (1998‑2019) CNP Assurances – Quoted on the Eurolist compartment A – First listed on 6 October 1998 (The Shareholders’ Agreement and addenda described below were disclosed to and published by the French securities regulator – Conseil des marchés financiers/Autorité des Marchés Financiers) Signature date, duration of Signatories Main clauses concerning the agreement and addenda and % interest Main terms the capital Signing of the WW Caisse des Dépôts: 40% (1) WW Intention to remain WW Caisse des Dépôts and CNP Assurances WW Sopassure (LBP and BPCE): shareholders of the Company Sopassure have agreed not to Shareholders’ Agreement: 35.48% (1) over the long term and to purchase or sell any shares, by 2 September 1998 WW French State: 1% (1) implement a common policy; any method, if the transaction Initial term: five years, WW Agreement to consult each would result in either (i) Caisse automatically renewable other prior to all major des Dépôts or (ii) Sopassure, for two-year periods. decisions, such as proposed La Banque Postale and BPCE amendments to the Articles holding, directly or indirectly, A total of six addenda have of Association, capital a number of “pact shares” (2) been signed, on: projects excluding financial representing, respectively, WW 19 December 2000; investments or material over (i) 40% or (ii) 35.48% of WW 20 May 2003; debt issues, membership of CNP Assurances’ capital; WW 8 January 2007; the governance structures WW If any signatory (except for WW 9 July 2007; and, more generally, all the French State) wants to sell WW 27 July 2009; strategic decisions for any “pact shares”, the other WW 13 February 2017. CNP Assurances; signatories have a pre-emptive WW Allocation of seats on the right to purchase them; Board of Directors: WW The process for exercising this WW one director recommended pre-emptive right must comply by the French State, with the legal rules specific to WW six directors recommended these shareholders; by Caisse des Dépôts, WW In the case of a takeover bid, WW five directors the signatories may tender all recommended or some of their shares to the by Sopassure, offer, provided that at least 61% of CNP Assurances’ WW two directors representing capital remains in the hands employees (since of public sector shareholders. February 2017), WW four independent directors, WW one director recommended jointly by the agreement’s signatories. (1) The percentages indicated do not include shares issued to pay scrip dividends (2) At 31 December 2018, 82,231,488 CNP Assurances shares (including 42,956,024 held by Caisse des Dépôts, 38,105,074 by Sopassure and 1,170,390 by the French State) correspond to scrip dividends paid on 24 July 2012 and 28 May 2013. These shares are excluded from the definition of “pact shares” in the Shareholders’ Agreement signed on 2 September 1998 by the shareholders acting in concert In the first half of 2017, the Shareholders’ Agreement was automatically renewed for a further two-year period ending 31 December 2019. Certain agreements entered into by CNP Assurances contain a change in control clause that may lead to their early termination or modification, including bancassurance agreements, such as those concluded with Caixa for Brazil, UniCredit for Italy and Banco Santander for some European countries. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 307 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Listing of CNP Assurances shares 6.3 Listing of CNP Assurances shares CNP Assurances was floated on the Paris Stock Exchange on 6 October 1998. The shares admitted to trading on NYSE Euronext Paris, in compartment A (ISIN FR0000120222). TRANSACTIONS CARRIED OUT ON CNP ASSURANCES SHARES OVER THE LAST 24 MONTHS (SOURCE: BLOOMBERG) Trading volume (1) Low (2) High (2) (In number of traded shares) (In €/share) (In €/share) 2017 January 7,947,096 17.130 18.065 February 10,156,356 17.245 18.485 March 12,008,177 17.480 19.250 April 9,186,836 17.600 19.390 May 10,048,476 18.455 20.435 June 9,088,042 19.300 20.435 July 7,462,855 19.675 20.925 August 8,176,382 19.160 21.380 September 6,775,313 18.685 19.845 October 6,332,066 19.575 20.300 November 8,328,782 18.335 20.240 December 7,317,209 18.350 19.590 2018 January 7,871,127 19.020 20.860 February 9,487,587 19.540 21.400 March 10,510,583 19.350 21.040 April 7,834,977 20.300 21.620 May 9,289,042 19.690 21.400 June 10,951,471 19.120 20.440 July 7,024,887 18.410 20.060 August 7,724,140 19.720 20.440 September 8,314,332 19.220 21.100 October 8,593,981 18.800 20.820 November 8,079,848 19.490 20.700 December 7,871,095 17.980 20.420 (1) Monthly volume of traded shares on Euronext Paris (2) Intraday lows and highs 308 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Dividends and dividend policy 6 6.4 Dividends and dividend policy 6.4.1 Appropriation and distribution of profit (Article 28 of the Articles of Association) “Net income for the financial year, less overheads and other It may also decide, on the recommendation of the Board of corporate expenses, depreciation and amortisation of assets and Directors, to distribute all or part of the profit in the form of all contingency provisions, forms net profit. dividends. 3. The General Meeting may decide to grant each shareholder 1. Distributable profit consists of profit for the financial year, less an option to receive all or part of the dividend or any interim prior losses and amounts appropriated to reserves pursuant to dividend in cash or in shares. the law and the Articles of Association, plus retained earnings brought forward from the prior year. 4. The terms and conditions of payment of the dividends voted by the General Meeting are set by the General Meeting or, 2. On the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the failing this, by the Board of Directors. Ordinary General Meeting may decide to allocate any amounts it considers appropriate to retained earnings or to Nevertheless, dividend payments must be made within a one or more extraordinary, general or special reserve funds. maximum period of nine months after the balance sheet date. They may be allocated in any manner decided by the General An extension of this period may be granted by court decision”. Meeting, on the recommendation of the Board of Directors. 6.4.2 Dividend record Dividends paid by CNP Assurances for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 were as follows: Year of distribution 2015 2016 2017 2018 Consolidated earnings per share €1.54 €1.64 €1.80 €1.92 Dividend per share €0.77 €0.80 €0.84 €0.89 * Number of shares with dividend rights 686,618,477 686,618,477 686,618,477 686,618,477 * Subject to the decision of the General Meeting of 18 April 2019 Dividends not claimed within five years are statute-barred and are paid over to the French State. 6.4.3 Dividend policy At its meeting on 20 February 2019, the Board of Directors The Company’s priority aim is to match or increase the dividend approved the following dividend policy: per share from year to year. CNP Assurances also aims to maintain a payout ratio – defined as the ratio between the “The Company’s dividend policy is determined by the Board of dividend per share and earnings per share – of between 40% Directors after reviewing the Group’s results, financial position and 50%”. and solvency ratios, the economic environment and any other factors that are considered relevant. When determining its This dividend policy may change in the future. Dividends are dividend recommendation, the Board of Directors takes into decided by the Board of Directors and by the shareholders in consideration the need to prudently manage the Group’s capital, General Meeting. the investments required to develop the business, and the recommended dividend’s attractiveness for shareholders. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 309 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Delegations of competence and financial authorisations 6.5 Delegations of competence and financial authorisations 6.5.1 Delegation of competence given to the Board of Directors to issue shares 21st, 22nd and 23rd resolutions adopted by the Annual General Meeting of 27 April 2018. Expires: 27 June 2020. 6.5.2 Delegation of competence given to the Board of Directors to grant shares 24th resolution of the Annual General Meeting of 27 April 2018. Expires: 27 June 2021. 6.5.3 Summary table of the delegations of competence granted by the Annual General Meeting to the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances PERIOD OF VALIDITY AND USE IN 2017 AND 2018 Type of authorisation Purpose Duration Ceiling Use in 2017 and 2018 Rights issue Issue of ordinary Granted by the AGM of €50,000,000 None shares with pre-emptive 13 April 2017 (21st resolution) (par value) subscription rights Duration: 26 months Expires: 13 June 2019 Granted by the AGM of €137.324 million None 27 April 2018 (21st resolution) (par value) Duration: 26 months Included in the Expires: 27 June 2020 blanket ceiling for share issues of €137.324 million (par value) Issue of Granted by the AGM of Annual ceiling of None deeply‑subordinated 27 April 2018 (22nd resolution) 10% of share capital contingent convertible Duration: 26 months (as determined when bonds without pre‑emptive Expires: 27 June 2020 the authorisation is subscription rights used) Included in the blanket ceiling for share issues of €137.324 million (par value) 310 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Delegations of competence and financial authorisations 6 Type of authorisation Purpose Duration Ceiling Use in 2017 and 2018 Share buyback Buy and sell Granted by the AGM of programme CNP Assurances shares 13 April 2017 (20th resolution) Expires: AGM called to approve the 2017 financial statements Duration: 18 months At 31 December 2018, Expires: 13 October 2018 10% of share capital 598,643 shares Granted by the AGM of outstanding at the were held in treasury 27 April 2018 (20th resolution) date of the AGM (0.09% of share Expires at the AGM called to capital) approve the 2018 financial statements Duration: 18 months Expires: 27 October 2019 Employee rights Issue of shares to members Granted by the AGM 3% of share capital None issues, stock of a Company or Group of 27 April 2018 (23rd resolution) outstanding when the options, share employee share ownership Duration: 26 months authorisation is used grants * plan without pre-emptive Expires: 27 June 2020 Included in the subscription rights for blanket ceiling existing shareholders for share issues of €137.324 million (par value) Employee share grants Granted by the AGM of None 6 May 2015 (11th resolution) Duration: 38 months Annual ceiling of Expires: 6 July 2018 0.5% of share capital (as determined when Granted by the AGM the authorisation is None of 27 April 2018 (24th resolution) used) Duration: 38 months Expires: 27 June 2021 * As of 31 December 2018, employees held 0.20% of the Company’s capital, directly and indirectly FOR THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR: PROPOSAL SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF 18 APRIL 2019 Type of authorisation Purpose Duration Ceiling Share buyback Buy and sell 22nd resolution 10% of share capital outstanding programme CNP Assurances shares Expires at the AGM called to at the date of the AGM approve the 2019 financial statements Duration: 18 months Expires: 18 October 2020 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 311 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Delegations of competence and financial authorisations 6.5.4 Transactions carried out in 2018 under the share buyback programme authorised by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of 27 April 2018 The Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2017 renewed the share buyback programme in place since the IPO. 6.5.4.1 Share purchases and sales The Company purchased (between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018) 6,245,463 of its own shares at an average price of €19.94, and sold 5,790,515 treasury shares for an average price of €20.08. FROM 1 JANUARY 2018 TO 31 DECEMBER 2018 Aggregate gross amounts Open positions on the day the prospectus was filed Purchases Sales Open buy positions Open sell positions Call options Put options Call options Put options Number of shares 6,245,463 5,790,515 purchased sold Futures purchased sold Futures Maximum average maturity None None None None None None None None Average transaction price (in €) 19.94 20.08 Average exercise price None None None None None None None None Total (in €) 124,529,694 116,284,620 SUMMARY Treasury share transactions in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 Percentage of issued capital held by the Company, directly and indirectly 0.09% Number of shares cancelled in the past 24 months None Number of shares held in treasury as of 31 December 2018 598,643 Carrying amount €11,341,844 Market value * € 11,086,868 * At closing price on 31 December 2018: €18.52 6.5.4.2 Purpose of the transactions 6.5.4.3 Cancelled shares All of the purchases and sales consisted of market-making No shares were cancelled. transactions carried out by an investment services provider. No shares were bought back for allocation to any of the other target categories in the 2018 share buyback programme. All of the shares held as of 31 December 2018 were allocated to maintaining a liquid market in the Company’s shares. 312 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Delegations of competence and financial authorisations 6 6.5.5 Authorisation to implement a share buyback programme The terms of the 22nd resolution presented at the Annual General —— for cancellation in accordance with the law, provided Meeting of 18 April 2019 are as follows: that an authorisation to reduce the capital is given by the Extraordinary General Meeting, Having considered the Board of Directors’ report on the proposed resolutions and (i) Articles L.225‑209 et seq. of the French —— that the maximum purchase price per share shall not Commercial Code, (ii) the General Regulations of the Autorité exceed €26, excluding transaction costs, des Marchés Financiers (AMF), particularly Articles 241‑1 —— that the Board of Directors may adjust the above maximum to 241‑7 concerning the market practices allowed by the AMF, purchase price in the case of a change in the shares’ (iii) Articles 5 and 13 of the European Market Abuse Regulation par value, a bonus share issue paid up by capitalising dated 16 April 2014, and (iv) the European Commission additional paid-in capital, profits or reserves, a share split Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1052, the Ordinary General or reverse share split, a capital reduction, a distribution of Meeting, deliberating in accordance with the quorum and reserves or other assets or any other corporate action, to majority requirements, resolves: take into account the effect of said action on the value of the shares, 1. to cancel, with immediate effect, the unused portion of the —— that the maximum amount invested in the share buyback authorisation for the same purpose given in the 20th resolution programme shall not exceed €1.785 billion, of the Annual General Meeting of 27 April 2018; —— that the shares may be bought back on one or several 2. to adopt the programme described below and, for this occasions by any method, subject to compliance with purpose, resolves: the rules set out in the AMF’s position/recommendation —— to authorise the Board of Directors (which may DOC-2017‑04. The buyback programme may be carried delegate this authorisation in accordance with out in whole or in part through on-market transactions or Articles L.225‑209 et seq. of the French Commercial block trades and, where applicable, through off-market Code) to buy back CNP Assurances shares representing transactions or the use of options or derivatives other than up to 10% of the capital, or up to 5% of the capital for written puts, in the periods that the Board of Directors shares bought back for the purpose of being held and considers appropriate subject to the limits set in the delivered at a future date in payment or exchange for applicable securities regulations. The shares bought back shares of another company in a merger, demerger or asset pursuant to this authorisation may be retained, sold or contribution, transferred in accordance with the applicable regulations, —— that the shares may be bought back for the following by all methods including through block trades, at any time, purposes: —— to give full powers to the Board of Directors (which may —— to maintain a liquid market in the Company’s shares, delegate such powers) to complete these transactions, to under a liquidity contract entered into with an set their terms and conditions, and in particular to: independent investment services firm, in accordance —— enter into, amend and/or prolong a liquidity contract, with the AMF decision 2018‑01 dated 2 July 2018 —— place buy and sell orders onor off-market, “AMF establishes liquidity contracts on shares as an —— adjust the buyback price of the shares in order to accepted market practice”, take into account the impact of the above-mentioned —— to hold shares for subsequent delivery in payment or transactions on the share price, exchange in connection with an acquisition, merger, —— enter into any and all agreements, in particular with a demerger or asset contribution initiated by the view to keeping registers of share purchases and sales, Company, —— prepare all documents and make all disclosures and —— to grant or sell shares to eligible employees of the filings with the AMF and any other organisation, Company or related companies in the CNP Assurances —— carry out any and all publication and other formalities, Group, on the basis and by the method provided for by law, including under a share grant plan within and, the scope of Articles L.225‑197‑1 et seq. of the —— generally, do whatever is necessar y to use this French Commercial Code, or under an employee authorisation, profit‑sharing, employee share ownership or employee —— that this authorisation shall be given for a period savings plan, ending at the Annual General Meeting to be called to —— to allocate shares upon exercise of rights attached to approve the financial statements for the year ending securities convertible, redeemable, exchangeable or 31 December 2019 or for 18 months, whichever is otherwise exercisable for CNP Assurances shares, shorter, 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 313 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Delegations of competence and financial authorisations —— that this authorisation will be suspended as from the date In accordance with Article L.225‑211, paragraph 2 of the on which a third party files a proposed public tender offer French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors will report to for CNP Assurances, until the end of the offer period. the Annual General Meeting on transactions carried out pursuant to this authorisation. 6.5.6 Authorisation to issue and buy back bonds, notes or other debt securities The Board of Directors’ decision made at the meeting of —— with the possibility to sub-delegate, generally do whatever 20 February 2019 is reproduced below: is useful or necessary, including signing any agreements and fulfilling all formalities required to finalise the issues. WW according to Article L.228‑40 of the French Commercial This authorisation is given for a period of one year; Code, the Board of Directors has the authority to decide or authorise the issue of bonds, unless the Articles of Association WW the Board also authorises, as necessary, the Chief Executive reserve this power for the General Meeting or unless the Officer and the second executive in effective command, acting General Meeting decides to exercise it. singly or jointly, to buy back, on one or more occasions, at the prices and according to terms and conditions that they As none of the provisions of the Articles of Association of shall determine, without the possibility to sub-delegate, bonds CNP Assurances reserve this power for the General Meeting, or similar securities issued by the Company, to be held or the Board of Directors may, pursuant to the above article of cancelled, in accordance with contractual provisions and the the Commercial Code, delegate to any person of its choice applicable laws and regulations, and, with the possibility to the necessary powers to issue bonds, within one year, and set sub-delegate, generally do whatever is useful or necessary, the terms and conditions thereof. including signing any agreements and fulfilling all formalities The Board of Directors authorises the Chief Executive Officer required to finalise the issues. and the second executive in effective command, under the The maximum nominal amount of securities bought back conditions provided for by law, to issue, on one or more pursuant to this authorisation may not exceed one billion euros occasions, bonds or similar securities (where applicable (€1,000,000,000) or the equivalent of this amount in foreign within the scope of an EMTN programme), either in France currency or any other unit of account determined by reference or another country. The securities may be subordinated or to a basket of currencies. unsubordinated, dated or undated, and may pay interest at This authorisation is given for a period of one year; a fixed or variable rate (or any other form of remuneration, WW the Board also authorises, as necessary, the Chief Executive including an indexed rate), or any other notes and/or debt Officer the second executive in effective command, acting securities. singly or jointly, to establish or unwind, on one or several The maximum nominal amount of the bonds or other debt occasions, hedging positions on bonds or notes issued securities issued under this authorisation may not exceed or to be issued by CNP Assurances, in the form of swaps, one billion, five hundred million euros (€1,500,000,000) or including but not limited to currency swaps that convert the the equivalent of this amount in foreign currency or in any interest and principal into euros (currency swaps) and interest other unit of account established by reference to a basket of rate swaps involving the exchange of interest streams (interest currencies. rate swaps). The aggregate notional amount of the positions Full powers are given to the Chief Executive Officer and to the may not exceed one billion, five hundred million euros second executive in effective command, under the conditions (€1,500,000,000) or the equivalent in foreign currencies. provided for by law and for the maximum amount of the This authorisation is given for a period of one year. authorisation set above, to act singly or jointly, in order to: —— decide, without the possibility to sub-delegate, on the nature, forms, terms and conditions of the issues; and, 314 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Additional information about the Company’s capital 6 6.6 Additional information about the Company’s capital 6.6.1 Guarantees and endorsements See Note 26 “Commitments given and received” of Chapter 5 “Consolidated financial statements”. 6.6.2 Discretionary and statutory profit-sharing plans Discretionary profit-sharing plans The amounts awarded to employees under discretionary profit-sharing plans are based on collective performance objectives. The Company does not make any matching payment under these plans. AMOUNTS AWARDED TO EMPLOYEES OF CNP ASSURANCES UNDER DISCRETIONARY PROFIT-SHARING PLANS OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS: Total discretionary Number Year profit-sharing of recipients 2014 €7,161,671.17* 3,175 2015 €6,494,775.25 3,129 2016 €7,768,293.58* 3,144 2017 €7,033,436.17 3,092 2018 €6,908,363.81 2,999 * Data adjusted to include the additional profit share Statutory profit-sharing plan account generating interest at 5% per year (from 1 June of the payment year) or in an employee share ownership plan (PEG) The CNP Assurances Group statutory profit-sharing agreement or pension savings plan (PERCO), both of which are managed was signed on 17 May 2000 and was implemented retroactively by Inter Expansion-Fongépar. Funds paid into a blocked current from 1 January 1999. The amount recorded in the special profitaccount or the employee share ownership plan, are blocked for sharing reserve is allocated among eligible employees (i.e., five years. Funds paid into a PERCO pension savings plan are employees with at least three months’ service at 31 December blocked until the employee concerned retires and are fully exempt of the reference year) based on the period worked during the from tax. Early withdrawals are allowed by law only in certain reference year and their gross salaries. specific circumstances, but employees may apply at any time If it is not paid out immediately, the net profit share attributable within the five-year lock-up period to transfer the entire amount of to each eligible employee is either held in a blocked current funds held in the blocked current account to the PEG employee share ownership plan. Total statutory Number Year profit-sharing of recipients 2014 €17,151,466.00 2,995 2015 €17,960,483.00 2,994 2016 €19,541,409.00 3,011 2017 €20,946,469.00 2,967 2018 €22,683,460.00 2,892 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 315 6 S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure Additional information about the Company’s capital 6.6.3 Employee stock options Not applicable. 316 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES S h are ca p ita l and o w ners h i p structure 6 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 317 318 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 7 C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILITY Non-Financial Information Statement: paragraphs 7.1 to 7.5 7.1 A MULTI-PARTNER AND MULTI7.5 METHOLODOGY350 CHANNEL BUSINESS MODEL 320 7.5.1 Risk and exclusion analysis 350 7.5.2 CSR data collection process 350 7.2 A CSR STRATEGY THAT IS 7.5.3 Methodology for developing CONTINUALLY UPDATED the business model 351 TO KEEP IT AMBITIOUS AND RELEVANT 320 7.6 REPORT BY THE INDEPENDENT 7.2.1 A history of CSR commitment 320 THIRD PARTY ON THE 7.2.2 Strong CSR commitments that are CONSOLIDATED NONaligned with the United Nations FINANCIAL STATEMENT Sustainable Development Goals 321 INCLUDED IN THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT352 7.3 CHALLENGES FOR PROMOTING A SUSTAINABLE ANNEX – ADDITIONAL LABOUR, SOCIETY, ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMY 322 INFORMATION355 1. Components of the CSR approach 355 7.4 A MEASURE OF CSR 2. Complementary actions related PERFORMANCE349 to the Group’s CSR commitments 357 3. Methodological note on the annex for labour, social and environmental information372 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 319 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y A multi-partner and multi-channel business model 7.1 A multi-partner and multi-channel business model This section is presented in chapter 1.2 of the Registration Document. 7.2 A CSR strategy that is continually updated to keep it ambitious and relevant This report sets out CNP Assurances’ CSR approach by looking The indicators associated with the main CSR risks and at its main challenges. It contains examples of initiatives carried opportunities identified as relevant for CNP Assurances during out throughout the Group, and was drafted in accordance with an analysis carried out in 2018 (see 7.3) were the subject of the provisions of Order 2017‑1180 of 19 July 2017 and the detailed testing (identified by a ). Other required items, such Decree of 9 August 2017 (transposition of directive 2014/95/EU), as the presentation of the business model (see 7.1) and the which set out the content and scope of the new Non-Financial methodology used to identify CSR risks and opportunities together Information Statement. with the policies in place to manage them, were also subject to checks. An independent third party undertook work to verify: WW the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of Committed to CSR, CNP Assurances has been part of many Article R.225‑105 of the French Commercial Code; national and international initiatives for over 15 years. WW the fairness of the information provided pursuant to paragraph 3 sections I and II of Article R.225‑105 of the French Commercial Code, namely the results of policies including key performance indicators and initiatives relating to the main risks. 7.2.1 A history of CSR commitment Since its creation, CNP Assurances has been committed to As a responsible insurer and investor, CNP Assurances also upholding human rights and citizens’ rights as defined in the joined the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Universal Declaration of Human Rights. More specifically, it (PRI) in 2011. Four years later, Caixa Seguradora also signed has consistently complied with the principles of the International the United Nations Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). Labour Organization and the national labour laws of each of its Over the last four years, CNP Assurances has made compelling host countries. In pledging to uphold the United Nations Global commitments in favour of Energy and Ecological Transition and Compact in 2003, we reaffirmed our commitment to respecting the fight against global warming. A signatory of the Montreal these fundamental principles, and to combating corruption and Carbon Pledge, it published the carbon footprint of its portfolio protecting the environment. CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros, of directly held listed equities in December 2015, and undertook the Caixa Seguradora group and CNP UniCredit Vita have also to reduce it. pledged to uphold the Global Compact. The most recent to follow was CNP Partners in 2018. 320 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y A CSR strategy that is continually updated to keep it ambitious and relevant 7 T H E T E N P R I N C I PL E S O F T H E G L O B A L C O M PA C T Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 7.2.2 Strong CSR commitments that are aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals This long-standing and active involvement is an integral part of the Group’s CSR approach. It is built around three compelling commitments in line with the Company’s strategy: Contribute to a Contribute to a sustainable Contribute to a sustainable society environment sustainable economy Combat inequalities by avoiding Optimise the environmental Be a responsible investor. financial exclusion and through pooling. footprint of the Group’s internal Be a responsible purchaser. workings. Better satisfy policyholders Gear our customer relationship Ensure good business ethics. towards a low-carbon Implement a responsible HR policy. economy through products and Develop social initiatives in the field. investments. To respond effectively to current and future environmental and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) set by the UN for social challenges, CNP Assurances seeks to align its interests 2015‑2030, and more specifically six of them: with those of society by contributing to the transition to a carbonWW reduced inequalities (No. 10); free and inclusive economy. Its investment policy aims to foster WW good health and well-being (No. 3); sustainable economic growth, particularly through its commitment WW decent work and economic growth (No. 8); to France’s Energy and Ecological Transition (TEE) Act, while its WW responsible consumption and production (No. 12); insurance guarantees contribute to the fight against financial exclusion. This is how CNP Assurances contributes to achieving WW climate action (No. 13); WW peace, justice and effective institutions (No. 16). 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 321 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7.3 Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy CNP Assurances’ CSR strategy and practices are regularly 1. Starting from a generic CSR risk universe built around informed by changes in regulatory, social and societal contexts. international standards and benchmarks, a limited universe was defined, consistent with the Group’s business sector, CNP Assurances is publishing this Non-Financial Information geographical location and challenges. This involved Statement, in which it sets out its CSR risks and challenges, interviews with several departments (Risk, Human Resources, following the transposition of the European directive on nonCompliance, Asset Management, etc.) and subsidiaries. financial reporting. 2. Each CSR risk was then rated based on two criteria: the level The policies and action plans associated with each of these risks of severity (for CNP Assurances’ activities, employees or and challenges dovetail with regulations implemented in recent policyholders), and the probability of occurrence. years, including Article 173 of France’s law on Energy Transition 3. CNP Assurances’ CSR risks were subsequently prioritised on the for Green Growth, the French Transparency, Anti-corruption and basis of the various “severity-probability of occurrence” pairs. Economic modernisation bill (also known as Sapin II), and the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Packaged This analysis resulted in the identification of 11 main risks in Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulation or eight challenges as priorities for the Group, its business, its “PRIIPS”. employees, its customers and, more generally, its stakeholders: 1. Keep pace with social and societal developments. The analysis also incorporates a dynamic dimension to anticipate 2. Make ESG and climate challenges part of investment risks and challenges that may be material in the short, medium processes. or long term. Digitisation, increasing life expectancy, new consumption patterns and climate change are changing the 3. Transform services rendered to policyholders via digital profession of personal insurer. That is why CNP Assurances strives technology. for agility to preserve the lasting success and resilience of its 4. Commit to customer satisfaction. business model. 5. Ensure good business ethics. 6. Protect the personal data of policyholders and employees. The risk analysis methodology was based on three defining steps to which CNP Assurances’ stakeholders contributed and on 7. Attract and develop talent, develop skills. which they were consulted: 8. Undertake to offer favourable working conditions. 322 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 The risks associated with these challenges are presented below; the policies and actions implemented by CNP Assurances are described in detail following this overview: Challenge Main risks identified Keep pace with WW Failure to match insurance products and services with the consequences of longer life expectancy and social and societal to provide support for policyholders with health problems: the personal insurance business involves developments taking social and societal developments into account and monitoring them. Longer life expectancy and the increasing prevalence of chronic diseases have repercussions on the daily lives of policyholders and their relatives, such as dependence. Our inability to match insurance products and support services with these changes would represent a risk in terms of both market positioning and policyholder satisfaction. Make ESG and WW Risk of non-existent or inadequate integration of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and climate challenges climate challenges in investment decisions: the non-existent or inadequate integration of ESG and climate part of the investment challenges would pose a risk by undermining our capacity to take a long-term approach to assets, and more processes specifically those exposed to climate risks (physical and transition risks). Transform services WW Non-optimal use of digital technology in services provided to policyholders: non-optimal use of this rendered to growth driver in the services provided to policyholders could jeopardise new markets and business and the policyholders via capacity to satisfy our customers. digital technology Commit to customer WW Inability to maintain and improve customer satisfaction: failure to place a central focus on customer satisfaction satisfaction and to maintain a relationship of trust and proximity could undermine the Group’s value creation. WW Lack of product transparency with customers: the products offered by the Group and the contractual and marketing documents presented to customers must be legally watertight and provide policyholders with clear information about the content and scope of the purchased cover or the insurance proposal. WW Moreover, it is particularly important to provide customers with the best, clearest and most transparent information at a time of increasing digitisation. Lack of transparency with customers in relation to products could result in regulatory risk, and may also hamper the proper implementation of the Group’s strategy. Ensure good WW Corruption and conflict of interest in relationships with third parties and fraud, money laundering and business ethics terrorist financing: in view of regulatory developments, the risks associated with the themes of corruption or conflicts of interest in the context of relationships with third parties could result in significant fines and criminal prosecution (regulatory risk). They could also undermine the brand image. Protect the personal WW Failure to protect personal data: in view of recent regulatory developments, particularly within the European data of policyholders Union, regulatory risk resulting from a lack of protection of policyholders’ personal data resulting in data and employees breaches could result in significant fines and undermine the brand image. Attract and develop WW Lack of attractiveness and inability to retain talent, unsuitability of employees’ skills with the needs talent, develop skills of the various business lines as they transform and develop: inability to attract, retain and grow talents would pose a risk to the Group’s growth at a time when the profession of personal insurer is undergoing profound change. Undertake to offer WW Non-compliance with regulatory requirements and commitments regarding equal opportunity and favourable working discrimination: alleged and proven workplace harassment and discrimination constitute a risk that could conditions result in fines, litigation and damage to the employer brand. WW Non-compliance with regulations and commitments in relation to the well-being and health of employees: failure to comply with the regulations on the work-life balance and health protection poses not only a legal risk, but could also be a reputational risk for CNP Assurances’ employer brand. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 323 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 1 : K E E P PA C E W I T H S O C I A L A N D S O C I E TA L D E V E L O P M E N T S Failure to match insurance products and services with the consequences of longer life expectancy and to provide support for policyholders with health problems At CNP Assurances, we are stepping up our strategic on public finances, not to mention the finances of employers diversification, in terms of partnerships and product mix, and employees, we set up a dedicated Social Protection and and also in terms of geographic reach in Europe and Latin Services business unit in 2014. America. It offers a wide range of personal insurance, customer The Group continues to actively refocus its Savings/Pensions relationship management, service, assistance and support mix on unit-linked contracts, as illustrated in its net inflow solutions through companies, local authorities, employee structure. Diversification of the product mix has been reinforced benefits institutions and mutual insurers (covering the public over the last two years by the conclusion of new partnerships sector, multiple industries, self-employed people and veterans). with AG2R La Mondiale, Klésia and Malakoff Médéric Because the challenges related to increasing life expectancy Humanis in France. and care for people with health problems, such as CNP Assurances has been a benchmark in the personal dependence or loss of autonomy, have major repercussions protection market in France for many years and has on the daily lives of policyholders and their families, established solid relations with many of the market players. CNP Assurances’ prime strategic objective is to continually To respond more effectively to the challenges created by improve its offerings. increasing life expectancy, the greater prevalence of chronic It seeks to properly understand the current and future needs diseases, changes in the pension system, the introduction of its customers, and to develop insurance products, support of new rules governing supplementary social protection services and prevention initiatives that take these challenges insurance and the impact of the current economic environment into account. Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Number of people covered by personal risk/protection insurance (1) 38 million 37 million Group Dependency market share (2) 7% in individual 9% in individual (prior-year data) insurance insurance CNP Assurances Term creditor insurance refusal rate 0.2% 0.2% CNP Assurances Number of customers receiving services from the Âge d’Or network 38,000 41,000 Âge d’Or Number of Lyfe distributors 7 13 CNP Assurances Number of beneficiaries to whom Filassistance services are offered Over 7 million Over 8 million CNP Assurances (1) Personal, health, creditor and property and casualty insurance, estimates based partly on the number of contracts under management (2) “Personal insurance plans in 2017”, published by the French Insurance Federation (FFA) in June 2018 324 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 STUDY OF POLICYHOLDERS’ CURRENT AND FUTURE NEEDS IN THE LIGHT OF SOCIETAL DEVELOPMENTS To remain attune with its stakeholders, and above all its policyholders, CNP Assurances and its main subsidiaries regularly conduct qualitative and quantitative studies to anticipate the consequences of social and demographic developments for its personal insurance business. Since 2017, CNP Assurances has had a digital platform open 24/7. Known as the “You and Us” community, it allows exchanges with 300 active members on the uses and expectations of different generations (Y, X, and baby boomers). It is a forum for listening and co-creation in order to identify emerging trends that reflect societal development. More recently, CNP Assurances launched an Innovation Lab with partners of CNP Patrimoine: after a very positive first experience in 2018, several of the Company’s partners and employees will be regularly called on in a “co-construction approach” to new products and services. Dependence and the extension of life Targeted assistance and prevention services expectancy, two themes central to our thinking offering genuine support for policyholders To address the issues relating to increasing life expectancy and Making life-long support for policyholders its mission, in 2003 better grasp the impact of ageing and generational segmentation CNP Assurances pioneered the integration of targeted assistance on society, France’s social security system and CNP Assurances and prevention services in life insurance and long-term care launched a think tank open to partners and civil society with insurance contracts. Three examples illustrate this approach: start-up The Boson Project in 2017. A white paper, “Fracturing WW Filassistance International: 66% owned by CNP Assurances and new horizons: redrawing solidarity in France” transcribed within the Assuristance group, Filassistance International the lessons drawn from thinking conducted throughout the year. is also continuing to develop its range of local personal This listening approach is also reflected in the initiative launched assistance services. More than 8 million people currently in 2018 by the Ametis network, which now systematically enjoy this offering, which includes an extensive range of associates customers with change in its offers and services. assistance, from the most mainstream to the most innovative, Customers contributed to work on the names given to advisory combining new information and communication technologies professions and how best to tackle dependency. with Filassistance International’s expertise and strategic focus on human relations. This is a practical example A Dependency Committee has been created within the Social of Filassistance International’s role as a “life facilitator”, Protection and Services Business Unit, and its dual objective will harnessing a network of 10,000 service providers selected be to renew and enrich the Dependency range with services that for their efficiency, skills and sense of welcome. An in-house meet the needs of the policyholders covered by these contracts. medico-psycho-social team comprising psychologists, social The Dependency Committee is also able to draw on the work workers and doctors provides comprehensive care to members and thinking carried out as part of the Quinqua+ project. calling on their services. Filassistance also offers insurance Launched in 2017 and continued in 2018, Quinqua+ aims to against cardiovascular risks and the loss of autonomy, not conduct thinking on a range of products for people over the age to mention listening and support services for carers and of 50 by identifying their needs and expectations upstream. It for people with long-term illnesses or cancer. To support has ushered in a new way of imagining and designing products initiatives that encourage the integration of people with in the Company. disabilities, Filassistance International has for several years been committed to Mutuelle Intégrance’s Handicap & Société Lastly, as part of the October 2018 launch of the national “old Fund. The Handicap & Société endowment fund aims to foster age and autonomy” debate and shared input process launched and develop dialogue between disability associations and all by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, CNP Assurances is social, economic and political partners. It is a benchmark in taking part in work alongside the French Federation of Mutual terms of thinking and proposals on disability, dependence, Insurance Companies (FNMF), the French Insurance Federation autonomy and chronic diseases, etc. (FFA) and Caisse des Dépôts. Lastly, Filassistance International continued to digitise its offerings by creating, developing and promoting digital sites for its partners. These sites use simple and clear language that enable policyholders to discover the services to which they are entitled in just a few clicks, bringing them greater transparency and clearer information on their contracts; 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 325 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy WW Âge d’Or Services: the personal services subsidiary for CNP Assurances has also been involved in the implementation dependent seniors acquired by CNP Assurances in 2001, is of the revised AERAS Convention to incorporate the provisions of expanding its network. In 2018, Âge d’Or’s network of 123 the January 2016 French Health Act on the right to be forgotten. agencies and 1,650 carers assisted some 41,000 clients 2016 marked a decisive turning point for cancer patients, with (elderly, disabled and people requiring long-term care) in their the legal recognition of a “right to be forgotten” and the adoption home or in institutions. In 2018, CNP Assurances’ governing by professional bodies of a grid standardising the conditions bodies approved the aim of making this subsidiary more governing their access to insurance. These new schemes should robust and more efficient, and adapting its services to the under certain conditions avoid their having to declare in the needs of an ageing population. A transformation plan was future an old disease that has since been cured, thereby saving subsequently adopted at the end of the year; them from higher premiums or exclusions. As such, when taking WW Lyfe: the Lyfe digital platform offers health and well-being out creditor insurance, former cancer patients are covered in and ageing services geared towards facilitating access accordance with the general conditions of the contract, without to healthcare (access to information, geographical and being imposed a higher rate or being excluded, five years after economic access). Its aim is to develop a new vision of the end of the treatment protocol for cancers diagnosed in people personal insurance as a companion of daily life. Designed aged under 18, and ten years after the end of the treatment for participants in benefits schemes set up by partner mutual protocol for other cancers. Health questionnaires have been insurers, employee benefits institutions and companies, Lyfe modified so as to draw the attention of customers to this scheme. proposes an innovative set of complementary services for Moreover, CNP Assurances applies a reference grid allowing health insurance and death/disability insurance products, it to bring the rates offered to people having been affected by and also adds to the assistance services offering. The aim is certain diseases, including cancer, closer to the standard rate, to communicate more interactively with customers and provide and is working with other insurance companies to draw up a users with lifelong support at their place of work, at home new, extended version. or during a hospital stay, for example, through services in The Caixa Seguradora group offers a product including a the areas of prevention, coaching, access to professional regular health check-up, with an annual preventive visit to a healthcare and care for carers. gynaecologist belonging to an accredited network present in the main capitals of the Brazilian states. A universal service offering that can be adapted to individual health risks Prevention campaigns to raise widespread CNP Assurances draws on its exceptional understanding of awareness risks, acquired over its many years of experience in personal Contributing to a sustainable society, one of CNP Assurances’ insurance, to regularly update and refine its risk selection policy. three key commitments, also means protecting people upstream A key aim of this policy, which takes into account the state of and raising awareness among the general public: health of individual policyholders, is to accept and pool invalidity and disability cover wherever possible. In addition, since 2012, WW cespetiteschoses.fr: in 2015, CNP Assurances launched the conditions of eligibility for the premium cap applicable to cespetiteschoses.fr, a digital platform offering information low-income borrowers have been relaxed. Our creditor insurance and support and spreading awareness on the theme of rejection rate has been stable at 0.2% for the past ten years. “living better together for longer”. It was designed to raise awareness, in a fun and interactive manner, of the impact that CNP Assurances is resolutely committed to ensuring that anyone small and seemingly insignificant everyday gestures can have representing an aggravated risk has access to credit and on people’s lives; insurance in line with the provisions of the AERAS Convention. WW among international subsidiaries, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings Disability cover is being offered on the terms laid down in held a conference on “Electromagnetic fields and their effect the convention to customers denied incapacity or disability on the human body” aimed at its customers and employees, cover under standard policies. In addition to these regulatory while in Argentina, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros uses obligations, we offer disability cover to civil servants and social networks to post regular weekly messages highlighting self‑employed workers. challenges and issues related to sustainability, including health, prevention, safety and security, sustainable mobility and the protection of the environment. 326 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Contribute to a sustainable economy C H A LL E N G E 2 : M A K E E S G A N D C L I M AT E C H A LL E N G E S PA R T O F I N V E S T M E N T P R O C E S S E S Risk of non-existent or inadequate integration of ESG and climate challenges in investment decisions CNP Assurances is primarily a personal insurance group. Its management companies LBPAM and Ostrum AM, and reflects entities manage the assets backing the rights of policyholders the Group’s commitments to the Global Compact, the PRI and and on their own behalf, both directly and indirectly through the Kyoto Declaration. external management companies. The responsible investor strategy is also reflected in the In the belief that taking Environmental, Social and Governance implementation of an ESG exclusion policy covering the entire (ESG) criteria into account when assessing an investment Group. contributes to value creation and optimises the yield-to-risk Since 2015, it has been rounded out by a “low carbon” ratio over time, CNP Assurances, as a long-term investor, has strategy for the Energy and Ecological Transition, which is for more than ten years implemented a responsible investor being phased in across the various asset compartments. The strategy within the various asset classes. It is managed aim is twofold: protect the assets backing policyholders’ rights in France largely through the non-financial expertise of and create value for all CNP Assurances stakeholders. Indicators 2017 2018 Scope % of financial assets screened on ESG criteria 80% 81% CNP Assurances Amount of the Group’s financial assets screened on ESG criteria €275 billion €279 billion Group Number of private equity funds rated on ESG issues 18 14 CNP Assurances % of infrastructure funds that have completed an ESG questionnaire 67% 65% CNP Assurances As proof of its commitment to being a responsible investor, CNP Assurances has set ambitious targets for the “low carbon” component of its ESG policy. A progress report at the end of 2018 showed that the Group’s initiatives had resulted in a satisfactory performance: % of target achieved at Objective end-2018 Reduction of the carbon footprint on directly owned listed equities (0.25 teqCO2 per thousand euros invested in 2021, i.e., a 47% reduction between 2014 and 2021) 91% Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions linked to the energy consumption of directly held property (in teqCO2/sq.m/year: -40% between 2006 and 2021)* 85% New “green” investments for the energy and environmental transition (€5 billion between 2018 and 2021) 61% Exclusion of acquisitions in companies that derive over 10% of their revenue from thermal coal 100% * Change in the indicator: To meet France’s objectives and as part of its “low carbon” component, CNP Assurances has modified its indicator by committing to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions linked to the energy consumption of property assets held directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries by 40% by 2021 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 327 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Examples Since 2005, CNP Assurances has followed a policy of shareholder activism by systematically voting at the General Other than for ESG exclusion, the approach implemented within Meetings of listed companies in its portfolio. Voting principles CNP Assurances cannot be applied uniformly to the asset classes are laid down by senior management. The core objective is to held in the portfolio (equities, unlisted securities such as real protect the rights of minority shareholders investing to support the estate, corporate or sovereign bonds, and funds) *. investee’s long-term growth. Shaped in part by investor concerns, these principles are pragmatically applied to all companies in the ESG exclusion: a strategy common to all asset classes portfolio, taking into account each one’s characteristics, industry and regulatory environment. In 2018, CNP Assurances voted WW Exclusion of securities: in 2008, CNP Assurances excluded against 20.3% of resolutions put to the vote. arms manufacturers whose products include land mines or cluster bombs from its portfolios. Since 2015, it has also excluded any new investments in extractive companies Corporate bonds producing coal and coal-based energy when more than The SRI experts of the companies in charge of managing them 15% of their revenue is derived from thermal coal. This was (NIM and LBPAM) rate the corporate bond portfolios on ESG reduced to 10% in December 2018. Among existing assets, criteria each quarter. ESG analysis draws on the quarterly watch the rules limit financial assets to companies deriving more than of listed equities established in 2006 with the same non-financial 25% of their revenue from this sector. It has also decided not analysts. to invest in those companies with the greatest involvement in the development of new coal power plants. Property assets M o r e o v e r, i n t h e E S G a n a l y s e s d e s c r i b e d b e l o w, With €12.6 billion in property assets in France, based on net CNP Assurances receives corporate ESG risk alerts. When the book values, CNP Assurances is an important player in this alert corresponds to a breach of the fundamental principles market. Asset management is entrusted to specialised companies of the Global Compact, CNP Assurances asks the manager based on strict specifications that address the need to preserve to raise questions with the issuer. When this dialogue fails to the environment and ensure the safety of the properties’ users. identify scope to remedy the situation quickly, the Investment They include the Sustainable Property Management Charter, Committee is called on to decide whether or not to exclude it. which makes it mandatory to factor in the impact of all co-owned WW Exclusion of countries based on the balance of governance, property management agreements on the environment, on the a s we l l a s coo per atio n and fisc al tr ansparen cy: energy transition and on the health and safety of users via a CNP Assurances has drawn up a list of countries covering green works charter. all of its investments (it concludes countries identified as tax havens on the basis of Tax Justice Network indices and those Since 2016, CNP Assurances has been developing a scheme to posing serious problems with regard to democracy, human track health, safety and environment (HSE) compliance with one rights and corruption, as determined by Freedom House and of its property management companies. Following a five-pronged Transparency International). diagnostic, the Company’s response to the observations made during the diagnostic was monitored, yielding a completion rate of 58% at end‑2018. Listed equities: best-in-class management and shareholder engagement The approach is based on best-in-class management. The Infrastructure and private equity establishment of a quarterly monitoring process has facilitated Social information has been used to manage private equity and dialogue on securities at risk and the prevailing challenges with infrastructure investments since 2010. ESG ratings are awarded SRI analysts at Natixis IM since 2006 and LBPAM since 2009. based on the due diligence process carried out ahead of any investment in a new private equity fund. A total of 14 private To further integrate ESG criteria, 2018 was devoted to gradually equity funds were rated in 2018. aligning the management of directly held equities with model portfolios that heavily weight the contribution to the energy and ESG reporting is also used for new infrastructure investments. In environmental transition, namely those developed in collaboration 2018, 65% of our infrastructure funds took part in this reporting with La Banque Postale Asset Management (LBPAM) and Mirova or voluntarily provided us with their own CSR reporting. (Natixis Investment Managers). * CNP Assurances’ Responsible Investment Report, which describes the consideration of non-financial factors in asset management and the contribution to the ecological and energy transition, is available on the website: www.cnp.fr 328 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Impact investing, support for start-ups and SMEs At the end of the year, nearly 199,000 life insurance policies included an SRI fund. SRI assets totalled €1,060 million at that In addition to its investment policy incorporating ESG date, an increase of more than 31% compared with end-2017. criteria, CNP Assurances is also involved in investments with environmental and/or societal impact, either indirectly via impact Since June 2018, life insurance contracts marketed by LBP have funds or directly through private equity. included a “Conviction SRI” offer, all of which have received the SRI label. CNP Assurances also had investments in a total amount of nearly €210 million in several socially beneficial funds CNP Assurances this year strengthened the SRI insurance portfolio at 31 December 2018. Examples include financing small dedicated to wealth management customers. The CNP Éthique businesses that have trouble raising capital due to social barriers, offer gives its partner private banks, IFCO platforms and family supporting SMEs in difficulty, financing the social and solidarity offices access to 22 unit-linked products on SRI themes including economy, and providing accommodation for vulnerable people. the environment, human capital and several sectors, at the client’s discretion. Among investments combining environmental and societal aspects, CNP Assurances has purchased SRI mutual funds for SRI is also represented through platforms such as €3.6 billion, or 11% of assets of all non-dedicated mutual funds CNP Développement Durable for Ametis, and Mirova Europe held at 31 December 2018. Environnement and Mirova Emploi France for BPCE. For Ametis network contracts (CNP Trésor Projets and CNP Trésor Under the OPEN CNP programme launched in 2016, Performance), a new unit-linked fund known as “Candriam SRI CNP Assurances plans to devote €100 million over five years Equity World” joined the catalogue at the end of 2018. to developing partnerships with innovative start-ups in businesses close to its own. On top of its SRI offers, the Group conducts awareness-raising initiatives for policyholders and partners. Promoting responsible investment WW Each year, CNP Assurances expresses its commitment to upholding the United Nations Global Compact and promoting among policyholders its responsible investing strategy through more than 19 million In personal insurance, direct action by policyholders in support letters sent to policyholders (by post or online). Since 2011, of a responsible economy and the fight against climate change the message is communicated to all holders of endowment is reflected in the selection of unit-linked SRI funds in savings policies (other than unit-linked contracts), including on the products. They have been available for many years in each annual policyholder statements. of the flagship unit-linked products available in the individual WW The 2018 “CSR Essentials” brochure includes information on insurance offerings from CNP Assurances. CNP Assurances’ responsible investor strategy. It is available to policyholders on the www.cnp.fr website. CNP ASSURANCES AND CLIMATE CHALLENGES CNP Assurances’ responsible investor approach has supported the ecological and energy transition for several years. Investments for the energy and environmental transition dialogue with issuers. Investor leverage is becoming credible with the proliferation of market commitments to which CNP Assurances decided to intensify its action by setting CNP Assurances has been part since 2015, ranging from its new goals in December 2017. It has undertaken to devote signature of the Montreal Carbon Pledge to the reinforcement €5 billion to new investments in favour of the Energy and of its multi-year commitment to reducing GHG emissions from Ecological Transition by 2021, covering green infrastructure, the equity portfolio, not to mention its membership of Climate green bonds, energy-efficient buildings and forests. By the Action 100+. end of 2018, investments totalled €3.1 billion. PORTFOLIO OF LISTED EQUITIES MFPrévoyance meanwhile invested €12 million in green bonds in 2018, and CNP UniCredit Vita holds €21 million in At 31 December 2018, the footprint was estimated at investments contributing to the protection of the environment 0.27 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per thousand euros invested. and the fight against climate change. CNP Assurances has set a goal of reducing the end-2014 level by 47% by 2021, through dialogue with the companies whose Calculation of the financial portfolio’s carbon footprint shares it holds. While this indicator is useful for tracking the A benefit of the commitment to reduce the carbon footprint reduction in the portfolio’s carbon footprint, it is flawed by the of the equity portfolio (see below) is that it strengthens the fact that it does not necessarily reflect positive action taken by Group’s role as a responsible shareholder and reinforces companies to further the energy transition. CNP Assurances 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 329 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy therefore supports methodological developments in measuring of carbon dioxide was added to the sequestered total. Since companies’ carbon impact and their impact in respect of the 2007, the Caixa Seguradora group has been offsetting its environmental and energy transition, including those related carbon emissions by financing the tree-planting programmes to avoided emissions. of NGO Iniciativa Verde (Green Initiative) in the Atlantic forest. PORTFOLIO OF LISTED CORPORATE BONDS Physical and transition risk management Continuing its commitment to the Montreal Carbon Pledge, CNP Assurances began regularly calculating the carbon CNP Assurances is committed to analysing the physical and footprint of its corporate assets in 2016. GHG emissions are transition risk of its investment portfolio. estimated solely on the basis of disclosures by the companies For physical risk: in the portfolio. As a large number of companies do not provide this data, the estimate covers 67% of the portfolio. WW on the property portfolio, changes in climate hazards It amounted to 0.09 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per thousand were analysed for the near term (2021‑2050) and euros invested at 31 December 2018. compared with a “baseline” climate (1971‑2000), based on two scenarios using different levels of greenhouse Energy performance of property assets gas emissions established by the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). To determine the current and CNP Assurances’ maintenance and renovation programmes future levels of exposure for each property asset, a list of for the property assets in its portfolio constantly aim to make climate change indicators to evaluate over the period of the properties more energy efficient. Renovation projects are reference and in the future was defined for each climate carried out to the highest environmental standards: 35% of hazard listed above. These climate indicators were used the floor space of property assets under direct management to run the climate models for each geographic location in had energy, environmental or operating certification at the the CNP Assurances property portfolio; end of 2018, an increase compared with 2017. Since 2009, an environmental audit has been systematically carried out on WW for forests, several criteria are taken into consideration, all newly acquired properties. such as the analysis of the geographical spread of forest assets; In advance of the requirements ushered in by France’s WW in 2018, physical risk analysis of equity and bond Grenelle I and II laws, and pending the publication of the portfolios (corporate and sovereign) was also initiated. relevant enabling documents, 135 of CNP Assurances’ wholly owned property assets had already been assessed to measure For transition risk, several analyses are conducted to improve their energy efficiency by the end of 2018. our understanding: WW tracking of the weighting of sectors considered to be most CNP Assurances has costed a €170 million long-term work programme aimed at reducing energy-related greenhouse gas exposed to transition risk: Energy, Transport, Materials emissions on its directly owned property portfolio by 40% by and Construction, Agriculture-Food; 2021 compared with the 2006 baseline. WW measurement of the carbon footprint of the equity and corporate bond portfolio; Forests: an environmental opportunity WW measurement of emissions avoided by building CNP Assurances is France’s largest private owner of renovation works since 2012; woodland, with 57,090 hectares at 31 December 2018. WW implementation of a more restrictive “coal policy” Société Forestière, a 50%-owned subsidiar y of in 2018; CNP Assurances, specialises in sustainable management of WW performance of a 2°C scenario alignment study on the forests that respect biodiversity and anticipate climate change, equity and corporate bond portfolios by 2Dii in 2018. formalised in 2001 through a charter. In 2003, in addition The study is based on a Beyond 2°C Scenario (B2DS) to ISO 9001 certification, all of CNP Assurances’ woodland corresponding to a 50% chance of limiting the rise in assets complied with PEFC criteria guaranteeing that timber average temperature to 1.75°C. It analyses a scenario comes from sustainably managed forests. New acquisitions for five sectors: fossil fuels, automotive, cement & steel, are in the process of being certified. aviation & maritime transport and electricity production on the basis of different energy sources (coal, gas, In 2018, the growth of CNP Assurances’ trees helped renewables, oil). sequester 495,021 tonnes of carbon dioxide. After deducting timber sold or cut down during the year, a net 204,179 tonnes 330 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 3 : T R A N S F O R M S E RV I C E S R E N D E R E D T O P O L I C Y H O L D E R S V I A D I G I TA L T E C H N O L O G Y Non-optimal use of digital technology in services provided to policyholders The digital transformation represents both a challenge and and strategic goal of becoming the leading digital insurance an opportunity for CNP Assurances to transform the services company in Europe and South America by 2020. provided to policyholders by offering them solutions that The digitisation of the policyholder experience, the better match their expectations. It has more impact in terms of diversification of distribution channels and the development customer experience, making it easier than ever to customise of a customer-centric approach are the three cornerstones protection. of the business units’ action plans. This approach is helping The ramp-up of digitalisation taking place in both Europe and to drive the Group’s transformation and is itself being driven Latin America is having a clear impact on local people, their by numerous participative innovation initiatives designed to ways of life and their jobs. This force for change has led create value for policyholders and employees alike. It also to a rethink of personal protection solutions and the design goes hand-in-hand with the energy efficiency efforts of the of new types of services and new methods of delivering infrastructure created to support the Group’s digital strategy. them. CNP Assurances has therefore set itself the ambitious Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Number of customers using @dèle 1,400 6,000 CNP Assurances Number of customers using Youse 110,000 125,000 Caixa Seguradora Average satisfaction score of users of the e-beneficiaries website n/a 3.9/5 CNP Assurances Examples to the device used by the person looking for insurance (PC, tablet or smartphone). The system makes our customers’ lives The ramp-up of the digital strategy, which began in 2017, easier, allowing them to complete their health formalities continued in 2018 with the rollout of new services for our 24/7 without having to go to their bank. At the end of 2018, policyholders and new online solutions. CNP Assurances offered this portal to the customers of our partners, BPCE networks, BPE and mutual insurers, as well as Digital tools to improve customer service Boursorama Banque, ING direct and BPIfrance. For some of our partners, all applications are completed From subscription… online and signed electronically by prospective policyholders. WW CNPnet is the single platform for processing health The optimisation of the iQS portal coupled with the increasing questionnaires for customers applying for creditor insurance. digitisation of processes in the banking world confirms that In 2018, 59% of health questionnaires were automatically CNP Assurances stands to benefit from wide-scale take-up of submitted by CNPnet for processing by management teams. iHealth questionnaires. WW In 2014, CNP Assurances launched iQS, its iHeath WW For the CNP Assurances network, Ametis, customers can questionnaire, with an electronic signature to support the request information online or perform transactions free of digitisation of banking processes in the field of mortgage charge through the portal made available to them. In 2018, and consumer loans. It allows people looking for insurance always keen to match new needs, we developed new digital to fill in their health questionnaires and complete membership features that customers tested before their rollout. formalities online, before uploading the contractual documents WW At the end of the year, CNP Patrimoine offered its partners and signing electronically. In 2018, the portal was rounded a portal with access to a new range of six ser vices. out by a simplified health questionnaire, replacing the CNP Patrimoine was also a forerunner in the private banking health declaration that previously could only be filed in a market, offering subscription with an electronic signature bank branch. A responsive web design version has been in 2018. available since late 2016. The format automatically adapts 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 331 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy … to the provision of services… … and the life of the contract WW With @dèle, the online declaration site for credit Another example of digital service is the Lyfe platform (see insurance applications, which got a warm welcome from challenge 1 – page 326), which has been designed to be web CNP Assurances policyholders and which has now been responsive in order to improve customer experience. rolled out to all customers with loans issued by La Banque Lyfe is run using digital marketing techniques. A chatbot was Postale, Crédit Immobilier de France, Boursorama Banque created early in the year to facilitate customer contact. and ING Direct. All stages of the process are now fully digital. Used initially to simplify the first claim for compensation after Lyfe also partners with start-ups to enrich its service offering. an illness or accident resulting in an inability to work, disability Lastly, development work and the creation of functionalities and or death, the site has continued to be developed in line with services comply with privacy by design and security by design user feedback and workshops co-facilitated by a start-up. The rules. entire policyholder pathway, from application to administrative follow-up and the extension of sick leave, is now fully digital. Another aspect of the digital approach is the Dial Once visual In 2018, more than 87,000 visitors accessed the @dèle site interactive voice response (IVR) solution, which improves and (browsing and/or consultation) and more than 6,000 users simplifies the pathway for customers wishing to contact a claimed support by opening a file. CNP Assurances department. WW In 2018, the modernisation of exchanges and the direct It is accessible 24/7: relationship with policyholders reached a new level with WW by phone: the CNP Assurances number is digitised either via Diap@son, which will allow policyholders to monitor their a smartphone equipped with a Dial Once partner application, online medical assessment from end to end. The rollout of via a smartphone on the cnp.fr website, or by clicking on a this fully online service allows the optimisation of response phone widget; times provided to our policyholders while securing their medical data. More than 15,700 medical assessments were WW on the cnp.fr website in PC or tablet mode, by clicking on the completed in the space of six months. “Contact us” button. WW In 2018, CNP Assurances launched e-beneficiaire, an Since late 2017, our customers have been able to use this innovative online ser vice enabling beneficiaries of a solution simply and independently to answer their questions, CNP Assurances life insurance contract on the Ametis network either on a page of the interface or via a form, by e-mail, SMS, to prepare their file on the e-beneficiaire.cnp.fr website. on the CNP Assurances customer site or the partner’s site or with For beneficiaries, e-beneficiaire represents the possibility a telephone advisor. of preparing and monitoring their file independently, using CNP UniCredit Vita is organising “paperless” campaigns to personal access directly on the dedicated site. Online encourage customers to register in the designated area of the assistance is available for any questions. For CNP Assurances website to check their contractual documents and the status of employees, it means a simplified process, secure files and their payments. optimal treatment of requests from beneficiaries within shorter timeframes. WW The voicebot is another means of simplifying procedures for Online offers and solutions policyholders: in the event of a claim, customers feel reassured WW In September 2016, Caixa Seguradora became Brazil’s if they can lodge their claim immediately, even outside the first insurer to launch full-online distribution of auto insurance, opening hours of the customer relationship service, which comprehensive home‑owner insurance and personal risk is when the voicebot takes over. It starts the conversation insurance through Youse, a 100%-digital insurance platform. with natural language and guides the policyholders in A real commercial success since its launch two years ago, filing their claim. Tested by our customers, the voicebot has Youse has already won over 125,000 customers. The success already answered more than 9,000 calls since its launch of this digital platform is increasing CNP Assurances’ desire in March 2018. It uses very innovative technologies that to conquer new fully digital customers in Latin America and allow it to learn. It gets better with each call and improves Europe. relationships with customers. The goal is for it to respond WW As a wholly owned subsidiary of CNP Assurances, Youse Home 24/7, and to reserve human contact for the most important has been offering a fully online rental guarantee solution in issues. France since 2018, one that is totally revolutionary in the real estate market. Whatever their status, permanent or fixedterm employees, students, small business owners, freelancers or self-employed, tenants can now obtain a guarantor with a response in under 24 hours. Youse Home offers tenants a guarantor that adapts to their situation and provides the owner with the guarantee that the rent will be paid whatever happens. Youse Home changes the rules of rentals to better adapt them to new practices. 332 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 WW Under the Cl’App project, launched at the end of 2016 to test We also pursued our ambitious programme of investment the online sales tool, CNP UniCredit Vita has developed its and partnership with innovative start-ups, combining business first fully digital pension product applying a totally paperless development support and financing. The aim is to provide startprocess. With the new Choose product line and the first ups with the financial backing they need to boost their business, Choose Smart product available on a web platform since the while also developing win-win partnerships with them in areas end of August 2017 and on a mobile application (iOS or that are of interest to our Group, such as e-health, fintech, Android) since May 2018, CNP UniCredit Vita aims to raise insurtech and the development of offers and technologies that awareness among new categories of customers, particularly respond to emerging personal insurance needs. As of end‑2018, younger people, about personal insurance through smart Open CNP had invested in six start-up partners. communication and an intuitive approach. Another aim of WW An illustration came at the end of 2018, when a new day this project, which is still in the test phase, is to broaden the dawned in the accompaniment of societal changes with Lydia: concept of personal insurance to include the environment by “Our work on the new Lydia telephony offer places us at the giving each new product a Corporate Social Responsibility very heart of what drives CNP Assurances: co-construct with aspect: for the first product, CNP UniCredit Vita has chosen our partner, make customer expectations central to the product the theme of the environment, and more specifically climate and process.” CNP Assurances and Lydia have launched change, together with a social approach: with each new two new generation mobile insurance offers. Building on its contract signed, CNP UniCredit Vita contributes to a instant payment mobile application, French start-up Lydia now reforestation project in Sicily by planting an orange tree on offers its users the chance to insure all their mobile devices in land confiscated from the Mafia. The aim is twofold: help under two minutes, with the help of CNP Assurances. Lydia offset CO2 emissions resulting from its activities and enrich and CNP Assurances offer simpler conditions for insurance local life, with reforestation carried out through local voluntary and cover: it takes just two minutes to subscribe, there is no associations. deductible, no commitment and no waiting period. The policy WW EasyBourse, La Banque Postale’s online broker, has teamed is effective immediately. The offer covers any mobile device, up with CNP Assurances to launch EasyVie, a fully online regardless of the brand or model. For quick and effective life insurance product *. Customers can also be assisted by claims management, Lydia and CNP Assurances use SPB, an EasyBourse advisor for the subscription and for all their expert in warranty management of mobile devices. operations via screen sharing. Advisors are available by WW Since 1 January 2018, CNP Assurances has been referenced phone Monday to Friday from 9am to 8pm and on Saturdays by the Ministries of Education and Higher Education, Research from 9am to 12pm. and Innovation, Culture, and Youth and Sports to offer civil The product, which has been on sale since endservants and contract employees, both active and retired, full February 2018, consists of a modular contract with a choice health and welfare coverage with Anticipa. between investor-led or manager-led investment strategies. Via the anticipa.cnp.fr website, civil servants can estimate the This fully digital contract relies on a “robo-advisor” amount coming out of their pocket, get a quote or join online, developed by Advize, a fintech. It determines the customer track the status of their refunds in their customer area or access profile (investment objective, financial situation and assets, assistance guarantees and a host of dedicated services, financial knowledge and experience, and risk aversion) including telemedicine, licensed networks of opticians and and recommends a management style and asset allocation audio-prosthetists, life coaching and daily services via the Lyfe accordingly. platform. * Accessible on the easybourse.com website – The following services are available on easybourse.com: subscription, arbitrage, free payments, partial and full redemption, start and modification of regular payments and options 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 333 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 4 : C O M M I T T O C U S T O M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 1 – Inability to maintain and improve customer satisfaction As a personal insurer, the Group naturally places great has to be a hallmark of the customer relationship at all stages, importance on the satisfaction of its professional and through policies and procedures for handling complaints, as individual customers, as well as that of its distribution partners, well as actions taken within the Group for: maintaining a relationship of trust and proximity while WW listening to the needs of policyholders; continually reviewing its practices and offers. WW assessing customer satisfaction; Meeting the needs of policyholders is one of CNP Assurances’ WW following up policyholder questions and requests. strongest commitments for a sustainable society. Satisfaction Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Satisfaction measured in customer surveys * From 79% to 84% 73% CNP Assurances Average satisfaction score of local authorities Between 7 and 8/10 Between 7.4 and 8.2/10 CNP Assurances Number of claims in the first half 11,800 9,900 CNP Assurances Percentage of disputes won by CNP Assurances 73% in the first instance, 70% in the first instance, CNP Assurances 76% on appeal and 77% on appeal and 95% on highest appeal 79% on highest appeal * The scope of the survey differs from year to year Examples The survey strategy, the creation of the questionnaire and its circulation, and the use of the results are internal processes from end to end. Listening to the needs of the policyholders and measuring satisfaction In 2018, testing began on new tools for the automated analysis of free texts formulated in response to open-ended questions. Stakeholder dialogue includes periodical surveys conducted by CNP Assurances entities, not only with policyholders but also CNP Assurances conducted five satisfaction sur veys with with partner-distributors, so as to obtain a comprehensive view of customers and advisors during the year. They focused on the customer satisfaction. quality of online services and the quality of the relationship by email between CNP Assurances and its partners at the time of CNP Assurances stepped up its ambitions in terms of customer subscription. For surveys where the 2018 results are known, the satisfaction with the creation of a Customer Experience satisfaction rate varies from 3.7 to 3.9, the score ranging from department in the fourth quarter of 2018. 1 (very unsatisfactory) to 5 (very satisfactory). Another survey The new department’s brief includes the implementation of a measured the efforts required by the customer to access the cross-cutting approach within the Company through the use of service, browse the site and declare a claim: the level of effort systems to measure the customer experience, to analyse the was set at 2.9, which was the average obtained from the level results and guarantee that they are correctly taken into account, of effort declared on a scale of 1 to 5 (1 = easy; 5 = difficult). and to structure the collection of customer expectations. In addition, more than 200 local authority policyholders Surveys of policyholders and beneficiaries, network advisors responded to a satisfaction survey. Average scores were stable and employees are conducted at the request of entities in the at between 7.4 and 8.2 depending on the local authority. Company. Caixa Seguradora conducts monthly customer satisfaction They are carried out using an online survey software package monitoring and analysis sur veys. The relationship centre that measures satisfaction at a given moment and, if necessary, assessments focus on two levels of service. On the first level on a continuous basis. The tool has been updated to comply with (interactive voice server and webchat), the criteria assessed are the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation. customer service, problem solving and brand recommendation (Net Promoter Score). Satisfaction rates obtained vary, depending 334 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 on the month, between 95% and 96% for customer service, In accordance with the marketplace decision, mediation involving 89% and 91% for problem solving, and 46 to 50 for the NPS. CNP Assurances has since 2015 been provided by the French On the second level, which can stem from the first level or be Insurance Federation (Fédération Française de l’Assurance – opened directly (websites, social networks), the criteria assessed FFA). In the first 11 months of 2018, the mediator challenged are response times, clarity of information, problem solving and 197 opinions on files submitted by CNP Assurances brand recommendation (NPS). For the second level, satisfaction policyholders. It should be noted that the mediator in most cases rates vary, depending on the month, between 72% and 76% for upholds CNP Assurances’ position. response times, 72% and 75% for clarity of information, 68% and There were 1,522 ongoing disputes at CNP Assurances at 71% for problem solving, and 1 and 7 for the NPS. the end of 2018. 70% percent of cases were won in the first Satisfaction surveys were also conducted in the CNP Partners instance in 2018, 77% on appeal and 79% on submission to the and CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros subsidiaries. highest court of appeal. CNP Partners’ satisfaction sur veys were conducted with distributors and policyholders to share their view of service Tools to improve customer satisfaction quality. Satisfaction scores varied from 4.04 to 4.48 out of 5. On top of the digital tools described in the “Transform services CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros conducted two satisfaction rendered to policyholders via digital technology” challenge, surveys and collected expectations within its two main commercial CNP Assurances has rolled out the Numéa application. Cooffices, with two objectives: evaluate satisfaction and enrich the constructed with employees, it optimises the processing of 2019 strategy. In 2018, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros documents sent to CNP Assurances in digital format, whether by also created its own contact centre, drawing entirely on cloud the La Banque Postale advisor or directly by the customer. Being technology and developed on the agile approach. As part of its able to see all customer communications at a glance allows digital transformation, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros CNP Assurances to provide more reliable and more immediate aims to speed up the provision of solutions aligned with the information to customers and partners. needs of customers, making them central to its operations. Lastly, Lyfe’s partner customers express their satisfaction through A quality certification policy a questionnaire whose results are discussed by the steering In the interests of customer service quality, over the past few committee, while the platform’s end-users can use tools to share years the Group has obtained quality certifications for core their positive or negative opinions. processes from recognised professional standards bodies (ISO 9001 for key management or marketing processes). Once obtained, these certifications are regularly renewed. In Brazil, Following up policyholder requests Quality Management System evaluation audits are performed The definition of complaints adopted by CNP Assurances covers periodically by a certification firm to assess the compliance of any expression of discontent by a customer as regards the processes and services with the model laid down and associated perceived quality of a product or service, whether justified or not. with the rules of the ABTN ISO 9001:2008 technical standards. CNP Assurances has undertaken to respond within two months of a complaint being made. CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros has just received ISO 9001:2015 certification for the management process of its For this purpose, the Group has teams dedicated to handling life insurance business. complaints. Tools have been implemented to fine-tune follow-up and improve analysis; one objective is to draw lessons to improve Similarly, MFPrévoyance obtained ISO 9001:2015 certification quality of service and reduce processing time. Complaints in July 2018 in the following areas: products, management received by CNP Assurances mainly concern the purchase and of medical selection and claiming of benefits for contracts claim management processes. developed and managed by MFPrévoyance and distributed by mutual insurer partners working with civil servants. With 9,900 complaints lodged in the first half of 2018, their number remains marginal, involving less than 0.1% of Lastly, a certification process for Ametis’s commercial approach policyholders. Nonetheless, each one is analysed in order to began in 2018. It is based on a framework of documented and understand how we can improve our service quality using the auditable commitments. SGS, a certification body, will ensure tools referred to above. that commitments are respected. The framework governing the certification will be made available to customers. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 335 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Unclaimed contracts For retirement contracts, the annual statement mentions the legal retirement age. And for non-contributing policyholders, a specific In 2018, the management system for unclaimed contracts email is sent when they turn 62, 65 and 67 so that they do not reached a phase of maturity thanks to the successive forget to claim their entitlements. implementation of continuous improvement measures and process automation over the years. In 2019, all pension policyholders – contributors and noncontributors – over the retirement age (Article L.161.17.2 of the As soon as the death file is opened, an email is sent automatically French Social Security Code) or, failing that, when they turn 62, to the spouse and the family, speeding up the process. will receive a letter encouraging them to claim their entitlements. The “e-beneficiaire.cnp.fr” online platform, progressively Lastly, business management, which is the subject of regulatory accessible since June 2018, allows a beneficiary, a trusted third reporting to the ACPR, is regularly improved each year to party or a financial advisor to complete all formalities – from reduce the volume of contracts not settled within a year of the opening the file to following it up – via a personal access directly policyholder’s death. on the site. “MPR”, a machine learning model for detecting new deaths, is E-beneficiaire simplifies and secures communications and continually being improved and is undoubtedly contributing to empowers the people who use it. improving the treatment of unpaid contracts. Another aspect of improvement is communication to policyholders. The resources deployed and the stability of the regulatory system Measures focused on retirement contracts were taken in 2018; since 2016 have made it possible to sustainably improve more will follow in 2019. processes from end to end along the chain. 336 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Contribute to a sustainable societye C H A LL E N G E 4 : C O M M I T T O C U S T O M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N 2 – Lack of product transparency In view of the CNP Assurances business model in France, is particularly important to inform customers as efficiently as presentations of life insurance operations are generally possible, in clear and transparent language. Lack of product prepared by the partner networks, although they fall under the transparency could hinder the proper implementation of the responsibility of the insurer. Group’s strategy and damage its image, among professional and individual customers alike, while undermining the The products offered by the Group and the contractual protection provided to customers by providing offers that do and marketing documents presented to customers must be not meet their needs. legally watertight and provide policyholders with clear information about the content and scope of the purchased CNP Assurances’ product launch procedures accordingly cover or insurance proposal. In addition, with the Group’s include checks to ensure that the product and the marketing range of insurance products being progressively digitised, it process are fully compliant with regulatory requirements. Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Number of KIIDs (1) on the website n/a 53 CNP Assurances Percentage of compliance of the website with the RGAA framework (2) 95% 95% CNP Assurances (1) Key investor information documents (2) General accessibility framework for public administrations in France Examples The creation of products adapted to the needs of the market and the continuous monitoring of their appropriateness is a strategic Product launch procedures were revised in 2018 in light of the challenge, essential for preserving the trust of customers and insurance distribution directive. This directive makes customer partners, and for safeguarding CNP Assurances’ reputation. protection central to the insurer’s concerns so that contracts offered to the public meet the specific needs of their target market CNP Assurances is committed to verifying the compliance of throughout the product lifecycle. For instance, CNP Assurances’ contractual, commercial and advertising documents. Dedicated procedures for new products and significant modifications to teams, working closely with legal experts, ensure that insurance existing products include work to ensure that the product does products are compliant, and that changes in the legal framework not have an adverse impact on customers. Another objective is are taken into account. to foster the proper management of conflicts of interest. Tests are carried out before introducing these products to the market or Product compliance making significant adjustments to them, or if the target market has changed significantly. The workstations used by the main distribution partners of the Group’s entities enhance the quality and efficiency of policyholder Lastly, CNP Assurances provides its distributors with all relevant services, while incorporating the duty to provide advice. information about the insurance product and the product validation process, including the target market. To b e t t e r i n f o r m c u s t o m e r s a n d i n s u r e t h e i r f u t u r e s , CNP Assurances aims to provide full access to information. On CNP Assurances regularly reviews the insurance products it the www.cnp.fr website, information sheets are regularly made offers or markets, taking into account any event liable to have available to policyholders, as well as a glossary for a better a significant impact on the potential risk in the defined target understanding of the terms specific to insurance. After audit, the market. Its aim is to assess whether the product still corresponds to www.cnp.fr website was declared 95%-compliant with France’s the needs of the defined target market and whether the planned RGAA web accessibility standards, which cover aspects such distribution strategy remains appropriate. as colour contrasts, keyboard accessibility, text equivalents for images, infobubbles, page titles and prioritisation of information. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 337 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 5 : E N S U R E G O O D B U S I N E S S E T H I C S 1 – Corruption and conflicts of interest in relationships with third parties By working to ensure good business ethics, CNP Assurances view of regulatory developments in the countries where the is committed to protecting the interests of its stakeholders Group operates, the risk of corruption or conflicts of interest (employees, suppliers, distribution partners and in relationships with third parties may result in significant fines asset managers) and respecting the general interest. and criminal prosecution. Like CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros, the As such, in line with its C@pEthic code of conduct, published Caixa Seguradora group, CNP Partners and CNP UniCredit Vita, on its website, CNP Assurances has a policy of zero tolerance CNP Assurances is a member of the United Nations Global Compact. for acts of corruption. A Group anti-corruption policy has been They have accordingly reiterated their commitment to fighting circulated to all subsidiaries in France and internationally. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In Subsidiaries can add their own local procedures to it. Indicator 2017 2018 Scope Rate of employee training in the fight against corruption n/a 84% CNP Assurances and conflicts of interest Examples A quiz on the main features of the code of conduct was offered to CNP Assurances employees in 2018. C@pEthic, CNP Assurances’ code of conduct, which was redesigned in 2018, is one of the Group’s tools in fighting In 2018, the whistleblowing system made available to all corruption. It contains rules governing gifts and benefits within employees of the Group in accordance with the requirements of the Company. It is posted on the Intranet and features in the the Sapin II law resulted in certain situations being reported to Employee Orientation Guide for new hires. C@pEthic is also the compliance officer. freely available on the CNP Assurances website. This ethical vigilance also applies to CNP Assurances’ asset Specific codes can also be implemented operationally. For management, particularly for government bonds, where the instance, a purchasing ethics guide offers a practical reminder country’s position in the Transparency International index is one of the principles of action for key situations in the purchasing of three exclusionary criteria. The fight against corruption is also business. reflected in a standard clause providing for the joint commitment of CNP Assurances and the third party to act against corruption, News items are regularly posted on CNP Assurances Intranet to including among its own suppliers and subcontractors. remind employees about the main rules and behaviour to adopt. 338 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 5 : E N S U R E G O O D B U S I N E S S E T H I C S 2 – Fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing The risk associated with fraud, money laundering and terrorist In line with its commitment as a responsible insurer and financing affects CNP Assurances employees, suppliers, investor, and its status as a public company, CNP Assurances distribution partners and asset managers in the same way as has drawn up a list of countries to be excluded from its the risk of corruption. It can result in significant fines, as well investments, including those prohibited as part of the fight as criminal prosecution. against money laundering and terrorist financing, those under embargo or subject to financial sanctions, non-cooperative A s a c o m p a n y o p e r a t i n g i n t h e f i n a n c i a l s e c t o r, countries in tax matters and those identified as tax havens CNP Assurances is closely involved in the fight against money based on the Tax Justice Network indices. laundering and terrorist financing through a Group policy applied in its subsidiaries. Indicators 2017 2018 Scope % of new employees trained in the fight against money laundering 40% 50% CNP Assurances % of employees exposed to AML-CFT risks trained * 86% n/a CNP Assurances * Training is provided every two years Examples a major project aimed at bolstering its system with all of its partners. The aim is to consolidate the organisation of transaction Our business model, in which a lot of transactions are performed controls and to implement the new regulatory requirements. by intermediaries, has shaped the control mechanisms implemented in the fight against money laundering, terrorist Since 2017, in response to comments by the French Prudential financing and fraud. The tasks performed by partners on the Control and Resolution Authority (ACPR), the system’s management Group’s behalf are described in the distribution agreements has been reviewed on several points (resources, procedures, between CNP Assurances and its partners. Specialised control of operations and IT rollouts for instance). It is regularly committees meet regularly with the two major partners, LBP and improved. BPCE, to monitor their proper application. Caixa Seguradora The issue is also the subject of specific training modules. carries out an annual external audit of the risk of fraud. Newcomers and CNP Assurances employees who have changed Supported by roughly 20 employees, a specific unit is dedicated jobs are systematically given the opportunity to train themselves to these controls at CNP Assurances. The Group AML-CFT using an e-learning module developed with the French Insurance policy and the framework procedure against money laundering Federation and several major insurers. The module is currently and terrorist financing are accessible to all employees on the being revised; it will be the subject of a new campaign for all Intranet. Similar arrangements are in place in subsidiaries, in employees in 2019. compliance with local constraints and the principles adopted by the Group. For example, CNP Partners has an anti-money Tax transparency laundering committee and has established an alert line allowing any employee to report incidents arousing suspicion of fraud, CNP Assurances is committed to implementing national and while Caixa Seguradora has a money laundering and terrorist international standards developed in recent years to ensure financing risk management policy and manual, plus a fraud greater transparency and efficiency in the fight against tax prevention policy. evasion. In addition to these elements, CNP Assurances conducts the necessary steps to implement the recommendations of the As part of the new guidelines in the fight against money OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) plan and the laundering and terrorist financing, CNP Assurances has launched United States FATCA tax regulations. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 339 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy The CNP Assurances Group is primarily made up of insurance companies and companies that provide services to individuals, as well as a number of financial investment vehicles. Breakdown of corporate income tax expense 2018 Europe (in € millions) France Latin America excluding France Total Corporate income tax (372) (393) (28) (793) Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 6 : P R O T E C T T H E P E R S O N A L D ATA O F P O L I C Y H O L D E R S A N D E M PL O Y E E S Failure to protect personal data CNP Assurances has been keeping a step ahead of regulatory applicable throughout the European Union, updated and developments for several years. In 2008, it established a above all expanded the regulatory framework for personal medical data protection policy providing for the encryption data. It strengthens the rights of European citizens, increases of sensitive data in storage, as well as technical and the accountability of people dealing with personal data organisational systems on the workstations of the relevant (companies and subcontractors) and harmonises regulations people. across Europe. Aware of the importance of protecting the information assets of To ensure full compliance, a Group-wide personal data its policyholders and employees, CNP Assurances underlines protection policy has been circulated throughout the Group, the importance it attaches to respect for privacy in C@pEthic, setting out the fundamental principles of personal data its code of conduct. protection and the governance systems in place, in addition to the code of conduct. The entry into force in May 2018 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a European regulation Indicator 2017 2018 Scope Percentage of employees trained for the introduction of the GDPR 84% 18% CNP Assurances Examples diligently to the exercise of the rights of policyholders, and to make people working in the Group aware of the need to protect personal data. Protection of personal data Aware of the importance of protecting the information assets of The entry into force of the new regulation on 25 May 2018 its policyholders and employees, CNP Assurances appointed a was the subject of a wide-ranging compliance process within Data Protection Officer in 2006, giving them the resources to CNP Assurances. Steered directly by the CEO between 2017 carry out their duties within the Group. Actions taken in recent and 2018, it drew on input from over 90 people working in all years have served to establish personal data governance, relevant areas: IT, Legal, Human Resources, Customer Centres, to create and formalise the associated processes, to respond Marketing, Actuarial Services and Communication. 340 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 For personal data governance, Data Protection Officers (DPO) the prospects and customers solicited the right to oppose the were appointed within each subsidiary in May 2018 to continue use of their data. Lastly, the compliance process also includes and expand the GDPR compliance process within the Group. the processing of employees’ personal data. In 2018, the Data Protection Officer devoted much of their time to setting up new CNP Assurances has also appointed a Group Data Protection portals for employees. Officer, who is tasked with managing compliance with personal data protection rules within the Group and overseeing data CNP Assurances systematically responds within the legal protection compliance internationally. An inaugural seminar deadline to messages from policyholders using their right to of the DPOs of the international subsidiaries took place in access, rectify or delete their personal data, or to oppose their November 2018 to share aspects of the data protection use. To this end, it centralises all such messages and coordinates policy in place in each entity. The DPO now reports to the the people responsible for managing personal data within the Group Chief Compliance Officer. The function is housed in Company. Requests of this nature have been facilitated since the Information Systems department, and its staffing resources 2018 by the possibility of contacting the Data Protection Officer have been increased in view of the workload generated by new via the institutional portal and by email at dpo@cnp.fr. Lastly, the requirements stemming from the GDPR, particularly in terms of www.cnp.fr website has provided information on the GDPR on accountability. the “regulatory information” page since 25 May 2018. The DPO also takes part in numerous bodies dealing with risk A special effort has been made to identify sub-contractors and risk management. They are a member of the Information handling personal data on behalf of CNP Assurances. New Systems Security Committee led by the Information Systems GDPR clauses have been added to agreements to clarify the Security Manager, and evaluates the protective measures devised respective responsibilities of the parties. to guard against newly identified risks. The Data Protection Workshops on data protection awareness have been held at Officer worked with the Information Systems Security Manager the Paris, Angers and Arcueil sites. They have helped raise to update the Information System Use Charter, which lays down staff awareness about the definition of personal data and the a code of conduct for employees in this area. They also attend requirements laid down in the new European regulation (posters, Subcontracting Commitment Committee meetings to pre-assess the flyers, online questionnaires, etc.). Lectures in auditoriums on data level of compliance of the companies to which CNP Assurances protection issues attracted many people, allowing them to discuss sometimes subcontracts the management of its contracts. It should the issue with the Data Protection Officer. Awareness-raising be noted that a special medical data protection policy has been efforts will continue in 2019. in place since 2008, involving the encryption of all sensitive data in storage to ensure better security. This is an efficient response A very active group within the corporate social network circulates to data theft by hackers; the new European regulation confirms developments in this field in Europe; it also delivers key messages its effectiveness. Processes using this type of sensitive data are about protection in a fun way by means of multiple-choice the subject of particular attention within the Group, through the questions. A dedicated Intranet site dealing with data protection implementation of specific technical and organisational measures teaches users the basics of personal data protection. for workstations and people working in these areas. Lastly, the teams headed by the DPO have conducted monitoring Personal data compliance processes within the Group now work and thinking in collaboration with the CNIL, the FFA and subject all new documents involving the collection of data of other insurers to adapt the Pack Assurance to the new GDPR this nature, ranging from membership forms to administrative or framework. financial riders, to a process of prior validation by the DPO, who examines the proportionality and nature of the data collected, Protection of personal data in subsidiaries and ensures that the rights of policyholders are clearly displayed on the documents or the online subscription screens. This is also The European subsidiaries are also implementing the GDPR plan. the case for the general terms and conditions of contracts, which Other international subsidiaries are equally well aware of the have for a long time included personal data protection clauses issue of personal data protection. This is particularly so for the to ensure transparency. All new processes are also subject to risk Brazilian subsidiary, with a law similar to the GDPR having been analysis validated by the DPO, as well as a legal compliance passed in Brazil in 2018. All subsidiaries are required to apply check before being referenced in the register of processes, as the Group policy on the protection of personal data, in addition required by the GDPR. to local regulations. Moreover, privacy by design, which seeks to integrate protection The French and European subsidiaries each have a DPO and requirements from the design phase of offers and services, is several IT and Personal Freedoms liaison officers to ensure particularly well entrenched on innovative digital projects, in compliance with the new regulations. They contribute to the collaboration with the Chief Digital Officer. Similarly, a process Group’s awareness-raising and compliance initiatives. They are of validating internal and external satisfaction surveys, and subject to careful and regular follow-up of their compliance with printed and email mailshots is in place. It systematically offers the personal data protection policy. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 341 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Cybersecurity In keeping with the continuous improvement process based on risk management, work in 2018 was focused above all on the Cybersecurity risks have increased significantly in recent years. protection of unstructured data, data de-identification, monitoring Insurers manage potentially sensitive data for their customers and of database access and continuing employee awareness-raising accordingly face regular cyberattacks. They must be able to repel through new formats. them. The information security policy at Caixa Seguradora is updated CNP Assurances, which has boasted a structured approach to annually, with all information and data categorised by level of securing its information system for over ten years, uses a security confidentiality to ensure adequate differentiation depending on framework aligned with the best practices of ISO 27001 and their specific nature. the associated guidelines. Each new IT project is subject to an analysis of the information security risks, which is reviewed and CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros has established a best validated by a dedicated committee before the new service practice guide on confidentiality databases. goes into production. As mentioned above, all health data are CNP UniCredit Vita has updated its data security policy as encrypted for storage in all information systems. The same goes a continuation of compliance measures undertaken in view for all transfers of data to our partners. In 2015, CNP Assurances of the GDPR. undertook a major shift in its cybersecurity approach with a view to addressing the sharp increase in cybercrime without undermining its digital transformation. Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 7 : AT T R A C T A N D D E V E L O P TA L E N T, D E V E L O P S K I LL S Lack of attractiveness and inability to retain talent, unsuitability of employees’ skills with the needs of the various business lines as they transform and develop At a time of transformation sweeping across all its businesses, essential to the implementation of its strategy and to support its CNP Assurances had made the professional development of employees in their career development. each of its employees central to its value creation process. The cultural transformation program, in place since mid-2017, With balanced management of the workforce, the Group offers all employees the opportunity to broaden their continuously ensures that the resources, expertise and skills professional horizons and experiment with new forms of work available to it are aligned with its strategic objectives. The or working relationships including collaborative and telework ability to attract, retain and nurture talents contributes to the and even hackathons. growth of the Group at a time when the profession of personal insurer is undergoing profound change. Various actions are in place in subsidiaries to support this major challenge for the Group. In France, the Human Resources planning agreement lists the commitments made by CNP Assurances to develop skills Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Share of vacancies for permanent positions filled through internal mobility/recruitment 77% 74% CNP Assurances Number of hours of training provided 76,786 85,049 Group Percentage of employees who received training 87% 94% Group Training budget as a percentage of payroll 3.8% * 3.5% Group Turnover rate 7.2% 8.0% Group Percentage of employees receiving performance reviews 94% 96% Group Percentage of employees receiving career interviews 23% 24% CNP Assurances Internal mobility rate 11% 9% CNP Assurances * Excluding CNP Santander 342 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Examples The 2018 incentive campaign also gave rise to a digital certificate validating the development of basic digital skills. Close monitoring of the professional Individual support for employees in the context of mobility, job development of each employee changes or organisational adjustment was another area of professional training, on an individualised basis extending to Employees positioned in business lines subject to challenges, managerial coaching where necessary. The training system for for which significant quantitative or qualitative changes have tutors in charge of assisting employees given new jobs or those been identified or are anticipated within a period of three years, employed under combined work-training programmes has also benefit from specific monitoring. Every year, managers are asked been strengthened. to conduct a performance review with each of their employees. Across the Group, 96% of employees had a performance review Lastly, training designed to support the implementation of strategic in 2018. The performance review offers a special opportunity development strategies focused on insurance techniques and for face time between managers and their employees, serving handling new IT applications, as well as new commercial offers to underscore the results obtained, to highlight employees’ strong in the Ametis network. Mandatory regulatory training was also points and areas for improvement on the basis of an updated provided to all employees on aspects including the GDPR and the skills framework, and to align expectations with goals for the fight against corruption. coming year. Elsewhere in the Group, more people received training overall In 2018, 226 CNP Assurances employees benefited from in 2018. Individual training requirements are generally collected internal mobility, 74 employees were promoted, and 74% of during annual performance reviews and during the process of vacancies for permanent positions were filled through internal drawing up the collective skills development plan. mobility. In 2018, CNP UniCredit Vita provided mandatory training on issues including occupational health and safety, the GDPR and the Sustained investment in developing the key skills Insurance Distribution directive (IDD). It also provided managerial of tomorrow training in relationship management, stress management, Developing its employees’ skills is one of CNP Assurances’ main leadership, and negotiation and conflict management. priorities. CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros conducted training in the This challenge is reflected in the amounts devoted to training – basics of Agile methods, communication and teamwork. approximately 5% of the payroll in recent years (4.6% in 2017, In 2018, CNP Partners provided training courses on telephone 4.7% in 2018) – and the proportion of employees trained (96% reception for employees at its call centre. It also offered modules of CNP Assurances employees took a training course in 2018). on the code of conduct, well-being and stress management. 24 employees were able to work towards a diploma, with a view to achieving professional goals aligned with the Company’s At Caixa Seguradora, training included behavioural issues (nondevelopment. violent communication and emotional intelligence), creativity and innovation, and ethics. In 2018, the skills development plan took into account the Company’s digital and cultural transformation and contributed In Cyprus, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings developed training to job changes. The focus was placed on the launch of the on negotiation techniques during the year. Passerelles training offer, aimed at developing employees’ soft Lastly, MFPrévoyance dispensed certification training on process skills. 650 employees were trained over the year, using a variety optimisation. of teaching methods, on themes including “customer centricity”, collaborative practices, personal development and effective communication. Agility has been another focus of development for managers through the implementation of a “collaborative and agile management” training course for managerial lines in some BUs or Group functions, as well as account managers, who were given training courses on agile customer relations. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 343 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 8 : U N D E R TA K E T O O F F E R FAV O U R A BL E W O R K I N G C O N D I T I O N S 1 – Non-compliance with regulatory requirements and commitments regarding equal opportunity and discrimination In an environment marked by far-reaching transformations, people with disabilities and promoting professional equality CNP Assurances’ responsible employer promise is also between men and women. CNP Assurances also constantly reflected in its policy in favour of quality of life at work. strives to prevent all forms of discrimination. CNP Assurances is committed to fighting all forms of CNP Assurances’ actions and measures to combat discrimination. It promotes equal opportunities for professional discrimination and promote diversity earned it the Seal development for everyone. of Diversity in 2009, a distinction that it has consistently managed to keep since then. For many years, CNP Assurances has pursued a policy of integrating young people into the workplace, supporting Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Percentage of employees with a disability 7.43% 7.05% CNP Assurances Proportion of female management-grade staff 50% 51% Group Proportion of female senior executives 34% 36% Group Proportion of women on the Executive Committee 36% 38% CNP Assurances Proportion of women on the Board of Directors 44% 44% CNP Assurances Average male/female income ratio by category 109% 109% * Group Number of young people on combined work-study programmes or apprenticeships 105 113 CNP Assurances Number of interns 221 224 Group Number of people under the age of 25 hired on permanent contracts 5 10 CNP Assurances Number of seniors hired on fixed-term contracts 26 25 CNP Assurances Number of seniors hired late in their careers 11 12 CNP Assurances Proportion of seniors (people aged above 55) in the workforce 15% 16% Group * Excluding CNP Santander Examples CNP Assurances signed the work-life balance charter at the end of 2017. Listed in the 2017‑2019 agreement on the quality of life at work, this charter promotes 15 best practices relating to Promoting gender equality in the workplace the organisation of work and relations between managers and CNP Assurances constantly strives to reduce any observed employees, from the good use of emails to the optimisation of gender gaps in remuneration and promotion. meeting times. At 31 December 2018, 44% of Board members were women. At CNP UniCredit Vita, a woman manager belongs to the Elle Women also accounted for 38% of the Executive Committee at Active inter-company forum organised by magazine Elle Italia and the end of 2018. the University of Milan to offer female students, women looking for a job and more broadly all women already in employment To a d v a n c e t h e c a u s e o f w o m e n i n t h e w o r k p l a c e , but eager to invest in their own future an opportunity for direct CNP Assurances belongs to Financi’Elles, a network for dialogue with experts from a range of sectors. Similarly, two female management-grade employees in banking, finance and female employees sit on two panels in the European Inspiringirls insurance, and Alter Égales, the network for female managementprogramme, which was developed in Italy through Valore D grade employees within the Caisse des Dépôts group. to encourage girls to ignore stereotypes and follow their own After signing the corporate parenthood charter in 2012 and dreams. joining the Corporate Parenthood Obser vator y in 2013, 344 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 Employment and integration of employees On top of professional training provided to support young people with disabilities on combined work-study programmes, CNP Assurances initiated a policy of opening employment for some of them in its foreign For more than 20 years, CNP Assurances has pursued a subsidiaries in 2018. The plan covered three people in 2018. proactive policy to help people with disabilities enter the workforce. A seventh four-year agreement covering the period The Human Resources planning agreement also covers the goals from 2015 to 2018 was signed in 2014. It commits the set for hiring or retaining seniors. CNP Assurances had 25 Company to helping people with disabilities enter and stay in the seniors on fixed-term contracts at the end of 2018. Twelve seniors workforce. Including the 153 disabled employees on permanent were hired in 2018. The Human Resources planning agreement contracts and the employees of the 185 sheltered workshops also provides for end-of-career measures. used by the Company, the proportion of disabled employees stood at 7.05% of the workforce as of 31 December 2018. Promoting diversity through communication In 2018, in support of the 2018 EDEW *, CNP Assurances The internal communications plan for diversity is reviewed every organised its annual awareness campaign about free speech year. Numerous continuous information and Intranet‑based and representations of disability: “Disability, no big deal!” This information campaigns and training courses are regularly year’s edition was held in Angers, allowing local employees to conducted to combat stereotypes, prejudice, and discriminatory take part in fun and friendly cooking workshops. remarks and attitudes, and to convince people of the advantages of having a diversity policy. In 2018, to mark International Disabled access audits have been conducted at all of Women’s Day, it conducted awareness-raising campaigns CNP Assurances’ facilities, in conjunction with the Occupational targeting all employees to counter sexism in the workplace. Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee. The Caixa Seguradora group frequently uses organisations that promote employment of people with disabilities to circulate job A commitment applied across the Group offers. It develops awareness initiatives to help teams welcome The commitment to fighting discrimination is shared across the these employees, and has also established partnerships with Group, and features in Caixa Seguradora’s code of ethics and institutions that support their integration. At CNP UniCredit Vita, conduct, which is dealt with in a compulsory training course. employees with disabilities represented 5.3% of the workforce New awareness-raising campaigns were also conducted on the in 2018. theme of respecting difference (using posters for instance). At CNP UniCredit Vita, the company agreements now include Fighting age discrimination a Generation Pact, which allows senior staff to scale down CNP Assurances makes every effort to support youth employment. gradually to part-time work over the three years prior to retirement, The Human Resources planning agreement sets out the under certain conditions. In 2018, CNP UniCredit Vita renewed Company’s commitments to employ young people for permanent its membership of two inter-company networks: positions and on combined work-study programmes. At the end WW Valore D, which focuses on gender diversity and careers for of 2018, CNP Assurances employed more than a hundred young people on work-study contracts, in line with its efforts in women; this area in recent years. CNP Assurances also hosted 77 interns WW Parks Diversity, which is an advocate for LGBT inclusion in the and hired ten young people under the age of 25 in 2018. workplace. * European Disability Employment Week 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 345 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy Contribute to a sustainable society C H A LL E N G E 8 : U N D E R TA K E T O O F F E R FAV O U R A BL E W O R K I N G C O N D I T I O N S 2 – Non-compliance with regulations and commitments in relation to the well-being and health of employees Ensuring a work environment that is conducive to the well-being Offering favourable working conditions encourages collective of employees is a constant focus of the Group’s Human performance and professional development. Resources policies, which draw on commitments made by CNP Assurances in its code of conduct and agreements concluded within the Group, such as the quality of life at work agreement in France. Indicators 2017 2018 Scope Number of requests for internal social mediation during 23 22 CNP Assurances the year under review Percentage of employees working part time 12% 11% Group Percentage of employees who worked overtime 23% 21% Group Percentage of employees who enjoy flexible working hours 62% 61% CNP Assurances Number of working hours per year for a full time employee from 1,575 to from 1,575 to Group 2,141 hours 2,228 hours Absenteeism rate, excluding maternity leave 5.42% 4.24% Group Number of occupational illnesses 2 2 Group Lost-time incident frequency rate 1.43% 2.26% Group Lost-time incident severity rate 0.013% 0.036% Group Examples After two trial phases in 2016 and 2017, CNP UniCredit Vita opened smartworking up to the entire company in March 2018. To date, 121 employees (more than 70% of the workforce) have Work-life balance signed a smartworking contract allowing them to work from their Annual working time within the Group ranges from 1,575 to home (or any other private place or coworking space) four days 2,228 hours, depending on local legislation. For example, a month (an average of once a week). a full‑time workload represents 1,575 hours a year at CNP Assurances and MFPrévoyance. Employee representation and protection All employees who work part time within the Group’s entities Almost all employees (98%) are covered by local insurance choose to do so. At Group level, part-time employees represent industry collective bargaining agreements. Exceptions are 11% of the workforce. At CNP Assurances, part-time employees consistent with local rules governing the sector: 91 employees in are entitled to the same benefits as full-time employees. Ireland and 24 in Argentina. CNP Assurances has ushered in several schemes geared towards Social dialogue is a constant throughout the CNP Assurances facilitating the balance between professional life and personal Group. There is at least one employee representative in all life and the organisation of working time in line with professional subsidiaries except CNP Santander Insurance, acquired in constraints. They include personalised working hours, enjoyed 2014, which has 91 employees. The Caixa Seguradora group by 61% of CNP Assurances employees, as well as voluntary now has two employees sitting on the Board of Directors of the part-time work, adopted by 19% of the workforce. Telework, Federal Insurance Employees’ Union as employee representatives. governed by an agreement signed in 2018, brings new flexibility A total of 152 meetings between employees and management in the way of organising individual and collective work, aligned were held at the Group’s various entities. with ongoing transformations and emerging lifestyle changes. 346 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy 7 The European Works Council had one ordinary meeting in Managerial communication: a preferred channel 2018, for the presentation of the Annual Report on the Group’s for discussing the quality of life at work at activities, projects and results. CNP Assurances Since 2016, the management approach known as “Dialog” in Working with employee representative bodies reference to the principle it promotes has encouraged managers at CNP Assurances to open dialogue three times a year with their teams on various T h e H u m a n R e s o u r c e s d e p a r t m e n t m a i n t a i n s r e g u l a r, dimensions of quality of life at work, as they relate to expectations high‑quality dialogue with the various employee representative in terms of performance. bodies (National and European Works Councils, employee representatives and Occupational Health, Safety and Working Health protection Conditions Committee) and with union representatives, giving due consideration to the roles of everyone involved and taking The CNP Assurances Group is committed to ensuring the health regulatory developments into account. and safety of its employees. Numerous health improvement programmes have been established by Group entities. Employee representative elections were held at CNP Assurances CNP Assurances has an autonomous occupational health service in the autumn of 2016; five trade unions now have on its main sites, covering all employees. Those requiring it representative status. receive close medical attention. The Company’s skills development plan includes road safety Agreements to improve working conditions training modules for travelling insurance advisors. CNP Assurances has agreements on the main areas, namely Similar initiatives are in place at Caixa Seguradora, where daily classification and pay through the adaptation agreement, fitness classes are offered to all employees, along with anti-stress working time, disability, union resources, retirement planning, massages and yoga sessions. In addition, an evaluation of the profit sharing and the Human Resources planning agreement. Workplace Hazard Prevention Programme and the Occupational In 2018, it signed a fur ther two agreements, one on Medical Health Check is held weekly. There is also an internal the professional integration and retention of people with accident prevention commission. Its purpose is to identify risks disabilities and the other on the life insurance scheme. It also and preventive actions to implement. An internal health and signed three amendments to existing agreements on incentive accident prevention week is also organised every year. bonuses, telework, retirement savings and the supplementary For the past two years, under the quality of life at work defined-contribution pension scheme. agreement, CNP Assurances has taken several initiatives In 2018, the Caixa Seguradora group signed two agreements: to help prevent absenteeism. The Lyfe platform offers health one on profit-sharing, the second on working time. advice and the possibility to make an appointment with general practitioners or specialists within 48 hours. Since 2018, it has MFPrévoyance has a base of 14 collective agreements that are offered employees the possibility of online medical consultations adapted by amendment or are the subject of new agreements 24/7. In the autumn of 2018, an experimental H4D online adapting them to new developments or as they expire. They medical consultation booth was installed on the Arcueil site. cover key employee relations issues including working hours, The quality of life at work week held in the spring of 2018 the right to organise, work-life balance, generational contracts, included raising awareness about nutrition. A further two projects profit-sharing and incentive bonuses. Four new agreements and have been started, one aiming to facilitate a more sustainable an amendment to an existing one were negotiated and signed return to employment for employees after a long absence from in 2018. work. It revisits the practices of the various actors (HR experts, CNP UniCredit Vita renewed its company agreements at the occupational physicians, social workers, managers and end of 2018, including those on working hours, telework and employees) with a view to better coordinating care and support supplementary pensions. In training, it has for several years and ensuring that services are adjusted to the needs of each been a member of the national inter-professional joint training employee. The second aims to better understand the reasons fund for the continuous training of employees of companies for absence in order to identify the most appropriate ways of operating in the Credit and Insurance sector, which works for preventing absenteeism within the Company. The results will feed member companies and their employees by financing training into a 2019‑2020 action plan. plans, in agreement with employers and unions. It operates CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings has a team dedicated to on a mutualised basis, with sums redistributed to companies in regularly communicating on workplace health and safety risks, proportion to the amount of contributions paid by them. and has supported the Ministry of Labour’s “health and safety Spending on social matters for Group employees represented week” for several years. 1.5% of the payroll in 2018. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 347 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Challenges for promoting a sustainable society, environment and economy A mutual insurer covers occupational risk prevention measures management methods gave rise to the organisation of a for CNP Partners employees. This year, all employees received hackathon on “managerial innovation”, with the prototyping of training on stress prevention. Yoga classes were also offered. four projects, and the organisation of collaborative workshops bringing together hundreds of people. CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros also provided training on cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid for all employees. The rollout of Lyfe, enriched notably by new online medical consultation services in 2018, covers the three dimensions of CNP UniCredit Vita has set up a basic and specific e-learning prevention. course on safety at work for new employees. As an already longstanding system of tertiary prevention, Ongoing prevention of psychosocial risks CNP Assurances uses social mediation internally to prevent and deal with alleged situations of harassment at work, situations of For more than a decade, CNP Assurances has been paying suffering and daily life conflicts. close attention to the prevention of psychosocial risks. Many mechanisms and actions contribute to creating an environment In 2018, it received roughly 20 requests, mainly covering favourable to the limitation of situations of risk. They come into relational difficulties, but extending in some cases to alleged play at one of the three classically defined levels of prevention: harassment. Lastly, all employees also have 24/7 access all primary, secondary and tertiary. The 2017 quality of life at work year round to a toll-free hotline (Filassistance) if they need to talk agreement provides an overarching structure for all of them. to someone. In 2018, the main focus was primary prevention. A company CNP UniCredit Vita carried out a survey on working conditions agreement extends the scope of telework to collective within the company, using the INAIL methodology (Italian experimentation as a team, opening up possibilities for new National Insurance Institute for Occupational Accidents). The organisations, such as two-day telework periods or mobile analysis of the findings will serve to identify various measures of telework days. The “Dialog” managerial process has continued, improvement for the climate and the prevention of psycho-social with the enrichment of responses by offering the possibility of risks. posting comments, as well as direct access to the results of all Caixa Seguradora has also taken many internal actions on these employees. topics, such as conferences and mobile gaming applications, Change in work methods within the “New CNP” cultural one of which deals with the prevention of harassment. transformation programme and the emergence of new 348 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y A measure of CSR performance 7 7.4 A measure of CSR performance The quality of CNP Assurances’ Corporate Social Responsibility policy has been recognised by SRI rating agencies. SUMMARY OF CNP ASSURANCES’ CSR RATINGS (UNSOLICITED) Rating agency CSR rating Comment Sustainalytics 74/100 (2018) 21 out of 146 (global insurance as of 01/01/2019) Oekom Prime C+ (2018) Insurance Industry Leaders (last modified 10/08/2018) Vigeo-Eiris 61/100 (2018) 4/53 (European insurance) MSCI AAA (2018) CDP C (2018) PRI A (2018) Strategy and governance module AODP BBB (2018) 6/80 (global insurance) SRI indices that include CNP Assurances’ shares CNP Assurances’ shares are included in several European SRI MSCI ESG indices, including Europe ESG Leaders and World indices. It has been renewed for several years in the Ethibel ESG Leaders. The share is also part of the FTSE4Good Europe Sustainability Index Excellence Europe and the Euronext Vigeo Index, the FTSE4Good Developed Index and the FTSE4Good Eurozone 120 and Europe 120 indices, as well as in many Developed Minimum Variance Index. Awards and other external recognition in 2018 CNP UniCredit Vita was recompensed with a “Special In 2018, CNP Santander received the “Great Place to Commendation from the Jury” at the 2018 CSR Sustainability Work” label, in the “best small business” category (under Awards organised by AIFin (the Italian Association for Innovation 100 employees). The label is only awarded to companies in the Finance Sector) for its Choose pilot project, still in the test that reach a certain score, based on an employee survey and phase. documents provided by the Company. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 349 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Metholodogy 7.5 Metholodogy 7.5.1 Risk and exclusion analysis The analysis of the CSR challenges carried out in 2018 meets the Risks and opportunities not included in the Non-Financial various requirements of the Non-Financial Information Statement, Information Statement were deemed not to be priorities after and more particularly those set within each of the five categories the analysis. This refers to circular economy, waste and food of information, namely social consequences, environmental insecurity, animal welfare and responsible, fair and sustainable consequences, respect for human rights, fight against corruption food and societal commitments, all of which are listed in Article and tax evasion. L.225‑102‑1 of the French Commercial Code but which are considered not material for CNP Assurances’ business. 7.5.2 CSR data collection process Guidelines and definition Historical data and change in scope Indicators and reporting processes have been defined for all Group The scope of consolidation is broadly unchanged compared with entities. Processes serve as a reference for the various people involved 2017. However, slight variations in scope can appear when in preparing this section and its annex at CNP Assurances and at indicators were not provided for an entity or sub-entity in 2017, all subsidiaries. They describe the issues, roles, indicators and data but have been in 2018. collection processes, as well as the main risks identified and the system for controlling and managing these risks. Reporting, control and consolidation method Indicators are collected from operating departments, site by site Scopes when necessary. CSR reporting is performed in part with the help The indicators cover all fully consolidated entities in the of accounting consolidation software. CNP Assurances Group, excluding CNP Europe Life, which CSR officers have been appointed for each entity (a total of was not included in the scope as it is in run-off management, 15 CSR officers). They prepare the first level of consolidation and CNP Luxembourg, given its weight in the Group’s business. within the entity concerned. Eleven validators check the data The list accordingly comprises CNP Assurances, CNP Caution, from their entities. The CNP Assurances Corporate Social and MFPrévoyance, CNP Partners, CNP Assurances Compañía de Environmental Responsibility department is responsible for overall Seguros, the Caixa Seguradora group, CNP UniCredit Vita, consolidation and carries out consistency checks on all the CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings and CNP Santander Insurance, information collected from these CSR officers. together with their consolidated subsidiaries. Indicators for the Group’s consolidated subsidiaries are presented on a 100% basis. Implementing CSR reporting in 2006 has led to a steady improvement in the quality of non-financial data, particularly The ter m “CNP Assurances” covers the legal entities environmental data. Certification by the Statutory Auditors and CNP Assurances and CNP Caution. use of the Group consolidation system for CSR reporting in The “Group” scope mentioned in the tables covers the entities the past five years have served to secure quality standards. A mentioned above, i.e., 98.4% of the Group’s consolidated dedicated collaborative web platform was set up in 2015. These employees as of 31 December 2018. It excludes CNP Europe Life, developments have helped drive progress in the Group’s CSR CNP Luxembourg, the Danish branch and the Colombian subprogramme by making it easier to manage initiatives within each subsidiary. business. The consolidated ratios for all entities are calculated by weighting reported ratios in proportion to each entity’s headcount. Reporting period The flow indicators cover the period from 1 January 2018 Limitations to the completeness to 31 December 2018; the stock indicators are as of and reliability of information 31 December 2018. The definition of certain social indicators may differ slightly from one country to another. The guidelines were deployed in 2014 in foreign subsidiaries, and certain definitions, such as those for absenteeism, training and remuneration, were harmonised from one subsidiary to the next. However, the consolidated indicators used are consistent and material. 350 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Metholodogy 7 7.5.3 Methodology for developing the business model The development of the business model involved a working it is part of a dedicated validation process by several members of group composed of members in charge of external institutional the Executive Committee and the General Management. communication, communication with shareholders and the CSR department. Established in line with the Company’s strategic plan, 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 351 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report 7.6 Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report This is a free translation into English of the independent third party’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended 31 December, 2018 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as independent third party of your company non-financial statement for the year ended December 31st, 2018 (hereinafter the “entity”), accredited by COFRAC under number (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the Group management 3-1058 (whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr), and report pursuant to the legal and regulatory requirements of member of the Mazars network of one of the CNP Assurances’ articles L. 225‑102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the Statutory Auditors, we hereby report to you on the consolidated French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). The entity’s responsibility Pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements, the Board of The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s Directors is responsible for preparing the Statement, including a procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of presentation of the business model, a description of the principal which are presented in the Statement and available on request non‑financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented from the entity’s head office. considering those risks and the outcomes of said policies, including key performance indicators. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the requirements of including documented policies and procedures regarding article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession. guidance and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control Responsibility of the independent third party On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report However, it is not our responsibility to comment on: expressing a limited assurance conclusion on: WW the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and WW the compliance of the Statement with the requirements of regulatory requirements, in particular the French duty of care article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; law and anti-corruption and tax evasion legislation; WW the fairness of the information provided in accordance with WW the compliance of products and services with the applicable article R. 225‑105 I, 3° and II of the French Commercial regulations. Code, i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and the measures implemented considering the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”). 352 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report 7 Nature and scope of our work The work described below was performed in accordance information required under article R. 225-105 II of the French with the provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code; Commercial Code determining the conditions in which the WW we assessed the process used to identify and confirm the independent third party performs its engagement and with the principal risks; professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors WW we asked what internal control and risk management (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as with ISAE procedures the entity has put in place; 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of WW we assessed the consistency of the outcomes and the key historical financial information. performance indicators used with respect to the principal risks Our procedures allowed us to assess the compliance of the and the policies presented; Statement with regulatory requirements and the fairness of the WW we verified that the Statement covers the scope of Information: consolidation, i.e., all the consolidated entities in accordance WW we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ with article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code within activities, the description of the social and environmental the limitations set out in the Statement; risks associated with their activities and the impact of these WW we assessed the data collection process implemented by activities on compliance with human rights and anti‑corruption the entity to ensure the completeness and fairness of the and tax evasion legislation, as well as the resulting policies Information; and their outcomes; WW for the key performance indicators and other quantitative WW we assessed the suitability of the criteria of the Guidelines with outcomes (1) that we considered to be the most important, we respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality implemented: and understandability, with due consideration of industry best —— analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of practices, where appropriate; the data collected and the consistency of any changes in WW we verified that the Statement includes each category of social those data, and environmental information set out in article L. 225‑102‑1 —— tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify III as well as information regarding compliance with human the proper application of the definitions and procedures rights and anti‑corruption and tax evasion legislation; and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This WW we verified that the Statement includes an explanation work was carried out on CNP Assurances (France) and for the absence of the information required under article covers between 55% and 100% of the consolidated data L. 225-102-1 III, 2 of the French Commercial Code; relating to the key performance indicators and outcomes WW we verified that the Statement presents the business model selected for these tests; and the key risks associated with all the consolidated entities’ WW we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks our knowledge of all the consolidated entities. associated with their business relationships, its their products We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional or services, as well as its their policies, measures and the judgement, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators; assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have WW we verified, where relevant with respect to the principal risks required us to carry out more extensive procedures. or the policies presented, that the Statement provides the Means and resources Our work was carried out by a team of 5 people between We conducted a dozen interviews with the people responsible October 2018 and February 2019 and took a total of 5 weeks. for preparing the Statement representing, in particular, risk management, compliance, services strategy, human resources and CSR departments. (1) Number of Lyfe distribution customers; Share of financial assets covered by an ESG filter ; Rate of employees trained in the fight against corruption; Percentage of newcomers trained in the fight against money laundering; Rate of employees trained in the context of the establishment of the GDPR; Number of KIDs on the CNP Assurances website; Number of claims in the first half of the year; Turnover rate; Share of women among executives; Number of young people on apprenticeship contracts; Frequency and severity rates of work accidents; Absenteeism rate ; Number of occupational diseases; Share of employees who received training; Share of the long-term care insurance market 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 353 7 C o r p o r at e S o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our requirements and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not attention that causes us to believe that the non-financial statement presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines, in all material is not presented in accordance with the applicable regulatory respect. Paris La Défense, 4 March 2019 The independent third party Mazars SAS Olivier LECLERC Edwige REY Partner Partner CSR & Sustainable Development 354 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information This annex adds to the information on CNP Assurances’ CSR approach on two aspects: WW the CSR components; WW initiatives complementing those presented in the Non-Financial Information Statement, in connection with the Group’s CSR commitments. To provide an overview of the Group’s CSR approach, the Non-Financial Information Statement is cross-referenced throughout this annex. 1. Components of the CSR approach The components of CNP Assurances’ CSR approach are based WW the Caixa Seguradora group set up a Sustainable on four pillars: Development Committee in 2007 to address environmental WW commitments in line with the UN objectives; issues. Made up of 14 representatives from various sectors WW steering bodies; within the Company, it is coordinated by the Group’s Corporate Secretary. The initiatives in the environmental WW stakeholder dialogue; programme help to instil a culture of sustainable development WW promotion, awareness and training initiatives for employees within the Group. Since 2013, the Caixa Seguradora Institute and policyholders. has been strengthening its strategic social, environmental and cultural programmes; 1.1 Commitments in line WW CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros has a CSR team in with the UN objectives charge of the CSR programme known as “Multiplicar” and This point is described on paragraph 7.2.2 of the Non-Financial has created a sustainability committee. Information Statement. 1.3 Stakeholder dialogue 1.2 CSR governance structures CNP Assurances maintains regular dialogue with its main Since 2017, CNP Assurances has had a Corporate Social stakeholders, and conducts periodic surveys. and Environmental Responsibility (CSER) department supervised directly by a member of the Executive Committee. It reports to the Participation in market bodies Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors on the Group’s CNP Assurances plays an active role in the work of the French activities and objectives. Insurance Federation (FFA) in the field of CSR, notably through Since 2017, three liaison officers have been appointed its participation in the development of non-financial reporting in the departments most involved in the process, namely guides and ESG commitment and exclusion practices published Human Resources, Communications, Strategic Marketing and in 2018, and as a member of the ESG-Climate working group. Sponsorship, and Investment. We are a member of ORSE, a French CSR think‑tank, and its Finance Club, which brings together companies and stakeholders Under the Group’s business model, each subsidiary develops (NGOs and unions). CNP Assurances is also a member of the CSR policies in line with Group principles: Institutional Circle of Novethic, a French media and research WW CNP UniCredit Vita set up a CSR department in 2015. centre specialising in responsible investment. Sustainable development indicators are included in the More specifically, in 2015, CNP Assurances initiated “La quarterly indicators reviewed by the Management Committee; Fabrique d’Assurance”, a think-tank inspired by technological “Fab Labs” based on the dual principle of collaboration and 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 355 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information cross-functionality of professions, bringing together experts from WW In France: the world of insurance and the social and solidarity economy —— Family Day, first organised in Paris in 2016 and then (mutual insurers, other insurers, associations, researchers, repeated in Angers and Arcueil in the following years, academics, institutions, etc.). La Fabrique d’Assurance has set offered a range of activities focusing in particular on itself the task of formulating innovative recommendations on the the theme of sustainable development, including waste insurance sector, integrating the challenges of the social and sorting and a game on the elements and the quality of solidarity economy. These recommendations are issued above all raw materials. To mark the occasion, an educational to industry players, the professional press and public authorities booklet on CNP Assurances’ CSR approach was handed in order to get the ball rolling. out to all participants. The participation of children in the various activities was crowned by a reforestation initiative The international subsidiaries also participate in local professional in Brazil; bodies. In 2016, the Caixa Seguradora group joined Forum Aliança Cerrado, which brings together NGOs, government —— in 2018, the first “well-being fortnight” was organised representatives and stakeholders to discuss environmental issues. to mark Sustainable Development Week and Quality of Similarly, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros joined the Life at Work Week, with a talk on nutrition, workshops Buenos Aires Sustainable Mobility Group in 2016. It further on positivism, digital detox and self-massage offered to confirmed its commitment on the issue by signing up to the all employees, along with online advice and videos on national equivalent in 2018. the same topics. A day of well-being at work was also organised at CNP UniCredit Vita, featuring advice from an osteopath; Listening to partners and customers —— for 2018 Responsible Finance Week, a major internal This point is described in Challenge 4: “Commit to customer awareness campaign was conducted on CNP Assurances’ satisfaction – Inability to maintain and improve customer goals in this area. Posters were distributed within the satisfaction” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. Company and placed on the Intranet and the corporate social network. The www.cnp.fr website, which is accessible to all, had WW In the Group’s entities, various awareness-raising initiatives close to 800,000 unique visitors in 2018, 41% of which on focusing chiefly on eco-responsible actions: pages aimed at individuals. Since 2016, CNP Assurances —— the Caixa Seguradora group each year raises its has been promoting interaction with stakeholders on employees’ awareness on sorting via a campaign of social networks. Having opened Twitter, LinkedIn, Viadeo donations for electronic waste. CNP UniCredit Vita is also and Facebook accounts in late 2015, it was managing a raising awareness among its employees through a visual community of 75,000 Facebook fans on topics relating to campaign on eco-friendly practices and waste reduction. living better for longer by the end of December. First held in 2017, its 2018 edition included a collection of used clothing organised to mark European Waste Reduction Week; Dialogue with employees —— in Argentina, the “Multiplicar” programme was rolled out This point is described in Challenge 8: “Undertake to offer in 2015. It aims to reinforce responsible behaviour among favourable working conditions – Non-compliance with regulations employees through awareness-raising initiatives and and commitments in relation to the well-being and health of training. Among its actions in 2018 was the inclusion in employees” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. e-mail signatures of the commitment to support the reduction of inequalities in line with UN Sustainable Development Goal 10 “Reducing Inequality”. In addition, the family 1.4 Promotion, awareness day organised in 2018 brought together employees and and training initiatives for 50 children supported by “Comedor La Esperanza”, an employees and policyholders association working with a poor community in the suburbs Sustainable development challenges are the subject of of Buenos Aires; awareness/training initiatives to embed them in the corporate —— in 2018, CNP Partners gave all employees its maiden culture and everyday practices. CSR report, devoted to its achievements in 2017; —— CNP UniCredit Vita regularly sends messages on CSR Awareness-raising and employee training topics to its employees via a dedicated newsletter. It also introduced CSR training in 2018 and continues to offer Several Group entities have a section on their Intranet dedicated training on diversity and well-being at work. 94% of its to sustainable development. For several years, regular events and employees participated. activities have been organised in each entity to raise employee awareness about sustainable development challenges: 356 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 Solutions to raise awareness among than 19 million letters sent to policyholders (by post or policyholders and partners online). Since 2011, the message has been communicated to all holders of endowment policies (other than unit-linked WW The Caixa Seguradora group describes the social and contracts), including on the annual policyholder statements. environmental challenges it is facing and presents its results on Similarly, Caixa Seguradora places the “Carbon Free” seal its website. For several years, it has provided its policyholders on its printed materials, thereby informing its policyholders that with information on responsible consumption. In 2015, it the CO2 emissions of its operations are offset. extended the process to social networks. WW A new brochure, “The 2018 CSR essentials”, was born in WW CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros also uses social 2018. It is devoted to CSR actions carried out in the Group, networks and commercial events to raise the awareness of featuring actions in favour of the ecological and energy policyholders and brokers on the issues of prevention and transition, and the investment panorama. An essential resource health, as well as sustainable mobility and protection of the for presenting the Company’s CSR approach, it is designed environment. to accompany tender documents, to be given to collective WW Each year, CNP Assurances expresses its commitment insurance subscribers and to be available to policyholders on to upholding the United Nations Global Compact and the cnp.fr website. promoting its responsible investing strategy through more 2. Complementary actions related to the Group’s CSR commitments This annex provides labour, social and environmental information their expectations. These two goals are ambitious because of the in addition to that described in the Non-Financial Information very wide-ranging situations in our various markets. Statement and which falls under the three CSR commitments in As it grows, the Group also keeps a very close eye on business line with the Company’s strategy: ethics. WW Contribute to a sustainable society The Group’s entities promote the professional development of all —— Combat inequalities by avoiding financial exclusion and employees, building the skills that will make the Group successful through pooling. today and in the future. An active policy is in place for gender —— Better satisfy policyholders. equality and quality of life at work. Lastly, the CNP Assurances —— Ensure good business ethics. Group is involved in local initiatives. —— Implement a responsible HR policy. The commitment in favour of a sustainable society is broken down —— Develop social initiatives in the field. along the following lines: WW Contribute to a sustainable environment —— Optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal WW combat inequalities by avoiding financial exclusion and workings. through pooling; —— Gear our customer relationship towards a low-carbon WW better satisfy policyholders; economy through products and investments. WW ensure good business ethics; WW Contribute to a sustainable economy WW implement a responsible HR policy; —— Be a responsible investor. WW develop social initiatives in the field. —— Be a responsible purchaser. 2.1.1 Combat inequalities by avoiding 2.1 Contribute to a sustainable society financial exclusion and through The CNP Assurances Group seeks to align its interests with pooling those of society by making a positive social contribution to its The first commitment for a sustainable society is based on the stakeholders, particularly its policyholders, employees and civil determination to offer a range of products and services that: society. WW are accessible to all; To do so, it seeks to offer policyholders guarantees that match WW include social benefit guarantees; their daily lives, needs and budgets as closely as possible. It also WW select risks in a manner suited to each person’s health; aims to offer each of its customers a quality of service that meets WW focus on health prevention. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 357 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 2.1.1.1 Offering affordable products key moments in their lives throughout the duration of their loan. Family guarantees are granted at happy times such as the birth An offer aligned with the needs of people on low incomes or adoption of a child, or at difficult times to assist in support for in France sick children or dependent family members. CNP Assurances enables companies, non-profits, local authorities and hospitals to offer all their employees the same New loss of employment insurance was added to La Banque insurance cover at the same price, by pooling risks and covering Postale’s borrower offer in 2017. It offers effective support by different generations under the same policy. For several years, combining with that of Pôle Emploi, without any waiting period. CNP Assurances has been proposing mutualised dependency Providing close support for customers, the guarantee ensures a contracts marketed by its mutual insurer partners. The special payment for a maximum duration of 18 months, thereby offering feature of these contracts is their easy accessibility: the guarantee additional security for specific situations. The guarantee covers is offered to all members of the Group, without medical selection 60% of the monthly loan repayment, well above the rates of (the only risks ruled out are those that have already occurred). many of its competitors, which are closer to 50%. Pricing based on the entire population covered and broad age Lastly, as part of its OPEN CNP programme, this year group brings contributions down to moderate amounts within the CNP Assurances acquired an interest in Alan, the first reach of all budgets. This type of system guarantees a first level independent insurance company created in France for 30 years. of protection against the loss of autonomy. Its aim is to bring about change in health insurance in France, CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs de focusing on the customer experience, the care pathway and la Cité foundation, which aims to help microentrepreneurs obtain the implementation of value-added digital services. For a flat insurance. It is also one of the co-insurers for the foundation’s fee of 50 euros, Alan offers start-ups and SMEs a fully online Basic Insurance Kit contracts offering death/disability and health complementary health insurance with direct subscription. It takes cover. A total of 155 new Basic Insurance Kit contracts were less than five minutes to sign up on its website. sold in 2018. Among subsidiaries, the Caixa Seguradora group allows 2016 was marked by the launch by ATD Quart Monde and policyholders in the late stages of a critical illness to claim CNP Assurances of a funeral insurance contract for people living benefits without reducing the capital built up under their policy, below the poverty line. Having been drawn up with the help plus free medication in the event of hospitalisation or emergency of the people concerned, this contract takes into account their care. In 2017, it released its “Caixa Fácil” range, which can real needs, offering a basket of guarantees necessary to finance be taken out with electronic distributors, offering funeral services, dignified funerals. The challenge was to set a monthly fee within discounts on drugs and dietary assistance. The group’s offers the budgets of very poor people (€0.50 per month for young have been rounded out by multiple pregnancy cover and job loss people up to 30 years old, €13 per month for people aged over protection to maintain the family’s pension cover. 70). Unlike conventional contracts, the monthly payments do not change according to the policyholder’s age. People aged up to 2.1.1.3 Risk selection adapted to each person’s 80 can take out this insurance, and the guarantee comes to an health profile end when the policyholder turns 90, when the solidarity fund This point is described in Challenge 1: “Keep pace with social created for the contract takes over. and societal developments” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. Innovative microinsurance products in subsidiaries In Brazil, Caixa Seguradora was the first insurer to enter the 2.1.1.4 Focus on health prevention Brazilian funeral microinsurance market, with the Amparo This point is described in Challenge 1: “Keep contract launched in 2011. The Group also offers two products pace with social and societal developments” of the for people on low incomes: a retirement product with monthly Non-Financial Information Statement. payments of R$ 35, and home insurance at a reduced rate. Similarly, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holding offers specific car and 2.1.2 Better satisfy policyholders home insurance at a reduced rate. This point is described in Challenge 4: “Commit to customer 2.1.1.2 Innovative guarantees with societal benefits satisfaction” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. As part of its CNP Premium individual creditor insurance offer, CNP Assurances has been offering policyholders assistance at 358 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 2.1.3 Ensure good business ethics WW in procedures that promote respect for civil rights: internal codes and regulations, agreements on the right to organise The third commitment for a sustainable society and the personal data protection policy (see Challenge 6: is driven by the need to protect the interests of “Protect the personal data of policyholders and employees” individuals and to respect the general interest. of the Non-Financial Information Statement). Employees are It takes the following form: also covered by an insurance industry collective bargaining WW measures supporting policyholder security, especially as agreement (excluding Ireland and certain categories in regards their personal data; Argentina due to local regulations); WW ethics and anti-corruption measures; WW in communication with employees: CNP Assurances’ WW prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing; dedicated Human Resources Intranet informs them about their WW fiscal transparency; rights, and includes sections on the collective bargaining WW respect for human rights, compliance with and promotion of agreement, social dialogue, professional diversity and stress the fundamental ILO conventions. management. A union section on the Intranet allows the unions to communicate to staff on a continuous basis. 2.1.3.1 Protection of personal data With regard to stakeholders, special attention is given to This point is described in Challenge 6: “Protect the personal data forced labour and child labour in the purchasing policy, with of policyholders and employees” of the Non-Financial Information CNP Assurances and the Group’s subsidiaries not directly Statement. involved (see “Be a responsible purchaser”). In addition, in supplier relations, the standard CSR clause in CNP Assurances’ 2.1.3.2 Ethics and anti-corruption measures purchase contracts stipulates that the supplier must undertake This point is described in Challenge 5: “Ensure good business to combat human rights violations, notably by upholding the ethics – Corruption and conflicts of interest in relationships with Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations third parties” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as the conventions of the International Labour Organization. 2.1.3.3 Prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism Compliance with the ILO’s fundamental conventions is reflected This point is described in Challenge 5: “Ensure good business in our relations with suppliers and sub-contractors (see “Be a ethics – Fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing” of the responsible purchaser”), and in the integration of societal criteria Non-Financial Information Statement. into the management of financial and real estate assets. 2.1.3.4 Fiscal transparency 2.1.3.6 Lobbying This point is described in Challenge 5: “Ensure good business Group companies participate in their local insurance industry’s ethics – Fraud, money laundering and terrorist financing” of the professional bodies, and the international subsidiaries also Non-Financial Information Statement. attend events organised by the local French consulate, but they do not conduct any lobbying per se. The Group helps to address 2.1.3.5 Human rights, compliance with and the challenges facing society by contributing to research and promotion of the fundamental ILO discussion, notably on the topics of retirement and long-term care conventions in France. The guiding principles of the Global Compact CNP Assurances never acts alone. It systematically acts through In line with its 2003 pledge to uphold the UN Global Compact, industry organisations, in particular the FFA and European bodies CNP Assurances makes sure that each local organisation in the insurance sector. Experts sit on its specific Committees. complies with human rights laws and regulations. Following None of the Group’s entities makes donations to political parties. the lead of CNP Assurances, Compañía de Seguros and the Caixa Seguradora group, CNP UniCredit Vita also pledged to uphold the Compact in 2010. They renew their commitment 2.1.4 Implement a responsible HR policy annually. CNP Partners joined the contingent in 2018. The CNP Assurances’ HR policy is structured around approaches to Caixa Seguradora group signed the United Nations PSI job and skills management, with the goal of achieving quality (principles for sustainable insurance) in 2015. of life at work in an environment of far-reaching transformations that affect both business lines and cultural and managerial Internally, its commitment is reflected in a range of ways: benchmarks. It is a policy based on CNP Assurances’ aim of WW in the integration of environmental, social and governance being a responsible and committed employer: criteria in financial asset management strategies. Respect for human rights is one of the criteria used to select investments WW it is responsible in that the entities of CNP Assurances Group (see Challenge 2: “Make ESG and climate challenges part endeavour day after day to build up the skills of each of its of the investment processes” of the Non-Financial Information employees, who serve and will continue to serve the Group’s Statement); performance in a medium-term perspective; 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 359 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information WW it is committed insofar as its actions are designed to match WW a motivating remuneration policy, compatible with the notions the diversity of talents, professions and people that make up of “Fit” and “Proper”. the Group. The active professional equality policy is used to train young people, to help people with disabilities enter the 2.1.4.1 Talent and skills development workforce and to promote greater gender equality within teams. This point is described in Challenge 7: “Attract and develop It is applied practically through: talent, develop skills” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. WW talent and skills development; 2.1.4.2 Establishment of a work environment WW the establishment of a work environment conducive to wellconducive to well-being and performance, being and performance, as well as the professional equality professional equality policy policy; This point is described in Challenge 8: “Undertake to offer WW dynamic workforce management; favourable working conditions” of the Non-Financial Information Statement. 2.1.4.3 Human Resources planning – dynamic workforce management Number of employees in the Group The CNP Assurances Group * had a total of 5,243 employees at 31 December 2018, representing an increase of 1.4% compared with 2018. Employees by undertaking Country 2018 2017 2016 CNP Assurances France 2,870 2,908 2,992 Caixa Seguradora Group Brazil 1,446 1,384 1,179 CNP UniCredit Vita Italy 171 171 170 CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings Cyprus/Greece 307 291 284 CNP Partners Spain, Italy, France 202 204 204 MFPrévoyance France 75 73 75 CNP Santander Insurance Ireland, Italy 91 80 61 CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros Argentina 81 60 62 CONSOLIDATED TOTAL – GROUP * 5,243 5,171 5,027 * Excluding CNP Europe Life and CNP Luxembourg At CNP Assurances, the Human Resources planning process, WW external hires targeted on skills that are lacking (commercial, promoted by a company agreement, is behind a number of regulatory and digital), focusing wherever possible on the HR policies, in terms of both employment management and the rejuvenation of the age pyramid, thereby enhancing the development of skills and career paths. In 2018, the number Group’s capacity to continue growing in a manner consistent of CNP Assurances employees on permanent contracts declined with its strategy. 1%. The reduction in the number of permanent employees at Further progress was made in the process begun in 2017 of CNP Assurances results from contrasting trends as part of attentive reducing the use of temporary work, with a significant reduction management of the workforce: in 2018 (-8%) bringing the total reduction to nearly a third of the WW a persistently sizeable number of retirements in view of the volume over two years. age structure and changes in regulations relating to pensions; WW vigilance in replacing people who leave, depending on Caixa Seguradora data include its Previsul subsidiary from transformations within the Company, in a constrained and 2017, which explains the increase in its workforce between swiftly changing economic environment; 2016 and 2017. For CNP Santander Insurance, the increase WW an enduringly active policy of internal mobility, with most reflects business growth. vacant positions filled by internal candidates; 360 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 2017 2018 Change Level of coverage Percentage of employees with permanent employment contracts 96% 96% 0% 100% Percentage of women 59% 59% 0% 100% Average age of permanent employees 42.5 years 43.5 years +1 year 100% Almost all employees (98%) are covered by local insurance industry collective bargaining agreements. Over 65 60 to 64 55 to 59 50 to 54 45 to 49 40 to 44 35 to 39 30 to 34 25 to 29 20 to 24 Under 20 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 2018 2017 82 Caisse des Dépôts employees are on secondment at on knowledge and expertise, with a determination to promote CNP Assurances. Managers represent 64.4% of the workforce. inspiring internal career paths. It results in the vast majority of The average length of service within the Group is 13 years, vacancies being filled with skills available internally, putting the identical to that of 2017. focus for external recruitment on new skills (high-end commercial, digital skills) or those required to meet mounting regulatory With the permanent employee age pyramid showing a mean requirements. Most of the permanent positions open to external age of 47 years, CNP Assurances strives to ensure both youth recruitment concerned customer-facing professions, as well as employment and the retention of older workers in their jobs. The actuarial and financial functions. share of young people in the workforce is changing slowly, while the rate of employees over 55 has reached 23%. Over the last Internal mobility is bolstered by support for employees in the three years, 99 employees have enjoyed end-of-career measures development and implementation of their career plans, in introduced in the Human Resources planning process. particular through the pursuit of a degree (see Challenge 7: “Attract and develop talent, develop skills” of the Non-Financial A targeted hiring policy for CNP Assurances Information Statement). Mobility involving job changes or For several years, the employment policy has been focused on significant skills upgrades is facilitated by personalised training promoting internal mobility. Its twofold aim is to combine the need courses. to manage the workforce, while at the same time capitalising 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 361 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information INCREASED HIRING AT GROUP LEVEL Level 2017 2018 Change of coverage Number of new hires 527 653 +24% 100% Percentage of new hires with permanent employment contracts 66% 70% +6% 100% 2.1.4.4 Remuneration Average gross salary by country (permanent employees) 2017 2018 Change France * €64,522 €64,770 +0.4% Brazil R$94,038 R$89,897 -4% Italy €57,918 €57,725 -0.3% Cyprus/Greece €33,550 €38,842 +16% Spain €51,712 €52,426 +1.4% Ireland €70,165 €70,351 +0.3% Argentina ARS 640,606 ARS 690,544 +7.8% * CNP Assurances and MFPrévoyance. At CNP Assurances, €7,033,436 was paid out under the employees. Employees in Brazil, Italy and Spain also take part in discretionary profit-sharing plan in 2018, €20,946,471 under organising corporate philanthropy initiatives. the statutory profit‑sharing plan, and €396,907 in profit-related bonuses to seconded civil servants. All CNP Assurances and Day-to-day support MFPrévoyance employees are covered by supplementary health This commitment is reflected in the Group’s investments and in and death/disability insurance, a separate long-term care support initiatives in the areas where it operates. insurance policy and a life insurance/pension plan with matching Through its investments employer contributions. They are also eligible to participate in a “time savings account” and to invest in a PERCO voluntary CNP Assurances stepped up the pace of its support for SMEs pension plan. significantly in 2016 with the OPEN CNP project, and by supporting SME loan funds and NovESS funds designed to At the end of 2018, CNP Assurances employees (excluding help companies in the social and solidarity economy. The seconded civil ser vants) had invested €168,167,462 in NovESS project and the Hemisphere fund, funded in part by employee savings and PERCO plans. A total of 1,316 employees CNP Assurances, also include the creation of a tool for measuring held registered shares, of whom 1,379 via the employee savings social impact. plan, representing 0.20% of share capital. It is also involved in the Cités Partenaires II Business Angels Since 2017, the Group’s compensation policy has incorporated investment fund dedicated to helping entrepreneurs from the “Fit” and “Proper” standards laid down in the Solvency II disadvantaged areas. directive. Through support initiatives sponsored locally Since 2015, CNP Assurances has also been supporting 2.1.5 Develop social initiatives Our Neighbourhoods Have Talent (NQT), an association formed in the field to provide individual and effective support to young graduates The fifth commitment for a sustainable society is reflected in the looking for employment. The mobilisation of the internal network actions taken locally by CNP Assurances Group. of sponsors helped provide support for nearly 100 young people from priority neighbourhoods or disadvantaged backgrounds in 2.1.5.1 Pursue local development through their search for a job, allowing 40 of them to sign an employment a responsible policy of corporate contract. philanthropy and outreach partnerships Corporate philanthropy is carried out in partnership with As mentioned above, CNP Assurances is also a founding non-profits, NGOs and local authorities in France for the member of the Entrepreneurs de la Cité foundation. implementation of projects that are carried out partly by 362 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 Caixa Seguradora is heavily involved in the Jovem de Expressão 2.1.5.2 CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation: programme, which develops community-based communication two big commitments to health and youth health initiatives within its outreach programme. CNP Assurances made a significant commitment in 2018 in Its flagship achievement since 2017 has been the creation favour of public health through its corporate foundation. Extended of a co-working space for young people designed to foster for three years, its new €2.4 million multi-year action programme entrepreneurial opportunities. is devoted exclusively to the projects it supports in two areas: It has also provided several years of support for people with A foundation aimed at helping reduce social inequalities AIDS, as well as prevention initiatives aimed at young people. in healthcare It has continued its programme of raising awareness among By promoting prevention and better health and acting on its social young people about sustainable development goals. In 2018 determinants, the Foundation aims to help foster better living and Caixa Seguradora supported women victims of sexual violence health among young people at risk of social vulnerability. In this by drafting an assistance protocol with the Brazilian Public context, the Foundation has adopted a dynamic approach to the Security Forum. A high level of cultural and artistic patronage joint development of national projects with partner organisations completes the many actions taken by Caixa Seguradora. And such as Unis-Cité, Bibliothèque Sans Frontières, FAGE and the Caixa Seguradora Institute, which oversees private social the Alliance for Education (Alliance pour l’Éducation) and the investment, has cooperation agreements with UNODC (United Foundation for Vocation (Fondation pour la Vocation). Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) and a service contract with NGO Iniciativa Verde. The CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation, BSF and the Boulogne-sur-Mer intercommunal authority established the In 2015, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros partnered Health Ideas Box in 2018. The authority uses this innovative its Multiplicar programme with Comedor la Esperanza, an prevention mechanism to offer young people, primarily from association working in the poor neighbourhoods of Buenos priority neighbourhoods in the urban policy, activities centred Aires, providing ongoing donations of school supplies. This year, on “affective and sexual relations” and “happiness and it trained its sales partners in this cause. unhappiness”. In 2018, CNP Partners launched the CNP Start programme, which supports entrepreneurs through help, advice, offering A foundation committed to the treatment of cardiac arrest accommodation and funding. More broadly, CNP Partners Since 2009, the CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation has sponsors an association working with people with intellectual initiated and provided support for projects emanating from disabilities, their families and loved ones. French local authorities wishing to install defibrillators in public places and to provide first aid training to larger numbers. CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings supports local actions for road Support of this nature for all these years has to date served to accident and fire prevention. fund the installation of more than 4,100 defibrillators and public Lastly, 43 employees of CNP UniCredit Vita participated in the awareness campaigns on the importance of first aid in more than new skills sponsorship programme in support of an association 2,800 cities and towns. helping adolescents (tutoring, creative activities). A foundation close to CNP Assurances employees Local employment For several years, the CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation has also CNP Assurances has been providing employment in its host looked for projects in which CNP Assurances employees can become regions for close to a centur y: 92% of CNP Assurances personally involved (16 projects in the areas of social inequalities employees work on either the Paris, Arcueil or Angers in respect of healthcare, education and disability in 2018). premises. Expatriate workers represent 0.6% of the headcount In addition, several volunteer employees took part this year in the at international subsidiaries. These companies also participate Tremplins Unis-Cité Île-de-France project to help young people in in their local job markets, including for senior management civic service get the most of their experience and coach them in positions: at 31 December 2018, 59% of Executive or showcasing their period of community commitment. Management Committee members had been hired locally. Similarly, under the glass roof of the Grand Palais on Training/research 24 May 2018, CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation, along As part of its philanthropic activities, CNP Assurances finances with several employees, stood up alongside the Paris City the Risk Foundation’s “Demographic Transitions, Economic Council, AJILA, an NGO, the Paris Academy and paramedics to Transitions” chair. teach more than 5,000 Parisian pupils the basics of first aid in an operation dubbed “All Young People Have a Heart 2018”. CNP Assurances maintains regular contact with schools and training centres in connection with its business (actuarial, insurance, finance, etc.), and helps fund structures including ISUP, IFPASS, Université Paris-Dauphine and ADAPT through the apprenticeship tax. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 363 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information environmental policies, exhaustive reporting on its environmental “LET’S MOVE TOGETHER FOR A CAUSE”: footprint and the annual follow-up on greenhouse gas emissions. GROUP EMPLOYEES SUPPORT THREE NGOS The CNP Assurances Group is committed to supporting the WHILE TAKING A STAND FOR THEIR OWN ecological and environmental transition towards an economy HEALTH that does not deplete natural resources, either in terms of the “Let’s Move Together for a Cause” is the Group’s first Company’s own management (digitisation, operating buildings), solidarity challenge. It aims to encourage employees to more passively (through relationships with policyholders) or do more exercise by giving them a chance to raise money through its financial assets. for associations fighting inequalities around the world in Its commitment in this area is based on: the process. On 14 October 2018, employees from the WW monitoring the environmental impact of the Group’s business; eight participating countries (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, WW taking actions to reduce it. France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Spain) embarked on their goal of walking a combined 40,000 km, the equivalent of walking right around the world. 2.2.1 Monitoring environmental It was a phenomenal success: in just two weeks, the initial impact goal was almost doubled, with the 1,147 participants 2.2.1.1 Greenhouse gas emissions audit covering nearly 77,400 km. Their outstanding commitment raised €30,000 for three associations fighting inequality CNP Assurances’ greenhouse gas emissions in the world: Action against Hunger, Oxfam and Plan CNP Assurances is required to audit its greenhouse gas emissions International. pursuant to the provisions of Article L.229‑25 of the French Environment Code. The provisions laid down in this article are available at 2.2 Contribute to a sustainable www.bilans-ges.ademe.fr. environment The baseline emission factors used in the audit are those Every year, when renewing their membership of the UN Global contained in version 15.0 of the ADEME methodology. Compact, CNP Assurances and its main signatory subsidiaries Version 15.0 saw the update of various energy emission factors, confirm their determination to manage their impact on the which reduced CNP Assurances’ greenhouse gas emissions by environment. less than 1%. The Group’s commitment to its surrounding environment is reflected in a number of concrete measures: the implementation of CNP Assurances has also reported its greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2005. CNP ASSURANCES GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AUDIT (IN TEQCO2) 26,859 26,802 2017 2018 2,103 1,967 2 051 1,855 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3* Direct emissions Indirect emissions Other indirect emissions related to energy use * Excluding financial assets. 364 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are immaterial. Even after indirect energy-related emissions (Scope 2) is attributable in part optimisation efforts, they are inevitably volatile: lower direct to changes in weather conditions, but also to continued energy GHG emissions (Scope 1) are the result of replacing gas heating efficiency work. with geothermal energy at the Arcueil site. The slight decline in Other indirect emissions (Scope 3, excluding financial assets) were stable. 2018 emissions for Share in total Level of Major emissions sources at CNP Assurances CNP Assurances emissions uncertainty Purchase of services and provision of intellectual services (Scope 3) 15,290 teqCO2 50% High (>50%) Computer hardware (Scope 3) 3,463 teqCO2 11% Average (20‑50%) Business travel (Scopes 1 and 3) 2,847 teqCO2 9% Low (<20%) Energy (Scope 2) 1,855 teqCO2 6% Low (<20%) Paper (Scope 3) 539 teqCO2 2% Average (20‑50%) TOTAL 78% Other than the proportion attributable to the purchase of services Caixa Seguradora group’s greenhouse gas emissions and the provision of intellectual services, the key sources of The Caixa Seguradora group’s carbon footprint, measured as CNP Assurances’ emissions are the use of computer hardware, regards emissions related to business travel and buildings (based business travel and the consumption of electricity and paper. on the GHG Protocol), totalled 1.79 tonnes of CO2 equivalent These sources of emissions are consistent for a company per employee. Air travel was the main contributor. With its operating in the service industry. emissions offset by reforestation in the Atlantic forest carried out with Iniciativa Verde, Caixa Seguros Holding has earned Carbon Free certification for several years in a row. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 365 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 2.2.1.2 Studies on the environmental impact of an insurance producnt Lifecycle analysis of an insurance product The estimated cradle-to-grave greenhouse gas emissions associated with a death and disability insurance product were revised in 2015, in line with the carbon analysis method®. For example, a Trésor Prévoyance Garantie Autonomie policy generates 22 kilograms of CO2 over its lifetime, as follows: CLAIMS MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT Time spent managing dependency Time spent by marketing/ payments, documents and post 13% 1% invoicing teams an product sent to and from beneficiaries development. until death. POLICY ADMINISTRATION 6% 4% MARKETING Time spent managing the policy Printing of documents over its entire term, documents and transporting office supplies and post sent annuallly to to sales teams. and from beneficiaries. 1% 2% ACCEPTANCE TRAINING Time spent by teams selecting risks 73% Training for sales teams for analysis and acccepting and business travel. customer requests. DISTRIBUTION Time spent by sales teams on policy subscriptions and sending documents and post to customers. We used the results of this analysis to set priorities for action, resulting in ongoing work to reduce the environmental footprint of our internal operations, and to promote paperless solutions and online tracking. 2.2.2 Actions implemented to reduce environmental impacts 2.2.2.1 Travel Development of videoconferencing Car travel is a big part of CNP Assurances’ carbon footprint. CNP Assurances’ videoconference equipment has been extended As the potential economic and environmental gain is significant, to personal computers and smartphones. practical training courses on road risks and bad driving were Since 2013, CNP UniCredit Vita has included tracking indicators offered to all employees in the commercial network in 2017, for video and audioconferencing hours, as well as for air and and then again in 2018. A specific one-day module (road train travel, in its quarterly report presented to the Management risks, driving in an emergency situation and bad driving) is also Committee. followed by all new employees of the network. 366 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 BUSINESS TRIPS AT GROUP LEVEL 2017 2018 Change Level of coverage Million km travelled by plane 19.0 15.6 -18% 95% Million km travelled by train 2.8 3.1 +10% 93% Million km travelled by car 9.7 13.8 +42% 86% Use of air travel has been reined in widely across the All data concerning business travel by car for the CNP Assurances Group (CNP Assurances, Caixa Seguradora, Caixa Seguradora group were consolidated this year, which CNP Partners and CNP UniCredit Vita). explains the 30% increase in the number of kilometres driven by car. CNP Assurances is the main source of travel by train, with more than a third made up of trips between its main sites in Paris and CNP UniCredit Vita continues to raise awareness among its Angers. CNP Assurances has prepared a written travel policy, employees (train vs plane or public transport), and offers them providing a framework for employee practices to reduce the annual public transport subscriptions at a reduced rate. This impact on the environment, while continuing to ensure the comfort system was extended to all of Lombardy in 2018. In addition, and safety of travellers. CNP UniCredit Vita has now replaced a motorised courier by a service using bicycles for letters, documents and small parcels in CNP Assurances encourages the use of public transport. Taxis the Milan area. can be used under certain conditions, and in this case, hybrid vehicles have been given priority by the booking office since In Argentina, a special focus was placed on sustainable mobility May 2013. Hybrid vehicles accounted for an average of 47% – particularly bicycles – in 2017, with the provision of bicycle of taxi journeys over the last two years. protection and road safety kits. 2.2.2.2 Operating buildings Controlling energy consumption CNP Assurances’ energy consumption reflects heating, cooling and office equipment used by employees and computer servers. Electricity is the main form of energy used. 2017 2018 Change Level of coverage Electricity consumption 21.9 million kWh 22.4 million kWh +3.8% 97% Gas consumption 1.47 million kWh 1.36 million kWh -5.0% 97% Fuel oil consumption 17,286 litres 11,640 litres -33% 97% For the heating of CNP Assurances’ Paris offices, 4.68 million kWh A specific initiative was taken in 2017 to reduce electricity from Compagnie Parisienne de Chauffage Urbain (CPCU) were consumption when buildings are empty. It came in response to added in 2018. Fuel oil use only concerns power generators at the conclusions of the energy audit carried out in 2015. One major sites in France. It is rare and not material. The change in aspect involved replacing existing lighting by LED systems and electricity consumption in 2018 is attributable in large part to a installing presence detectors. This policy will continue in the years particularly hot summer in France, resulting in more extensive use to come. Moreover, when extra meeting rooms are created, the of cooling units. addition of a CO2 sensor enables the air conditioning system to adjust itself depending on the number of employees present. CNP Assurances has adopted energy-saving measures designed to help buildings operate more efficiently. For example, improving CNP Assurances also ensures that routine maintenance work how heating (French sites except Arcueil), air conditioning and includes a search for greater energy efficiency. The most ventilation systems are controlled requires the expert management energy-efficient option is always taken when replacing technical of programmable time settings. equipment. This ongoing aim of reining in the environmental impact is what guides CNP Assurances’ work on its sites. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 367 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information Significant work has been carried out to reduce energy use. For headquarters. In view of the success, four additional stations will example: be installed in 2019. WW as part of a comprehensive plan to reduce energy costs at In 2018, work was done to replace an extinguisher using a the Saint-Serge building in Angers, and on the basis of the halogenated gas harmful to the ozone layer (FM200) with one energy performance assessment, a four-year programme using a neutral gas (nitrogen). A total of 1,790 kg of FM200 (2014‑2019) began with renovation work on the refrigeration gas was recycled. system. It guaranteed compliance with regulations via the removal of R‑22 fluid and the replacement of open air-cooling In addition, water leak detection systems were installed in two of towers, which consume large amounts of water, with closed the buildings comprising CNP Assurances’ Paris Montparnasse towers, which, by virtue of their design, do not consume premises. water; CNP Assurances’ subsidiaries have also gradually adopted WW a new stage of the project began in 2016. The renovation measures to reduce electricity use, notably for lighting, heating of air handling units is now underway, using the principle of and IT servers. heat recovery for office areas. In 2018, three floors were completely renovated. Regulatory equipment is being replaced At the end of 2014, the Caixa Seguradora group moved its as part of the renovation of the building management system. headquarters to a more energy-efficient building equipped with The renovation also includes the addition of meters and presence detectors, LED lighting, glass façades (less artificial new instruments allowing energy consumption to be tracked light) and a more efficient air conditioning system. more accurately. This will contribute to improving the energy CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros’ buildings were performance of the Saint-Serge site in Angers; renovated in 2015 and 2016. They are now more open, more WW at the same time, temperature control and function control user-friendly and more energy efficient. New features include equipment is being replaced. Information of this nature is natural light, LED bulbs, double glazed windows and doors, and collated in a management system that allows the building’s a more efficient air conditioning/heating system. energy performance to be maintained over time. In 2018, the replacement covered six floors of CNP Assurances’ building CNP UniCredit Vita completely overhauled its lighting system in Paris Montparnasse; by installing energy-saving LED lamps in all offices at its headquarters, as well as presence detectors to automate the WW as part of the multi-year works programme, the renovation lighting system in some locations. of the control system continued, with the installation of new terminal units to control fan convectors and the replacement In addition, awareness campaigns have been carried out for of flexible heating water supply pipes on six floors as part of employees across the Group’s entities (see 6.4.5 – Building work to stop water leakage. employee awareness of sustainable development issues through training). For the data centre in France, the increase allowed in the temperature in the server rooms improved the energy performance Renewable energy indicator slightly compared with its 2017 level (1.56, vs 1.57 Since 2017, CNP Assurances’ Arcueil site has been heated in 2017). Developed by Green Grid, this indicator measures a by geothermal energy, which completely eliminated gas data centre’s energy efficiency. It is calculated by dividing the consumption. centre’s overall consumption by the consumption of IT equipment (server, storage, network). The installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of Caixa Seguradora’s headquar ters has resulted in the Lastly, as part of a virtuous mobility incentive, four electric-vehicle establishment of a renewable energy plant that generated charging stations were installed in the car park of the Company’s 115.05 MWh. 368 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 THE KNOCK-ON EFFECT OF DIGITISATION: REDUCING THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF DATA CENTRES AND WORKSTATIONS Data centres and workstations are two key features of the digital transformation, and it is vital that we remain vigilant about their energy consumption. The regular renewal of computer hardware by replacing desktop PCs with mini PCs as well as gradually providing employees with latest generation laptops help reduce power consumption. Computer servers become more energy efficient with each generation: new equipment has the Energystar Label. Virtualisation has also been widely adopted, not only on servers, but also on storage systems and CNP Assurances networks. This technique of separating IT services from the physical systems that supply them increases the efficiency of the information system (fewer resources consumed for the same service). It is also important to remember that server cooling consumes a large amount of energy. CNP Assurances is taking initiatives to optimise the circulation of data centre airflows (urbanisation of IT rooms), while progressively equipping its equipment with smart power distribution units to monitor energy consumption. WATER CONSUMPTION AT GROUP LEVEL 2017 2018 Change Level of coverage Water consumption in cubic metres 63,111 75,312 +19% 97% The analysis of local constraints on the Group’s water The headquarters of Odonto, a Caixa Seguradora subsidiary, is consumption by the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (World located in a building with a system that reuses wastewater. Resources Institute) shows that 2% of water is consumed in CNP UniCredit Vita has also started working with Water With extremely high stress zones, 1% in high stress zones, 52% in a Mission, a supplier that sells bottled water with the aim of medium to high stress zones, 4% in low to medium stress guaranteeing access to water for all by funding well construction zones and 41% in low stress zones. See the definition of in Senegal. zones and the methodology used by the WRI on its website: https://www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct. WASTE MANAGEMENT AND COMMITMENT TO CIRCULAR ECONOMY IN THE GROUP 2017 2018 Change Level of coverage Proportion of employees with access to waste sorting 97% 97% 0% 97% Tonnes of waste paper and cardboard recycled 213 176 -17% 80% Waste-sorting systems allow Group entities to recycle printer The CNP Assurances recycling system was extended in 2011, cartridges and paper used in offices for internal purposes. The with the addition of a dedicated process for office furniture. Used financial gains of recycling are donated to NGOs in France. batteries and light bulbs are collected at the Group’s main sites. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 369 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information Computer hardware is another major source of waste. Pollution Most Group entities regularly donate their computer hardware Given the nature of its business, CNP Assurances causes no to NGOs. water or soil pollution, and emits very few greenhouse gases other than CO 2. In the management of its woodland assets, In 2017, CNP Assurances equipped its smoking areas with “cyclopeur”, cigarette bins designed to reduce pollution by it uses techniques that prevent soil erosion and ensure water allowing cigarette butts to be recycled into cellulose sheets used filtration and purification. for outdoor furniture. 2.2.2.3 Office supplies and paper Caixa Seguradora’s move into a new building in late 2014 Consumption of office supplies provided an opportunity for a diagnostic review of waste management. A collection of electrical and electronic waste was CNP Assurances’ operations are entirely in the field of insurance. established at Caixa Seguradora in 2018. As with other financial services, paper is the principal raw material used. To that end, numerous initiatives have been CNP UniCredit Vita has set up a plastic bottle compaction implemented within the Group’s entities over recent years to system, including caps, in one of its communal areas. reduce the volume of paper consumed. A REDUCTION IN GROUP-WIDE PAPER USE FOR INTERNAL OPERATIONS 2017 2018 Change Level of coverage Paper consumption (equivalent A4 sheets) 130 million 129.7 million * -1% 97% Proportion of paper certified environmentally sustainable 90% 88% -11% 97% * Estimate The mobilisation of employees, the introduction of new equipment by Société Forestière. Preservation of biodiversity is one of its (multifunction printers, dual screens, etc.) and digitisation of management objectives and each year, it carries out actions in contractual documents are gradually reducing the Group’s total favour of biodiversity. It regularly strives to maintain dead trees in paper consumption each year. forests, whether they are still standing or have fallen. Dead trees are home to very specific biodiversity – more than a quarter of But the reduction was limited in 2018 due to major animal and fungal forest species – and are of major interest for communication campaigns targeting policyholders following scientists and NGOs working to protect nature. the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation in Europe. These actions are paying off, with the additional benefit of allowing the identification and conservation of trees or other It should be noted that the switch to paperless systems enabled remarkable features. For instance, the launch in 2018 of MFPrévoyance to reduce its internal paper consumption by more a census of these features will help build up a geographical than 35% in 2018. database aimed at preserving them from any exploitation. New Similarly, CNP Assurances Compañía de Seguros’ paper elements identified in 2018 include a giant anthill in Montorge consumption has fallen significantly following the digitisation forest inhabited by red ants, which have a fundamental role in of seven internal processes and a series of exchanges with the forest ecosystems. They play a direct part in regulating certain Argentinian Insurance Supervisory Authority. insect pests in the forests they feed on. Moreover, 88% of paper used by the Group has a sustainable Caixa Seguradora has joined the “Aliança Cerrado” Forum, management label such as FSC, PEFC or EU Ecolabel. in partnership with two Brasilia-based NGOs fighting for the protection of biodiversity and water reserves in the Cerrado 2.2.2.4 Preserving biodiversity region (Brazilian savannah). CNP Assurances had 57,090 hectares of forests at the end of 2018, which benefited from sustainable forest management 370 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 7 2.3 Contribute to a sustainable economy Having pledged to uphold the United Nations Global Compact, CNP Assurances systematically promotes its commitment to Our Group’s primary financial responsibility is to secure the human rights among subcontractors and suppliers. Agreements commitments made to policyholders. The second is to guarantee include contractual clauses to protect workers. a steady, optimised performance year after year. In line with the belief that including socially responsible investment criteria in the The Caixa Seguradora group also includes CSR clauses in its investment selection process optimises the yield-to-risk ratio over supplier contracts based on the Global Compact principles the long term, ESG screens have for many years been applied (ILO, the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking, the to the majority of CNP Assurances’ assets and those of its French environment, combating fraud and money laundering). subsidiaries. CSR assessment of suppliers This commitment also applies to our suppliers. CNP Assurances Nearly all of CNP Assurances’ suppliers of goods and intellectual has launched an assessment and improvement programme to or other services are based in France. steadily improve its suppliers’ CSR performance. To monitor the environmental, social and ethical performance The commitment for a sustainable economy is broken down of its suppliers in overall terms, CNP Assurances has formed a according to two priorities: partnership with EcoVadis, which performs a CSR assessment of WW be a responsible investor; key suppliers. Information is compiled on a collaborative platform WW be a responsible purchaser. that includes 150 business sectors and 95 countries. Following the audit, suppliers receive detailed feedback on their 2.3.1 Be a responsible investor CSR practices, including a rating in four categories (environment, This point is addressed in Challenge 2: “Make ESG social, ethics, and responsible purchasing), plus a list of their and climate challenges part of investment processes” strengths and areas for improvement. of the Non-Financial Information Statement. The main suppliers in the Top €200k (suppliers deriving more than €200 thousand in revenue including VAT from 2.3.2 Be a responsible purchaser CNP Assurances, representing a total of approximately 250) are subject to an EcoVadis assessment. In 2018, 110 suppliers CNP Assurances’ CSR principles are also put into practice by representing 55% of total purchases were assessed. The average the Purchasing department. All buyers are made aware of CSR of the evaluations is 58.8/100 for these 110 suppliers, well standards, and most of them receive training in this area. The above the average of the companies rated by EcoVadis. The Group’s Ethical Purchasing Charter and the code of ethics govern main tendering and referencing processes launched via the purchasing practices. internal purchase monitoring application (E-achat) result in an Societal and environmental clauses in contracts application for EcoVadis rating, which is one of the criteria on which tenders are scored. The main calls for tenders and consultations include a CSR component, and the assessment on this aspect is a determining criterion. CNP Assurances’ “The 2018 CSR essentials” brochure is part of the consultation files provided in the E-Purchasing application. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 371 7 C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y Annex – Additional labour, social and environmental information 3. Methodological note on the annex for labour, social and environmental information This annex was prepared on the basis of the CSR data collection For the energy consumption of CNP Assurances’ Paris sites process described in the Non-Financial Information Statement (electricity, heating, CPCU, gas and fuel oil), flows are (methodological note). measured over 12 rolling months from 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2018. The scope for water and energy use includes the facilities in Paris, Angers and Arcueil, but excludes regional offices (1,800 sq.m); For business travel, flows are measured over 12 rolling months this corresponds to 92% of CNP Assurances’ employees. from 1 October 2017 to 31 October 2018. The level of coverage of the indicators provided in the tables Estimates have been used for certain environmental data where represents the workforce of entities included in the calculation of more exact information is not available (for instance, when the indicator divided by the total workforce of the consolidated consumption is included in the rental charges). This applies in Group, excluding CNP Europe Life, CNP Luxembourg, the particular to water and energy consumption data for buildings, Danish branch and the Colombian sub-subsidiar y of the which are sometimes estimated on a pro rata basis based on the Caixa Seguradora group. It therefore covers a total of 98.4% number of square metres (Arcueil site). of the consolidated Group’s employees at 31 December 2018. 372 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES C or p orate S ocia l R es p onsi b i l it y 7 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 373 374 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 8 ADDITIONAL I N F O R M AT I O N 8.1 GENERAL INFORMATION 376 8.1.1 Name, headquarters, Trade and Companies Registry number and APE business identifier code 376 8.1.2 Legal form and governing law 376 8.1.3 Date of incorporation and term of CNP Assurances 376 8.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 2 of the Articles of Association) 376 8.1.5 Financial year 377 8.1.6 Participation in General Meetings 377 8.1.7 Existence of disclosure thresholds 378 8.1.8 Material contracts 378 8.1.9 Claims and litigation 379 8.1.10 Information about related-party agreements governed by Article L.225‑37‑4, paragraph 2, of the French Commercial Code 379 8.2 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INFORMATION AND THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 380 8.3 SPECIAL COMMITTEES FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION ABOUT CNP ASSURANCES SET UP WITH THE COMPANY’S SHAREHOLDERS 382 375 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 375 8 A dditiona l in f ormation General information 8.1 General information 8.1.1 Name, headquarters, Trade and Companies Registry number and APE business identifier code CNP Assurances 4, place Raoul Dautry 75716 Paris Cedex 15, France Paris Trade and Companies Registry number 341 737 062 – APE business identifier code: 6511 Z LEI code: 969500330J87723S1285 Phone: +33 1 42 18 88 88 8.1.2 Legal form and governing law CNP Assurances is a French société anonyme (joint-stock CNP Assurance’s activities are supervised by the French banking company) created in its current legal form by French Act and insurance supervisor (Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de No. 92‑665 of 16 July 1992 adapting insurance and credit Résolution ACPR). As a company whose shares are traded on legislation to the single European market. NYSE Euronext Paris, CNP Assurances is also supervised by the French securities regulator (Autorité des Marchés Financiers AMF). The General Meeting of 10 July 2007 approved a change in CNP Assurances’ governance structure, replacing the two-tier structure with a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board by a new governance structure with a Board of Directors only. 8.1.3 Date of incorporation and term of CNP Assurances The origins of the Company date back to 1850 when the current status, that of a société anonyme d’assurances, results National Insurance Funds (Caisses nationales d’assurance) were from Act No. 92‑665 of 16 July 1992 (Official Journal of founded. CNP Assurances was created in 1959 and was given 17 July 1992). CNP Assurances is a public sector company. the status of a public industrial and commercial establishment The Company was incorporated for a term of 99 years ending (Établissement public à caractère industriel et commercial – on 15 July 2086. EPIC) by French Decree No. 87‑833 of 12 October 1987. Its 8.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 2 of the Articles of Association) “CNP Assurances’ corporate purpose is to: For this purpose, it may: WW write life and endowment insurance; WW hold stakes in companies whose business activities may assist WW write accidental injury and health insurance; it in performing the corporate purpose; WW hold majority interests in insurance companies. WW more generally carry out all operations of any kind whatsoever directly or indirectly related to this purpose and liable to facilitate its development or performance.” 376 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A dditiona l in f ormation General information 8 8.1.5 Financial year 1 January to 31 December (calendar year). 8.1.6 Participation in General Meetings 8.1.6.1 Provisions of the Articles WW Holders of bearer shares are required to obtain a certificate of of Association (extract from ownership (“attestation de participation”) issued by the bank Article 26 – General Meetings) or broker that keeps their securities account, as provided for above. This certificate must be attached to the postal voting “1. General Meetings are called and held in accordance with form or to the application for an admission card prepared in the conditions set down by law. Meetings take place at the their name or in the name of the bank or broker registered Company’s headquarters or at any other venue indicated in the as their representative. Evidence of their ownership of shares notice of meeting.” is therefore provided by the bank or broker that keeps their securities account, who will be responsible for issuing their 8.1.6.2 Shareholder participation certificate of ownership. in General Meetings This share ownership certificate issued by the bank or broker must be attached to the postal voting form, the request for All shareholders may participate in General Meetings. They may a share ownership certificate from holders of bearer shares attend the meeting in person, vote by post or give proxy to any wishing to participate in the General Meeting by Internet, individual or legal entity of their choice (Article L.225‑106 of the the proxy form or the application for an admission card French Commercial Code [Code de commerce]). sent by the bank or broker, to Caceis Corporate Trust, The rules governing shareholder participation and voting in Service Assemblées Générales – 14, rue Rouget de Lisle, General Meetings are set out in Article 26 of CNP Assurances’ 92862 Issy-les-Moulineaux Cedex 9, France. Articles of Association. The notices of meeting published by the Company in the French Legal Gazette (Bulletin des annonces 8.1.6.3 Documents and information made légales obligatoires – BALO) prior to each General Meeting also available to shareholders explain how to participate and vote in the Meeting. The documents and information relating to CNP Assurances, In accordance with Article L.225‑123 of the French Commercial including the Articles of Association, the annual and consolidated Code, double voting rights are awarded to fully paid-up shares financial statements, all reports and documents relating to the registered in the name of the same holder for at least two years. Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 and prior The double voting right is automatically lost when the shares are years, are made available to shareholders at CNP Assurance’s converted to bearer form or sold or transferred, except in the headquar ters in accordance with the applicable legal specific cases provided for by law. and regulator y provisions. The Registration Documents of CNP Assurances, filed with the AMF for each of the last five Formalities to be completed in advance financial years, the Interim Financial reports and the Group’s results presentations and outlook are accessible on the of the meeting Company’s website. In accordance with Article R.225‑85 of the French Commercial Code, shareholders wishing to participate in the General Meeting are required to provide evidence of ownership of shares recorded in a securities account in their name or in the name of the bank or broker registered as their representative, by 12:00 a.m. CEST on the second business day preceding the date of the meeting. WW For holders of shares registered in their name or that of the bank or broker registered as their representative, the entry in the CNP Assurances’ share register as provided for above is sufficient to permit their participation in the meeting. 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 377 8 A dditiona l in f ormation General information 8.1.7 Existence of disclosure thresholds Form, rights and transfer of shares (Articles 11, 13 and 14 of the Articles of Association) CNP Assurances’ Articles of Association are available on the Company’s website at www.cnp.fr. Article 11 of the Articles of Association Form and transfer of shares: share ownership disclosure thresholds. 8.1.7.1 Form of shares account of the shares that lead to this threshold being reached or crossed. The same disclosure formalities shall apply when each of “Shares may be held either in registered or bearer form, at the these disclosure thresholds is crossed or in the case of a reduction shareholder’s discretion. in a shareholder’s interest to below a disclosure threshold. (…)” Holders of bearer shares will be identified under the conditions Article 13 of CNP Assurances’ Articles of Association – Rights set out below. In accordance with the applicable laws and attached to shares: regulations, the Company may request from any organisation or accredited intermediary – including the share transaction “1. Each share shall entitle its holder to a share of the Company’s clearing organisation or the intermediary registered on behalf profits and net assets proportionate to the number of outstanding of a shareholder not domiciled in France within the meaning of shares as set out below. Share ownership shall automatically Article 102 of the French Civil Code – information about the entitle shareholders to participate in General Meetings and to holders of securities which convey immediate or future voting vote on resolutions, in accordance with the applicable laws and rights in its General Meetings, including their identity, nationality, these Articles of Association; address, the number of shares they hold, and any restrictions on 2. When it is necessary to own a certain number of shares to the shares. exercise a particular right, shareholders who do not hold the The shares are recorded in an account held by the Company or requisite number of shares shall be personally responsible for an accredited intermediary.” obtaining the necessary number of shares or rights, including by purchasing shares or selling shares to another shareholder.” 8.1.7.2 Transfer of shares Article 14 of CNP Assurances’ Articles of Association – Transfer of rights and seals: “The shares are freely transferable subject to legal and regulatory provisions and according to the conditions provided by law.” “The rights and duties attached to shares shall be transferred with title to the shares. Share ownership shall automatically require shareholders to comply with these Articles of Association and the 8.1.7.3 Share ownership disclosure decisions made at General Meetings. thresholds The heirs or creditors of a shareholder may not, on any pretext “Any person who, acting alone or in concert raises his direct or whatsoever, demand that seals be affixed to the property and indirect interest in the capital or voting rights to at least 0.5%, documents of the Company, or that they be sold by auction or 1% or any multiple of 1% is required to notify the Company by divided, nor shall they interfere in any way in the Company’s registered letter with return receipt requested of the total number administration. In order to exercise their rights, they shall refer of shares and the number of voting rights held. Said disclosure to the Company’s statements of assets and liabilities and to the shall be made within five days of the recording in the share resolutions of the General Meetings.” 8.1.8 Material contracts At the date this financial infor mation was published, the agreements described in the Statutory Auditors’ special report CNP Assurances had not entered into any material contracts on related-party agreements. other than in the normal course of business, with the exception of 378 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A dditiona l in f ormation General information 8 8.1.9 Claims and litigation On 26 July 2018, the French banking and insurance supervisor an audit of its system to combat money laundering and the (Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution – ACPR) issued financing of terrorism. a reprimand to CNP Assurances and fined it €8 million following 8.1.10 Information about related-party agreements governed by Article L.225‑37‑4, paragraph 2, of the French Commercial Code In 2018, the Company did not enter into any agreements the Chief Executive Officer or a shareholder that holds more than governed by Article L.225‑37‑4, paragraph 2, of the French 10% of the voting rights at General Meetings of CNP Assurances Commercial Code, i.e., agreements entered into other shareholders and (ii) a company that is more than 50%-owned than in the normal course of business on arm’s length terms, by CNP Assurances. directly or through an intermediary, between (i) a director, 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 379 8 A dditiona l in f ormation Person responsible for the information and the audit of the financial statements 8.2 Person responsible for the information and the audit of the financial statements Person responsible for the Registration Document Antoine Lissowski, Chief Executive Officer of CNP Assurances Statement by the person responsible for the CNP Assurances Registration Document “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure in the business, results and financial position of the Company that such is the case, the information contained in this Registration and the entities included in the scope of consolidation, and that Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with it describes their principal risks and contingencies. the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I have received a letter from the Statutor y Auditors, I declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and Mazars, confirming that statements have been prepared in accordance with the they have verified the information about the Company’s financial applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view position and financial statements provided in this Registration of the assets and liabilities, financial position and results of the Document, with the exception of the solvency-related information Company and the entities included in the scope of consolidation, which they have not reviewed, and that they have read the entire and that the report of the Board of Directors, the content of which Registration Document.” is listed in the “Information relating to the management report and corporate governance report” section, presents fairly the changes Antoine Lissowski 380 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A dditiona l in f ormation Person responsible for the information and the audit of the financial statements 8 Statutory Auditors Statutory Auditors of CNP Assurances First appointed Current term expires PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit 2010 financial year AGM to be held to approve 63, rue de Villiers the 2021 financial statements 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France Represented by Bénédicte Vignon * Substitute: Xavier Crépon * 2016 financial year AGM to be held to approve the 2021 financial statements Mazars 1998 financial year AGM to be held to approve the 61, rue Henri-Regnault – Tour Exaltis 2021 financial statements 92400 Courbevoie France Represented by Olivier Leclerc * Substitute: Franck Boyer * 2010 financial year AGM to be held to approve the 2021 financial statements * Member of the Compagnie régionale des commissaires aux comptes de Versailles Information policy Person responsible for financial information Documents concerning the Company may be consulted Thomas Béhar, Chief Financial Officer at its headquarters CNP Assurances 4, place Raoul Dautry – 75716 Paris Cedex 15, France Département juridique corporate 4, place Raoul Dautry 75716 Paris Cedex 15 France Phone: +33 1 42 18 88 88 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 381 8 A dditiona l in f ormation Special committees for the exchange of information about CNP Assurances set up with the Company’s shareholders 8.3 Special committees for the exchange of information about CNP Assurances set up with the Company’s shareholders Information reported to shareholders subject to prudential supervision La Banque Postale Conglomerate the Group Accounting department. At least one member from Committee and BPCE Supplementary CNP Assurances works in the Risk department. Supervision Committee The Committee met four times in 2018. CNP Assurances forms part of the La Banque Postale and BPCE financial conglomerates. Caisse des Dépôts Information Exchange Under the regulations governing conglomerates (1), La Banque Committee Postale and BPCE have certain risk supervision and regulatory CNP Assurances is included in the Caisse des Dépôts Prudential reporting (to the ACPR and ECB) obligations. CNP Assurances Model (2). This Prudential Model constitutes “the framework for has an obligation under Article L.511‑34 of the French Monetary identifying, measuring, managing, tracking and controlling and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier) to report to La capital adequacy based on the risks generated by the Caisse Banque Postale and BPCE the information they require in order to des Dépôts group’s businesses” and provides for prudential fulfil these supervision and reporting obligations. supervision of the Caisse des Dépôts group on a consolidated Special committees have been set up with La Banque Postale and basis. with BPCE to exchange information about CNP Assurances that is In 2017, a Committee was set up for the exchange of information needed by La Banque Postale and BPCE to fulfil their obligations about CNP Assurances required by Caisse des Dépôts to fulfil its under the regulations governing conglomerates. legislative and regulatory obligations. These committees’ internal rules describe the reporting process, The Committee met twice in 2018. the committees’ procedures and the confidentiality rules applicable to their members. The Committee’s internal rules describe the reporting process, the Committee’s procedures and the confidentiality rules applicable The Conglomerate Committee set up with La Banque Postale in to its members. 2015 has up to ten members, including five La Banque Postale employees and five CNP Assurances employees. The La Banque The Committee has up to ten members, including five Postale and CNP Assurances employees concerned work in Caisse des Dépôts employees and five CNP Assurances their respective Finance, Risk, Internal Audit or Compliance employees. The Caisse des Dépôts and CNP Assurances departments. employees concerned work in their respective Finance, Steering, Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit departments. The Committee met four times in 2018. The Supplementary Supervision Committee set up with BPCE in 2016 has up to 12 members, including a maximum of six BPCE employees and six CNP Assurances employees. Four of the BPCE employees concerned work in its Risk department, one in the Group Strategic Budget Control department, and one in (1) Directive 2002/87 dated 16 December 2002 (as amended) on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate, transposed into French law by government order 2004‑1201 dated 12 November 2004 and administrative decision dated 3 November 2014 on the supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates (2) Article L.518‑7 of the French Monetary and Financial Code 382 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES ANNEXES 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 383 A A nne x es Embedded Value Embedded Value The report presenting the results, methods and assumptions used to determine the Embedded Value of The CNP Assurances Group at 31 December 2018 is available on CNP Assurances’ website: www.cnp.fr/en/Investor-Analyst/CNP-Assurances-Results. Embedded Value (referred to both as Market Consistent Embedded Value – MCEV© and Embedded Value – EV) has been established according to the European Insurance CFO Forum Market Consistent Embedded Value© Principles. Glossary and reconciliation tables This glossary includes definitions of alternative performance They may not be comparable with those published by other measures (APMs) that are considered useful by CNP Assurances companies, as their definition may vary from one company to to measure and analyse the Group’s performance. The APMs’ another. Prudential measures determined in accordance with reporting scope is unchanged from prior periods. All APMs are the Solvency II Directive and actuarial measures determined identified by an asterisk (*). They should be treated as additional in accordance with European Insurance CFO Forum Market information and not as substitutes for the balance sheet and Consistent Embedded Value© Principles are not considered to be income statement prepared in accordance with IFRS. APMs. Adjusted net asset value (ANAV) Market value of assets not held to back technical reserves. ANAV corresponds to equity attributable to owners of the parent net of subordinated notes classified in equity, intangible assets, other items included in the Value of In-Force business (VIF) and contingent liabilities. This indicator is net of non‑controlling interests. ANAV breaks down between required capital and free surplus. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Equity attributable to owners of the parent (1) 17,781 18,257 Subordinated notes classified in equity (2) 1,881 1,765 Intangible assets (3) 685 664 Items included in the Value of In-Force business (4) 1,568 1,917 Contingent liabilities (5) 1,046 0 ANAV = (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 12,600 13,911 Administrative costs * Costs of administering and managing insurance contracts, excluding commissions paid to the distribution networks. The calculation base includes non-controlling interests. Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) One tenth of the sum of single premiums and flexible premiums plus the annualised amount of regular premiums written during the period. This indicator is net of non-controlling interests and ceded premiums. Annual Premium Equivalent is an indicator of underwriting volume. 384 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables A APE margin (also referred to as new business margin) Value of New Business (VNB) divided by the Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) Measures estimated future profits from insurance policies written during the period. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Value of New Business (VNB) (1) 659 782 Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) (2) 3,090 3,316 APE MARGIN = (1)/(2) 21.3% 23.6% Change at constant exchange rates Indicators at constant exchange rates are calculated by translating current period data at the prior period exchange rate. This technique strips out the currency effect from the change in the indicator concerned. Change on a comparable consolidation scope basis Indicators on a comparable consolidation scope basis are calculated by excluding (i) the contribution of businesses discontinued or sold during the current period from the prior period data and (ii) the contribution of businesses acquired during the current period from current period data. This technique strips out the effect of acquisitions and divestments from the change in the indicator concerned. Combined ratio (personal risk/protection segment) * Calculated for the personal risk/protection insurance segment by dividing EBIT by premium income net of ceded premiums and deducting the result from 100%. The combined ratio is an indicator of Personal Risk/Protection business profitability. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EBIT (personal risk/protection segment) (1) 1,184 1,153 Premium income net of ceded premiums (personal risk/protection segment) (2) 6,211 6,568 COMBINED RATIO (PERSONAL RISK/PROTECTION SEGMENT) = 100% (1)/(2) 80.9% 82.5% Cost/income ratio * Administrative costs divided by net insurance revenue (NIR). The cost/income ratio is an indicator of operating efficiency. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Administrative costs (1) 922 938 Net insurance revenue (NIR) (2) 3,113 3,048 COST/INCOME RATIO = (1)/(2) 29.6% 30.8% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 385 A A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables Debt-to-equity ratio * Subordinated notes classified in debt or equity, divided by the sum of subordinated notes classified in debt and total equity less intangible assets. Measures the proportion of financing represented by total subordinated notes (classified in both debt and equity). (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Subordinated notes classified in equity (1) 1,881 1,765 Subordinated notes classified in debt (2) 5,337 5,300 Total equity (3) 19,521 20,023 Intangible assets (4) 732 799 DEBT-TO-EQUITY RATIO = [(1) + (2)] / [(2) + (3) (4)] 29.9% 28.8% Dividend cover Operating free cash flow (OFCF) net of cash flows from subordinated notes issues and repayments, divided by dividends. Indicator of the Group’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders. This ratio is calculated only for annual results presentations. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net operating free cash flow (OFCF) (1) 1,462 1,113 Dividends (2) 611 577 DIVIDEND COVER = (1)/(2) 2.4 x 1.9 x Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) * Corresponds to attributable net profit before finance costs, income tax expense, non-controlling and net equity-accounted interests, fair value adjustments and net gains (losses), non-recurring items. This indicator includes non-controlling interests and is gross of income tax expense. EBIT represents the margin after deducting administrative costs. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Attributable net profit (1) 1,367 1,285 Finance costs (2) (248) (247) Income tax expense (3) (901) (1,001) Non-controlling and net equity-accounted interests (4) (281) (329) Fair value adjustments and net gains (losses) (5) 89 200 Non-recurring items (6) (216) (227) EBIT = (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 2,924 2,889 Earnings per share (EPS) Attributable net profit less net finance costs on subordinated notes classified in equity, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding (IFRS calculation method). (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Attributable net profit (1) 1,367 1,285 Net f﻿inance costs on subordinated notes classified in equity (2) 50 48 Weighted average number of shares (3) 686.4 M 686.5 M EARNINGS PER SHARE = [(1) (2)] / (3) €1.92 €1.80 386 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables A EIOPA European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority Eligible own-funds held to cover the MCR Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 own-funds eligible for inclusion in the Minimum Capital Requirement. For calculation purposes, restricted Tier 1 own-funds are limited to 20% of total Tier 1 own-funds, and Tier 2 own-funds are limited to 20% of the MCR. Tier 3 own-funds are not eligible for inclusion in MCR. Eligible own-funds held to cover the SCR Sum of Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 own-funds eligible for inclusion in the solvency capital requirement (SR). For calculation purposes, restricted Tier 1 own-funds are limited to 20% of total Tier 1 own-funds, Tier 2 and Tier 3 own-funds are limited to 50% of the SCR and Tier 3 own-funds are limited to 15% of SCR. Fair value adjustments and net gains (losses) Measures the impact on attributable net profit of changes in asset prices (i.e., realised and unrealised capital gains net of recognised impairment losses), impairment losses and exceptional changes in intangible asset values. Fair value adjustments and net gains (losses) are calculated net of policyholder participation, non-controlling interests and income tax expense. Free surplus Portion of adjusted net asset value (ANAV) that may be freely used by management to pay dividends and build the business by selling new contracts or acquiring new subsidiaries or associates, net of non‑controlling interests. IFRS book value * Equity net of subordinated notes classified in equity and non-controlling interests. Measures the value for owners of the parent of their share of equity, excluding the share of subordinated note-holders. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Equity attributable to owners of the parent (1) 17,781 18,257 Subordinated notes classified in equity (2) 1,881 1,765 IFRS BOOK VALUE = (1) ‑ (2) 15,899 16,492 Insurance leverage ratio * Sum of total equity and subordinated notes classified in debt, divided by insurance investments less derivative instruments liabilities. Indicator of the Group’s solvency before risk-weighting. The higher the ratio, the greater the insurer’s ability to absorb potential losses. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Total equity (1) 19,521 20,023 Subordinated notes classified in debt (2) 5,337 5,300 Subordinated notes classified in equity (3) 1,881 1,765 Insurance investments (4) 380,061 387,088 Derivative instruments liabilities (5) 1,193 1,110 INSURANCE LEVERAGE RATIO = [(1) + (2)] / [(4) (5)] 6.56% 6.56% WW o/w equity = [(1) (3)] / [(4) (5)] 4.66% 4.73% WW o/w subordinated notes = [(2) + (3)] / [(4) (5)] 1.91% 1.83% 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 387 A A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables Interest cover * EBIT divided by interest paid on total subordinated notes (classified in both debt and equity). Indicator of the Group’s ability to pay the interest due to holders of its subordinated notes. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EBIT (1) 2,924 2,889 Finance costs on subordinated notes classified in debt (2) 248 247 Finance costs on subordinated notes classified in equity (3) 73 74 INTEREST COVER = (1) / [(2) + (3)] 9.1 x 9.0 x Market Consistent Embedded Value (MCEV©) A measure of the consolidated value of shareholders’ interests in the covered business. It breaks down to adjusted net asset value (ANAV) and the Value of In-Force business (VIF) – corresponding to the value of the insurance policies in force on the measurement date – and is calculated using a market-consistent method of valuing assets and liabilities. It is calculated net of non-controlling interests. Mathematical reserves Sum of the surrender value of savings contracts and the discounted present value of liabilities for pensions contracts. MCR coverage ratio Eligible own-funds held to cover the MCR divided by the MCR. Indicator of the Group’s risk-weighted solvency. The higher the ratio, the greater the insurer’s ability to absorb potential losses. Minimum Capital Requirement (MCR) Minimum eligible basic own-funds, defined in Solvency II as the amount of eligible basic own-funds below which policyholders and beneficiaries are exposed to an unacceptable level of risk. When the amount of eligible basic own-funds falls below the MCR, the insurance undertaking’s authorisation is withdrawn, if it is unable to re-establish this amount at the level of the MCR within a short period of time. Net equity accounted interest Share of profit for the year of equity accounted interest, net of the deferred profit-sharing impact for the portion of securities backing policyholders commitments. Net insurance revenue (NIR) * Sum of insurance loadings, underwriting results and reinsurance results, net of commissions paid to distribution partners. This indicator includes non-controlling interests and is net of reinsurance. It is the margin generated by insurance contracts before deducting administrative costs. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net insurance revenue (1) 3,113 3,048 Revenue from own-funds portfolios (2) 733 779 Administrative costs (3) 922 938 EBIT = (1) + (2) (3) 2,924 2,889 388 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables A Net new money Collected premiums less paid claims and benefits (death benefit, endowments, partial and total surrenders, annuities) before changes in outstanding claims reserves, including the deposit component of financial contracts without a discretionary participation feature (French GAAP method, based on management reporting data). This indicator includes non-controlling interests and is gross of reinsurance. Net new money measures the impact on technical reserves of collected premiums and paid claims and benefits. Non-recurring items Indicator used to separately identify non-recurring income and expenses that affect attributable net profit. Non-recurring items are calculated net of non-controlling interests and income tax expense. Operating free cash flow (OFCF) Measures the generation of free surplus to pay dividends and build the business by selling new contracts or acquiring new subsidiaries or associates. OFCF is calculated net of non‑controlling interests. Issues and redemptions of subordinated notes may be included in or excluded from the calculation. Outstanding claims reserve Estimated claims and benefits payable to policyholders and beneficiaries in future periods (death benefit, endowments, partial and total surrenders, annuities, claims) in respect of claims incurred as of the measurement date. Payout ratio * Dividend per share divided by earnings per share. Measures the proportion of attributable net profit, less finance costs on subordinated notes classified in equity, distributed to owners in the form of dividends. This ratio is calculated only for annual results presentations. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Dividend per share (1) €0.89 €0.84 Earnings per share (EPS) (2) €1.92 €1.80 PAYOUT RATIO = (1) / (2) 46% 47% Policyholders’ surplus reserve (PSR) Cumulative underwriting and investment income attributable to policyholders that is distributed on a deferred basis. Premium income * Earned premiums and premium loading on IAS 39 contracts, including non-controlling interests and ceded premiums. Premium income is an indicator of underwriting volume. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Earned premiums (1) 32,315 32,077 Premium loading on IAS 39 contracts (2) 52 50 PREMIUM INCOME = (1) + (2) 32,367 32,127 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 389 A A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables Proportion of Savings/Pensions mathematical reserves represented by unit-linked (UL) contract * Unit-linked Savings/Pensions mathematical reserves divided by total Savings/Pensions mathematical reserves. This indicator measures the proportion of mathematical reserves related to unit-linked contracts, which do not generally include a capital or yield guarantee. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 UL Savings/Pensions mathematical reserves (1) 56,169 54,010 Total Savings/Pensions mathematical reserves (2) 275,945 275,382 PROPORTION OF SAVINGS/PENSIONS MATHEMATICAL RESERVES REPRESENTED BY UL CONTRACTS = (1)/(2) 20.4% 19.6% Proportion of Savings/Pensions premiums represented by unit-linked (UL) contracts * Unit-linked Savings/Pensions premium income divided by total Savings/Pensions premium income. This indicator measures the proportion of premium income related to unit-linked contracts, which do not generally include a capital or yield guarantee. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 UL Savings/Pensions premium income (1) 10,778 9,468 Total savings and pensions premium income (2) 25,731 24,712 PROPORTION OF SAVINGS/PENSIONS PREMIUMS REPRESENTED BY UL CONTRACTS = (1) / (2) 41.9% 38.3% Restricted Tier 1 own‑funds Subordinated notes classified in Tier 1, including grandfathering of undated subordinated notes issued before Solvency II came into effect. Return on equity (ROE) * Annual attributable net profit divided by average IFRS book value for the period. Measures the return on equity contributed by owners of the parent. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Annualised attributable net profit (1) 1,367 1,285 Average IFRS book value (2) 16,196 16,130 RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) = (1) / (2) 8.4% 8.0% Revenue from own‑funds portfolios * Mainly revenue generated by investments held to back equity and subordinated notes, net of amortisation of the value of acquired InForce business and distribution agreements. This indicator includes non-controlling interests. It is the margin generated on investments held to back equity and subordinated notes, before deducting administrative costs. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net revenue generated by investments held to back equity and subordinated notes (1) 758 804 Amortisation of Value of In-Force business and distribution agreements (2) 25 25 REVENUE FROM OWN-FUNDS PORTFOLIOS = (1) (2) 733 779 390 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables A SCR coverage ratio Eligible own-funds held to cover the SCR divided by the SCR. Indicator of the Group’s risk-weighted solvency. The higher the ratio, the greater the insurer’s ability to absorb potential losses. Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) Level of eligible own-funds that enables an insurance undertaking to absorb significant losses and gives reasonable assurance to policyholders and beneficiaries that payments will be made as they fall due. SCR is defined in Solvency II as the value-at-risk of basic own-funds, subject to a confidence level of 99.5% over a one-year period. CNP Assurances has chosen to calculate its SCR using the standard formula without transitional measures, except for the grandfathering of subordinated notes issued before Solvency II came into effect. Surrender rate Paid partial and total surrenders divided by mathematical reserves at the beginning of the period, including the deposit component of financial contracts without a discretionary participation feature (French GAAP method, based on management reporting data). Measures the impact on mathematical reserves of surrenders paid to policyholders. Technical reserves * Insurance and financial liabilities net of deferred participation, including non-controlling interests. The change in technical reserves reflects net new money, the amount set aside for policyholder dividends and changes in the value of units in unit-linked contracts. Technical reserves may be calculated gross or net of reinsurance. Technical reserves may be calculated gross or net of reinsurance. They measure the insurer’s liability towards insureds. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Insurance and financial liabilities (1) 357,599 365,204 Deferred participation reserve (2) 22,107 30,336 Deferred participation asset (3) 0 0 Reinsurers’ share of insurance and financial liabilities (4) 21,556 22,735 TECHNICAL RESERVES GROSS OF REINSURANCE = (1) (2) + (3) 335,491 334,869 TECHNICAL RESERVES NET OF REINSURANCE = (1) (2) + (3) (4) 313,935 312,134 Tier 2 own-funds Subordinated notes classified in Tier 2, including grandfathering of dated subordinated notes issued before Solvency II came into effect. Tier 3 own-funds Subordinated notes classified in Tier 3 corresponding to insured obligations, plus any net deferred tax assets also classified in Tier 3. Total revenue * Net insurance revenue (NIR) plus revenue from own-funds portfolios. This indicator includes non-controlling interests and is net of reinsurance. It is the margin before deducting administrative costs. (In € millions) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net insurance revenue (1) 3,113 3,048 Revenue from own-funds portfolios (2) 733 779 TOTAL REVENUE = (1) + (2) 3,846 3,827 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 391 A A nne x es Glossary and reconciliation tables Unrestricted Tier 1 own-funds Own-funds other than subordinated notes included in Tier 1 own-funds, calculated as the sum of share capital, the share premium account and the reconciliation reserve less non-fungible own-funds. Value of In-Force business (VIF) Measures the value of insurance policies in force at the measurement date, calculated using a market-consistent method of valuing assets and liabilities. VIF corresponds to the discounted present value of estimated future profits from insurance policies in force at the measurement date, less the time value of financial options and guarantees, the frictional cost of capital and the cost of non-hedgeable risks. It is calculated net of non-controlling interests and income tax expense. Value of New Business (VNB) Measures the value of insurance policies sold during the period, calculated using a market-consistent method of valuing assets and liabilities. VNB corresponds to the discounted present value of estimated future profits from insurance policies written during the period, less the time value of financial options and guarantees, the frictional cost of capital and the cost of non-hedgeable risks. It is calculated net of non-controlling interests and income tax expense. Withdrawal rate Paid claims and benefits (death benefit, endowments, partial and total surrenders, annuities) divided by mathematical reserves at the beginning of the period, including the deposit component of financial contracts without a discretionary participation feature (French GAAP method, based on management reporting data). Measures the impact on mathematical reserves of claims and benefits paid to policyholders and beneficiaries. 392 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Registration Document concordance table A Registration Document concordance table The table below provides cross references between the pages in the CNP Assurances Registration Document and the key information required under European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004 (EC) implementing directive 2003‑71/EC. Key information required under Annex 1 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004 Pages 1. Persons responsible 380 and 381 2. Statutory Auditors 381 3. Selected financial information 3.1. Historical financial information 6 and 7 3.2. Interim financial information 4. Risk factors 108 to 123; 226 to 238 5. Information relating to the issuer 5.1. History and development of the issuer 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name of the issuer 376 5.1.2 Place of registration and registration number 376 5.1.3 Date of incorporation and length of life 376 5.1.4 Domicile, legal form, applicable legislation, country of incorporation, and address 376 and telephone number of registered office 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the business 22 and 23; 26 to 30; 138; 251 and 252 5.2. Investments 5.2.1 Issuer’s principal investments for each financial year for the period covered by the historical 158 to 186; 220 to 223; financial information 261 to 267 5.2.2 Principal investments in progress, geographic distribution of these investments (home and 8 to 11; 22 and 23; 26 to 30; abroad) and method of financing (internal or external) 138; 251 and 252 5.2.3 Information concerning the issuer’s principal future investments on which its management bodies have already made firm commitments 6. Business overview 6.1. Principal activities 8 to 19 6.2. Principal markets 8 to 21; 30 to 32 6.3. Exceptional factors 6.4. Extent to which the issuer is dependent on patents, licences, industrial, commercial or 8 to 19; 23; 26 to 30; 138; financial contracts or new manufacturing processes 251 and 252 6.5. Competitive position 8 to 19 7. Organisational structure 7.1. Number of Group employees 20 and 21 7.2. List of significant subsidiaries 20 and 21; 22 and 23; 33; 39; 144 to 154; 268 to 275 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 393 A A nne x es Registration Document concordance table Key information required under Annex 1 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004 Pages 8. Property, plant and equipment 162 and 163 8.1. Material items of property, plant and equipment and major encumbrances thereon 8.2. Environmental issues that may affect the issuer’s utilisation of property, plant and equipment 367 and 368 9. Operating and financial review 9.1. Financial position 3; 6 and 7; 33 to 35 9.2. Operating results 6 and 7; 33 to 35 10. Capital resources 10.1. Information about the capital 35; 40; 131 and 132; 252; 278 and 279; 302 and 303 10.2. Cash flows 133 to 136 10.3. Borrowing requirements and funding structure 35; 157; 180 and 181; 213 and 214; 291 and 292 10.4. Restrictions on the use of capital resources 10.5. Anticipated sources of funds 11. Research and development, patents and licences 12. Trend information 12.1. Most significant recent trends since the end of the last financial year 30; 138; 252 12.2. Known trends or events that are likely to have an effect on the issuer’s prospects 22 and 23; 8 to 19; 26 to 29; 138; 251 and 252 13. Profit forecasts or estimates 14. Administrative, management, and supervisory bodies and senior management 14.1. Composition of the Board of Directors 44 to 47; 62 to 80 14.2. Conflicts of interests 91 15. Remuneration and benefits 15.1. Remuneration paid and benefits in kind 58 and 59 ; 81 to 90; 225; 289 15.2. Total amounts set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 81 to 90; 225; 289 16. Board practices 16.1. Expiry date of current terms of office 49; 62 to 80; 89 16.2. Service contracts between members of the administrative, management 91 and supervisory bodies 16.3. Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration and Nominations Committee 49; 57 and 58 16.4. Statement of compliance with France’s corporate governance regime 44; 45; 48; 51; 54 and 55; 60; 81 17. Employees 17.1. Number of employees 3; 152; 288; 293; 360 and 361 17.2. Shareholdings and stock options 87 and 88; 315 and 316; 362 17.3. Arrangements for involving the employees in the capital of the issuer 90; 203; 302 and 303; 310 and 311; 313 394 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Registration Document concordance table A Key information required under Annex 1 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004 Pages 18. Major shareholders 18.1. Shareholders holding over 5% of the share capital or voting rights 305 to 307 18.2. Existence of different voting rights 305; 377 18.3. Control of the issuer 307 18.4. Arrangements the operation of which may result in a change in control 307 19. Related party transactions 22 and 23; 26 to 30; 92 to 104; 138; 251; 20. Financial information concerning the issuer’s assets, and liabilities, financial position and profits and losses 20.1. Historical financial information * 3; 6 and 7; 126 to 238; 245 to 292 20.2. Pro forma financial information 175 to 177 20.3. Financial statements 126 to 238; 245 to 292 20.4. Auditing of historical annual financial information 239 to 244; 294 to 299 20.5. Age of latest financial information 139 20.6. Interim and other financial information 20.7. Dividend policy 6 and 7; 293; 309 20.8. Legal and arbitration proceedings 113 to 119; 379 20.9. Significant changes in the issuer’s financial or trading position 22 and 23; 26 to 30; 138; 251 and 252 21. Additional information 21.1. Share capital 21.1.1 Amount of issued capital 302 21.1.2 Shares not representing capital 21.1.3 Shares held by the issuer itself 306 21.1.4 Amount of any convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants 21.1.5 Information about any terms of any acquisition rights and/or obligations over authorised 302 but unissued capital or an undertaking to increase the capital 21.1.6 Information about any capital of any member of the Group which is under option or agreed conditionally or unconditionally to be put under option 21.1.7 History of share capital 302 to 306 21.2. Memorandum and Articles of Association 21.2.1 Issuer’s objects and purposes and where they can be found in the Memorandum 376 and Articles of Association 21.2.2 Provision with respect to the members of the administrative, management, 48 to 61 and supervisory bodies 21.2.3 Rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to each class of existing shares 21.2.4 Actions necessary to change the rights of shareholders 307 21.2.5 Conditions governing the manner in which General Meetings are called 377 21.2.6 Provision that would have an effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the issuer 307 21.2.7 Provision governing the ownership threshold above which shareholder ownership 378 must be disclosed 21.2.8 Conditions, charter or bylaw governing changes in the capital 307 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 395 A A nne x es Registration Document concordance table Key information required under Annex 1 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004 Pages 22. Material contracts 378 23. Third party information, statements by experts and declarations of any interest 92 to 104; 239 to 244; 294 to 299; 352 to 354 24. Documents on display 377 and 3rd inside back cover 25. Information on holdings 33; 146 to 148; 268 to 275 Other information required under the AMF’s General Regulations Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors in 2018 and 2017 (Article 221‑1‑2) 212; 290 * The following information is incorporated by reference in this Registration Document, in accordance with Article 28 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004/EC dated 29 April 2004: −−The consolidated financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, as presented on pages 66 to 171 and 172 to 173, respectively, of Registration Document No. D. 17‑0337 filed with the AMF on 6 April 2017 −−The financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, as presented on pages 174 to 226 and 228 to 229, respectively, of Registration Document No. D. 17‑0337 filed with the AMF on 6 April 2017 −−The consolidated financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, as presented on pages 112 to 224 and 225 to 229, respectively, of Registration Document No. D. 18-0209 filed with the AMF on 29 March 2018 −−The financial statements of CNP Assurances for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, as presented on pages 231 to 282 and 284 to 289, respectively, of Registration Document No. D. 18-0209 filed with the AMF on 29 March 2018 396 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Information relating to the management report and corporate governance report A Information relating to the management report and corporate governance report This Registration Document includes all items from the Management Report and the Corporate Governance Report that are required by law. The following table presents the items from the Management Report and the Corporate Governance Report of the Board of Directors of CNP Assurances to the Ordinary General Meeting of 18 April 2019. Management report Pages I. Business information regarding the operations of the Company, its subsidiaries and companies it controls (Articles L.225‑100‑1, L.232‑1, L.233‑6, L.233‑26 and L.247‑1 of the French Commercial Code and Articles L.511‑45 and R.511‑16‑4 of the French Monetary and Financial Code Objective and comprehensive analysis of the changes in business, results and financial position of the Company, in particular its debt situation, in relation to the volume and complexity of its business 30 to 33 Position of the Company and the Group during the period 26 to 40 Expected changes 39 Material events arising between the end of the reporting period and the date of the management report 30; 138; 252 Research and development activity Key financial and non-financial performance indicators relating to the Company’s operations 3; 6 and 7 Acquisition of a stake during the period in a company with its registered office in France 33 Information on sites and operations included in the scope of consolidation 146 to 148 Business and performance by line of business of the Company as a whole, its subsidiaries and companies it controls 39 Existing branches 21 II. Information on risk factors and internal control procedures (Article L.225‑100‑1 of the French Commercial Code) Description of the main risks and contingencies to which the Company and Group are exposed 108 to 123 Information on the objectives and policy regarding the hedging of each main category of planned transactions for which a hedge accounting policy is in place, as well as exposure to price, credit, liquidation and cash risks 108 to 112 Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash risks 108 to 112 Information on the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company for the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information for the consolidated and company accounts 122 and 123 Information on financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and measures taken to mitigate such risks by implementing a low-carbon strategy throughout all components of the business 120 to 122 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 397 A A nne x es Information relating to the management report and corporate governance report Pages III. Information on share capital (Articles L.225‑102, L.225‑211, L.233‑13, L.233‑29, R.228‑90, R.228‑91 and R.233‑19 of the French Commercial Code) Names of individuals and legal entities who, directly or indirectly, hold more than 5% of share capital or voting rights 305 and 306 Names of controlled entities and their stake in the Company’s share capital Employee share ownership at December 31, 2018 and the proportion of share capital corresponding to shares held by employees of the Company or related companies as part of the employee share ownership plan and by employees and former employees as part of the corporate mutual fund 303 Any adjustments made to securities giving rights to share capital in the event of share buyback or financial transactions Securities purchased by employees as part of the buy-out of a company by its employees Share buyback transactions 312 Disposal of shares with a view to ensuring compliance of cross-shareholdings IV. Financial and legal information (Articles L.464‑6‑1, L.464‑4‑2 and D.441‑4 of the French Commercial Code, Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code and Article L.511‑6 of the French Monetary and Financial Code) Information on payment deadlines for suppliers and their clients 36 and 37 Loans granted according to Article L.511‑6, 3 bis, paragraph 2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code Dividends paid during the last three financial years 309 Injunctions or penalties for anti-competitive practices V. Labour, social and environmental information (Articles L.225‑102‑1 and L.225‑102‑2 of the French Commercial Code) Environmental and social information 320 to 349; 355 to 371 Information on social commitments for sustainable development 322 to 348; 357 to 371 Information for companies operating at least one site as set out in Article L.515‑36 of the French Environmental Code Collective corporate agreements and the impacts of such agreements on the Company’s economic performance and on working conditions for employees 340 to 348 VI. Additional information (Articles L.225‑185 and L.225‑197‑1 of the French Commercial Code and Article L.621‑18‑2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code) Conditions for the exercising and holding of stock options granted to corporate officers Conditions for the holding of free shares granted to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer Summary of transactions carried out by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer on the Company’s securities VII. Appendix to the management report (Article R.225‑102 of the French Commercial Code) Table of the Company’s financial results over the last five years 293 Statutory Auditors’ report on the corporate governance report prepared in accordance with Article L.225‑37 of the French Commercial Code 294 to 299 398 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES A nne x es Information relating to the management report and corporate governance report A Corporate governance report Pages Sections of the corporate governance report included with the management report (Articles L.225‑37 et seq. of the French Commercial Code) Total remuneration and benefits paid during the period to each corporate officer by the Company, companies it controls or the Company that controls it 81 to 90 Commitments of any kind entered into by the Company for the benefit of its corporate officers concerning the remuneration and benefits that would be due or potentially due at the time of or following the termination of such officers’ contracts or a change in their position 88 and 89 List of all directorships and functions held in any company during the period by each corporate officer 62 to 80 Information on the composition of the Board of Directors 48 to 52 Diversity policy applied to members of the Board of Directors 53 Information on the procedures for the preparation and organisation of the work of the Board 56 Information on limitations placed on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors 61 Information on compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code 54 and 55 Information on the policies approved by the Board of Directors to determine the remuneration and benefits awarded to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer 81 and 82 Information on the rules approved by the Board of Directors with respect to the remuneration and benefits awarded to corporate officers 82 to 85 Information on the specific procedures relating to shareholder participation in General Meetings or reference to the provisions of the Articles of Association which set out these procedures 377 Information on factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering 305 to 307 Summary table of current authorisations given to the Board of Directors by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting regarding capital increases and use made of such authorisations during the period 310 and 311 Information on agreements entered into by subsidiaries with a shareholder who holds more than 10% of shares 379 Executive Management procedures 47 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES 399 A A nne x es Annual Financial Report thematic cross‑reference table Annual Financial Report thematic cross‑reference table The following table lists the information required by the AMF with respect to the Annual Financial Report (Articles 212‑13 VI and 222‑3 of the AMF’s General Regulations). Pages 1. Company financial statements 245 to 292 2. Consolidated financial statements 126 to 238 3. Management report 397 to 398 4. Corporate governance report 399 5. Statement by the person responsible 380 6. Statutory Auditors’ report on the Company and consolidated financial statements 239 to 244; 294 to 299 7. Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 212; 290 400 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CNP ASSURANCES GET TO KNOW CNP ASSURANCES BETTER Find us at www.cnp.fr Whether you are an individual, a professional, or a candidate, the CNP Assurances Group website has a section dedicated to you, as well 2019 as a Newsroom for journalists and Investor pages for buy-side analysts and individual shareholders. FINANCIAL Find out more about our Group, its mission, its unique multi-partner CALENDAR model, its innovation strategy, the activities of its Foundation on the “About us” page. 18 April You can also download our publications, including the Annual Report, Annual General Meeting the Registration Document, the Shareholders’ Letter and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. 16 May The website, in French and English, complies with computer accessibility First-quarter 2019 premium income standards and can also be viewed on tablets and smartphones, reflecting and results indicators CNP Assurances’ commitment to insuring all our futures. 29 July Follow us on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and YouTube First-half 2019 premium income and profit @CNP_Assurances 15 November @cnpassurances.officiel Third-quarter 2019 premium income and results indicators linkedin.com/company/cnp youtube.com/c/CnpFr_officiel A fun way to find out more at www.cespetiteschoses.fr The website, in French only, reminds us about the little things that help us to live well. Take a look at the section dedicated to investors and shareholders WW A dedicated section on the CNP Assurances website for analysts, investors and shareholders – where you can consult the CNP Assurances share price, shareholder information, press releases, financial calendar, presentations to analysts and details of the General Meeting. WW Email queries can be sent to two dedicated addresses: actionnaires@cnp.fr and infofi@cnp.fr. WW A toll-free number (toll-free only from a landline in France). 0 800 544 544 From Monday to Friday, shareholders can contact the shareholder relations helpdesk directly to obtain information about CNP Assurances, or to request financial documentation or register a change of address. The printing company for this document is ISO-certified. Photos Credits: Wood_CNP Assurances/Agence Virginie p.I, Josep Melin_CNP Assurances/WithIn, p.4, GettyImages/Tom Werner, p.24, GettyImages/Westend61, p.42, GettyImages/d3sign, p.106, GettyImages/Rawpixel, p.124, GettyImages/Hinterhaus Productions, p.300, GettyImages/Hero Images, p.318, GettyImages/Soren Hald, p.374. CNP Assurances I Registered Office : 4, place Raoul Dautry – 75716 Paris Cedex 15, France I Phone +33 1 57 78 34 44 I www.cnp.fr I Groupe Caisse des Dépôts
