January 2019 Communication on Progress Table of contents CEO statement.....................................................................................5 UN Global Compact...........................................................................6 MAKEEN Energy at a glance..........................................................8 Fuelling an environmentally friendly future............................11 Environmental policy....................................................................11 Implementing sustainable initiatives in the everyday office life.........................................................................13 Fighting deforestation in Sri Lanka.........................................15 Developing and diffusing solutions for environmentally friendly fuels............................................15 Putting plastic back into the energy cycle .........................17 Strengthening anti-corruption efforts with values and integrity......................................................................................13 Providing the best setting for our employees........................27 Health and safety policy..............................................................27 Fighting forced and child labour..............................................29 Working against discrimination in a male-dominated industry................................................29 Protecting human rights..................................................................35 Key Performance Indicators...........................................................36 Photo by Pexels 2 3 CEO statement MAKEEN Energy is a global house of energy that brings world-class technology to the energy industry world-wide. And a house that is continually developing to meet the ever-changing need for smart and sustainable energy solutions. Without a doubt, the future will involve further development, and we might rebuild existing sections of our house or extend it with new ones. Whatever we do or the future brings along, the strategy and focal point will be our sustainability journey. As a new participant in the UN Global Compact, we know that we still have plenty of room for improvement. And that thought fuels our ambitions and initiatives. Everything we do is based on our passion and purpose: Responsible energy solutions for people and planet. And in our opinion, that is a promising starting point. Anders C. Andersson CEO / Managing Director of MAKEEN Energy Over the last year, our people around the world have opened doors and invited sustainable initiatives inside. Some are brand new and others are well-known, but may just need a bit more attention. Among them we find a tree planting programme, a plant that converts plastic to oil and a focus on the general gender composition throughout the entire organisation. As our organisation is spread across continents, the same goes with our initiatives. We know that it takes a dedicated effort to spread the actions and involve people in all wings of our house. And with UN Global Compact, we now have a good tool that on the one hand ensures to keep sustainability on our minds and on the other hand helps identify areas where we can do better. In our big house of energy, we still have many opportunities to Photo byJairo David Arboleda improve or change, and we therefore continue to support the UN Global Compact. 4 5 UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Global Compact is a United Nations initiative. By signing up, companies world-wide commit to follow the initiative’s ten principles within the four LABOUR topics: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In January 2018, MAKEEN Energy Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective chose to join the UN Global Compact as a part of Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; our sustainability journey. The four topics and the ten principles are1: Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Principle 10 and bribery. 1 https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/ principles 6 7 Trading Facility Trading Facility Trading management management Facility management Trading Facility Trading Facility management management MAKEEN Energy at a glance Power Power Power Project Project Project Power Power Project Project management management management management management LNG LNG LNG Engineering Engineering Engineering LNG LNG Engineering Engineering MAKEEN Energy is a world-leading house of A promising purpose LPG LPG LPG Service Service Service LPG LPG Service Service energy. We unite a number of business areas As mentioned above, our purpose provides us with within the energy industry – LPG (liquefied petroa unifying focus across business areas and contileum gas), LNG (liquefied natural gas), power and nents. Importantly, our purpose is not just a flat OurOur business Our business business areas areas areareas are are OurOur business business We have areas We areas are customers have arecustomers in in We have customers in trading – under one roof and with one common statement, but a sincere promise. One we make to 130 130 130 LPG,LPG, LNG, LPG, LNG,Power, LNG, Power, Trading, Power, Trading, Trading, LPG,LPG, LNG, LNG, Power, Power, Trading, Trading, purpose: Responsible energy solutions for people ourselves and others. With our purpose, we make Facility Facility management, Facility management, management, Facility Facility management,management, and planet. sure that we always have the same foundation and Engineering, Engineering, Engineering, Service, Service, Service, Engineering, Engineering, Service, Service, go in the same direction all around the world. Project Project management Project management management Project Project management countries management countries countries Moreover, it also makes it clear to people outside A wide range of energy solutions the organisation what they can expect from us. As the parent company of Kosan Crisplant, Siraga, KC LNG, MAKEEN Power/SADELMI Power and KC As with all promises, it takes an effort to fulfil it, ProSupply, MAKEEN Energy develops, manufacand this one – our purpose about responsible tures and delivers a wide range of responsible energy solutions for people and planet – demands energy solutions to customers all around the continuous work. Our commitment to Global world. Our portfolio includes equipment, services Compact is one of the ways in which we show our and engineering as well as facility and project dedication. management for everything from LPG filling facilities and LNG bunkering solutions to sustainable Across Across Across the world, thethe world, world, we we we have have have Across Across theIn world, In In 2018, the 2018, In 2018, 2018, Inworld, In our ourwe 2018, 2018, our turnover our have we turnover our ourturnover have turnoverturnoverwas was turnover was was was was In InIn2018, In2018, 2018, 2018, our ourourour turnover turnover turnoverwas turnover was waswas power plants and spare parts. And currently, we +1000 +1000 employees +1000 employees employees +1000 +1000 1employees employees 1Billion 1DKK 1Billion Billion 1DKK Billion (130M DKK Billion (130M (130M€) €)€) 11DKK1Billion 1DKK Billion Billion Billion DKK (130M €) have assisted customers in more than 130 countries worldwide. DKK DKK DKK DKK (130M (130M (130M (130M€)€)€)€) (130M DKK (130M €)€) (130M €) A global organisation MAKEEN Energy is owned by Saudi Al-Ayuni Investment & Contracting Co. and was established in 2015. However, our various business areas have been collecting and building up experience and know-how for many decades. The international MAKEEN Energy headquarters is located in Randers, Denmark, but we have offices OurOur purpose Our purpose purpose is is is OurOur Our purpose purpose LPG Our Our LPG isLPG division is division division delivers delivers delivers OurOurLPGLPGdivision division delivers delivers 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% and work sites spread all around the globe. That Responsible Responsible Responsible energy energy energy Responsible Responsible energy energy enables our more than 1,000 employees to be solutions solutions solutions forfor people for people people solutions solutions forfor people people near our customers. As we say – wherever you and and planet and planet planet and and of planet our of planet of our our turnover turnover turnover of ourof our turnoverare, we are. turnover 8 9 Environment Fuelling an environmentally friendly future The activities of MAKEEN Energy inevitably involve knowledge-sharing are the key to succeeding and and affect the communities and places where we engaging people. Concerning the second, we enoperate. In our opinion, that is the whole point of deavour to embed proactive measures throughout working with energy solutions. But having an effect all our activities. To prevent pollution, reduce waste is one thing – having a good and responsible one is and optimise use of resources are all important another. Therefore, we are dedicated to make our when it comes to managing and minimising influence on the planet as positive as possible. harmful environmental effects. We continually look for ways to reduce adverse enOur global environmental management system vironmental impacts and to use resources more efensures that our environmental efforts are aligned ficiently. Our efforts concern both the products across all our locations around the world. The and services we deliver to our customers and our system itself is managed by our Group Quality general actions as a company and as human Committee while the implementation of initiatives beings. and requirements is handled locally by functional management teams. These teams are responsible Our environmental approach is based on the prinfor involving employees from every corner of the ciples and requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 organisation, and this ensures that our efforts are standard, combined with national and customer transformed into operational action plans and imcriteria. And despite our current efforts, we know plemented throughout the organisation. that it is always possible to do better. Environmental policy The environment is, literally, in the heart of our business. As our purpose states, we provide responsible energy solutions for people and planet. In other words, sustainable initiatives and ambitions drive us forward. Consequently, they also form the foundation for our environmental policy. Our environmental efforts are founded on two main pillars: actors and actions. Concerning the first, we work hard to involve all our stakeholders Photo by Min Thein – employees, suppliers and others – in our environmental initiatives. Strengthening awareness and 10 11 Environment Implementing sustainable initiatives However, moving towards an environmentally in the everyday office life friendly future is also about setting ambitious At our new headquarters in Randers, Denmark, we goals. One of our goals is to reduce our CO2 emishave decided to give our employees the chance to sions, and our headquarters in Denmark will again commute to and from work in a more sustainable function as our first area of action. Here, we want way. As electric cars emit less greenhouse gases to reduce the CO2 emissions from heating with 93% and air pollutants than petrol and diesel cars, we from 348 tons/year to 5 tons/year during 2019 by will set up chargers in the parking area so people switching to carbon neutral district heating. can charge their cars while being at work. Moreover, we have already invested in three electrical biIn addition to the above, we have in Sri Lanka also cycles that our employees can book and use to and implemented practices that shall reduce the use of from work as a sustainable alternative to a car. It is paper within the company. To accompany this, our our ambition that these two new initiatives will Sri Lankan team is also in the process of finding make environmentally friendly transportation more ways to reduce the amount of timber we use for accessible and appealing. packing so we can contribute to help protecting trees and forests around the world. Key Performance Indicators During 2019, we will reduce our headquarters’ CO2 emissions from heating with 93%. 400 350 300 250 200 348 343 150 100 50 5 0 Tons/year Tons/year with carbon CO2 emission Photo by Min An for heating now neutral heating saved per year 12 13 Environment Fighting deforestation in Sri Lanka this environmentally friendly fuel, and we do so through KC LNG. In more than one way, our department in Sri Lanka walks in front when it comes to taking responsibility for the environment. In 2018, they were officially recognised for their efforts when they were certified with ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management system). This is a clear acknowledgment of What is LNG? their dedication to align workplace procedures and practices with the latest international standards. When natural gas is cooled down to -162°C (-259°F) in a process known as liquefaction, In addition to securing the certificate, our Sri it becomes a clear, odourless liquid – also Lankan team has also initiated a project that known as liquefied natural gas, LNG. The extends their environmental efforts beyond the liquid takes up 600 times less space than workplace. In January 2018, they launched a tree the gas and is easy to store and transport. planting campaign with the intention of fighting deforestation in Sri Lanka and reducing carbon footprint. And employees – and later also their families – quickly took action and started to plant KC LNG works dedicatedly with liquefied natural trees in their own backyards. The goal was to plant gas (LNG) solutions. They design, manufacture and 300 trees by the end of the year, and in December deliver liquefaction, bunkering and refuelling soluit was evident that they with no less than 704 trees tions – thus, facilities for both the production and had exceeded their own expectations. transfer of LNG which is a clean and highly cost-efficient fossil fuel. Scalability, zero-emission, autoDuring 2019, we want to expand the tree planting mation and mobility are the four ground principles campaign. Our Sri Lankan team is planning to do a they focus on implementing in every solution. replanting programme with participation from both the local community and government organisaWhether natural gas is gaseous or liquid, it is the tions. Moreover, we are also planning to spread this most environmentally friendly fossil fuel. It is cominitiative to other MAKEEN Energy departments posed of primarily methane and emits significantly across the globe. lower amounts of CO2, SOX, NOX and particulate matters into the atmosphere than e.g. coal and oil. The emissions are reduced with between 20-100%, Developing and diffusing solutions and the KC LNG solutions are therefore playing a for environmentally friendly fuels valuable part in pushing this sustainable fuel A rising political and legislative focus on sustainaforward. bility in general, and within transportation in particular, has lead especially the maritime sector to Moreover, with KC LNG’s solutions, it is possible to look at alternative fuels to reduce emissions of substitute the natural gas with biogas. The end greenhouse gases. One of the best alternatives is product is then called liquefied biogas, LBG. This is liquefied natural gas (LNG) – simply, natural gas in also a very environmentally friendly fuel – in fact, it Employees and their families have planted no less than 704 trees from January 2018 to December 2018. its liquid form. At MAKEEN Energy, we want to is actually completely CO2 neutral which just makes Photo of Lasantha. contribute to the development of and transition to it an even more sustainable choice. 14 15 Environment A case study illustrates some of the advantages of with the Danish Technical University and COWI KC LNG’s solutions, and the bunkering solution we shows that this approach yields results. Together, have provided for the Danish Samsoe Ferry is a they have developed a technology that makes it good example. Today, the ferry runs on LNG, and it possible to produce LNG (or LBG) locally by conis fast and easy to bunker while passengers get on/ necting liquefaction facilities to either the gas grid off. An important feature – and one that enhances or a biogas plant. The sustainable liquid fuel can sustainability – is that the solution not releases then be delivered to ships, trucks or local industies. methane during bunkering. An advantage that is quite unusual. After bunkering a ship, nitrogen is normally used to purge the hoses free from the rePutting plastic back into the energy maining natural gas, and that procedure can cycle release methane; a gas that is about 25 times more Today, plastic is one of the most widely used mateharmful to the environment than CO2. KC LNG has rials in the world. Water bottles, food wrapping developed a solution that empties the LNG hoses and plastic cutlery are just a few examples of the without using nitrogen, and it is therefore complastic repertoire many people encounter every pletely free of harmful emissions. That is the single day. Only 9% of plastic waste is recycled, essence of the zero-emission principle. and most plastics do not biodegrade. When plastic items from households and industries are no longer Continuously, KC LNG is working on developing used, much of them are simply transported to landsolutions that respond to the ever-changing, and fills or incineration plants. Statistics and facts with currently expanding, LNG industry. In addition to worrying implications for our environment. One of the maritime sector, LNG solutions are also relevant the ways we can fight plastic waste pollution is by to various kinds of heavy industry and long-disputting the material from e.g. landfills into use tance transportation. To create sustainable soluagain. And at MAKEEN Energy, we strive to take tions that work in practice, it is necessary to think part in this fight through MAKEEN Power and their beyond what we already know, and a cooperation plastic to oil project. Emission reductions Shipping CO2 SOx – 25% NOx – 100% The Samsoe solution is a modular, bunkering installation for the Danish Samsoe Ferry Photo by Claus Bonnerup – 90% LNG HFO Industry CO2 SOx NOx 16 – 50-60% 17 – 99% Environment At the time of writing, the plastic to oil project is time. By reusing the resources instead of pulling well underway. In broad outline, it consists of a news ones (oil) up from the underground, we thus plant that can convert plastic waste to oil. What put the plastic back into the energy cycle. It is makes our solution special is the high quality of then called a second generation fuel. Such a fuel the final product: The oil is good enough to be apdoes not leave a carbon footprint as it is only posproved for use as e.g. marine fuel. And converting sible to emit greenhouse gases to the atmosphere plastic to oil in this way has several environmental when a fuel is used for the first time. advantages. As the input is plastic waste of any kind, it can help reuse all types of plastic leftovers from households as well as industries. It is not necessary to clean the plastic before putting it into our plant and converting it to oil which again minimises the use of resources. Moreover, when plastic is converted to oil, it actually becomes a source of energy for the second Shutterstock Plastic to oil 18 19 Responsible energy solutions for people and planet Photo by Bess Hamiti 20 21 Anti-corruption Strengthening anti-corruption efforts with values and integrity As a global house of energy, we operate in places Key Performance Indicators and industries that are characterised by a rough competition for business opportunities. This can We will compose and publish a code of easily lead to situations with demands for improper business conduct that shall guide our payments or other actions that break with our employees in cases of doubt. company policies. We will start to educate and train our There should be no ambiguity or doubt about our management and sales managers in our dissociation from corruption. MAKEEN Energy is in anti-corruption objectives and procedures. no way interested in doing business based on improper payments or solving problems with illegal means. On the contrary, we believe in founding a business on strong values, integrity and high moral standards. Factors that all evolve from within. In the future, it is our objective to be known for our high moral standards and uncompromised integrity, also by people outside our organisation. To achieve this, we will, among other things, compose and publish a code of business conduct that shall guide our employees in cases and situations where they may be in doubt about what to do. Moreover, we will also start to educate and train our management and sales managers in our anti-corruption objectives and procedures as they are at the front line when we interact with people outside our own organisation. Photo by Pixabay 22 23 We take pride in making energy available in a safe and sustainable way Shutterstock 24 25 Labour Providing the best setting for our employees Our employees are our most important asset. involved in our activities. As an international Without them, MAKEEN Energy would never have company, we have employees all over the world, reached the point where we are today. We are and our health and safety policy applies to everytherefore committed to provide everyone in our one within our organisation. organisation with the best setting possible. Our global health and safety management system As a starting point, we always adhere to local and ensures that our safety efforts are aligned across international requirements regarding working enall our locations around the world. The system vironment of course combined with any specifiitself is managed by our Group Quality Committee cations imposed by the individual customer. Morewhile the implementation of initiatives and requireover, we regularly review our methods, processes ments is handled locally by functional manageand systems to detect and prevent possible risks ment teams. These teams are responsible for inand to discover opportunities for improvement. volving employees from every corner of the organisation, and this ensures that our efforts are An example of our improvement efforts in 2018 is transformed into operational action plans and imfound on Sri Lanka. Here, our local team was the plemented throughout the organisation. first company in the country to receive the ISO 45001:2018 certificate (occupational health and In case of work-related accidents, it is important safety). that the involved employees report what happened so we can get an overview of possibly hazFundamentally, we pay great attention to our emardous situations and prevent them in the future. ployees’ health, safety and wellbeing. Therefore, We already have a local system in which employwe also believe that all MAKEEN Energy employees report accidents, but during 2019, we want to ees have the freedom of association and the right create a global reporting system that is more to collective bargaining. We are confident that this simple and accessible than the current one. The is a contributing factor to the many long careers new system will, among other things, include a we can count within our organisation. Over the last measure of the LTIFR (lost time injury frequency years, we have celebrated several anniversaries rate), and it is our goal to reach a level of 10, 25 and 40 years and generally speaking, our maximum 2% in 2019. The ultimate goal is, of employees tend to stay with us for many years. course, to ensure that our employees can do their jobs without any risks of work-related injuries. Health and safety policy In addition to our health and safety policy, we also Pixabay At MAKEEN Energy, we strive to provide a healthy focus on providing a good mental working enviand safe working environment for everyone who is ronment through our actions against stress and 26 27 Labour bullying. Currently, we have implemented efforts ment of a diverse culture that supports differencthat should prevent both cases at our headquares. Consequently, we embrace the diversity of our ters in Denmark, and during 2019 it is our plan to employees, and we believe that it helps to create a implement these initiatives throughout the entire better and more dynamic working environment. organisation. We are operating in the energy industry, and we are very aware that we are part of a traditionally Fighting forced and child labour male-dominated world. We therefore focus on the Key Performance Indicators We strongly believe that all children, no matter general gender composition in our organisation where they grow up, should be able to be children and work to promote gender equality, both when At our headquarters in Denmark, we have with everything this involves. They should have we operate inside and outside our company walls. implemented efforts to prevent stress and access to education and through that be able to bullying, and during 2019 we want to spread develop both themselves and their skills. And in Internally, our greatest challenge is our dependthese initiatives throughout the entire our opinion, growing up and learning about the ence on engineers and people with other technical many aspects of life is not compatible with being educations and backgrounds. Statistics show that During 2019, we will compose and publish a compelled to work in order to provide for parents, primarily men take these educations, and, naturaldocument that our all suppliers shall sign to siblings or other family members. Forced labour, ly, this gender inequality is also reflected in our verify that they do not use forced or child and child labour in particular, is therefore somenumber of female applicants and employees. Aclabour or violate any other human rights. thing we plan to take action against in 2019. cording to a McKinsey & Company report, one third of the students who were accepted into However, we do acknowledge that it can be beneSTEM (science, technology, engineering and mathficial for children to combine education and work ematics) educations in Denmark, where our headin some contexts. The difficulties in balancing eduquarters is located, were females in 2018. A cational and work-related interests are greater in number that has not changed since 2014.1 some places than others, but as a global organisation, we take all corners of the world into account. Everywhere we operate, we want to take responsibility and join the fight against both forced and child labour. Besides ensuring that we use neither of these within our own organisation, we will also compose and publish a document that all our suppliers shall sign to verify that they do not use forced or child labour or violate any other human rights. Working against discrimination 1 McKinsey & Company, Bridging the talent gap in in a male-dominated industry Denmark Insights from female representation in STEM, At MAKEEN Energy, we are committed to work 2018, pp 38-39, https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/ against any kind of discrimination whether it McKinsey/Featured%20Insights/Europe/Bridging%20 relates to gender, age, ethnicity, religion, disabilithe%20talent%20gap%20in%20Denmark/Bridging-theShutterstock ties or other factors and to promote the developtalent-gap-in-Denmark-McKinsey-Full-report.ashx 28 29 Labour What is WINLPG? Women in LPG (WINLPG) is a campaign dedicated to the support and promotion of women and young talents in the LPG industry, notoriously dominated by men, across the globe. Key Performance Indicators We will start to educate and train our management in non-discrimination Externally, we make an effort to show the career Concerning the latter, we have a goal of not only procedures. possibilities for women in the energy industry. One getting more women into our company in general, example is our support to the World LPG Associabut also into management positions in particular. tion’s (WLPGA) “Women in LPG Global Network” Looking at Kosan Crisplant, one of our LPG com(WINLPG) that works to strengthen the gender panies, as an example, we strive to have 20% balance in the LPG industry. Another example is women in our board of directors in 2022. education and career fairs where we meet young students and potential future employees. Here, we make sure to have both male and female employees to represent our company and in that way show that, despite the traditional gender division, women also have a chance to develop themselves and their careers as well as the company and industry in a positive direction. To accompany and strengthen the above-mentioned efforts, will start to educate and train our management in non-discrimination procedures. Moreover, we continue focussing on both equal pay and female representation in management since both topics appear somewhat challenging on a general societal level. Regarding the former, an analysis from the Danish engineering association, IDA, shows a 4.3% pay 2 IDA, Kønsbestemt lønforskel? Analyse på baggrund af gap between male and female engineers in IDAs lønstatisitk om forskel på privatansatte kvinder og Denmark. 2 We would like to deal with and fight mænds løn, 2015, pp. 5-6, https://ida.dk/media/2431/ this difference, and we therefore have a policy that koensbestemt_loenforskel_incl_anbefalinger_endelig. clearly states that we pay the same salary for the pdf same work. Shutterstock 30 31 Striving for expert energy solutions benefits both people and planet Photo by Sasin Tipchai 32 33 Human rights Protecting human rights At MAKEEN Energy, we recognise and respect human rights. And as a global company, we know that we have a responsibility towards the people around us – whether or not they are directly in Key Performance Indicators contact with our business. We will compose and publish a document In our efforts to support and protect the internathat all our suppliers shall sign to verify that tional human rights, we have set up a CSR Com­ they do not violate any human rights. mittee in 2018. The committee consists of five people from our organisation, and it focuses on a wide range of CSR issues. Naturally, human rights are part of this spectre. Our CSR Committee is therefore responsible for ensuring that MAKEEN Energy does not contribute to any kind of human rights violations. Among other things, the committee must also ensure that we support and actively incorporate the ten principles of the UN Global Compact into the everyday life throughout our company. To strengthen our support to human rights, our CSR Committee will in the future also work on incorporating our efforts into our supply chain. To specify, the committee will ensure that we will compose and publish a document that all our suppliers shall sign to verify that they do not violate the international human rights. Photo by Archie Binamira 34 35 Key Performance Indicators HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT We will compose and publish a document that all our 2018 > No action During 2019, we will reduce our headquarters’ CO2 2018 > CO2 emissions from suppliers shall sign to verify that they do not use forced 2019 > Process planned to be emissions from heating. heating: 348 tons/year or child labour or violate any other human rights. started 2019 > CO2 emissions from heating: 5 tons/year LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION At our headquarters in Denmark, we have implemented 2018 > Only local efforts in efforts to prevent stress and bullying, and during 2019 Denmark We will compose and publish a code of business 2018 > No action we want to spread these initiatives throughout the entire 2019 > Efforts implemented conduct that shall guide our employees in cases of 2019 > Code of business conduct organisation. throughout the entire doubt. published organisation We will start to analyse all our business activities and 2018 > No action To ensure a good working environment throughout the 2018 > No action collaborations for risks related to corruption. 2019 > 30% of activities and company, we work to publish a code of ethics that will 2019 > Code of ethics published collaborations analysed help strengthen the working environment and our differences within the company. We will start to educate and train our management and 2018 > No action sale managers in our anti-corruption objectives and 2019 > 25% of management and We will create a global reporting system in which 2018 > No action procedures. sales managers have completed employees shall report work-related accidents. Among 2019 > New system created training other things, the system will include a measure of LTIFR and <2% in LTIFR (lost time injury frequency rate). We will take action in response to incidents of 2018 > No global system of corruption, if any should occur. action In the future, we will start conducting external audits to 2018 > No action 2019 > Action in 100% of the check if suppliers use forced or child labour. 2019 > Process planned to be cases started We will start to implement an anti-bribery training for all 2018 > No action By 2022, our goal is to have 20% women in the board of 2018 > 0% women in the board new employees. 2019 > 30% of management have directors. of directors completed training 2019 > Process planned to be started We will start to educate and train our management in 2018 > No action non-discrimination procedures. 2019 > 30% of management have completed training 36 37 Alsvej 21 DK-8940 Randers SV Denmark Tel +45 8740 3000 www.makeenenergy.com Contact information Joachim Laursen Head of Group Quality and Process Improvement JLA@makeenenergy.com Pixabay / Sasin Tipchai
