The driving force in refractories Annual Report 2018 CONTENTS 02 102 Strategic Report Financial Statements 04 Key financial and operating highlights 104 Consolidated Statement 06 RHI Magnesita at a glance of Financial Position 08 Chairman’s statement 105 Consolidated Statement 10 Market overview of Profit and Loss 14 Our business 106 Consolidated Statement how we create value of Comprehensive Income 16 Our value chain explained 107 Consolidated Statement 18 Our strategic priorities of Cash Flows 20 CEO’s review 108 Consolidated Statement 22 Innovation of Changes in Equity 26 Operational review 110 Notes to the Consolidated 34 Key performance indicators Financial Statements 2018 36 Financial review 195 Independent Auditor’s Report 42 Risks, viability & internal controls 48 Sustainability Other information 203 Alternative performance measures (“APMs”) 204 Shareholder information 58 Governance 60 Board of Directors 64 Executive Management Team 66 Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance 67 Corporate Governance Report 76 Nomination Committee Report 78 Audit & Compliance Committee Report 80 Remuneration Committee Report 84 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 92 Annual Report on Remuneration RHI Magnesita (the “Company” or “Group”) is quoted with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange (symbol: RHIM) and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 index. For more information please visit: www.rhimagnesita.com R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 We are RHI Magnesita. The driving force. RHI Magnesita is the leading global supplier of highgrade refractory products, systems and solutions. With its high level of geographic diversification, focus on innovation and a vertically integrated value chain, from raw materials to refractory products and full performance-based solutions, RHI Magnesita serves customers around the world. Our mission Our culture themes At RHI Magnesita, innovation determine all our actions takes place in extreme conditions. ¥¥Act customer-focused It is the materials, robotics, sensors, and innovatively Big Data and machine learning ¥¥Have open decision-making that is transforming industry across in a respectful environment the world. It is also the everyday problem-solving of all of our ¥¥Operate cross-functionally, people, making processes quicker, collaboratively and products more cost-effective, pragmatically across the and solutions and services more global organisation beneficial for our customers. ¥¥Be performance driven and accountable 01 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA 02 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 02 Strategic Report 04 Key financial and operating highlights 06 RHI Magnesita at a glance 08 Chairman’s statement 10 Market overview 14 Our business how we create value 16 Our value chain explained 18 Our strategic priorities 20 CEO’s review 22 Innovation 26 Operational review 34 Key performance indicators 36 Financial review 42 Risks, viability & internal controls 48 Sustainability 03 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Key financial and operating highlights Our strong performance in 2018 was driven by the successful integration process, with the continued delivery of synergies, as well as the underlying strength of the markets in which we operate. Financial highlights €3,081m Revenue +21% 1.2x Net debt/adjusted 13.9% Adjusted EBITA EBITDA -0.7x margin +460bps 2018 €3,081m 2018 1.2x 2018 13.9% 2017 €2,550m¹ 2017 1.9x2 2017 9.3%1 €428m Adjusted EBITA +81% 15.4% Working capital €1.50 Recommended final intensity -680 bps dividend per share +100% 2018 €428m 2018 15.4% 2018 €1.50 2017 €236m1 2017 22.2% 2017 €0.75 1 Constant currency pro-forma 2 Net debt/Adjusted pro-forma EBITDA 3 Adjusted constant currency pro-forma Read more on pages 36 to 41 04 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Operating highlights ¥¥ Record safety performance with a lost time injury frequency (“LTIF”) rate of 0.4, representing a 60% improvement on 2017 and demonstrating our focus on this critical aspect of the business. Read more about Safety  on pages 54 to 55 ¥¥ The integration of RHI and Magnesita continued to be successful in 2018 and has been managed well, with minimal disruption from a customer perspective from day one and ensuring continuity throughout the process. Synergies of €70 million were realised during the Year with the €110 million 2020 target remaining on track. ¥¥ Positive customer demand in the Group’s Steel Division, with strong revenues of €2,204 million +15%3 and a gross margin of 23.7%. Read more about the Steel Division  on pages 27 to 29 ¥¥ Industrial Division revenue of €877 million +33%3, with a gross margin of 24.5%, benefitting from an overall healthy level of industrial demand. Read more about the Industrial Division  on pages 30 to 31 ¥¥ Positive growth in the key markets of India and China and demonstration of our focus on these geographies, with the ongoing consolidation of the Group’s business in India to capture growth opportunities more effectively and efficiently, and our investment in the mining and brick plant assets in Chizhou, China, to strengthen our market position and address global supply shortages. Read more about the Growth markets  on pages 32 to 33 ¥¥ Continued investment in R&D and Technical Marketing (2018: c. €63 million) to further drive innovation, with a commitment to devote 2.2% of overall revenue per year. Key developments included development of Automated Process Optimisation, the establishment of our Technical Advisory Committee, advances with the brick data hub technology, progress in 3D printing and surface properties functionalisation. Read more about Innovation  on pages 22 to 25 05 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA RHI Magnesita at a glance €685m 22% revenue in North America €472m 15% revenue in South America Optimally positioned to provide products, services and solutions for clients around the globe +100 Countries shipped to 14,000 Employees in more €2,204m 2018 Steel revenue than 40 countries 13 Raw material sites in 35 Main production sites across €877m 2018 Industrial revenue four continents 16 countries 06 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Refractory products are used in €880m 29% revenue in Europe all the world’s high-temperature industrial processes, exceeding 1,200°C in a wide range of industries including steel, €437m 14% revenue in MEA CIS cement, non-ferrous metals and glass. As global leader, we aim to use our resources, innovation, worldwide presence and expertise to drive change in the refractory industry for the benefit of our customers and all our stakeholders. €608m 20% revenue in Asia Pacific Compelling investment case Clear strategy and strong competitive position ¥¥ 15% global market share (30% ex-China); leadership in Americas, Europe and Middle East with broad value-added solution offering ¥¥ Opportunity to develop and further leverage technology across regions and portfolio ¥¥ Growth in key markets of India and China ¥¥ Highest level of vertical integration in the industry with unique mineral sources and 50%+ self-sufficiency in all raw materials Rapid deleveraging and strong Steel cash generation Our Steel Division provides its customers with a broad ¥¥ Strong cash flow from operating business supported range of customised solutions and comprehensive by synergies and organic growth opportunities packages for steel production, consisting of refractories ¥¥ Rapid deleveraging since merger; net debt to (basic and non-basic mixes and bricks), machinery, EBITDA reduced to 1.2x flow control systems, and our solutions offering. ¥¥ Capital flexibility to pursue both growth and Read more on pages 27 to 29 shareholder returns Industrial Significant synergy delivery and potential Our Industrial Division provides refractory solutions for the ¥¥ €70 million synergies in 2018 and €110 million cement, lime, non-ferrous metals and glass industries as in synergies to be achieved by 2020 well as the environment, energy and chemicals (“EEC”) ¥¥ Additional “below the line” opportunities in sector, providing a wide range of services required by the working capital and tax complex demands of its customers. ¥¥ Cost saving potential beyond synergies from Read more on pages 30 to 31 further initiatives 07 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Chairman’s statement My letter in the 2017 Annual Report was written only two months after your Company was listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange. I remarked then that the formation of RHI Magnesita was transformative, not only in itself, but in the global refractory industry in which it operates. I also highlighted the importance of 2018 the Company’s first full year in using its competitive HERBERT CORDT advantage to set the pace of innovation CHAIRMAN and progress in our industry and to deliver the best for both our customers and our shareholders. I trust that our 2018 Annual Report outlines the strong start we have made in our first full year since the formation of RHI Magnesita, and that our all-round progress demonstrates that the Group has made a very good start and is on track in its development, enabling us to continue delivering on our strategy. Our culture The importance of culture, particularly in the context of a merger, cannot be overstated, and 2018 has seen the Company make considerable strides €1.50 forward in terms of further defining, developing and embedding our cultural values. As part of these efforts, over 2,200 employees worldwide have 2018 dividend per now undergone training to become “culture champions”. share proposed In 2018, employee surveys were carried out which, I am delighted to note, demonstrate that we are on the right path in terms of living our values. Feedback received via this survey is a valuable tool for the Board and leadership team as we continue to shape our future. Our strategic priorities In 2018, we further refined our strategic priorities and have identified four pillars which will support the Company’s longterm growth and sustainability. 08 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 These are: people, business model, markets nature of the business, but we also have and competitiveness and they are covered certain targets in place to further improve in detail on pages 18 and 19. the balance of nationalities. Focus on sustainability Board and Management The Group joined the UN Global Compact team appointments Key governance in 2018, signalling our ongoing focus The Board has been further strengthened actions in 2018 on sustainability. In light of the world’s fast-growing population, climate change by the proposed appointment of two Non-Executive Directors Fiona Paulus ¥¥ Establishment of the Corporate pressures and resource scarcity, we must and Janet Ashdown. In April, our new Sustainability Committee ensure the long-term sustainability of our CFO, Ian Botha, will be joining the ¥¥ Development of an business and communities in which we Executive Management Team (“EMT”) enhanced Board and operate, while working within the and Board. The composition of the EMT Board Committee structure constraints of the planet. was complemented during the Year by the appointment of Jacqueline Knox as ¥¥ Achieving a greater level of From climate change and pollution General Counsel & Company Secretary female representation on the to gender diversity and safety, we are and post-Year end, Gustavo Franco as Chief Board and EMT addressing the topics that are most Sales Officer (“CSO”). Finally, the Group For more, see page 66 material to us and our stakeholders. has also established a dedicated Investor We have established our first set of Relations team in London. sustainability targets and report on our progress on pages 48 to 57. Read more about the Board and Management on pages 60 to 65 We are working to drive progress in our business in the areas of environment, Returns to shareholders human rights, labour and anti-corruption, Underpinned by the strong performance as well as supporting societal goals. of the business and its strong annual cash To this end, we have set up new governance generation, the Board has considered the structures, targets and programmes. long-term dividend policy in the context Our new Board-level Sustainability of its capital allocation strategy. Committee will oversee the Group’s approach, ensuring that we meet our For 2018, the Board has recommended commitments to the UN Global Compact. a final dividend of €1.50 per share for the full financial year, equating to an The importance of diversity increase of 100% over the previous year. Diversity is vital to business success in This represents a dividend cover of 3.5x the 21st century and a diverse workforce, adjusted earnings per share. leadership team and Board support an invaluable broadening of thought and Going forward, the Board’s dividend policy opinion. Our initial focus is to build gender will be to progressively increase ordinary diversity, with a target to achieve a dividends and to target a dividend cover minimum of 33% of female representation of less than 3.0x adjusted earnings over on our Board and senior leadership the medium term. Dividends will be paid team. I am delighted by the proposed on a semi-annual basis with one third of the appointment of two new female directors prior year’s full year dividend being paid at to our Board. the interim. Whilst we have seen encouraging progress Thank you in the gender diversity of our Board and On behalf of the Board, I would like to senior leadership, we have more work express our sincere gratitude to our to do in order to achieve our targets. people for their continued efforts to Diversity goes beyond gender, of course, create value for all our stakeholders. and we will work on other aspects to build the diversity of our Company with HERBERT CORDT regards to skills, age and nationality, CHAIRMAN which is vital to our long-term success. Our Company already enjoys significant diversity of backgrounds, given the global 09 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Market overview Demand for our refractory solutions Our key demand drivers are is based on those industries requiring underpinned by technology advanced heat-resistant materials for and innovation their production processes; being A shift in customer demand towards more integrated predominantly steel, cement/lime, offerings is observable, with an intensifying demand non-ferrous metals, glass and the for a breadth of products covering the full refractory portfolio, as well as an increased requirement for EEC industries. overarching services and solutions. Industrial processes are becoming more digitalised In the long term, demand for refractories and reliant on technology, presenting a significant opportunity for innovation to derive benefit from is driven by the production volumes of this trend. these industries and, therefore, demand Increasing pressure from environmental regulations for their end products is the central creates the demand for efficient products and processes that can minimise negative impacts. driver of our business. Forward thinking R&D capacity is vital to offer solutions to these issues. There is a mounting focus amongst our customers on quality; this in turn requires innovation and advancements in refractory products and processes. Our strategy RHI Magnesita has a significant opportunity to redefine the customer model and solutions offering beyond conventional refractory products and services, towards integrated systems that cover machinery, robotics, automation, sensors, connectivity, Big Data, Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) and digitalisation. One of the fundamental drivers of our business model and strategy bases itself on our internal expertise in innovative technologies and digitalisation, enabling us to provide inventive solutions and industry-leading services to our customers. Our overall R&D capabilities for the full refractories portfolio are at the forefront of the industry and we are committed to the development of products and services which enable energy and cost efficiency. These are all key areas of focus which underpin our goal of providing value-driving, customerfocused business models which will enhance our competitiveness and further consolidate our position in the industry. Read more about Innovation on pages 22 to 25 10 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key demand drivers 01 Steel production 02 Raw materials pricing 03 Construction & infrastructure Steel production Global steel demand continues to grow Steel production volume growth (Mt) Performance of the Steel Division is correlated to steel production volumes 2,000 (rather than steel prices), which have demonstrated a long-term resilience 1,800 and through-cycle consistency. Being an obvious driver of steel demand, GDP growth 1,600 also directly impacts our Steel Division. 1,400 ¥¥ Global steel demand continued to show resilience in 2018, reaching 1,200 1,658 Mt. Demand is forcast to reach 1,681 Mt in 2019. 1,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ¥¥ Crude steel production increased Steel production volume 4.6% to reach 1,809 Mt in 2018. ¥¥ US steel production increased by 6.2%, Our strategy with key drivers being the Government’s The Company is the number one refractory Key geographical drivers of infrastructure plan, tariffs escalation with player in four out of the top ten steel markets refractory demand China and raw material prices. Steel in the world, with a clear strategy to further The ten largest steel demand growth in 2019 is expected to consolidate our market leader position in all producing countries: slow, with only modest growth in auto major basic markets. manufacturing and construction activity. ¥¥ China production increased by 6.6%. Our high market share in Europe and the Ongoing trade friction with the US Americas enables us to take advantage and a decelerating global economy of existing key mature geographies and provide potential downside to 2019 our strategy to grow in the key markets of demand levels, whilst Chinese India and China reflects the end-market government stimulus measures growth of these geographies, and provides could in fact boost demand. significant potential given the size of these markets and our current level of ¥¥ India’s production increased by 4.9%, representation. enabling it to replace Japan as the world’s second largest steel producing Read more about our Growth markets country. Indian demand is expected on pages 32 to 33 to continue to be supported by The Group’s diversified production and 2018 (Mt) infrastructure programmes in 2019 and onwards. client base protects its business to a China 928.3 ¥¥ There is a continued focus amongst significant extent from the impact of India 106.5 steel producers on improving demand or supply chain shifts brought Japan 104.3 competitiveness as well as producing about by developments such as trade tariff impositions. Our movement to increasing United States 86.7 higher quality steel products. our full services and solutions provision has South Korea 72.5 the potential to provide insulation against 1,681 Mt Russia 71.7 oscillations in steel demand. As a result of Germany 42.4 our focus on innovation, we are able to take advantage of increases in requirement for Turkey 37.3 2019 global steel higher-quality steel. Brazil 34.7 demand forecast Iran 25.0 Sources: World Steel Association, EY 11 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Market overview continued Key demand drivers 01 Steel production 02 Raw materials pricing 03 Construction & infrastructure Raw materials pricing Raw material price comparison Rebased to 100 in Q4 2016 The Company is able to benefit from fluctuations in refractory raw material 600 pricing as a result of its high level of backward integration. Generally, the prices of refractory products 500 depend on the price of raw materials, in particular sintered and fused magnesia. Other refractory raw materials such as 400 dolomite, alumina and bauxite, are also influential for our business. ¥¥ A global scarcity of raw materials is 300 evident, predominantly a result of Chinese environmental restrictions and mining and processing regulations. 200 ¥¥ Consequently, the refractory industry has been faced with supply shortages, leading to elevated raw material prices (specifically higher grade 100 basic prices). 2016 Q4 2017 Q2 2017 Q4 2018 Q2 2018 Q4 ¥¥ As a result of potential further export taxes, more restrictive allocation of DBM high grade1 DBM medium grade1 Bauxite explosives and the nationalisation or Alumina white Alumina brown Graphite controlled consolidation of mining operations in China, the structurally 70% altered raw materials pricing Our strategy environment is expected to remain in The Company has a high level of backward 2019, albeit with a calming of the market. integration, with unique mineral sources ¥¥ Whilst current high price levels are not and 70% self-sufficiency in magnesite and expected to continue in the longer term, dolomite and 50% for all raw materials, Self-sufficiency in prices are projected to settle at a much which we believe to be a key competitive magnesite and dolomite higher level than that seen before 2017. advantage. The positive impact for RHI Magnesita of the new, elevated raw ¥¥ Non-basic materials (bauxite, zirconia, material pricing environment has still not graphite) also experienced price fully been noted in the Company’s 2018 increases, albeit not to the same extent. results, potentially allowing further benefits There is an expectation of non-basic cost in 2019. pressures in 2019. By increasing our production of raw materials (for example by reopening the Chizhou operation in China), the Group is able to further consolidate and leverage its market position. Source: Asian Metal 1 Dead burned magnesia (“DBM”) 12 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key demand drivers 01 Steel production 02 Raw materials pricing 03 Construction & infrastructure Construction & infrastructure 2018 LME-listed base metal prices Rebased to 100 at the beginning of 2018 Global GDP growth is a leading indicator of demand for our Industrial Division products, 125 with a strong correlation between real GDP growth and cement consumption. 115 Demand for cement and glass is closely linked to the construction industry. Production of and demand for non-ferrous 105 metals are closely associated with their market prices, with copper and zinc being the most relevant to our business. 95 Construction markets are estimated to account for c. 50% of overall 85 refractory demand. ¥¥ 2018 saw real global GDP growth of 75 3.7%, with a projection of 3.3% in 2019, according to the OECD. ¥¥ From a global perspective, 2018 was a 65 year of relative stability for cement and 01/18 02/18 03/18 04/18 05/18 06/18 07/18 08/18 09/18 10/18 11/18 12/18 lime. Global cement demand in 2019 is expected to grow by 1.5%. Al Cu Ni ¥¥ Having been weak in previous years, Pb Sn Zn from 2016 onwards demand for glass has stabilised due to the renewed growth 3.7% in the flat glass segment propelled by Our strategy emerging Asian countries demand and The Company’s largest markets for cement a stable European market. refractory products align with the world’s ¥¥ After a strong year in 2017, LME-listed largest cement producers: China and India. base metals continued their upward We are also focusing on strengthening Global GDP growth trend at the beginning of 2018 but were our presence in the key growth markets in 2018 then impacted by international trade more broadly. disputes, the introduction of punitive and 3.3% counter duties and first signs of a cooling Our geographic diversification is vital in global economy. managing the impacts of any regional variances in GDP growth. Our Industrial Division is also well diversified in terms of industries, with 37% of revenue in cement/ 2019 projected lime, 25% of revenue in non-ferrous metals GDP growth and 39% of revenue in other process industries in 2018. Sources: IMF, World Cement Association, Berenberg, OECD 13 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Our business how we create value We have the resources ...and the strategy 1 Financial strength People Our focus on working capital Hire, retain and motivate management and cash generation talent and nurture a remains strong; we continue to be meritocratic, performancewell financed with high liquidity driven, customer-focused and a robust balance sheet. and friendly culture. 2 Production facilities Business model and raw material sites The leading service and With a vertically integrated value solution provider in the chain, RHI Magnesita serves refractory industry with an customers in more than 150 extensive portfolio based countries around the world. on innovative technologies 3 and digitalisation. Know-how and expertise Our technical engineers across Markets 90 countries work on-site with Worldwide presence with customers to provide customstrong local organisations made solutions. and solid market positions 4 in all major markets. Skilled and motivated people The comprehensive knowledge Competitiveness and competency of our c. 14,000 Low-cost producer of employees, combined with technically advanced their innovation, commitment refractory materials with and motivation, continue to safe production network. drive our success. Read more about our Strategic 5  priorities on page 18 Strong relationships with all our stakeholders We operate with integrity, honesty and reliability on a daily basis, ensuring respectful relationships amongst employees and with all customers, shareholders and business partners. Our cultural themes Act customer-focused Have open decision-making determine all our actions and innovatively in a respectful environment 14 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 As the leading Company in the refractory industry, RHI Magnesita has developed a resilient business model to create value sustainably for all our stakeholders. ...to add value through a full suite ...to create benefits for of products and services all our stakeholders Our investors search and deve Our clear objective is to create the maximum shareholder us re lop nuo value, supported by a solid strategy based on our strong global nti me market share, potential to develop and leverage technologies nt Co as well as our vertical integration. With significant growth opportunities, synergy targets, strong cash conversion and a robust balance sheet, we have taken significant steps forward in terms of integration and deleveraging. Raw materials Recycling mining and €1.50 dividend per share proposed for 2018 and disposal management Our customers ions off s olut eri Whilst our products only account for around 1% to 5% of O ur n customer production costs, their reliable performance is crucial g to the subsequent quality and stability of the end product. As the most vertically integrated company in the industry, Our our extensive portfolio, based on innovative technologies and digitalisation, enables us to add value at every step of the Customer customers Production product and process lifecycle, providing optimal support and overarching solutions to drive the success of our customers. application (shaping Presented with the “Outstanding Performance and services and firing) Customer Focus” award by Cemex in 2018 Our people Our people are our most important resource and they have a fundamental right to a safe and healthy workplace. We are committed to providing equal opportunities and Packaging and aim to help employees fulfil their true potential. We have logistics training and development programmes in place to enable this, alongside schemes to motivate and encourage innovation, whilst driving success. th ro c. 14,000 people employed globally u g h o ut th e c yc le Our environment We have taken the lead in applying technology to make refractory products more efficient to improve our Our differentiators environmental footprint. We continue to drive environmental impact improvements through the use of digitisation, robotisation, automation, recycling and new materials. Customer focus Industry-leading expertise We have established an integrated management system to A leading service and solutions We are a valued industry partner for our guarantee we are consistently meeting high standards. provider in the refractory industry, with clients on account of our industry-leading an extensive portfolio based on innovative in-house and on-site technical experts, technologies and digitalisation; our who consult, develop and deliver innovative Commitment to reduce CO2 emissions by proposition is distinctive and designed solutions directly to customers around 10% per tonne by 2025 with our customers in mind. the world, 24 hours and 7 days a week. Our communities Driving innovation Servicing full value chain Our goal is to maximise our social impact in our local We drive innovation in every aspect of our With the highest level of vertical communities and we aim to develop long-term partnerships to business, from materials, robotics and Big integration in the industry, including enable this. We are committed to the responsible management Data, to offering bespoke value-driving significant self-sufficiency in all raw of our operations through compliance with pertaining laws and business models to our clients which cover materials, we have a unique ability to cover regulations as well as striving for ethically sound practice in the entire product and process lifecycle. and service every step of the value chain, everything we do. We have a long operating history within a and offer distinctive customer solutions number of our host communities and are therefore fully based on our technological leadership, cognisant of our responsibility. expertise and cost competitiveness. We joined the LBG framework in 20181 Operate cross-functionally, Be performance driven 1 LBG is the global standard in measuring and managing corporate community investment collaboratively and and accountable pragmatically 15 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Our value Our broad focus throughout the value chain enables us to offer our customers high-quality refractory products, supported chain explained by industry-leading R&D, and underpinned by our vertically integrated structure, incorporating both a high level of raw materials self-sufficiency as well as an in-depth understanding of technical customer processes. The core constituents of the value chain RHI Magnesita covers all steps include mining, crushing, mixing, firing, packaging, transportation, customer throughout its entire value chain. application, recycling and disposal according to legal requirements. Mining Crushing Firing in the rotary kiln 1,800°C Press max. 3,200t Heat treatment max 350°C Press max. 3,200t Firing in the tunnel kiln max 1,800°C for three days 16 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 One of the basic materials for refractory A key constituent of the Company’s products is magnesite, a mineral that we mine ability to add value to our customers lies in both underground and surface mines. in our solutions offering, in which the The magnesite ore is crushed and fired at refractory products are installed by our 1,800°C in special kilns. In the burning experienced employees. After their use process, the CO2 contained in the magnesite in the customer’s production process, is released and, importantly, the material’s worn refractory linings are broken out density is increased. The bricks and mixes are and, if possible, reused as secondary then mixed with binding agents, packaged raw materials. RHI Magnesita is therefore and shipped as repair materials and speciality/ instrumental in the entire cycle from technical additives are introduced to enhance raw material production to recycling performance capabilities or pressed in of finished products. different sizes and shapes, employing a pressure of up to 3,200 tonnes. Depending on the application, the refractory bricks are subsequently either subjected to heat treatment at up to 350°C or fired at up to 1,800°C in tunnel kilns for three days. Unfired products are primarily used in the steel industry, whilst the main applications of fired products are in the cement, non-ferrous metals, process and mineral industries. CONTINUOUS RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT THROUGHOUT THE CYCLE UNSHAPED REFRACTORY CUSTOMERS: STEEL PRODUCTS INDUSTRY EXAMPLE Mixing Packaging Installation in a LD converter UNFIRED REFRACTORY PRODUCTS Use: pig iron is turned into steel Quality assurance Packaging LOGISTICS FIRED REFRACTORY PRODUCTS Removal Quality assurance Packaging Recycling Disposal 17 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Our strategic priorities After its first full year of People successful integration, Hire, retain and motivate talent RHI Magnesita is now further and nurture a meritocratic, performance-driven, consolidating its position customer-focused and as the driving force of the friendly culture. refractory industry. In 2018, we refined our key strategic priorities and have identified the following four pillars which will support the Company’s long-term growth and sustainability. Business model The leading service and As the industry leader, we will use our strategic solution provider in the priorities as the framework from which to further develop and grow our business. refractory industry with an extensive portfolio based To ensure the full focus of our Senior on innovative technologies Management, strategic priorities and deliverables for 2019 have been allocated and digitalisation. to respective managers and linked to remuneration. Markets Risks Worldwide presence with 1  acroeconomic environment and M strong local organisations condition of customer industries and solid market positions 2 Regulatory and compliance risks in all major markets. 3 F  luctuations in exchange rates and energy prices, increasing volatility of raw material prices 4 S  ignificant changes in the competitive environment or speed of disruptive innovation 5 Inability to execute a key strategic Competitiveness initiative or necessary adjustments Low-cost producer of to core operations technically advanced 6 Business interruption and supply refractory materials with chain disruption safe production network. 7 Environment/Health & Safety risks 8 Cyber and information security risk Read more about Risks on pages 42 to 47 18 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Objectives Link to risk ¥¥ We have developed, disseminated and promoted our culture ¥¥ Continue to work efficiently, being accountable through workshops and the cultural champions programme and performance-driven 2 4 ¥¥ With a clear shared vision, RHI Magnesita is today, more than ¥¥ Drive innovation amongst employees ever, a committed and focused team ¥¥ Focus on internal leadership development 7 ¥¥ We have established initiatives to enhance international careers, and external talent acquisition taking advantage of our rich and diverse culture, and continue to promote trust and openness ¥¥ We have stated targets in place to further broaden our diversity ¥¥ As part of our post-merger strategic planning, a set of clear ¥¥ Our Technical Marketing and R&D teams will customer models were defined to better fit their needs and follow continue to be a pivotal part of our business 1 3 the market trends; we continue to promote and incentivise the use model, as we aim to increase the share of of automation as well as encouraging diversity and differentiation integrated services and solutions in the 4 5 in our products and services Company’s performance ¥¥ Our new customer models have been rolled out and communicated ¥¥ We will continue to use our unparalleled throughout the organisation technical expertise to innovate in technology 6 7 ¥¥ Focus was placed on recycling in 2018, with the development for refractory applications as well as in systems of new recipes and a thorough analysis of recycling practice to improve our customers’ processes per region, as well as a global approach taken to our ¥¥ We will keep on building an autonomous 8 recycling activities and profitable recycling business ¥¥ In the developed markets of North America, Europe and ¥¥ Further consolidate our market-leading position South America, the Company is successfully positioned as in all major basic markets 1 3 the most comprehensive solutions provider by capitalising ¥¥ Continue optimisation of our global footprint on the post-merger integration process and by realising 4 5 significant synergies ¥¥ Optimise our network through our global supply chain management centre ¥¥ Enhanced access to core markets, customer bases and geographical regions as a result of the consolidation of our ¥¥ Take advantage of compelling consolidation 6 8 global reach opportunities as they arise ¥¥ Successful growth achieved in China ¥¥ Reorganisation and rationalisation of Indian operations to take advantage of the increasing local market demand ¥¥ Achieving merger-derived synergies ¥¥ We will continue investing in R&D to create ¥¥ Establishment of new structures to increase competitiveness products that have a distinct competitive 1 3 worldwide, including the global business services team advantage by cost or by product performance and the global supply chain management department ¥¥ We will continue to pioneer advanced refractory 4 5 ¥¥ A Sustainability Steering Committee was established operations through structured systems for the intelligent management of our production network ¥¥ In line with our stated focus on investment in R&D, 1.1% of ¥¥ Our aim is to carry on improving operational 6 7 revenue was committed in 2018 processes to deliver the lowest costs in the industry ¥¥ We will continue developing a full range of 8 the best products in the industry 19 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA CEO’s review  e expect to deliver modest W organic revenue growth, continued synergy generation and further optimisation initiatives. In addition to this we expect further growth potential from acquisitions. STEFAN BORGAS CEO We remain focused on driving margin improvement opportunities and strong cash flow generation, which will provide the foundation to support our capital allocation and dividend policy. Q Looking back at 2018, what has and a gross margin of 23.7%. The The Group has continued its successful the Company achieved? Industrial Division reported revenue of integration during 2018, achieving €877 million, with a gross margin of synergies of €70 million, with a further A This was our first full financial year as 24.5%, benefitting from an overall €20 million expected in the current a new company and I am delighted by healthy level of industrial demand. year, and remains on track to deliver the significant amount that we have €110 million during the financial year achieved. Underpinned by the strength In addition to capturing a significant 2020. The combination of top-line of the markets in which we operate, proportion of this growth by virtue of growth, synergy implementation and we have reported very strong financial the vertically integrated model, the our vertically integrated model has led results, successfully delivered on our Group has benefitted from its successful to an adjusted EBITA margin of 13.9%, integration plans and benefitted from the integration process, with the realisation representing a 460 basis points synergies of the combination. Previous of synergies and network optimisation improvement on 2017. competitors have become colleagues supporting a significant step up in and we are now working together to build R  ead more in the Financial review operating margins. Disappointingly, the the future of RHI Magnesita. on pages 36 to 41 Group experienced some operational and supply chain challenges in its In 2018, RHI Magnesita has continued to European business during H2 which Q How has the Group’s financial consolidate its position as the driving position evolved? partially offset some of the margin gains. force of the refractory industry and we The root cause of these issues has been have made good progress in setting the A The Company’s financial position identified and improvement plans are in continues to strengthen, with growth business on the right path to achieving place. Management is confident that in operational cash flow generation, its full potential. The Group achieved they will be substantially resolved in materially improved working capital very strong results in its first full year, the current year. intensity and a reduction in annualised following the combination of RHI and interest expense, as a result of the Magnesita in 2017, with revenue growth Overall, the Group’s integrated refinancing carried out in 2018. This of 21%, and an increase in adjusted EBITA model continues to derive benefit has enabled the Group to significantly of 81%. The growth in revenues, which from a structurally changed pricing reduce net debt to 1.2x adjusted EBITDA. exceeded that of the underlying steel environment. However, it is our ability A long-term dividend policy has also and industrial markets, demonstrates to protect margin improvements, been approved with a 2018 final dividend the continuing demand for the Group’s regardless of the pricing environment, of €1.50 per share recommended. breadth of technology, services and that really matters. This can already be products. Positive customer demand demonstrated in our results and will be R  ead more in the Chairman’s was noted in the Steel Division in 2018, further underpinned by the Company’s statement on pages 8 to 9 with strong revenues of €2,204 million solid growth strategy. 20 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Q How is the Company positioning Q How is the Company maintaining Q Do you have a vision for itself to achieve growth? its leadership position in terms the future? of innovation A As we adapt our business model to a A As the world’s population grows, there changing world, we are aiming for a One of the fundamental drivers of our will be new cities, infrastructure and much higher share of sales in our business model and strategy bases itself industries all of which require steel, solutions offering, leveraging the on our internal expertise in innovative cement and glass, and consequently Company’s innovative technologies and technologies and digitalisation. The refractories. At the same time, refractories digitalisation, thereby creating additional Group continues to drive innovation, with are important in initiatives to reduce value for our customers. We place great significant opportunities in the fields of pollution and mitigate the impacts of importance on developing and delivering automation, robotics and recycling, and climate change (by providing smarter higher quality products and services, aims to devote 2.2% of total revenues per infrastructure and cleaner power) and lift which will in turn also enable our year to R&D and Technical Marketing. people out of poverty (by enabling, for customers to improve the quality of Investment in R&D and Technical example, the construction of housing). their operations and products. Marketing in 2018 was c. €63 million, representing 2% of revenues, marginally Whilst recognising that our innovation, As the number one refractory player in lower than the target as a result of foreign products and solutions are integral to four out of the top ten steel markets, in exchange movements and the merger almost every aspect of modern life, and addition to maintaining our leadership combination process. therefore to the facilitation of global positions in the Americas, Europe and the development, we take our commitment  ead more about innovation on pages R Middle East, we intend to grow our share to sustainability seriously in terms of 22 to 25 in key under-penetrated geographies. responsibly managing the economic, We have seen significant success during environmental and social impacts of the Year with our dedicated, local Q How are you integrating our business. sustainability into the business? strategies for the Chinese and Indian markets, resulting in high levels of growth A Our intense focus on safety has Q What is your business and market share gains. We will look to already shown significant results, outlook for 2019? accelerate these in 2019, as well as with a 60% improvement in our LTIF applying focus to additional important rate in 2018 to reach 0.4. However, A 2018 has been a year of tremendous steel markets where the Group has a we will not be complacent; nothing progress and transformation, creating limited presence. less than zero accidents is acceptable the leading company in the global and therefore our focus on this important refractories industry, successfully  ead more about the growth markets R area will persist. delivering on our integration plans of India and China on pages 32 to 33 and benefitting from the synergies of the  ead about our commitment to safety R combination. More broadly, we continue With “People” being one of the Group’s on pages 54 to 55 to navigate well the challenges of the four strategic pillars, guaranteeing we integration process and have set the have the optimal team to deliver on the We are also working hard to reduce business on the right path to support Company’s ambitious growth plans is our environmental impacts, particularly its ongoing strategic development. central to our ongoing success. given the urgency of climate change. In 2018, we made significant progress We are expecting a more stable raw Following the merger, the organisational in recycling and I am excited to note that material market in 2019. Whilst pricing structure of the business was redesigned we will soon establish our first dedicated may ease from the current high levels, and restructured to ensure that it recycling facility. a new higher base looks likely to be accurately reflects our strategy. This has maintained throughout the year on R  ead about our commitment to the been a significant area of focus during account of the structurally changed environment on pages 52 to 53 the Year and we have made important environment, especially in China. changes to consolidate and optimise our Our people are our most important workforce, whilst upgrading the level of asset and therefore their continuous Whilst some uncertainties exist in skills and expertise throughout the Group. development and motivation is vital the macroeconomic outlook for 2019, to the future success of the business. robust customer markets in the medium Q What are your expectations for the We work hard to foster an environment term (albeit with some uncertainty in the future growth of the business? in which our employees can follow short term) and positive trends in raw their passions, innovate and progress. material pricing support our expectation A Through the cycle, the Group expects They are accountable for their targets to deliver modest organic revenue nominal organic growth of c. 1-3% per and rewarded for performance. In growth, with improved operating margins year. Following the progress made in 2018, we implemented a performance from 2018 levels, driven by continued the integration process, as well as the management system with the aim of synergy generation and further much strengthened balance sheet and encouraging our employees to reach optimisation initiatives, in addition continued strong cash generation, we their full potential. Diversity and inclusion to further growth potential from intend to initiate a number of targeted are critical to the future success of our acquisitions. We remain focused capital investment programmes to workforce and our Chairman discusses on driving margin improvement support the Group’s medium term this further on page 9. opportunities and strong cash flow objectives. In addition to approximately generation, which will provide the €110 million of annual maintenance  ead about our people R foundation to support our capital capital investment, we intend to deploy on pages 54 to 57 allocation and dividend policy. approximately €65 million of additional capital investment in 2019 to support Demonstrating our focus on sustainability I would like to thank our employees, growth, increase raw material capacity the Group joined the UN Global shareholders and customers for and improve efficiency. Of this, Compact in 2018, showing its your continued support in what approximately half relates to the Group’s commitment to this important initiative. has been a critical year in the dolomite expansion project in Chizhou, Company’s development. China and the remainder on smaller  ead about our commitment to R projects in York (US) and India. sustainability on pages 48 to 57 21 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Innovation Taking innovation to 1,200°C and beyond We are committed to innovation in every aspect of our business. We aim to use data to develop pioneering products, new business models including our solutions offering, and efficient, inventive processes that will add real value to our customers. The Company’s technology leadership is built on the ambition, dedication and creativity of our employees. Innovation management gives structure to this creativity and ensures that ideas are converted to marketable products, services and new business models. R&D underpins the Group’s strategy to be the top service and solution provider in the refractory industry with an extensive portfolio based on innovative technologies and digitalisation. The Group expenditure on R&D and Technical Marketing in 2018 was c. €63 million. Research and development 2.2% In 2018, R&D focused on integrating teams, capturing synergies on G&A, production network and cross selling, and leveraging the innovation efforts, including the launch Annual commitment to R&D of the Technical Advisory Committee and Technical Marketing1 (“TAC”) (see further detail below) and involvement with Open Innovation platforms, to further extending our technical network. Innovation management The improvement and further development of manufacturing processes is one of the main topics of innovation management at 1 As a percentage of overall revenue RHI Magnesita. 22 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Company’s clear objective is the Key developments in the R&D sphere Furnace safe solution (an infrared identification, development and utilisation during the Year included: monitoring of furnace shells that of new, high-performance production minimises the risk of liquid steel technologies and services that lead to ¥¥ Establishment of the TAC: see case breakout and maximises the a significant improvement in efficiency study below operational furnace availability while and enable the manufacturing of products at the same time increasing safety) ¥¥ Automated Process Optimisation with superior material properties and/or (“APO”): APO is being used to foster a ¥¥ Brick data hub: This initiative aims functionalities. Through this approach greater understanding of the correlation to collect data from every stage of the Company not only creates the basis between steel production parameters, the process from tunnel kiln to brick for patentable, innovative processes, maintenance and refractory by analysing destruction. New cameras have been but also sets new standards in the field data on a central master computer, using installed on-site and the interface of refractories. AI methods. Further development of between cameras and databases APO technology has been applied to has been prepared The ongoing advancements due to RH degassers (a secondary refining digitisation and the increasing degree system that removes dissolved gases of automation have a significant such as hydrogen present in molten steel contribution to the development of to enable the production of high-grade existing production processes and steel) and combined with the Agellis services. Through analysis, evaluation and prioritisation of existing technologies, innovation management ensures their quick and seamless integration. Trends such as Big Data, connectivity, AI and predictive maintenance are only a few Technical Advisory aspects which open up new opportunities for the Company. The clear objective is to Committee align the Group’s activities to new trends and to implement new business and The TAC was established in 2018 to: service models that fulfil the demands of the Company’s stakeholders. ¥¥ enable the Company to grow its business by helping to identify new technologies Our R&D capabilities ¥¥ advise on the optimal use of the current Our industry-leading R&D team is at the technologies available in the Group centre of the Company’s ability to innovate. ¥¥ support and challenge the Group’s The Research and Development division R&D team ¥¥ expand the Company’s technology consists of two R&D hubs, located in w network into the external world Leoben (Austria) and Contagem (Brasil), and three R&D centres in York (USA), Dalian (universities, start-up companies, (China) and Bhiwadi/Visakhapatnam (India). partners) The R&D team is diverse in nature with 15 different nationalities being represented. The TAC is formed of senior, global R&D It comprises more than 250 people, and Technical Marketing experts and has approximately a quarter of which are a strong EMT and Board-level presence. female. Demonstrating the level of Consultants are also invited to join expertise of our team, 98 people within the meetings when required to provide global R&D team hold Master’s and PhDs. external expertise. R&D developments The TAC held its first meeting in €33 million, before subsidies and September 2018 and key themes discussed including opex and capex, was committed were automation and digitalisation, to R&D in 2018, representing 1.1% of total functionalisation of refractory surfaces, Group revenue. We aim to commit 1.2% fast drying and low temperature sintering of Group revenue to R&D and innovative technologies and innovation fostering technologies development on an annual within the R&D organisation. basis. The minor reduction in 2018 was due to the effect of foreign exchange movements and also the merger combination process. 23 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Innovation continued ¥¥ 3D printing: 3D printed refractory The trademark portfolio has been components will be produced on optimised and reduced to match the a pilot scale in 2019 and sent for needs of the market. Innovation: enabling application testing Our partnerships customers to meet ¥¥ Surface properties functionalisation: Several technologies which are aimed RHI Magnesita has active programmes their goals with the following leading institutions: at functionalising refractory grains Against a backdrop of the everhave been investigated, leading to ¥¥ University of Leoben; increasing focus on environmental, the development of a new refractory ¥¥ Johannes Kepler University; health and safety issues, there is formulation with improved properties ¥¥ Joanneum Research; growing demand in the steel industry (mainly corrosion resistance, flexibility ¥¥ University of Graz and the Graz for zero-emission refractory bricks. Our (modulus of elasticity) and in some University of Technology; R&D team has been working to discover cases thermal conductivity) ¥¥ Vienna University of Technology; ways of reducing the environmental ¥¥ Federal University of São Carlos in Brazil; impact of the refractory process for years Intellectual property: ¥¥ Slovak Academy of Sciences; and one of the latest developments is the patents and trademarks ¥¥ McGill University in Canada; and zero-emission magnesia carbon brick, Given the industry-leading R&D capabilities ¥¥ Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft in Germany. which undergoes a specific treatment of the Group, we place great importance process to eliminate emissions. on protecting its intellectual property. RHI Magnesita also worked closely with technology leaders in the steel industry The success of this product has been The Company safeguards and protects its such as: proven in various customer trials and its new products, systems and technologies via ability to provide significant benefit for the effective use of trademarks and patents. ¥¥ Voestalpine Stahl Donawitz; the customer has been demonstrated. We continuously examine the patentability ¥¥ Voestalpine Stahl Linz; One long-standing customer was of product developments, new raw ¥¥ Böhler Edelstahl; and required by its host Government to materials, systems and technologies in ¥¥ Primetals Technologies at competence significantly reduce its emissions and order to provide targeted intellectual centres promoted by the Austrian therefore underwent a variety of trials property protection for the Group’s new Research Promotion Agency. with alternative refractory products, with refractory solutions, thus strategically either limited success or a significant supporting the Company’s market position Fundamental research increase in costs noted, to achieve as a global leader in the refractory industry. A key focus of fundamental research is this goal. The ladle lining concept to gain a better understanding of the was then altered to enable the use of Seven priority patent applications corrosion and erosion mechanisms of our zero-emission bricks. In utilising were filed in 2018; providing a competitive our products within different customer RHI Magnesita’s innovative products advantage for the Company. They included processes. We carry out this research, and services, the customer was able patent applications concerning the often in collaboration with scientific to reduce its environmental impact by geometries of refractory components, cooperation partners and within the eliminating emissions and, critically, to automation and advanced refractory raw framework of subsidised competence avoid any adverse regulatory impacts. materials. The Group’s patent portfolio centres, with the use of simulation and comprised 148 patent families with 1,723 modelling methods. The aim of these is patents and patent applications at the to analyse flow conditions of liquid steel end of the Year. from the steel ladle through the tundish to solidification in the mould. Methods used A new Group-wide patent evaluation include the finite element method (“FEM”), process has recently been rolled out computational fluid dynamics (“CFD”), in line with the Company’s strategy. the discrete element method (“DEM”), The well-established patent monitoring thermochemical simulations and water process is used to analyse competitors’ modelling. The simulation and modelling patent activities in the market and to then enables us to offer our customers further secure legal compliance. tailored refractory solutions which are based on the research carried out and therefore Significant achievements in 2018 include take the client’s process and specific the patenting of the IBOS Ladle Bottom environment into account. solution in its primary market the US as well as the granting of a European patent for the APO System. 24 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 In 2018 in excess of 100 simulation projects enables further improvements of the The development and optimisation were carried out for both internal and properties of existing products and optimal of reducedand zero-emission bricks external customers, with some specific adaptation to customer needs. Examining continued successfully, with the creation examples being a CFD simulation of a tap raw material alternatives to existing of new recipes as well as the further hole cooler design and a FEA simulation products in order to secure raw material optimisation of existing recipes to meet of a new brick suspension system for availability and to optimise the customer’s ever-increasing environmental, health non-ferrous metals electric arc furnace total cost of ownership is one of the & safety requirements. In slide gate (“EAF”) roofs. fundamental activities of R&D. mechanics, the successful roll-out of the “S-Gate” continued with a major focus on New product and production Training South America in 2018, thereby securing method development An important part of the R&D process, and the Company’s patent-protected Innovative raw materials and production a key part of the Company’s ability to add technology leadership in slide gate processes provide the basis for new value to its clients, is to provide training mechanics and ceramics. products. The Company has test plants and knowledge sharing with our customers. in Leoben and Contagem which are used At the Training Centre in Leoben, Austria, In 2019, product roll-outs will continue to develop new fused raw materials, the Company holds seminars attended by with examples including the introduction based on phase-theory considerations and customers to help familiarise them with our of EAF hearth ramming mixes, produced thermochemical calculations. These are refractory products and lining techniques. in Contagem (Brazil), and doloma-based then further developed prior to undergoing The participants can learn about and bricks, produced in Chizhou (China). series production at our facilities. In addition practice handling refractory products to classic oxidic raw materials, research on a full-scale model of a cement rotary Technical Marketing training also deals with non-oxidic raw materials, kiln using modern lining machinery. We use innovative training methods to which have turned out to be promising. disseminate knowledge of our product Digitalisation portfolio both quickly and cost-efficiently Some of these new raw materials are Digitalisation is a key focus for the Company amongst our sales team. These processes currently under investigation in order as well as providing one of the Group’s are supported by our dedicated “Academy” to highlight their potential in terms of leading competitive advantages. In 2018, department, within the Technical Marketing improving thermo-mechanical properties further digitalisation and automation organisation, as well as our e-learning as well as corrosion resistance of selected initiatives across the Group’s entire value capabilities. refractory formulations. chain were carried out and remain on track. Recycling Existing product optimisation Radenthein, which is the Company’s first The recycling of used refractory products and process improvements digital pilot plant, enables the Group to is a key strategic initiative for the Group on The Company uses Big Data methods to apply the power of digital analytics and AI. the basis of the various benefits it carries. analyse and enhance existing production Firstly, it enables us to secure a supply processes. As an example of this, AI is Demonstrating the importance we place of raw materials and therefore reduces used to analyse and understand relevant on this area, in 2018, we appointed a Digital the requirement for their cost-intensive information and develop the basis of a Strategy Manager to establish our global procurement but also it enables a significant refractory wear model. AI methods are also digital agenda, data/digital strategy and reduction in energy consumption and CO2 used to foster a greater understanding of governance process. emissions. In addition to this, by recycling the correlation between steel production spent refractories, we can reduce the parameters, maintenance and refractory. We have also developed a Supply Chain volume of waste generated as well as Management (“SCM”) 4.0 team and have cutting disposal costs. By applying In order to optimise our products and adapt initiated the SCM transformation process. alternative treatment methods, the them to specific customer requirements, This includes projects which are focused on Company is aiming to increase the portion used refractory materials are taken from digitalisation and AI to drive optimisation of of Secondary Raw Materials (“SRM”) that a variety of customer aggregates and our entire supply chain. can be recovered from the spent thoroughly studied at our R&D centres. refractories. Based on this analysis, the Company is Product portfolio able to develop optimised products and Following the merger, we commenced The Company uses over 100,000 tonnes techniques with the aim of enhancing a full analysis and review of the Group’s of recycled materials on an annual basis product performance and lowering product portfolio with the aim of unifying, and the development of products allowing customer costs. streamlining and optimising. As a result of a higher SRM content is a priority for us. this process, we saw a significant reduction 2018 saw significant focus on the As an example, a new development of active brands and carried out a development of our recycling strategy has been launched aimed at coating streamlining of recipes. and capabilities and, as part of this, the team refractory grains in order to improve was enhanced during the Year. Our R&D the thermochemical corrosion and Several successful product roll-outs function developed recipes during the Year mechanical strength of refractory bricks, were achieved during the Year, including which allowed significantly higher rates which are exposed to highly demanding “Q-mixes”, which were developed to ensure of recycling, while still maintaining the environments. Bricks produced with this short delivery times in spite of high plant same functional performance in the final new technology are currently undergoing loads. Another benefit of these mixes customer application. further testing in industrial kilns. exists in reducing our consumption of dead burned magnesia, enabling the In 2019 we will continue to work in The close interdisciplinary cooperation Group to further optimise its supply chain. close collaboration with our customers between material development, design to increase the percentage of SRM in development in the simulation department products, whilst retaining or even and production process development improving their performance. 25 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Operational review This operational review gives a From a macro perspective, performance breakdown of performance by in 2018 can be characterised by the division, as well as providing successful integration of RHI and Magnesita, which has been managed some focus on our key growth well throughout the Year, with minimal markets of India and China. disruption from a customer perspective from day one and ensuring service continuity throughout the process. Detail on the macro perspective is provided in the sections below, as well as in the Market overview section on pages 10 to 13 26 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Steel previous year2 . Gross profit for the Steel Division was €522.4 million, representing a gross margin of 23.7% (2017: 23.1%3). Revenue split by geography Division Whilst overall there was a gross margin improvement in 2018, a deterioration was noted in H2 as a result of some operational and supply chain issues. The root cause €2,204m of these issues has been identified and improvement plans are in place. We are confident that they will substantially be resolved in the current year. 2018 Steel revenue Europe The Group realised a good level of organic growth, with revenue of €631.5 million, €522m in spite of the subdued level of steel production in Europe and notwithstanding the plant production challenges encountered during the Year, which can be Europe 29% 2018 Steel gross profit characterised by raw material shortages North America 24% and long lead times (especially in dolomite). This increase was driven by product Asia Pacific 17% portfolio optimisation with a favourable South America 17% Our Steel Division provides customers with pricing impact, and also influenced by MEA-CIS 13% a broad range of customised refractory our ability to pass on cost increases. The solutions and services required in steel Company successfully mitigated long lead production. These include basic and times and production/shipping delays (as a non-basic mixes and bricks, as well as result of unplanned ex China orders) by machinery, flow control systems and our close interdepartmental and customer solutions offering. cooperation. Furthermore, coordinated inventory measures were taken to reduce Refractory products used in the steel excessive stock and thereby free up capital industry are considered as consumable employed without impacting customer products and therefore their service life satisfaction with our supply reliability. generally does not exceed one year. They can therefore be classified as a Steel production in the EU decreased maintenance investment, with their by 0.3% to 168.1 Mt. Steel consumption demand being correlated to output. levelled in H2 2018, according to the European Steel Association (“Eurofer”), According to the World Steel Association, showing a 2.2% increase at closing when global crude steel production increased compared to 2017. High overall levels of by 4.6% to 1,808.6 Mt in 2018 (+2.5% steel consumption and stock building excluding China), with increases noted across the steel distribution chain drove in all regions except the EU, providing a stable demand during the Year amidst positive customer demand backdrop for tensions over US tariffs on European steel the Group’s Steel Division. and serious discussions on safeguards and tariff barriers in response to steel imports 72% of total Group revenue was attributable in the region, especially from China and to the Steel Division in 2018 (2017: 74%1), other Asian producers. amounting to €2,204.3 million, which represents an increase of 15% on the As with North America, we see potential positive benefits in Europe from the reopening of the Chizhou plant and expect 2019 to present a more stable year in this region. 1 Pro-forma 2 Comparing against pro-forma 2017 3 Calculated based on 2017 reported figures 27 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Operational review continued North America The Group was able to derive benefit from Capacity utilisation in the US (a key indicator Strong revenue of €534.6 million was its strong market position in North America, for the industry) passed the 80%1 reference recorded in 2018, with particularly strong driven by its very competitive product and point and a number of steel producers performance in North America due to service offering across the full refractory initiated investments to ramp up production crude steel production rising in the US portfolio, and also from its high level of capabilities and upgrade facilities as the and Mexico, but also due to the Group’s backward integration for imported products economy gained momentum. focus on key strategic initiatives, an from Europe and South America. enhanced portfolio of products, and Looking forward to 2019, we are encouraged market price adjustments, which North America demonstrated strong by customer greenand brownfield projects outpaced the cost development. growth in 2018, particularly when as well as the positive impact of increased considering the maturity of the market, steel pour from those operations which Given the limited raw material sourcing with steel production increasing by 4.1% were restarted during the Year. We also options in North America, resulting in to 120.5 Mt. The US saw a particularly high anticipate being in a position to derive a high reliance on imported goods and year-on-year increase of +6.2% to 86.7 Mt, some of the latent benefit from increases raw materials, this region inevitably saw with key drivers being the Government’s in Chinese raw material pricing that was challenges in 2018. Customer sentiment infrastructure plan, the tariffs escalation not yet fully felt during 2018. was impacted by supply concerns on with China and raw material prices. account of raw material developments in The reopening of the Chizhou plant in China, which significantly increased prices. In March 2018, 25% tariffs were imposed China is expected to free up dolomite There were specific challenges in 2018 to on steel imports, leading to an increase capacity in North American plants from the fulfil demand for dolomite-based shaped in US steel prices and steel customers end of 2019 onwards, enabling additional products, which was impacted by announcing new investments (as well as deliveries to customers in the region. production capacities and increased the recommencement of previously halted steel pour. operations). However, as the Year-end Middle East & Africa (“MEA”), approached, prices began to fall back CIS & Asia Pacific to similar levels seen prior to the tariff The Group succeeded in outperforming implementation. A 10% tariff was also the market in India, China and Asia Pacific implemented on imported Chinese in 2018, which itself saw strong steel growth goods in September 2018, which will rise in all regions. Revenue reported for MEA to 25% absent any future developments. and CIS in 2018 was €286.1 million, with €385.7 million in Asia Pacific, positively impacted by price increases, with the strongest improvements being seen in MEA. The Group contended with the issue of a limited level of backward integration in a majority of these regions during the Year; however, with a steadier raw material supply flow expected in 2019, a further improvement in performance is anticipated. 1 The American Iron and Steel Institute 28 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strong steel revenues in South America The country-wide truckers’ strike in Brazil, The Group’s market position in South which occurred in May, hindered further 2018 of €2,204 million America is strong, with a focus on the growth in steel sales in the domestic market were underpinned by solutions model, benefitting from longin 2018 and the US decision to restrict the standing customer relationships and driving market to steel imports (Section 232), positive customer demand. value for these customers. Revenue, which triggered protectionist escalation on the amounted to €366.3 million in 2018, was part of the other countries, jeopardising negatively impacted by country-wide growth in export volumes. industrial action of truck drivers in Brazil in May as well as the political situation Apparent steel consumption is forecast in Venezuela, which has largely halted to rise by 6.2% to 22.4Mt1 on the basis of Steel production in Asia grew by 5.6% steel production in the country. However, optimistic expectations of the new Brazilian to 1,271.1 Mt. China increased by 6.6%, profitability was increased in 2018 as a Government measures. Whilst our internal with its share of global production rising result of improved product mix, better expectations take into account a certain from 50.3% to 51.3%. India’s production technical results in performance contracts level of conservatism, this still has the increased by 4.9%, overtaking Japan as as well as merger-related synergies. The potential to drive further steel production the world’s second largest steel producing Company encountered some challenges increases in 2019. country. The Middle East saw a significant with its stand-alone installation model in increase in steel production of 11.7% to 2018 which negatively impacted on margins We will continue to reinforce the 38.5 Mt. Turkey decreased slightly to 37.3 but we expect to generate positive gains in commercial strategy of our solutionMt. Egypt, Morocco and Algeria increased 2019, with a strong focus on a turnaround oriented business in South America, steel production by 9.3% to 9.8 Mt2 . of this area. with a focus on supporting the recovery of the steel industry. Steel production in the CIS remained 2018 saw average growth in steel largely flat; +0.3% to 101.3 Mt. production, given the maturity of the Ukraine production decreased by 1.1% market, with an increase of 1.3% in Latin to 21.1 Mt, continuing to be impacted by America to reach 44.3 Mt. Brazil showed political instability and resultant lower a steady pace in its economic recovery business activity. with steel production reaching 34.7 Mt in 2018 (+1.1% year-on-year). The domestic The impact of lower steel prices and apparent consumption of steel products higher iron ore production costs at the start in Brazil was 20.6 Mt, an increase of of 2019 is already being noted. There is an 7.3% over the previous year. Despite the increased risk to steel producers in these positive performance of the Brazilian regions on the basis of a growing preference steel industry in 2018, domestic sales for steel imports from Russia, Ukraine and and apparent consumption still remain China as opposed to utilising local steel below the levels reached in 2013. Factors production. It is specifically likely that affecting steel consumption in South regional EAF plants may suffer. America include political uncertainty latent in Brazil and Colombia due to the electoral cycle, the financial crisis in Argentina and the continuing uncertainty in Venezuela regarding the resumption of steel production. 1 Brazil Steel Institute 2 According to CRU statistics 29 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Operational review continued Industrial with a revenue of €877.1 million (2017: €658 million). Gross profit for the Industrial Division was €214.5 million, representing Industrial Division revenue2 Division a gross margin of 24.5% (2017: 22.5%1). Cement/Lime Cement/Lime in 2018 amounted to €877m €321.3 million, driven by price increases and portfolio optimisation. This segment constituted 37% of Industrial Division revenue in 2018 and 10% of overall 2018 Industrial revenue Group revenue. The Company saw a successful turnaround of its Cement/Lime business during the €215m Year, with positive effects from the renegotiation of contract terms being noted Magnesite and dolomite raw material availability remained tight in 2018, with Cement/Lime 37% 2018 Industrial gross profit Chinese DBM maintaining high price levels. Non-ferrous metals 25% In H1, cement continued to be impacted by long-term contracts and a very high Other process industries 39% order level from 2017. Long lead times, The Industrial Division provides refractory mainly in Europe, also led to delayed solutions for the cement, lime, non-ferrous margin improvements. However, the metals and glass industries as well as the Company took positive actions to The market demand for lime has been very EEC sectors. mitigate these issues, shortening the stable. However, as a result of fewer projects impact of price increases by reducing in vertical shaft kilns one of our key market Refractory products for the cement contracts and price validity, and areas we saw lower volume and revenue industries tend to be consumables, with a concentrating on the most profitable compared to 2017. Nevertheless, we note an replacement period of up to a year. Similar business areas. From H2 onwards, encouraging projects pipeline and positive to those used in the steel industry, they are price increases were then evident in current trend in early 2019. An additional considered as maintenance investment, improving margins. focus on rotary kilns is also expected to lead with demand being correlated to output. to market growth, mainly in North America. 2018 was a year of steady refractory In the non-ferrous metals, lime, glass as market growth and relative stability for After the turnaround seen in this business well as the EEC industries, the service life cement and lime from a global market in 2018, further upside is anticipated in 2019 of refractory products is generally longer. perspective, with some significant driven by our ability to fully capture the Refractory investment in these industries is variances on a regional basis. China, the positive effects of our backward integration. therefore more project-oriented and subject world’s largest cement producer, continued to longer replacement cycles, leading to its focus on environmental improvements Non-ferrous metals more volatile demand than that seen in and consequently on reducing mainly Revenue contribution from the non-ferrous the steel and cement/lime industries. outdated cement capacities. Other metals business represented 7% of countries, such as Brazil and those in the the Group’s overall revenue in 2018 With GDP growth in 2018 of 3.7% (of which near Middle East, can be characterised by and 25% of the Industrial Division, with c. 3% is relevant to the business), the Group their challenging economic environments, strong revenue of €217.2 million in 2018, was able to derive benefit from a healthy whereas Eastern Europe, Central Asia and outpacing the market, which itself retained overall industrial demand environment. North America all benefited from significant positive dynamics. The business unit Sales to the Industrial Division accounted increases in demand. performed well during the Year and saw for 28% of total Group revenue (2017: 26%), the benefit of a number of projects with long-standing customers. 1 Calculated on a statutory basis 2 Percentages equal over 100% due to rounding 30 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 After a strong year in 2017, the upwards price trend of LME-listed base metals continued at the start of 2018. Following the implementation of tariffs and the commencement of international trade disputes, prices then decreased slightly with the change in the macro-economic environment, and the majority closed 2018 down on the previous year. The business was predominantly driven by major repairs and standard business with existing customers. We saw strong orders from certain customers with an example being greater orders than expected from Kazakhstan’s ferro alloy industry, which positively impacted our results. The positive momentum seen in 2018 is expected to continue in 2019 and, looking forward, we see significant opportunities for the non-ferrous metals business as a result of the evolution of e-mobility technology. With the growth of e-vehicles, the increasing requirement for batteries and also battery charging infrastructure, the demand for metals used in this sphere is likely to increase. The increasing demand for copper in the e-mobility sector is likely play a crucial role for new copper capacities in coming years, on the basis it is needed in batteries as well as engines and wiring for In the first complete business year since e-vehicles and charging infrastructure. selling the non-profitable fused cast Nickel, platinum and palladium are also product line, we were able to compensate increasingly used in this area. Palladium for the loss of fused cast revenue by The Group derived benefit (the metal used in catalysts of gasoline engines) prices gained over 18% in 2018. focusing on the bonded product portfolio. Supported by new strategic measures and from a healthy overall alongside a robust pricing strategy the industrial demand Other process industries Other process industries mainly comprises glass business unit contributed strongly to the overall business plan, and provided environment and glass, EEC and mineral industries. With significant improvements to margins. recorded industrial revenue of €338.6 million in 2018, this segment accounted for 39% of the In the EEC sector, revenue, shipments revenues of €877 million. Industrial Division sales and 11% of the and profitability increased in 2018, Company’s overall revenue. albeit demand for most applications was relatively flat year-on-year, driven Opportunities in 2019 include the The global demand of refractories for the by volatile oil markets. 2018 saw strong further broadening of the product glass industry was high in 2018, enabling demand in the pelletising industry, mainly portfolio, especially with regards to us to fully utilise the production capacities in the Middle East, as well as an increase in non-basic products for glass furnaces. at all of our plants. Customer investments business with our special waste customers The EEC market saw some positive were strong and, based on our backwardly worldwide. European and CIS demand impetus at the end of 2018, which is integrated portfolio for basic refractories, was strong throughout 2018. As a result expected to continue in 2019. we were able to support this trend. Strong of the challenging oil and gas environment performance was recorded in this section in Canada in 2018, in which a large of the business, mainly driven by pricing. proportion of investment projects were The Company recorded growth which halted, this market saw subdued demand outpaced that of the market. during the Year. 31 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Operational review continued Growth The Group has a strong local presence in India, with a leading market share, solid Consolidating and strengthening our markets: India revenue streams and continuous growth. We operate through two production Indian presence facilities and two sales offices and have long-standing relationships with By maximising our operational and SCM blue chip customers. excellence, we are working to optimise €251m our production footprint in India. In 2018, 2018 has seen the Indian steel market we commenced the reorganisation of our becoming the second largest in the world, structure to combine three separate legal further reinforcing the necessity for our entities, all with specific areas of focus and 2018 India revenue1 continued emphasis on this geography. expertise, thereby enhancing the business The Indian Steel Ministry has set a 300 Mt and operational synergies via the pooling of per annum steel capacity target by the management expertise, technologies and end of 2030 which underpins the future other resources between the businesses. of this industry. Orient Refractory Limited previously Revenue for 2018 amounted to concentrated on special refractory €251.5 million1. In spite of the lack of products (such as flow control solutions) greenfield steel manufacturing projects and mainly sold to small steel manufacturing during the Year, the Group’s Indian companies, whereas RHI India P Ltd dealt in business continued to grow ahead of basic refractories and lining business and steel market growth. supplied to large steel manufacturers, and lastly RHI Clasil P Ltd concentrated on In order to address increased customer non-basic refractories (alumina bricks). demand, the Company has aligned its Indian business units to meet requirements. The combined business, which is The Group has also increased capacity underpinned by the expertise and at its operations in certain areas to experience of RHI Magnesita, creates a address demand. As a result of substantial larger asset base in India, and importantly restructuring and consolidation in the provides customers with one single Indian steel industry, demand for higher refractories solutions platform. This has performance and better quality solutions made the business more relevant and better has increased a development which aligned with the larger steel manufacturers. corresponds well to our strengths as a Group and enables us to take advantage of The Indian steel industry is undergoing this position, whilst also working to further consolidation, which is expected to strengthen our position in the market in terms underpin its strength but also to provide a of cost competitive refractory solutions. higher market share for industry leaders. As a combined group in India, RHI Magnesita’s India’s steel production and demand business here will be in a strong position to is expected to increase by 5% and 7% benefit from this consolidation on the basis respectively in 2019, backed by growth of the breadth of the combined organisation in investment in infrastructure and as well as its long-standing relationships construction projects, complemented by with these market-leading customers. strong automotive demand. At present, the Indian steel industry is running at 78% utilisation rate (current capacity 130 Mt per annum). The demand outlook for next three to five years is likely to mirror the current GDP growth rate of 7% (which should enable India to overtake the UK in becoming the world’s fifth largest economy). Ahead of the 2019 general election it is expected that Government of 1 Includes €6.2 million revenue from India may take measures to boost overall Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan sentiment in the upcoming fiscal budget. Sources: World Steel Association, JPC/Centrum Research 32 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Growth Chizhou our Successful projects carried out in 2018 included: strategy in action markets: China ¥¥ The ramp up of the Group’s brick plant in Chizhou, which is being conducted in a two phased process. Phase one is on Our investment in the Chizhou mining and brick plant assets in 2018 marked another important strategic step towards track, with trial production currently improving our competitiveness and €166m underway and our first sales coming supply security in the medium term. onto the market in early 2019; By increasing our level of raw material ¥¥ Silo project: This project offers greater integration, we can improve our unique flexibility in the production of carbon position in the industry and offer our 2018 China revenue 1 bonded magnesia bricks for the domestic customers in Asia shorter lead times. market (previously production from the We will also have additional dolomitecarbon bonded magnesia bricks site was based capacity for customers in North In order to develop and advance our predominantly exported). The Group America, Europe and Asia. position in the key growth market of now has three sites in Dalian. China, we implemented a new business ¥¥ ISO extension at Dalian sites: The The Chizhou site includes an extensive plan and built up a stronger, locally-focused Company is developing technology in dolomite mine and raw material management team as part of a ‘China for the sphere of ISO bricks to enable it to production site, as well as facilities for China’ strategy developed in 2018. achieve higher growth than the market. high-quality dolomite-based finished We have been able to grow our market We are investing in additional capacity products. After the completion of the presence here as a result of the newly at the ISO site to enable shipping to the investment towards the end of 2019, developed team, our tailor-made products domestic market. the Company will be able to offer a for China, increased capacities, enhanced fully backward-integrated dolomite inventory management abilities and an Given our local expertise in China, we are source in each of our key global regions. overall strong local focus on this geography. able to adapt and strengthen our business Demonstrating our focus in 2018, revenue in to overcome market challenges and adapt The project is being conducted in a two China amounted to €165.8 million1 in 2018. to trends. As an example of this, we have phased process. Phase one is on track, reorganised and widened the breadth of with trial production currently underway Cognisant of the unique nature of the the Chinese steel department. Against and our first sales coming onto the market Chinese market, our new R&D team the backdrop of a challenging automotive in early 2019. has developed specific, strategic and industry, we still see good opportunities in environmentally friendly products in the steel sector. In addition to the increasing cooperation with key customers. demand for SUV and MPVs (which consume The team also collaborates with local more steel in their production), we are also universities and organisations. In addition seeing strong demand for new energy to this, we have carried out significant vehicles (“NEV”), with the overall sales of efforts to increase our brand awareness NEV increasing 68% year-on-year for the in China and have implemented the January to November period. Group’s first Virtual Reality (“VR”) project here. This involved developing a VR video We also see significant opportunities of our fired magnesia brick operation in with the shift to EAF steel plants and Dalian to demonstrate this modern and the consequent refractory demand. high-tech manufacturing site to our Automation is a key focus in the Chinese customers around the globe. It is an market and we are therefore concentrating effective way of providing them with an on creating solutions which will enable our overview of the operation, demonstrating customers to increase the quality of their the Group’s technology leadership as products, whilst lowering energy and well as enhancing the awareness of our production costs. brand worldwide. With the increasingly strict environmental policy in China, recycling will play a key role in our strategy for 2019 and, benefitting from our local expertise and market access, we are targeting our R&D work on creating ‘China for China’ products with increased 1 Includes €0.1 million revenue from use of SRM. Hong Kong and Macau 33 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Key The Board and Management have identified the following indicators performance which it believes to reflect the financial and non-financial indicators performance of the business. Read more in our Financial review  on pages 36 to 41 Revenue growth Adjusted EBITA margin 2018 21% 2018 13.9% 2017 11%¹ 2017 9.3%² KPI relevance KPI relevance This demonstrates the organic growth of the business. By Margin expansion provides a measure of profitability and demonstrates increasing our global refractory market share, continually enhancing the successful execution of the integration and the Company’s our product and service offering, the Company is focused on achieving corporate strategy. Synergy targets, which impact EBITA margin revenue growth and aims to outperform the refractories market on an performance, are included in Directors’ remuneration. annual basis. How it is measured How it is measured Year-on-year percentage improvement; based on pro-forma revenue Adjusted EBITA divided by revenue. at a constant currency. 2018 performance 2018 performance Revenue for 2018 amounted to €3,081 million, 21% higher than Based on an adjusted EBITA of €428.1 million, the 460bps last year’s pro-forma revenue at constant currency. The significant improvement in margin was predominantly driven by the significant growth in revenue is underpinned by strong growth in the Group’s increase in revenue growth, higher efficiency in operations (leading Steel and Industrial Division’s results, as well as the favourable to better gross margins), the implementation of synergy benefits and market environment. also due to the high fixed cost dilution in SG&A. Safety: LTIF R&D & Technical Marketing spend 2018 0.4 2018 €63m 2017 1.1 2017 n/a KPI relevance KPI relevance Safety is paramount to the successful running of our business and This demonstrates our commitment to driving innovation and to being therefore sits at the core of everything we do. LTIF is the main safety the leading provider of services and solutions within the refractories KPI we use to measure the safety performance of the Company. industries. Excellence in R&D and strong Technical Marketing Directors’ remuneration is directly linked to safety objectives. capabilities are key contributors to our competitiveness. The Company aims to invest 2.2% per annum of revenue in R&D and Technical Marketing going forward. How it is measured How it is measured The number of accidents resulting in lost time of more than eight Annual spend on research and development, before subsidies and hours per 200,000 working hours, determined on a monthly basis. including opex and capex. 2018 performance 2018 performance LTIF reached an all-time low of 0.4 in 2018, with improvements in €63 million was committed to R&D and Technical Marketing in 2018, all regions. This represents a 60% reduction compared to 2017, equating to 2% of revenues, marginally lower than the target as a far exceeding our 20% target. result of foreign exchange movements and the merger combination process (including restructuring of departments). Read more about Safety on pages 54 to 55 Read more about Innovation on pages 22 to 25 34 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 These KPIs, which relate to the four underlying Link to strategy strategic pillars of the Group, as demonstrated in the key, are monitored and link to the Company’s risk management process. Some of the KPIs are also used as measures for shortand long-term incentives. The Group People Business model Markets Competitiveness intends to report on Economic Profit as a KPI from 2019 to measure the creation of longterm value. The Company will also look to further develop reporting of non-financial 1 Compared with the adjusted pro-forma revenue of €2,409 million in 2016 KPIs in 2019. 2 On an adjusted, pro-forma, constant currency basis Read more about our Alternative Performance  Measures on our website www.rhimagnesita.com Adjusted EPS Leverage   2018 €5.31 2018 1.2x 2017 n/a 2017 1.9x KPI relevance KPI relevance Reflecting the income statement in a clear way and taking the A suitable leverage provides the business with headroom for equity structure into account, the Board believes adjusted EPS to compelling investment opportunities but also enables distribution be one of the indicators which demonstrate value being created to shareholders. Directors’ remuneration is directly linked to free for its shareholders. cash flow generation, which impacts Group leverage. The Board has defined a long-term leverage target range of 0.5 to 1.5x across the cycle. How it is measured How it is measured Earnings per share, excluding items such as FX effect, merger-related Net debt to adjusted EBITDA. costs, re-financing costs and other financial income and expenses. 2018 performance 2018 performance Adjusted EPS of €5.31 reflected solid performance of the business Net debt at Year-end amounted to €638.9 million and the as well as the achievement of synergies. A comparable adjusted Company’s leverage was 0.7x lower than in 2017 as a result of figure is not available for 2017. the improved cash generation in 2018. Voluntary employee turnover  Gender diversity in leadership  2018 12.5% 2018 12% 2017 n/a 2017 8% KPI relevance KPI relevance Voluntary employee turnover is considered to be one way of Diversity is important in terms of maintaining the Group’s measuring the Group’s success in retaining its people. competitiveness and economic success and gender diversity is a key component of this. The Company has a target to increase women on our Board and in senior leadership to 33%. How it is measured How it is measured The percentage of employees who voluntarily left the Company Number of women as a percentage of all those in leadership positions during the Year and were replaced by new employees. (CEO, EMT and EMT direct reports). 2018 performance 2018 performance Voluntary employee turnover of 12.5% for 2018 was high as a result of Female representation at leadership level was greatly enhanced in the integration following the merger in 2017. 2018, increasing to 12% and demonstrating our focus on this area. Diversity at Board level was also significantly improved, with the Read more about our People on pages 54 to 57 nomination of two new female Non-Executive Directors to the Board. Read more about Diversity on pages 56 to 57 35 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Financial review Reporting approach In addition to those figures reported under IFRS, RHI Magnesita uses a number of alternative performance measures (“APMs”), which reflect the way in which Management assesses the underlying performance of the business. The Group’s results are presented on an “adjusted” and “pro-forma” basis, using APMs which are not defined or specified under the requirements of IFRS, but are derived from the IFRS financial statements. The APMs are used to improve the comparability of information between reporting periods and to meet investors’ requirements for further clarity and transparency of the Group’s underlying financial performance. EDUARDO GOTILLA The APMs are also used internally in ACTING CHIEF the management of our business FINANCIAL OFFICER performance, budgeting and forecasting. A bridge table is presented on page 38 to show reconciliation of certain metrics in order to demonstrate the underlying performance of the business. Read more about our APMs  on Page 203 The reported statutory results for 2017 presented the consolidation of ten months of results for RHI and two months of results for RHI Magnesita. As such, in an effort to deliver comparable information in 2017, the Directors considered it appropriate to provide and analyse adjusted pro-forma results for the combined Group for 2017 and 2016, taking into account a supposed full 12 months contribution from both 2018 has seen strong financial companies for the entire period. See page 19 of the 2017 Annual Report & Accounts performance, benefitting from the for a detailed table on the reconciliation success of the integration process between 2017 report results and the adjusted pro-forma numbers. This and the underlying strength of approach is considered to also be relevant the markets in which we operate, in 2018, with the 2017 pro-forma numbers being the most comparable to the actual offset to an extent by some 2018 numbers. operational underperformance All references to comparative 2017 in H2. numbers in this review are to adjusted pro-forma figures at constant currency, unless stated otherwise. Figures presented at constant currency represent 2017 pro-forma amounts retranslated to average 2018 exchange rates. 36 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Revenue SG&A Revenue split by industry1 Revenue for 2018 amounted to Total selling general and administrative €3,081 million, 21% higher than 2017. expenses stood at €337 million The significant growth in revenue is (2017: €350 million), representing underpinned by strong growth in both 11.0% of revenue in 2018 (2017: 13.7%). the Group’s Steel and Industrial Division The implementation of the announced results, as well as the favourable market synergies in SG&A for 2018 and the conditions, with positive dynamics in higher fixed cost dilution in light of higher customer industries as well as the raw revenues for the Year also contributed to material pricing environment. the overall performance. In 2019 we are targeting incremental synergies of Against this backdrop, with global steel €20 million, bringing the annualised total production growing 4.6% in 2018, the to €90 million, and remain firmly on track Group’s Steel Division revenue increased to deliver our €110 million synergy target. by 15% to €2,204 million, (2017 2: Importantly, whilst progress has been €1,913 million). Given the Company’s made throughout the Year in our efforts global position, with presence in all major to optimise the Company’s supply chain, refractory markets, the Industrial Division governance, controls and compliance Steel 72% benefited from the positive global GDP systems and to further develop the use growth of 3.7% and was able to drive organic of automation and digitalisation, further Industrial 28% growth, increasing revenue by 33% in 2018, investments are required in order to build Cement/Lime 37% to €877 million (20172: €658 million.) the foundations that will support the Other process industries 39% Group’s ongoing strategic development. Non-ferrous metals 25% Continued government controls in China have led to a significant reduction in raw Adjusted EBITA material production output, thereby Adjusted EBITA for the Year was increasing market prices. Following the €428 million, 81% above 2017 adjusted significant price increases in H2 2017, EBITA (€236 million). Adjusted EBITA Revenue by geography raw materials remained stable throughout margin for the Year was 13.9%, 460 bps 2018 and are expected to retain these new higher than 2017, driven by significant levels in 2019. The Group is able to derive revenue growth, greater operating benefit from this structurally altered efficiencies in both CoGS and SG&A, environment given its level of backward including the synergy benefits of €70 integration, both in terms of cost control million brought about by the continued and customer supply security. successful integration of the business and the benefits of our own raw material Gross profit supply, both from a cost control and The Company reported gross profit of customer supply security perspective. €737 million in 2018 (2017: €561 million), as a result of elevated selling prices, a high degree of vertical integration and synergies, partially offset by operational issues at certain plants and some supply chain challenges in H2 2018 (which will be an important focus in 2019). This Europe 29% represented a gross profit margin of 23.9%, 190 bps higher than in the previous year. North America 22% On a divisional level, gross profit to steel Asia Pacific 20% applications reached €522 million, South America 15% with 23.7% gross margin (2017: 23.1%3). MEA – CIS 14% Gross profit for the Industrial Division was €215 million, representing a gross margin of 24.5% (2017: 22.5%3). 1 Percentages equal over 100% due to rounding 2 Adjusted pro-forma 3 Based on 2017 reported figures 37 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Financial review continued Earnings per share This table provides a reconciliation from reported to adjusted figures and excludes the impact of foreign exchange effects, one-off non-cash expenses related to the refinancing of the legacy debt, and other non-recurring financial income and expenses and amortisation. Items excluded 2018 from underlying 2018 (€m) reported performance adjusted EBITA 427.2 0.9 428.1 Amortisation (28.6) 28.6 Net financial expenses (162.7) 76.6 (86.1) Share of profit in joint ventures 10.1 10.1 Profit before tax 246.0 352.2 Income tax (23.9%) (58.9) (25.4) (84.3) Profit after tax 187.1 267.9 Profit attributable to shareholders 158.1 238.9 Shares outstanding 44.9 44.9 Earnings per share €3.52 €5.31 €283m Net financial expenses Total net interest expenses for 2018 Net financial expenses in 2018 amounted to amounted to €39 million and €43 million €163 million (2017: €82 million). This was was recognised in other net financial mainly due to foreign exchange and expenses, which were predominantly 2018 adjusted profit after tax derivative variances, the majority of which non-cash in light of the refinancing were non-cash, amounting to €81 million. completed in August and other non-cash These variances stem predominantly from: adjustments related to the provision for the €5.31 unfavourable contract required to satisfy the ¥¥ the mark-to-market of intercompany EU remedies. The refinancing of the legacy loans with our Argentine subsidiaries debt, concluded on August 2018, has 2018 adjusted EPS (€25 million), as the Peso devalued generated a reduction of approximately c. 50% against the USD during the Year; €24 million in the Company’s annualised net interest expense. ¥¥ as a result of the Group’s hedging policy, which aims to match the currency Taxation exposure of our net debt to that of Tax efficiencies have been achieved as a the EBITDA, the Group has incurred result of the Group’s integration and by the €19.6 million in derivative losses in 2018; overall Group’s performance, in particular ¥¥ the mark-to-market of the foreign of our mining operations in Brazil, thereby currency debt owed by Magnesita lowering the Company’s effective tax rate Refratários (€37 million), a Brazilian for the Year to 23.9%. RHI Magnesita’s Real reporting entity, which have now tax rate is sensitive to changes in the been effectively all refinanced; and geographical dispersion of our worldwide profit or losses and tax regulations in each ¥¥ c. €6 million FX gain on cash in jurisdiction. Other key factors affecting the foreign currencies held by Magnesita sustainability of the Group’s effective tax Brazilian entities. rate are set out in note 44 to the financial statements, which provides additional information on the Group’s tax rate. 38 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Purchasing Price Allocation (“PPA”) Cash outflow from financing activities Working capital As announced on the Q3 trading update, amounted to €245 million in 2018 as Working capital intensity in 2018 saw the Group completed the PPA in relation the Group focused on improving the debt significant improvements when compared to the merger between RHI and Magnesita. amortisation profile and reducing recurring to 2017 pro-forma figures, both in absolute The process reviewed the fair value of interest expense payments. As part of the terms and as a percentage of revenue. Cash fixed and intangible assets as a result of previously announced debt restructuring flow generation from working capital in 2018 the merger, causing depreciation and programme to substitute the legacy debt, amounted to €48.7 million, driven primarily amortisation to increase by €37 million prepayments of the perpetual bond and by improvements on accounts payable and and €11 million respectively in 2018. certain short-term facilities were made accounts receivable as a consequence of during the Year, generating significant improving our terms with both clients and Profit after tax and earnings per share interest expense savings. As a result, suppliers and factoring initiatives. The On a reported basis, the Company recorded the Company was able to negotiate overall positive impact on the balance a net profit of €187 million and earnings more flexible covenants and term out sheet was partially offset by the higher per share (“EPS”) of €3.52 per share in its debt amortisation schedule, such that inventory consumption in 2018, as a result 2018 (2017: €10.8 million net loss and more than 70% of the Group’s maturities of increased sales volumes and higher €0.43 loss per share respectively). are due on or after 2022. raw material costs. Working capital as an absolute value stood at €511 million at the Adjusted earnings per share for 2018 were Operating and free cash flow end of 2018. As a percentage of revenue, it €5.31, which is stated after excluding the The below table demonstrates the was 15.4% at Year end (calculated using last following items, which predominantly underlying operating and free cash flow three months annualised revenue), 680bps relate to the acquisition of Magnesita SA generation of the business. lower than the previous year (22.2%2). and related refinancing and foreign exchange effects: 2018 Net debt €m Net debt at Year-end amounted ¥¥ Other income and expenses Adjusted EBITA 428.1 to €639 million, comprising total debt of (€0.9 million); €1,166 million, cash and cash equivalents Working capital 48.7 ¥¥ Amortisation (€28.6 million); and of €491 million and marketable securities Changes in other assets/liabilities (40.9) of €36 million. This compared to net debt ¥¥ Net financial expenses (€76.6 million): Capex (122.6) of €751 million in 2017. In line with the Impact of foreign exchange movements Company’s commitment to deleverage, on certain of the Group’s non-Euro Depreciation 124.8 net debt/EBITDA stood at 1.2x, 0.7x lower denominated debt balance of Operating free cash flow 1 438.2 than in 2017 1 as result of the improved €81 million, as detailed in the “Net Cash Tax (67.9) cash generation in 2018, despite the Financial Expenses” section above, outflows related to our restructuring excluding the €19.6 million in derivative Net interest expense (62.8) costs and the payout to Magnesita’s losses; One-off non-cash expenses Restructuring and transaction costs (52.2) minority shareholders. See further related to the refinancing of the legacy Dividend payout (34.7) detail on ongoing leverage target range debt (€10.6 million); Other nonon page 40. recurring financial income and expenses Free cash flow 220.5 (€4.4 million). Capital expenditure These are represented in the table on Cash flow from investing activities page 38. registered an outflow of €101 million and capital expenditure for 2018 stood Cash flow at €123 million (2017: €72 million). Cash flow from operations amounted to The multiple of capital expenditure to €462 million in 2018 (2017: €255 million), depreciation was 0.98x (2017: 1.09x) in with the 81% increase being driven by the line with RHI Magnesita’s capital allocation strong operating performance of the Group policy and investment profile. Maintenance as well as efficiencies in working capital capex is guided at around €110 million (with a 670bps year-on-year improvement in 2019 and beyond. The Group will in working capital intensity) as well as an continue to invest in its strategic priorities overall higher profit for the Year. aligned with its newly defined capital allocation policy. 1 Operating free cash flow is presented to reflect net cash inflow from operating activities before certain items such as restructuring costs. See APMs for further detail 2 Based on 2017 adjusted pro-forma last six months annualised revenue 39 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Financial review continued As a result of our ongoing Future growth plans Returns to shareholders Through the cycle, the Group expects Underpinned by the strong performance focus on cash generation, organic growth to exceed the broader of the business and given its strong annual the business has strongly refractories industry. In the short term this cash generation, the Board has considered expectation is supported by further market the long-term dividend policy in the context de-levered through the share gains, the continued investment in of its capital allocation strategy. Year providing a solid R&D and the opportunities in the growth markets of China and India. In the medium For 2018, the Board has recommended financial position from to long term, this expectation will also be a final dividend of €1.50 per share for which to commence a driven by new business models and the full financial year, equating to an solutions. We anticipate that this nominal increase of 100% over the previous year. progressive dividend organic growth should average 1-3% per This represents a dividend cover of policy. year through the cycle. 3.5x adjusted earnings per share. Alongside the organic growth opportunities, Going forward, the Board’s dividend policy there will be further growth from will be to progressively increase ordinary acquisitions. Over time, we expect dividends and to target a dividend cover acquisitions to deliver average growth of less than 3.0x adjusted earnings over at levels similar to the organic growth. the medium term. Dividends will be paid Integrated Tender Offer on a semi-annual basis with one third of As previously announced, RHI Magnesita Capital allocation policy the prior year’s full year dividend being launched an Integrated Tender Offer (“ITO“) Since the merger, RHI Magnesita has made paid at the interim. to the minority shareholders of Magnesita good progress in terms of integration and in November 2018. At the end of the first in the execution of its corporate strategy as close of the ITO on 10 December 2018 well as delivering on the targeted synergies. RHI Magnesita owned 85.2% of Magnesita This has led to leverage continuing to and had issued a total of 3,518,008 reduce significantly, reaching 1.2x net new RHI Magnesita shares, along with debt to adjusted EBITDA at Year-end. €85.2 million of cash consideration. As at 3.5x the final close of the ITO, on 10 March 2019, The Board’s capital allocation objective RHI Magnesita owned 97.5% of Magnesita remains to support the long-term Group and had issued a total of 4,657,408 new strategy, providing flexibility for both RHI Magnesita shares, along with a total organic and inorganic investment €115.4 million of cash consideration. opportunities and increasing shareholder dividend cover of returns over time. These opportunities Successful delivery of synergies will be considered against a framework of proposed dividend The integration of the two companies strategic fit, risk profile and rates of return, 1.2x led to significant cost saving synergies in the context of acquisitions synergy via procurement and supply chain potential and balance sheet strength. management as well as SG&A efficiencies; all of which exceeded initial expectations. In Going forward, the Group intends to August 2018, the Company announced an target leverage of between 0.5x and net debt to adjusted EBITDA increased synergy target of €110 million 1.5x net debt to adjusted EBITDA. Should (from €70 million) to be realised by 2020 a highly attractive acquisition opportunity and synergy benefits of at least €60 million present itself, the Group will consider in 2018. In 2018, synergies of €70 million exceeding 1.5x leverage for larger were achieved. acquisitions, but with the intention to de-lever quickly and back to the target leverage range within 24 months. If the Group leverage is consistently below 0.5x the Group will consider additional shareholder returns, such as share buybacks and special dividends, taking into account the opportunities available to the Group. 40 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Reconciliation of pro-forma and reported results 2017 adjusted pro-forma results reconciliation This table shows the impact of Purchasing Price Allocation (“PPA”) and other adjustments on the adjusted pro-forma results, as they were presented in the 2017 Annual Report (i.e. taking into account a supposed full 12 months contribution from both companies), as well as retranslating to average 2018 exchange rates (2017 constant currency pro-forma). 2017 2017 2017 constant adjusted PPA P&L adjusted currency pro-forma1 adjustment reclassifications2 pro-forma3 pro-forma 2018 Variance Revenue 2,677.2 4.0 2,681.2 2,549.6 3,081.4 21% COGS (1,999.3) (49.5) (31.4) (2,080.3) (1,989.1) (2,344.5) 18% Gross profit 677.9 (49.5) (27.4) 600.9 560.5 736.9 31% SG&A (399.8) 2.7 27.4 (369.6) (350.4) (337.3) (4%) Other income and expenses (0.0) 14.2 (0.1) 14.1 14.2 (0.9) (106%) EBIT 278.1 (32.6) (0.0) 245.5 224.2 398.6 78% Amortisation (26.0) (3.1) 0.8 (28.3) (25.9) (28.6) 11% EBITA 304.1 (29.6) (0.8) 273.7 250.1 427.2 71% Adjusted EBITA 304.1 (43.8) (0.7) 259.6 235.9 428.1 81% Depreciation (84.7) (41.1) (125.8) (115.1) (124.8) 8% EBITDA 388.8 11.5 400.3 365.3 552.1 51% Adjusted EBITDA 388.8 (2.7) 0.1 386.2 351.1 553.0 58% 2017 reported results reconciliation This table shows the impact of PPA and other adjustments on the reported 2017 results. 2017 2017 PPA P&L Reported after Reported1 adjustment reclassifications2 adjustments3 Revenue 1,946.1 4.0 1,950.1 COGS (1,485.6) (30.5) (27.3) (1,543.4) Gross profit 460.5 (30.5) (23.3) 406.7 SG&A (292.5) 0.5 47.7 (244.3) Other income and expenses (124.9) 1.6 26.4 (96.9) EBIT 43.1 (28.4) 50.8 65.5 Amortisation (13.6) 0.2 (13.4) EBITA 56.7 (28.4) 50.6 78.9 Adjusted EBITA 181.6 (30.0) 24.2 175.8 Depreciation (59.9) (6.3) (66.2) EBITDA 116.6 (22.1) 50.6 145.1 Adjusted EBITDA 241.5 (23.7) 24.2 242.0 1 As reported in the 2017 Annual Report 2 P&L reclassification includes of reclassification of bad debt, commissions, FX gains and losses and interest expenses between the P&L line items 3 Including PPA and other reclassifications 41 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Risks, viability & internal controls The Group has Risks For this purpose, the impacts of risks are considered before and after the developed a formal Risk Risk management framework implementation of those mitigation measures. Management framework This framework is based on an explicit discussion about the nature and extent Our principal risks with the objective of of the risks acceptable to the Group (“risk appetite”) and it relies on a formally The risks identified in the following are systematically identifying, defined identification and assessment those the Board considers to be principal to the business and which may have a assessing and controlling process. The risk appetite and policy is defined by the Board. Due to the farsignificant impact on the results of the Group and on its ability to achieve its uncertainties and risks reaching implications of this risk appetite on behaviours and decision-making, it has strategic objectives. They may occur related to existing been discussed thoroughly by management independently from each other or in combination. In cases where they occur in and designed carefully. Communication operations and future of the risk appetite and risk management combination their impact may be reinforced. This is not an exhaustive list of risks faced development areas. framework at all levels of the organisation is considered important. The next steps for the by the Company but encompasses those considered to be most material. further development of the risk framework, including the cascading of the approved Given 2018 was the first full financial Group risk chart risk policy throughout the organisation, year following the merger, it has been have been agreed by the Board. Impact considered more appropriate to report on minor low moderate high critical risk change throughout the Year in 2019. Development of the risk identification However, the principal risks were reviewed very likely and assessment process during the Year and amended to reflect the The roll-out of the bottom-up risks current situation, with risks related to the likely identification and assessment process 3 merger having been removed and the was completed in 2018. All functional addition of significant changes in the Likelihood 1 and operational managers involved in this possible 8 competitive environment or speed of 4 5 process received training on the structures disruptive innovation, inability to execute and methods within the Group’s risk a key strategic initiative or necessary unlikely management process, as well as on the adjustments to core operations and usage of the reporting software. 6 7 cyber and Information Security risk. rare 2 In addition to this bottom-up process aimed A risk appetite rating has been applied to at ensuring that all material operational Velocity: each risk, ranking from averse to minimal, risk issues are adequately monitored and Rapid within 3 months cautious and flexible. escalated, strategic risks were discussed Moderate within 12 months with senior executives in the course of the Slow > 12 months We assess our principal risks in terms of strategy definition and mid-term planning their potential impact on our ability to process. The further integration of risk deliver our strategic objectives, their management processes in the existing likelihood to occur and their potential Key to principal risks governance structures have been decided. velocity. Those risks and their assessments 1  Macroeconomic environment and are reviewed regularly by the Board. condition of customer industries In order to further embed risk considerations 2 Regulatory and compliance risks into decision-making, the Risk Management 3  Fluctuations in exchange rates and function was integrated with the Investment Planning function at the beginning of 2019. Management energy prices, increasing volatility of raw material prices “In-Control” Statement 4  Significant changes in the competitive Risk mitigation environment or speed of disruptive All risks considered to be unacceptable The Board and EMT are responsible for innovation (new) on account of their nature or their ensuring the Company has adequate 5  Inability to execute a key strategic potential financial or qualitative impacts risk management and internal control initiative or necessary adjustments to core operations (new) are mitigated by appropriate strategies. systems in place. 6  Business interruption and supply The implementation and effectiveness chain disruption of the defined mitigation measures are The core design of the internal control 7 Environment, Health & Safety risks reviewed continuously and additional systems is based on extensive work 8 Cyber and information security risk (new) actions are defined if necessary. conducted as part of the merger activity. 42 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 During 2017, the risk management and internal control systems of both RHI and Viability statement Magnesita were reviewed by the EMT and independently by third-party experts. The Directors have assessed the ¥¥ Loss of market share The respective reports, issued in October viability of the Group over a three year ¥¥ Failure to implement a key 2017, indicated no material deficiencies and period to December 2021, the period strategic initiative were reviewed by and extensively discussed covered by the latest business plan, with the Board. These reports continue ¥¥ Execution risk in regard to profitability taking account of the Group’s current to act as a guide for the evolution and and capital allocation position, individual asset performance strengthening of internal controls to reflect forecasts and the potential impact ¥¥ Financing risk loss of ability to factor the integrated Company. The key internal of the principal risks disclosed on and execute purchasing programme control measures during 2018 included pages 45 to 47. reviews of financial performance and key The overlay of losing market share control weakness at each Board meeting, The business plan considers combined with significant price pressure monthly and quarterly EMT review and the Group’s cash flow, capital on Basic products has been identified as challenge of operational financial commitments, financial resources, the most severe. The results of this overlay performance, zero-based business debt covenants and other key financial showed increasing leverage and additional planning process, establishing enhanced risks. It is based on the 2019 Budget and cash demand. The Board believes that capabilities within the Group Finance projections for the following years. The by implementing capex and opex saving function, aligning the financial reporting growth assumptions underlying the programmes as well as financing activities, processes within the integrated Company, Group’s projections are based on drivers this risk could be sufficiently mitigated. continued deployment of the corporate such as steel production, GDP growth The Group’s current financing facilities culture and values, reinforcement of the as well as strategic measures. Steel provide flexibility including a covenant Code of Conduct, assessment of leadership production and GDP growth have been leverage of 3.5x. None of the stress capabilities, enhancing the whistle-blowing sourced from external sources including overlays demonstrated a leverage of process and strengthening the Internal CRU and IMF. greater than 3.5x. Audit, Compliance and Legal functions. All key changes in the internal control On 27 November 2018, the 2019 The Directors believe that the Group is systems were reviewed by the EMT. Each Budget was presented to the Board of well-placed to manage its principal risks leader is accountable for the effectiveness Directors where the underlying growth, successfully. In making this statement the of the internal controls within their area of profitability, cash flow, working capital Directors have considered the resilience responsibility. Measures are applied in each development and potential risks to the of the Group, taking account of its current functional area to assess the effectiveness business were discussed. Based on position, the risk appetite, the principal risks of internal controls and any identified issues the 2019 Budget, it is expected that facing the business in severe but reasonable are escalated. Control weaknesses all relevant KPIs will improve when scenarios, and the effectiveness of any identified by management and those compared to 2018 with leverage mitigating actions. identified through the quality management projected to be below 1x. system reviews, risk management activity Based on this assessment, the Directors and internal audit reports are escalated to Based on the Group’s 2018 financial have a reasonable expectation that the the EMT and the Audit Committee for results and the projections for 2019, Group and Company will be able to review and resolution. projections for subsequent years continue in operation and meet its liabilities have also been extrapolated. as they fall due over the period to December In 2018 a bottom-up risk identification 2021. The Directors have determined that and assessment process was conducted. Based on the risk analysis conducted the three year period to December 2021 is This process is based on the direct and full in 2018, several stress overlays have an appropriate period having regard to the integration of all functional and operational been defined and the financial impact Group’s business model, strategy, principal managers, uniform structures and methods on the business plan has been risks and uncertainties, and viability. as well as the use of specialised software calculated. The following stress and makes sure that material risks can be overlays were presented to the Audit The Directors believe that the abovediscussed and monitored adequately by Committee on 21 January 2019 and mentioned business plan and the conducted the EMT and the Directors. The Audit are considered to be the principal risk analysis provide evidence of the viability Committee was informed about the risks related to the Group’s business: of the business over the next three years and outcome of this process and steps to no material risk that could endanger the improve the effectiveness were defined. ¥¥ Volume decrease due to viability or continuity of the business. In addition, the risk appetite was discussed severe market changes and approved by the Audit Committee ¥¥ Price decrease for Chinese and the Board. raw materials During 2019, the focus will be on increasing the awareness on all hierarchical levels about the defined risk appetite. This includes creating a more tangible definition of the risk appetite which will be aligned with the Audit Committee in the first half of 2019 and then applied to the design of the relevant internal controls. 43 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Risks, viability & internal controls continued Internal As part of the ongoing integration activity the Audit Committee oversaw, in 2018, During 2018, the internal audit function conducted 17 planned internal audits control system a review of the capability of the Finance leadership team. Following this review, and 20 special investigations, reporting the most relevant observations and The Board is ultimately responsible a number of organisation changes were recommendations to the Audit Committee. for maintaining effective corporate made to both align the Finance leadership governance, which includes the Group’s team more closely to the requirements In 2018, the Group has not identified any risk management approach, the Group’s of the integrated business and enhance individual material failings in its internal risk system of internal controls and the capability. Work continued in 2018 to management and control system; however Group’s internal audit approach. harmonise systems and processes within the reports by management and internal the Finance internal control framework. audit facilitated consideration by the Audit The Board reviews the effectiveness Committee and appropriate management of the system of internal financial, The Group has an internal audit function, responses on the following key control operational and compliance controls with a reporting line to the Chair, Audit framework challenges in 2018: and the risk management framework. Committee and a secondary reporting line, The Board examines whether the system for day-to-day operational matters, to the ¥¥ Improving awareness and controls of internal controls operated effectively CFO. The internal audit function provides relating to externally originated throughout the Year and will make assurance to the Audit Committee and the email-based fraud attempts recommendations when appropriate. Board on the design and effectiveness of ¥¥ Extending the coverage of the internal control framework. compliance training These systems are based on the three ¥¥ Continuing the development of the lines of defence model, supported by an The internal audit function conducts its whistle-blowing reporting process internal control guideline reflecting the activities in a risk-based manner, developing an annual internal audit plan, based on the ¥¥ Improving the control framework for responsibility for risk management and results of the risk assessment of various the Services Business in South America internal controls at all management levels. business units and strategic priorities. ¥¥ Improving the consistency and execution The Group’s risk management framework of stock management controls is designed to enable the application of The Audit Committee conducts an ¥¥ Addressing the wider challenge to the Group’s risk appetite. This typically annual assessment of the effectiveness design and execute a consistent and seeks to avoid or mitigate risks rather than and capability of internal audit. During appropriate internal control framework to eliminate completely the risks associated 2018 the Audit Committee concluded that, in an empowered, entrepreneurial, with the accomplishment of the Group’s to meet the challenges and risk profile of dynamic, global corporate culture strategic objectives. It provides reasonable the Company, the capability of internal still completing integration activities assurance but not absolute assurance audit required strengthening. A newly against material misstatement or loss. created role in the integrated Company, Although the Board considers the Group Head of Internal Audit was filled Company’s risk management and The Group has in place a specific risk in September 2018 and the two legacy internal control process are appropriate management approach and an internal internal audit functions combined into and effective to give reasonable, but not control framework in relation to its financial a new single global function. Additional absolute assurance against material reporting process and the process of internal audit resource will be in place in misstatement or loss, given the recent preparing the financial statements. Americas, Europe and Asia in 2019. A fresh merger and decentralised nature of the These systems include policies and approach to compiling the internal audit Group, the need for continued focus procedures to ensure that adequate programme has led to the Audit Committee on enhancing the internal control accounting records are maintained and approving a more comprehensive annual environment remains. transactions are recorded accurately internal audit plan for 2019 with a greater and fairly to permit the preparation of focus on strategic risks, global business financial statements in accordance with processes, IT and business transformation. the applicable accounting standards. For the accounting process, an accounting handbook is available that addresses all the internal control issues into the accounting process. 44 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Link to strategy Appetite People Business model Markets Competitiveness Averse Minimal Cautious Flexible Action taken Principal risk Example of risks by management 1. Macroeconomic Changes in the global economic environment and adverse ¥¥ Decreasing investment in infrastructure (steel, cement ¥¥ Diversification in terms of geographies and industries environment and political developments may demand) leading to lower ¥¥ Optimisation of the condition of customer have an impact on the Group’s refractory consumption production network through revenue and profitability. industries ¥¥ Customer focus on low complexity reduction and cost products efficiency increases The demand for refractory Link to strategy ¥¥ Decreasing fixed costs ¥¥ Achieving lowest cost products is directly influenced by coverage G&A services steel production, the investment climate, metal and energy prices ¥¥ Monitoring of economic and the production methods market drivers used by customers. Link to appetite Due to the Group’s cost structure, fluctuations in sales volumes have an impact on the utilisation of the production capacities, and consequently on the Group’s profitability. 2. Regulatory and We strive to establish a culture of compliance throughout the ¥¥ Failure to act in accordance with our “Code of Conduct” ¥¥ Code of conduct and compliance policies and compliance risks organisation. Nevertheless, like ¥¥ Violation of anti-corruption procedures many other corporations which law by employees or ¥¥ Internal control system, Link to strategy operate internationally, we are third-party representatives in particular in exposed confronted with increasing processes regulatory complexity and are ¥¥ Violation of data privacy exposed to regulatory and regulations ¥¥ Ethical values supported compliance risks which may by strong corporate culture result in financial losses or ¥¥ Mid-term investment Link to appetite operational restrictions. planning In addition to this, sudden regulatory changes could impact the profitability of our operations and our need for investment. 3. Fluctuations in exchange Due to the Group’s global sales and production activities, ¥¥ Increasing volatility of revenue and profit ¥¥ Active balance sheet and exposure management rates and energy prices, revenue and profitability may ¥¥ Loss of competitiveness of ¥¥ Improvement of energy increasing volatility of be impacted by currency operations outside China efficiency fluctuations. raw material prices ¥¥ Increasing price pressure ¥¥ High level of vertical and loss of margin integration The Group relies on external Link to strategy supply of energy and raw ¥¥ Securing higher level of raw materials for its production material supply including activities. Fluctuations in secondary raw materials demand and/or supply from global markets (especially Link to appetite from China) have a significant impact on the prices and hence on the production costs of refractory products. 45 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Risks, viability & internal controls continued Action taken Principal risk Example of risks by management 4. Significant changes Customer demand for environmental features, ¥¥ Disruptive product technology introduced by ¥¥ Create a climate allowing innovation and “out of the in the competitive digitalisation and services a competitor (IP protected box” thinking environment or speed may evolve more quickly than disruptive technology) ¥¥ Establishment of fast-acting expected. Increasing focus of disruptive innovation on digitalisation and services ¥¥ Disruptive production local R&D structure in all process introduced by major markets may lower the entry barriers for a competitor Link to strategy existing and new competitors. ¥¥ Continued investment in R&D Depending on the capacity of ¥¥ Accelerate digitalisation the Group to develop adequate across the value chain products and services, this may Link to appetite present either an opportunity or a threat by increasing pressure on demand and margins. 5. Inability to execute a The Group’s strategy includes numerous strategic initiatives ¥¥ Failure to cascade the strategy to specific actions ¥¥ Prioritisation of projects and resource allocation in an key strategic initiative or including sales expansion, ¥¥ Failure to react timely to a approved project roadmap necessary adjustments new product and service changing environment ¥¥ Introduction of a models, network optimisation to core operations and M&A projects. ¥¥ Resistance to change performance driven corporate culture supported by a strong performance Link to strategy The failure to execute one of measurement system several of those initiatives ¥¥ Constant monitoring because of external or internal of external market circumstances may lead to circumstances lower than planned financial Link to appetite performance including loss of revenue and margin. 6. Business interruption and As a producing company, the Group is exposed to business ¥¥ Production interruption at single source ¥¥ Diversified production network in terms of supply chain disruption interruption risk resulting either manufacturing site geographies from natural catastrophes, ¥¥ Failure of single source ¥¥ Establishment of a Link to strategy fire, machinery breakdown, supplier best in class integrated supply chain disruptions or supply chain cyber attacks. ¥¥ Natural disaster or major political crisis at one or ¥¥ Operational risk several manufacturing sites management and The Group partly relies on a small ¥¥ Loss of mining rights maintenance policies Link to appetite number of production sites or a small number of external ¥¥ Risk-based investment suppliers for certain materials. policy ¥¥ Global insurance coverage The inability to produce or supply those materials may have a significant impact on the Group’s capacity to produce and deliver its products. 46 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Link to strategy Appetite People Business model Markets Competitiveness Averse Minimal Cautious Flexible Action taken Principal risk Example of risks by management 7. Environment/Health Controlled emissions and usage of potentially hazardous materials ¥¥ Fatal accident at manufacturing site ¥¥ Secondary Raw Material strategy & Safety risks are inherent to the production of ¥¥ Uncontrolled emissions ¥¥ Regular environmental refractory products. Regulatory audits and risk monitoring ¥¥ Inability to comply with Link to strategy changes in this area may result at all sites in higher production costs and sustainability targets additional investment needs. ¥¥ Regular legal Also the risk of uncontrolled compliance checks emissions at our production sites ¥¥ Health & Safety objectives exists and may result in high defined as core Company Link to appetite financial losses and liabilities. objective Especially at our production sites, employees and contractors may be exposed to Health & Safety hazards which cannot be completely eliminated. Also our products may potentially cause accidents at the customers’ sites. 8. Cyber and Information Our growth strategy (including mergers and acquisitions, ¥¥ Intellectual property or confidential data breach ¥¥ Dedicated Information Security Organisation Security risk entries into new geographies, ¥¥ Personal/private ¥¥ Worldwide Information the design of new products data breach and Cyber Security Policies Link to strategy and digitalisation) results in a growing risk exposure. ¥¥ Customer or supplier ¥¥ Continuous awareness data breach campaign and training In addition, the Group is ¥¥ Critical business ¥¥ Regular risk assessment and confronted with a fast-evolving process interruption annual penetration testing Link to appetite cyber and Information Security ¥¥ Loss of (user) productivity ¥¥ Cyber security detection threat landscape. and response team ¥¥ Loss of trustworthiness of data ¥¥ Data classification and The possible impact of cyber protection implementation and Information Security risks ¥¥ Loss of proofing capability could range from operational disruptions, loss of intellectual property, legal compliance issues/frauds, or significant reputation losses. 47 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability Our business can only succeed if our communities thrive. We must work together with industry, governments and civil society to address diverse social and environmental challenges and create shared value. To do so, we support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”), the blueprint for people, the planet and prosperity. In 2018, we ramped up our approach We focus on the key issues for our We engage with local stakeholders, too. to sustainability, developing new stakeholders and our business. These Working with local government and governance structures and strategy. were identified through stakeholder communities, we support initiatives that In addition, we have set ourselves engagement and media analysis, building promote community development and our first sustainability targets to 2025 on our most recent materiality assessment. environmental protection. In 2018, our and made commitments to the UN Global These issues include: Indian operations in Andhra Pradesh Compact and other important initiatives. were recognised as one of the best local As our business expands globally, we ¥¥ Energy and climate corporate participants in the Smart Village aim to maximise the positive impacts ¥¥ Other emissions Smart Ward programme which promotes we bring and minimise the negative. ¥¥ Waste and recycling inclusive and sustainable development. Given our industry leadership, we ¥¥ Health and safety have a responsibility to demonstrate ¥¥ Diversity Sustainability Governance leadership in sustainability, too. ¥¥ Community investment In 2018, we set up new governance bodies ¥¥ Ethics and governance to oversee our sustainability agenda. Now that our merger is complete, we ¥¥ Our new Sustainability Steering will conduct another formal stakeholder Committee comprises senior engagement session in 2019 and develop management and is responsible a new materiality analysis. In addition, for developing and implementing we will map how our core business as well sustainability strategy. as our community investment programmes ¥¥ At Board level, the new Corporate can best support the Sustainable Sustainability Committee reviews Development Goals (“SDGs”). progress on a quarterly basis. Sustainable Development Goals 48 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 These committees drive progress on our key issues, setting targets and reviewing performance. They also work to embed sustainability throughout our business. Targets In 2018, we defined our first set of sustainability targets. We report on these commitments and our progress in the following chapters. As we evolve our sustainability programme, we will set more far-reaching targets. Milestones and 2025 targets1 CO2 emissions Reduce by 10% per tonne by 2025 Start submissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project Energy Reduce by 5% per tonne by 2025 NOx and SOx Reduce by 30%, starting emissions with China by 2021 Recycling Increase use of secondary raw materials to 10% by 2025 Establish first dedicated recycling facility Water Conduct water risk assessment at each plant by 2019 Safety Maintain Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate at below 0.5 (goal: zero accidents) Transition all certified sites to the new ISO 45001 by the end of 2020 Diversity Increase women on our Board and in senior leadership to 33% by 2025 Launch new initiatives to address gender diversity Ethics and Code of Conduct – expand Governance global training Supplier code of conduct – build oversight and transparency Launch new human rights strategy in 2019 Community Develop strategic, impact-focused programmes and partnerships to match our growing global business by 2025 49 1 Compared to a 2018 baseline S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability Integrated management system Reporting External initiatives We report on our material issues. The Company has developed an integrated management system which covers The information in this Annual Report environment (ISO 14001), occupational and on our website comprise our GRI report. health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and This report was prepared in accordance quality (ISO 9001). Following the merger, with the GRI Standards: Core option. we have integrated all existing systems A GRI Content Index is available on our throughout the Group and will transition website. This report also serves as our to the new ISO 45001 by the end of 2020. Communication on Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact, which we self-assess In 2018, a major focus of our quality as Active. management programme was customer satisfaction. We expanded the KPIs and Lastly, the report complies with legislation in tools we use in our drive to meet and the UK and the Netherlands implementing exceed customer expectations. the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive. External initiatives Ethics and compliance In 2018, RHI Magnesita signed the UN RHI Magnesita has a zero-tolerance Global Compact, the world’s largest approach to corruption. Our Code of corporate sustainability movement, Conduct makes this explicit, defining signalling our commitment to support how we expect employees and Directors the UN Sustainable Development Goals. to conduct business. In addition, we pledged to integrate the principles of the Global Compact in More than 2,000 employees received the areas of human rights, labour rights, Code of Conduct training in 2018, mostly environment and anti-corruption into in South America and India. In 2019, we will our business strategy and operations. expand training to China and Asia Pacific. Suppliers to RHI Magnesita are required to On our journey, we are also guided by sign our Supplier Code of Conduct and we other initiatives. During 2018, for example, are working to increase oversight and we joined Transparency International, the transparency in this area. global anti-corruption movement, and the LBG network, the global standard An independently operated whistleblowing for measuring and managing corpowrate system allows individuals to have community investment. We made our confidential and anonymous two-way first submission on gender diversity in conversations about concerns they might our Company to the Hampton-Alexander have. Contact details are publicised Review in 2018 and will start submitting throughout our operations. In 2019, environmental data to the Carbon we will publish a new anti-corruption Disclosure Project (“CDP”). policy and our Corporate Audit will adopt an anti-corruption focus. 50 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 In 2018, our reporting system received 60 contacts. Most were not code violations but workplace grievances resulting from structural changes due to our merger. We addressed these issues in workshops on our new culture while raising awareness of harassment and discrimination in compliance training. Suspected code violations are managed by a team comprising the heads of Compliance, HR and Internal Audit. Outcomes range from redesigned processes, controls and training to disciplinary action. As our business grows, we are building a robust compliance organisation in every region. In 2018, we appointed a compliance officer for South America and will assign counterparts for India, China and North America in 2019. These new positions will report both to our chief compliance officer and new regional Vice Presidents, who will be held accountable for compliance in their countries and regions. >2,000 employees trained in our Code of Conduct in 2018 51 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability  ur Environment O As the world’s population grows, the challenge is to meet the needs of future Given the extremely high temperatures (1,800°C and above) required to The environmental generations while operating within the manufacture refractory products, constraints of the planet’s resources. renewables are not a viable source of challenges facing our energy yet. Natural gas, the cleanest planet have never been To prepare for a resource-constrained, low-carbon economy, RHI Magnesita is fossil fuel, accounts for 53% of fuel used by our business. In 2018, we stopped using greater. Climate change working to minimise our environmental impacts. We are increasing use of petroleum coke in India at our Bhiwadi plant and plan to convert all oil-fired kilns poses the most urgent secondary raw materials, improving to run on gas instead. In some of our more energy efficiency and cutting CO2 remote locations, however, piped natural threat of all. and other emissions. During 2018, we gas is not available. invested €13.3 million on improving our environmental performance. By developing products which help Supported SDGs customers reduce their energy Energy and climate consumption, we are reducing our indirect Within the next 12 years, global warming emissions. Energy savings as a result of must be limited to 1.5°C to avert the most these newly installed products average serious consequences of climate change. 236 GWh per year. We also endeavour to This was the stark warning of the capture and use excess heat energy. For Intergovernmental Panel on Climate example, our Radenthein plant supplies the Change (“IPCC”) in 2018. local biomass heating plant with an average of 3,000 MWh per year, which is sufficient We recognise that our operations contribute to power 200 households. to climate change. The refractory industry is, by nature, an energy-intensive business. In 2019, we will conduct a full analysis of We are therefore committed to reducing the risks and opportunities presented by our impacts, both in our operations and our climate change. As we further develop value chain. By 2025, we will reduce CO2 our climate strategy, we engage with emissions by 10% per tonne and improve industry, government agencies and others. energy efficiency by 5%, compared to 2018. In addition, we will start submitting climate data to the CDP. More than half (55%) of our direct emissions (Scope 1 and 2) in 2018 were geogenic; Other emissions they were released by the processing of We also work to minimise emissions of raw materials. Magnesite (MgCO3) contains sulfur and nitrogen oxides (SOx and NOx). CO2 which is released when the raw We have committed to reduce these material is converted to magnesium oxide emissions by 30% in a phased approach. (MgO). Current technology cannot yet Given the country’s severe air pollution, reduce or prevent these emissions. our first priority is to achieve this reduction in China by 2021. This will be followed by Our efforts therefore focus on improving the US by 2025 and the EU and South energy efficiency in our operations. We America by 2027. are developing products that require lower kiln temperatures and shorter firing times, Our mining operations also generate thereby using less energy to manufacture. diffuse dust emissions. Minimising these More energy-efficient machinery, such as is another focus area of ISO 14001 and our improved kiln in Marktredwitz, improved we adopt a variety of measures to do so. production strategy and continuous improvement processes are also yielding Waste and recycling energy savings. We recognise the importance of a circular economy and are stepping up efforts to During 2018, our total energy consumption close the loop of our product lifecycles. was 5.7 TWh and our energy efficiency When our products reach their end of life, improved by 0.5%. Our CO2 emissions we aim to dismantle them, recycling as (Scope 1 and 2) amounted to 2.8 much as possible into new applications. million tonnes. 52 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 613 hectares of land reforested by our plants in Turkey and Brazil By 2025, we aim to include 10% Reducing waste We conduct ongoing activities at most secondary raw materials (SRM) per tonne In 2018, our business generated 109,500 open-pit mines together with local partners. of production. Increasing recycled content tonnes of waste, of which 9% (9,700 For example, our plants in Brazil and Turkey has proven challenging in terms of product tonnes) was hazardous. Instead, the bulk have reforested 613 hectares of land to date. durability and customer acceptability. We of our waste (88%) was non-hazardous We aim to extend and systematise these are therefore working to address both issues. ceramic and mineral waste. activities across our business. Developing products with higher SRM We are working across our sites to reduce Water content is a major focus area for our and recycle the waste we generate. Of all the water on our planet, 99.5% is R&D department. In 2018, we devised In 2017, for example, our Marktredwitz sea water. The world’s growing population, recipes that include significantly more plant sent 340 tonnes of phenol-containing agriculture and industry rely instead on the SRM while maintaining the same functional hazardous ceramic waste for disposal but by less than 0.5% that is freshwater. And with performance in the final customer 2018, the plant had eliminated this source the growth in demand, water scarcity application. As we work to increase recycled of hazardous waste, first by rendering it already affects every continent. content, we will partner with customers to non-hazardous then recycling almost ensure optimum performance. one-quarter of the total. During 2018, RHI Magnesita used 15.6 million cubic metres of water. We aim to To increase availability of SRM, we will Reforestation and recultivation minimise our water use, particularly in areas establish our first dedicated recycling Global biodiversity loss is happening at of scarcity. Based on preliminary analysis, facility. In addition to supplying recycled an alarming rate. Nearly 40% of the world’s six RHI Magnesita plants operate in watermaterials, the facility will develop and test forests have already been destroyed. Yet scarce areas: two each in Mexico, Brazil and new recycling technologies. We will work forests not only provide food and shelter for India. We adopt water-saving technologies with partners in Europe and the US to humans and wildlife; they can also play an and closed-loop water circuit technology in further expand local recycling while important role in mitigating climate change. these plants, which account for less than exploring opportunities in India, China RHI Magnesita aims to rehabilitate all areas 10% of our total water use. In 2019, we will and South America. that we mine to their original state map every plant for water scarcity using the or better through recultivation new WWF water risk filter tool. and reforestation. CO2 emissions Waste by type Percentage Percentage CO2 emissions by source 2018 (tonnes) of total Waste by type 2018 (t) of total Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 2,563,000 93% Ceramic and mineral waste hazardous 8,200 7% Of which geogenic emissions 1,416,000 55% Other hazardous waste 1,500 1% Of which fuel-based emissions 1,147,000 45% Ceramic and mineral waste non-hazardous 96,300 88% Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2)1 207,000 7% Other non-hazardous waste 3,500 3% Total CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) 2,770,000 100% Total waste 109,500 100% 1 Assumption: Calculation based on the average EU CO2 intensity (295g/kWh) due to a lack of reliable global data. Energy use by source Water withdrawals Percentage Percentage Energy use by source 2018 (GWh) of total Water withdrawals 2018 (m³) of total Natural gas 3,000 53% Asia 642,000 4% Electricity 700 12% Europe 9,282,000 60% Fuel oil 1,000 18% North America 4,797,000 31% Diesel/petrol 70 1% South America 876,000 6% Liquid gas 20 0% Total water withdrawals 15,597,000 100% Coal, coke & petcoke 910 16% Of which in water-scarce areas2 929,000 6% Total energy consumption 5,700 100% 2 Preliminary assessment covering five of the six plants in identified water-scarce areas in Mexico, Brazil and India. 53 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability Our People & Communities As an employer and a neighbour, our goal is to maximise the positive social impact we bring. We are committed to promoting human rights, health and safety, diversity and inclusion. We aim to help employees achieve their potential while partnering with our communities to help them thrive. Supported SDGs Safety first A safe workplace is a fundamental right of our employees. Our goal is to build a strong safety culture with zero accidents. Nothing less is acceptable. Our intensive Safety First campaign is already yielding benefits. In 2018, our Lost Time Injury Frequency (“LTIF”) rate reached an all-time low of 0.4, with improvements in all regions. This represents a 60% reduction compared to 2017, far exceeding our 20% target. In September, we enjoyed our best month ever, with only one lost time incident (LTIF of 0.1). 54 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Health and Safety: Lost time injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked and lost days due to accidents 40 2.0 60% reduction in lost time injury frequency in 2018 Lost time injury frequency rate 32 1.5 Lost days 24 16 1.0 2,200 “Culture Champions” trained 0.5 8 0 0.0 2016 2017 2018 Lost days Lost time injury frequency rate Yet we will not become complacent. To date, 22 sites have been certified to We are implementing these themes in the Safety is the responsibility of each and every OHSAS 18001 as part of our integrated way we run our business. New systems for RHI Magnesita employee. To underline this, management system. We will transition performance management and variable our CEO begins every quarterly update to all certified sites to the new ISO 45001 payment help drive accountability and employees with an update on safety by the end of 2020. incentivise performance. performance. Following the merger, we have worked to ensure our corporate Engaging employees Our most recent survey found that one year safety programme is being implemented As we merged two former competitors on from the merger, 76% of employees are consistently across our operations. to form RHI Magnesita, we have focused excited about RHI Magnesita’s future while on building a new corporate culture. We 56% of employees believe that we are Behaviour-based safety is a major focus. engaged employees in the process through already living our new culture. Since approximately 80% of accidents internal communications, workshops, are due to unsafe actions by individuals, team-building activities and pulse surveys. Feedback on team spirit and relationships we began observation audits to identify To date, more than 2,200 employees were with new colleagues was positive, but at-risk behaviours. trained to help bring our new culture to life. employees said that cross-functional collaboration needs to improve. One-fifth This led to fewer accidents and the At the heart of our corporate culture of respondents say that work across programme is now being rolled out are four themes: organisational units is not yet as effective across our business. Another factor in our as it should be. We will continue to listen improved performance was the new target ¥¥ We assign accountability to employees’ concerns and develop for reporting and mitigating at least one and reward performance programmes in response. near miss or unsafe situation per person. ¥¥ We collaborate globally and We exceeded this target in 2018, achieving cross-functionally 1.48 across our business. ¥¥ We communicate directly and openly, in a friendly and constructive way In addition, we are implementing ¥¥ Customers are at the centre of programmes that address specific job everything we do roles and safety risks, such as Safety Leadership Training for front-line leaders and our Hand & Finger safety programme. We also continue to roll-out Quickcheck, which raises awareness of hidden hazards. 55 S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T R H I M A G N E S I TA Sustainability We want our workforce to represent Share of women in leadership the communities in which we operate. Total We want our workplace to be free Female Male headcount from discrimination, harassment 2 7 9 and victimisation. And we want our Executive Management Team (“EMT”) employees to fulfil their career ambitions. 22% 78% 5 45 50 Gender diversity EMT Direct reports Our initial focus is to improve the gender 10% 90% diversity of our Company. We have 7 52 59 committed to achieve 33% female Total 12% 88% representation on our Board and our senior leadership (Executive Management Team and Direct Reports). Worldwide, around 72% of RHI Magnesita As we become a global company, we In 2018, a further two female directors employees are represented by work encourage employees to learn languages accepted their nomination to our Board. councils, trade unions or other bodies used across our business. More than 1,000 This brings representation of women on and agreements. We support and work employees have already registered to use our Board to 25%1, a welcome improvement with these bodies, in line with core our new online language training courses compared to 10% in the previous year. conventions of the International Labour since mid-2018. Our EMT also shows progress. By the end of Organization (ILO). 2018, women accounted for 22% of senior During 2018, we conducted 39,881 hours management compared to 13% in 2017. Training & development of global development programmes. This However, once Direct Reports to the We aim to help employees fulfill their does not include training and development EMT are included, the proportion of potential. We intend to provide conducted by local operations. women in leadership in 2018 was only 12%, opportunities for them to learn and grow, showing that we have more work to do in while assigning accountability and In 2019, our new global bonus system this area too. rewarding them for performance. will be rolled out. Designed to promote collaboration and equality, the system is In 2019, we aim to identify and address To facilitate this, we introduced a new also simple and transparent. At any time, the main barriers faced by women in what performance management system in 2018. employees can calculate their expected is still a male-dominated industry and to Called the People Cycle, the system applies bonus payment, based on the Company’s launch new initiatives to address these to all employees of RHI Magnesita. This current performance against objectives. issues. We are committed to recruiting, year-long cycle focuses on performance retaining and promoting more women into and career management; talent management; Promoting diversity leadership positions. Following our listing feedback and development. The process Diversity and inclusion is critical to our on the London Stock Exchange in 2017, we will ensure that both employees and leaders future success. In today’s globalised adopted the Hampton-Alexander Review’s conduct regular planning and structured business environment, diverse teams are target of 33% women in senior leadership. performance reviews and will be supported proven to be more productive and better Given our recent merger, we believe that by annual talent committees. equipped to succeed. we will achieve the 33% target by 2025. We have also launched a series of Diversity is about welcoming and valuing global training programmes, ranging from employees of every background. We are programmes for operations to sales and committed to providing equal opportunities 25% purchasing, to ensure we develop best-into everyone, regardless of gender, race, class capabilities in our growing business. disability, ethnicity, sexual orientation, In 2019, we will launch our new leadership age or any other difference. learning framework, #FitToLead. female representation on our Board 1. As at the date of this report and including Directors nominated for appointment at the 2019 AGM. Does not include Employee Representative Directors 56 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Although women represent 23% of all white-collar positions in our Company, they While our operations choose projects and partners at a local level, the overarching Improving safety occupy only 2% of blue-collar positions. themes that we will support are: To improve behavioural safety, our As a result, women represent only 11% of Bonnybridge plant in Scotland uses our total workforce. ¥¥ Education, especially science an innovative programme based on technology, engineering and maths football’s penalty cards. In addition In addition, we will research and develop (“STEM”) subjects, with a focus on to issuing red and yellow cards for other aspects of diversity to ensure that girls and disadvantaged groups safety hazards, the plant also hands the increasingly global nature of our ¥¥ Youth development, especially skills out green cards for positive safety Company is reflected in our leadership. training and enterprise education behaviours. The immediacy and transparency of the programme have ¥¥ Environmental protection, especially Human rights proved popular and the plant has forests, climate and water RHI Magnesita is committed to respecting reached its preventive rate target internationally recognised human rights ahead of schedule. The programme These themes contribute to the SDGs in line with the UN Universal Declaration received our internal Culture Award we can best support. of Human Rights and the UN Guiding and is now being trialled in other Principles on Business and Human Rights. parts of our business. We are keen to develop long-term Joining the UN Global Compact underlines partnerships, developing programmes our commitment to human rights in our that could become scalable. During 2018, business, supply chain and beyond. we developed two new partnerships in Austria and will launch our first projects We are ramping up our approach to in early 2019. human rights. An introduction to human rights was included in anti-corruption Firstly, we are partnering with Teach For training provided in 2018 to more than Austria, an NGO which aims to create a 2,000 employees. We will launch a new more level playing field in educational human rights strategy in 2019. opportunities. More than any other EU country, Austrian children’s educational In addition, we will focus on our suppliers. success depends on parental income, Our suppliers must sign a Supplier Code status and education level. To kick off of Conduct that includes human rights our partnership, both our CEO and our provisions and we are developing a more Chairman will teach a class during Teach rigorous means of supplier assessment. For Austria Week. During the first year of our partnership, we will support the teaching of We report on the measures RHI Magnesita 250 children. Our second new partnership has taken to prevent modern slavery and is with Wissenfabrik (Knowledge Factory), human trafficking in our business and our which aims to encourage more boys and supply chain. Statements in accordance girls into STEM fields. In 2019, our with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and employees will start volunteering in Investing in communities the California Transparency in Supply schools to support STEM-related classes. Chains Act are available on our website. Existing programmes in other countries are Investing in communities also gaining traction. In Brazil, for example, RHI Magnesita aims to invest in local we support the Digital Inclusion project communities wherever we operate. which helps local residents near our To date, our projects have been highly plant. This community space offers digital local in scope. As we take our support to training to the local community, especially the next level, we are investing more, disenfranchised groups. To date, 2,000 focusing on impact and aligning the people have taken courses at the centre. themes with the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”). To maximise the impact of Employee volunteers actively support these our contributions, in 2018 we joined the and other projects we support. In 2019, we LBG network. The LBG framework is will roll-out a global volunteering policy to the global standard for measuring, encourage employee participation in our benchmarking and reporting community projects. on corporate community investment. 57 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA 58 Governance 60 Board of Directors 64 Executive Management Team 66 Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance 67 Corporate Governance Report 76 Nomination Committee Report 78 Audit & Compliance Committee Report 80 Remuneration Committee Report 84 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 92 Annual Report on Remuneration 58 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 60 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Board members by gender1 Board Committee members Male 75% N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee A Audit & Compliance Committee Chair of Committee Female 25% S Corporate Sustainability Committee Chairman Executive Directors Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors 1. Herbert Cordt N 2. Stefan Borgas 3. David A. Schlaff Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director (Non-Independent) Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: October 2017 Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: Austrian Nationality: German Nationality: Austrian Herbert was Chairman of the Supervisory Stefan was Chief Executive Officer at RHI From 2004 to 2007, David was a member Board of RHI from 2010 until 2017 as well from December 2016 until October 2017. of the management team at LH Financial as Vice-Chairman from 2007 to 2010. From 2012 to 2016, he was president and Services Corporation. Previously he worked He was a member of the Advisory Board Chief Executive Officer at Israel Chemicals for Forstmann-Leff Associates Inc. David at Delta Partners, Dubai from 2013 to Ltd. Between 2004 and 2012, he was was a member of the Supervisory Board at 2015 as well as Watermill Group Boston, Chief Executive Officer at Lonza Group. RHI from 2010 until 2017. Between 2007 a position he has held since 2013. Before this, he worked at BASF Group, and 2011, he was also a member of the Herbert was a senior advisor at Citigroup where he held various management Board of Advisors at Latrobe Specialty Steel in London from 1999 to 2014. Since positions from 1998 to 2004. Stefan Company. From 2010 to 2011, he was a 1992, he has been Managing Partner at was elected as President of the World member of the Supervisory Council at CORDT & PARTNER Managementund Refractories Association in January 2018. A/S Ventspils Nafta. He holds a Bachelor’s Finanzierungsconsulting GesmbH. He Stefan has a business administration degree Degree in Business Administration from the was Managing Director at GASKOKS from the University Saarbrücken and an Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel. Österreichische Warenhandelsgesellschaft MBA from the University of St. Gallen-HSG. mbH from 1991 to 1992. From 1979 to 1984, External appointments: Chief Investment he was Vice Governor at Österreichische External appointments: Stefan is the owner Officer at M-Tel Holding GmbH since 2008. Postsparkasse. From 1984 to 1991 Herbert of SB Industry LLC. was a member of the Executive Board of Österreichische Länderbank, the second 4. Stanislaus Prinz zu largest commercial bank in Austria. Ian Botha Sayn-Wittgenstein He worked as chief economic adviser for Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director (Non-Independent) the Federal Minister of Finance of Austria Appointment date: April 2019 Appointment date: October 2017 from 1975 to 1979. Additionally, since Nationality: South African Nationality: German 2015 he has been a member of the Board of Advisors for the MSFS Program, School of Ian, currently CFO of Anglo American Stanislaus was Chief Executive Officer Foreign Service at Georgetown University, Platinum, has been nominated as new and Chief Restructuring Officer at Washington D.C. Herbert obtained a Chief Financial Officer and Finance Director Energieservice Westfalen Weser GmbH Doctorate in Law from the University of for appointment in the 2019 Annual General in 2015. From 2013 to 2015, he was Vienna, graduated from the Diplomatic Meeting. Ian will join our Company on 1 April Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Academy of Vienna (Diplomatische 2019. Ian has enjoyed a highly successful Chief Executive Officer at Westfalen Akademie Wien) and received a Master’s international career with Anglo American Weser Energie GmbH & Co KG and member Degree of Science in Foreign Service from in the related mining and metals industry. of the Supervisory Boards of Stadtwerke Georgetown University Washington D.C. He brings with him significant experience Lage GmbH and Stadtwerke Hessischin finance and accounting, investor relations Oldendorf GmbH. Between 2004 and External appointments: Member of the and governance, as well as his excellent 2012 Stanislaus held numerous advisory board of Delta Partners, Dubai, business acumen and track record in management positions within the Citigroup Germany and Austria, Watermill financial and performance improvements. EON group. Previously, he was Managing Group Boston, Georgetown University, Director at GMD Gesellschaft für School of Foreign Service, MSFS Program, medizinische Datenverarbeitung mbH Cooper & Turner, UK, The Plastics Group Octavio Lopes and Director at the Deutsche Bank AG, Inc, USA, Quality Metalcraft Inc, USA and Chief Financial Officer from October 2017 Investment Banking Division. He was a Experi-Metal Inc, USA. Managing partner to September 2018. member of the Supervisory Board of of CORDT & PARTNER Managementund Nationality: Brazilian RHI between 2001 and 2017. Between Finanzierungsconsulting GesmbH. Octavio stood down from the Board on 31 December 2018. Prior to the merger, he held roles at Magnesita including Chairman from July 2016 and Chief Executive Officer from 2012 to 2016, 1. As at the date of this report and including Directors nominated for appointment at the 2019 AGM Does not include Employee Representative Directors 61 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Board of Directors continued Non-Independent Independent Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 2000 and 2002, he was a member of 5. James Leng N R 7. Andrew Hosty A S the supervisory board of Didier Werke AG. Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Stanislaus holds a Master’s Degree in Independent Director Appointment date: October 2017 Business Administration from MIT Sloan Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: British School of Management and studied Nationality: British Business Administration and Economics Andrew was Chief Executive of the at Université de Fribourg and is a Chartered James was previously Chairman of Corus Sir Henry Royce Institute for Advanced Financial Analyst. Group plc (2001 to 2008), Chairman Materials from 2016 to 2018. Previously, of HSBC Bank plc (2010 to 2013) and he was Chief Operating Officer at Morgan External appointments: Member of the Chairman of Nomura European Holdings plc Advanced Materials plc, an appointment Supervisory Board of Endurance Capital (2015 to 2017). Other directorships have he held from February 2013 until January AG since 2016. included AON plc, Alstom SA, Pilkington 2016. He also held a number of senior plc, Hanson plc, IMI plc, TNK-BP and lead positions within Morgan Advanced Materials Non-Executive Director at the UK’s Ministry plc, including as Chief Executive Officer Fersen Lambranho of Justice. In the early part of 2009, he was of Morgan Ceramics. He was previously Non-Executive Director (Non-Independent) a Director and Chairman designate of Rio a Non-Executive Director of Fiberweb plc of the Company with from October 2017 Tinto. In an executive capacity James was and past President of the British Ceramics to January 2019. Chief Executive Officer of two publicly listed Confederation. He is a fellow of the Royal companies: from 1995 to 2001 at Laporte Academy of Engineering, and holds a PhD Fersen stood down from the Board on PLC, and prior to that at Low & Bonar PLC. from the Faculty of Engineering at the 21 January 2019. His early career was spent at John University of Sheffield and a BSc in Waddington plc, where he was Managing materials science. Director of a number of their subsidiaries. External appointments: Andrew is senior External appointments: n/a independent director of James Cropper plc, Non-Executive Director of Consort Medical plc, mOm Incubators Ltd and Rights and 6. Celia Baxter Issues Investment Trust plc. N R Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: October 2017 Nationality: British 8. John Ramsay A Independent Non-Executive Director Celia was Director of Group Human Appointment date: October 2017 Resources for Bunzl plc from 2003 to 2016. Nationality: British Previously she served as Head of Human Resources of Enterprise Oil plc, having been John served as Chief Financial Officer of Director of Group Human Resources at Tate Syngenta AG from 2007 to 2016 and was & Lyle plc. In 1988 she joined KPMG Peat also Interim Chief Executive Officer from Marwick as a Human Resources consultant. October 2015 to June 2016. Prior to this, She started her professional career in 1982 John served as Group Financial Controller at the Ford Motor Company where she held of Syngenta from 2000 to 2007 and as several management positions. She holds the Finance Head of Asia Pacific for Zeneca a PhD and BSc in botany from the University Agrochemicals from 1993 to 1999. Earlier of Reading. in his career he was a Financial Controller of ICI Malaysia and regional controller for External appointments: Non-Executive Latin America. Before joining ICI in 1984, Director at Bekaert SA and a NonExecutive he worked in audit and tax at KPMG. Director and Remuneration Chair of He is a Chartered Accountant and also Senior PLC. Partner of HR Tech LLP. holds an Honours Degree in accounting. External appointments: John has been a member of the Supervisory Board at Koninklijke DSM N.V. since May 2017. John is also a Non-Executive Director of G4S plc. 62 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Employee Representative Directors 9. Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Creditanstalt-Bankverein in London 13. Franz Reiter A and New York. Between 1983 and 1985, he Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: October 2017 held the position of Secretary to the Federal Director/Employee representative since Nationality: Austrian Minister for Trade and Industry of Austria. November 2017. From 1977 to 1983, he worked in corporate Nationality: Austrian Wolfgang had served as a member of the finance and export finance at CreditanstaltSupervisory Board of RHI AG from 2012 Bankverein. Karl holds a Master and Franz has been with the Group since 1977 to 2017. Following the sickness related Doctorate Degree from the Vienna and is Chairman of the Group Works absence of the CEO, he acted as the University of Economics and Business Council at Veitsch-Radex GmbH. Interim Chief Executive Officer of RHI AG from 26 June 2016 until 30 November External appointments: Karl is a member of the 2016. He started his professional career management board of Custos Privatstiftung 14. Michael Schwarz in 1976 at OMV, becoming Chief Executive and a member of the supervisory board of Director/Employee representative since Officer and Chairman of the Management Siemens Aktiengesellschaft Österreich, December 2017. Board between 2002 and 2011. He served SIGNA Development Selection AG, SIGNA Nationality: German as Secretary of State in the Austrian Federal Prime Selection AG, SIGMA Kreditbank AG. Ministry of Finance between 1997 and 1999. Michael has been with the Group since He was a member of the Administrative 1983 and is a member of the workers Board of Roche Holding from 2007 to 2011. 11. Janet Ashdown S council at Didier Werke A.G. From 2010 to 2014 he was Chairman of Janet has been nominated as Nonthe Supervisory Board at Vienna Insurance Executive Director for appointment in the Group as well as a member of the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Janet had a Supervisory Board at Telekom Austria. distinguished career working for BP plc for He was Chairman of the Supervisory Board over 30 years, holding a number of at CA Immobilien Anlagen AG from 2009 international positions. Until the end of to 2016 and at Telekom Austria from 2015 2012, Janet was Chief Executive Officer of to 2018. He graduated from the Vienna Harvest Energy Ltd. Janet also has a wide University of Economics. range of board and committee experience as a non-executive director. External appointments: Wolfgang is a member of the management board of External appointments: Janet is nonCollPlant Holdings Ltd. and a member executive director of the UK’s Nuclear of the supervisory board of Flughafen Decommissioning Authority, SIG plc, Wien Aktiengesellschaft, NIS a.d. Naftna Victrex plc and she is Senior Independent industrija Srbije, Novi Sad and Erne Non-Executive Director at Marshalls plc Fittings GmbH. and Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 10. Karl Sevelda 12. Fiona Paulus S R Fiona has been nominated as NonIndependent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: October 2017 Executive Director for appointment Nationality: Austrian in the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Fiona has over 37 years’ global investment Karl was Chief Executive Officer from banking experience, having held senior June 2013 to March 2017 and Deputy management roles with a number of leading Chief Executive Officer from 2010 to 2013 at international investment banks based in Raiffeisen Bank International AG. Previously, London, Europe and North America. Fiona he joined Raiffeisen Zentralbank Österreich has specialised in the past 15 years in the AG in 1998, where he was a member of the energy & resources sectors where she has Management Board, and responsible for advised and financed companies on all corporate customers and corporate, trade types of strategic & risk management and export finance worldwide until 2010. initiative. Since January 2018, Fiona has From 1986 to 1997, he held several senior been Managing Director at Redcliffe Advice, management positions at Creditanstaltan investing and consulting business. Bankverein. In 1985 he worked at External appointments: n/a 63 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Executive Management Team EMT members by gender 1 2 3 Male 78% Female 22% 4 5 6 7 8 9 64 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 1. Stefan Borgas Eduardo served as CFO at Magnesita from joining RHI Magnesita, she started her Chief Executive Officer 2014 to 2017. Eduardo has held diverse career in HR at General Electric and worked See biography on page 61. finance positions in mostly private equity in different operational and corporate roles. led companies with experience in corporate Her main focus was on leadership and 2. Luis Rodolfo Bittencourt finance, tax, capital strategy, turnaround, talent management as well as HR process. Chief Technology Officer performance management and investor She is a certified Six Sigma Master Black Luis has been working for Magnesita for relations. Eduardo has also served as a belt. After GE she moved to Telekom 32 years. He held several positions in Board member for BB Previdência, one of Austria Group as HR Director and then to his career on the refractory and mining Brazil’s largest multi-sponsored pension IBM Austria. From 2013 to 2017 she was a activities starting as Raw Material Research funds, from 2013 2017. member of the Management Board of Baxter Engineer and becoming Raw Material AG responsible for global HR of the plasma Research Manager, Mining/Geology 5. Thomas Jakowiak production sites. Simone has a degree from Manager, Technical Purchasing Manager, Executive Vice President the European Business School (Paris) and of Plant Manager, Quality Control Manager, Integration Management the Economic University of Vienna. R&D Director, Minerals VP, and R&D VP. After studying applied geosciences at the He is currently President of Magnesita University of Leoben, Thomas started his 8. Luiz Rossato Refratários in Brazil and the Brazilian professional career as a sales engineer Executive Vice President Refractory Producers Association, and with R&A Rost GmbH in Vienna. In the year Corporate Development the Latin America Refractory Association. 2000, he joined the RHI Group and was Luiz Rossato was appointed Executive He holds a Bachelor’s degree in mining soon put in charge of the sales management Vice President and Head of Corporate engineering from the Federal University of for the business unit in the Asia Pacific Development in October 2017. Luiz joined Minas GeraisBrazil, a Master’s degree in region. Since 2005, he has been the Head Magnesita Refratarios in 2008 and was Metallurgical Engineering from the of the Cement/Lime business unit and was the Vice President of Legal, M&A and University of Utah (USA), and a PhD degree appointed to the Management Board of RHI Institutional Relations, as well as on Ceramic Engineering from the University AG as CSO of the Industrial Division at the responsible for Corporate Communication, of Missouri (USA). beginning of the year 2016. being a member of the Executive Committee of Magnesita Refratários from 3. Gustavo Franco 6. Jacqueline Knox 2012 until 2017. He graduated in law at Chief Sales Officer Executive Vice President, General Mackenzie Presbyterian University, in Brazil. Gustavo was appointed Chief Sales Officer Counsel & Company Secretary He worked in renowned law firms in Brazil, in January 2019. He joined Magnesita in Jacqueline has served as General Counsel including Mattos Filho, Veiga Filho, Marrey 2001 as a Technical Marketing Engineer since December 2018. She came to Jr. and Quiroga Advogados. He was also a after finishing his bachelor of Mechanical RHI Magnesita from VEON, an international corporate lawyer and company secretary Engineering, and has since then developed telecommunications and technology at Abyara Real Estate Planning until the his career in the refractory industry. He soon business, where she was Associate General beginning of 2008. In 2012 Luiz received became Sales Manager, Regional Sales Counsel M&A. Between 2011 and 2014, the General Counsel of the Year Latin Manager, Sales Director, Sales & Marketing Jacqueline was General Counsel and America Award by the International Law VP for South America, then for North Company Secretary of Ophir Energy plc, Office ILO, and in 2013 he attended the America and finally Globally, being based a FTSE listed upstream oil and gas business. Advanced Management Program at in three continents in the course of six years. She has also held positions with the law Wharton University in the United States. He was part of the Executive Committee of firms of Herbert Smith Freehills in London Magnesita Refratarios from 2015 to 2017. and Minter Ellison in Brisbane, Australia. 9. Gerd Schubert Since the merger of RHI Magnesita he has Having worked across different industries Chief Operations Officer been the Senior VP of Process Industries and multiple regions, she brings broad After completing his doctorate in mineral and Minerals. In 2018 he completed the international experience and a strong engineering at RWTH Aachen, Gerd started Senior Executive Programme with the background in legal, compliance and his career at Degussa AG, where he held London Business School. corporate governance. Jacqueline holds several positions including manager of a a dual degree in law and international Brazilian plant, technical director and plant 4. Eduardo Gotilla relations (BA/LLB Hons) from the University group manager. Following the acquisition Acting Chief Financial Officer of Queensland. She is qualified to practise by Ferro Corporation, he managed the Eduardo assumed the role of acting CFO of in the UK and in Queensland, Australia production and technology divisions as RHI Magnesita on 21 September 2017 after a and is a dual British & Australian citizen. Global Operations and Restructuring brief period as the VP of Corporate Finance Director. In early 2014, he took over the and Investor Relations, where he played a 7. Simone Oremovic function of COO at the Pfleiderer Group and pivotal role in the integration of the finance Executive Vice President People was appointed to the Management Board of organisation into RHI Magnesita, and also and Culture Management RHI AG as COO/CTO in January 2017. successfully led the refinancing of the Simone is Executive Vice President People Company and its repositioning as a leading and Culture Management at RHI Magnesita company amongst other global industrial since November 2017. Simone has 20 years companies in the FTSE 350. Previously of experience in Human Resources. Before 65 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Chairman’s introduction to Corporate Governance I now wish to summarise the work of our Towards the end of the Year, we conducted current standing committees. our first Board Review and Evaluation. This was the first year of a three year programme I am more convinced than The Nomination Committee has had a very aimed at examining our structure and ever that we can do more active and successful year. Their work included the search for and success in effectiveness. than meet the future attracting Ian Botha as our new CFO, who The Board has considered the uncertain we can shape it. joins on 1 April 2019. The Committee also led a rigorous search for two new Nonregulatory environment that resulted from the United Kingdom’s decision to withdraw Executive Directors, Janet Ashdown (who from the European Union. Due to these will chair our Corporate Sustainability uncertainties the Board has decided that it Dear Shareholders Committee) and Fiona Paulus. The is prudent for the Company to apply for a In this introductory letter I would like to establishment of this new committee also secondary listing on a regulated market in draw your attention to the initiatives we delivers on our promise given at the time of the European Union. While the Group is a have taken during 2018, our first full the listing. These appointments will be put global business and has a strong presence financial year as a new Company, as well to shareholders for their approval at the in many jurisdictions, it has its head office in as actions we plan for the future as part of AGM to be held on 6 June 2019. Finally, Vienna and was historically listed on the our commitment to applying the highest the Board agreed the appointment of Vienna Stock Exchange. The Board has Corporate Governance standards to Jacqueline Knox as General Counsel and therefore decided that the most logical our business. Company Secretary. secondary listing location for the Company is Vienna. The Company will continue to As you will be aware, on the basis that The Remuneration Committee, under Celia have a Premium Listing and be admitted to RHI Magnesita N.V. is registered in the Baxter’s stewardship, has embraced the trading on the London Stock Exchange, Netherlands and listed on the London Stock amended Financial Reporting Council’s which will remain its primary listing venue. Exchange it adheres to both the Dutch and Corporate Governance Code to reflect the UK Corporate Governance Codes to the full changes in new Terms of Reference aligning In conclusion, I would like to thank all my extent possible, and this report sets out how our approach to reward with the core Board colleagues, our CEO Stefan Borgas, we have applied the principles and elements of culture, purpose and values, his executive team and indeed all our provisions of both these codes. whilst not forgetting the remuneration of employees in the countries in which we the broader workforce. operate all around the world for their Notable Corporate Governance matters unwavering commitment, especially given which we have addressed during the past The Audit & Compliance Committee has all the challenges that can be encountered 12 months include the establishment also delivered on a very full agenda in 2018. following the merger of two businesses. of a new Board Committee, the Corporate As Committee Chairman, John Ramsay led The reality of creating a new company in Sustainability Committee, the development the work of the Committee with meticulous the form of RHI Magnesita could not have of an enhanced Board and Board attention to detail across a range of complex been achieved without this strong effort Committee structure and achieving a issues, including the work necessary for the from the entire team. greater level of female representation on the Purchase Price Allocation related to the Board and EMT. In addition, the forthcoming merger. I am more convinced than ever that we can Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will do more than meet the future we can include a proposal to appointment two new shape it. Independent Directors (in addition to a new Chief Financial Officer) resulting in the HERBERT CORDT Board having a majority of independent CHAIRMAN directors, on a strict independence test basis (excluding the two employee representative directors). It is important for me to add that all my Board colleagues bring a diverse and varied perspective to our Board debates. 66 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Compliance with the Dutch Corporate Deviations from the UK Corporate RHI Magnesita N.V. (the “Company” or Governance Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2018 “RHI Magnesita”) was incorporated as a Governance Code As disclosed in last year’s report, the public company (naamloze vennootschap) The Board has applied the principles of, Company did not comply with the following under the laws of the Netherlands, under complies and intends to continue to comply provision of the UK Corporate Governance the name RHI-MAG N.V., on 20 June 2017. with the requirements of, both the DCGC Code in 2018: The articles of association of the Company and the UKCGC to the fullest extent possible, (the “Articles of Association”) were most except for a limited number of deviations Code Provision A.3.1 recently amended with effect as of 26 set out below. The chairman of the Board (the “Chairman”) October 2017, amending, among other is not considered to be independent for the amendments, the name of the Company Deviations from the Dutch Corporate purposes of the UKCGC because he has into RHI Magnesita N.V. Governance Code in 2018 served on the Board of RHI AG (“RHI”), prior As disclosed in last year’s report, the to the merger, for more than nine years, The Strategic Report, together with the Company did not comply with the following which constitutes non-compliance with Corporate Governance Report, constitutes provision of the DCGC in 2018: Code provision A.3.1. The Board believes the report of the Directors within the that Mr. Cordt continues to demonstrate meaning of Section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Best practice provision 2.2.2 of the DCGC integrity and independence of character Code (the “DCC”) and has been approved The Board is non-compliant with best and judgement, and that his experience and signed by the Board of RHI Magnesita practice provision 2.2.2 of the DCGC which as Chairman of RHI AG’s supervisory board (the “Board”). recommends that, in case of a one-tier is valuable to the Company and therefore board, a non-executive director should be warrants his position as Chairman. The Board is committed to achieving appointed for a period of four years. the highest standards of Corporate Board and management structure Governance. The unique position of being Code provision B.2.3 of the UKCGC The Company has a one-tier Board registered in the Netherlands and listed in recommends that non-executive directors structure, which consists of both executive London requires the Company to take due should be appointed for specified terms, Directors (the “Executive Directors”) and regard of both the Dutch Corporate with the offer of any term beyond six years Non-Executive Directors ( collectively Governance Code (“DCGC” or the “Dutch subject to particularly rigorous review and the “Directors”). As at the date of this Corporate Governance Code”) and the UK take into account the need for progressive annual report (the “Annual Report”), the Corporate Governance Code (“UKCGC” or refreshing of the board, while provision B.7.1 provisions of Dutch law that are commonly the “UK Corporate Governance Code”). of the UKCGC recommends that directors referred to as the “large company regime” should seek re-election on an annual basis. (structuurregime) do not apply to the The Board welcomed the Financial The general meeting of the Company (the Company. Reporting Council’s update to the UKCGC “General Meeting”) appoints the nonduring 2018 and in particular supports the executive Directors of the Company (the The Board has established three developments around culture, diversity, “Non-Executive Directors”) (other than committees: an audit and compliance stakeholder engagement and better Employee Representative Directors (as committee (the “Audit and Compliance alignment of reward structures to defined below)) for a term of approximately Committee” or “Audit Committee”), management and the broader workforce. three years, subject to performance and a remuneration committee (the annual re-election, with an expectation “Remuneration Committee”) and a that the Board will then consider extending nomination committee (the “Nomination tenure for a further three year period. Committee”) to ensure a strong governance All Directors (other than Employee framework for decision-making. During the Representative Directors) will seek Year the Board also developed Terms of re-election on an annual basis. Reference for a Corporate Sustainability Committee to review safety, health, environmental, community and other corporate responsibility matters. In 2018 a Technical Advisory Committee (“TAC”) was established; the TAC is represented at Board level by Andrew Hosty and Stefan Borgas and other members include Luis Rodolfo Bittencourt (CTO) and Luiz Rossato (Corporate Strategy) as well as senior, global R&D and Technical Marketing specialists. 67 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Report continued A summary of the role and responsibilities The Board as a whole is entitled to represent Pursuant to the Articles of Association, of each Committee is shown on pages 72 the Company. Additionally, the Chief Directors other than the Employee to 73. Executive Officer of the Company (“CEO”) Representative Directors will be appointed and the Chairman, acting individually, and by the General Meeting. The Board may The Board two Executive Directors, acting jointly, are make a nomination for such appointments Powers, responsibilities and functioning also authorised to represent the Company. by the General Meeting. The Executive The Board is collectively responsible for and In addition, pursuant to the Articles of Directors shall not take part in discussions has the power to conduct the general affairs Association, the Board may appoint or decision-making by the Board relating of the Company. This role includes being officers who are authorised to represent to nominations for the appointment of collectively responsible for the long-term the Company within the limits of the Directors. A resolution to appoint a Director success of the Company, and for its specific powers delegated to them. nominated by the Board may be adopted leadership, strategy, values, standards, by the General Meeting by an absolute control and management. Composition, appointment, majority of votes cast, irrespective of the term and dismissal represented capital. A resolution to appoint Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the The Articles of Association provide that the the Director other than in accordance with Board may, if it elects to do so, assign duties Board shall consist of one or more Executive a nomination by the Board may be adopted and powers to individual Directors and/or Directors and three or more Non-Executive by the General Meeting by an absolute committees that are composed of two or Directors with a maximum of 19 Directors majority of votes cast representing more more Directors, with the day-to-day in total. than one-third of the Company’s issued management of the Company entrusted to capital. the Executive Directors. The Non-Executive The majority of the Directors shall be Directors have the task of supervising the Non-Executive Directors and one-third Pursuant to an agreement between the performance of duties by the Executive of the Non-Executive Directors (rounded Company and Alumina Holdings LLC Directors as well as the general course of upwards) (the “Employee Representative (“Alumina”), and its successor Alumina II affairs of the Company and the business Directors”) shall be appointed in Holdings S.A.R.L, the vehicle through which connected with it. In addition, both accordance with the reference terms GP Investments, Ltd holds its entitlement Executive Directors and Non-Executive (referentievoorschriften) as referred to in the Company, Alumina is entitled to Directors must perform such duties as are in Section 2:333k (12)(13) of the DCC. nominate one person for appointment assigned to them pursuant to the Articles of The exact number of Executive Directors as a Non-Executive Director. Association and the Board rules adopted by and Non-Executive Directors shall be the Board (the “Board Rules”) or a resolution determined by the General Meeting. Non-Executive Directors (other than of the Board. Each Director has a duty Employee Representative Directors) will be towards the Company to properly perform The General Meeting is authorised to nominated for a term of three years, subject the duties assigned to him or her. resolve to amend the Articles of Association, to satisfactory performance and annual Furthermore, each Director has a duty to act on the proposal of the Board. The General re-appointment at the Annual General in the corporate interests of the Company Meeting may designate one Executive Meeting. This approach is consistent with and its business. Under Dutch law, Director as CEO and one Executive Director Code provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate corporate interest extends to the interests of as CFO and may grant other titles to Governance Code which recommends all stakeholders of the Company, such as Executive Directors, in each case for a term that Directors should seek re-election on shareholders, creditors, employees and to be determined by the General Meeting, an annual basis. Employee Representative other stakeholders. which shall not be longer than the term of Directors are appointed for a term of not office of the relevant person to the Board. more than four years. The term of office An Executive Director can have more than for each Director (other than Employee one title. Furthermore, the General Meeting Representative Directors) will end on the shall designate one Non-Executive Director day of the Annual General Meeting in the as the Chairman and one or more Nonyear following appointment. Pursuant to Executive Directors as deputy chairman/ the Articles of Association, Directors may deputy chairmen (the “Deputy Chairman” be re-appointed for an unlimited number or the “Deputy Chairmen”), in each case of terms but it is anticipated that the for a term to be determined by the General Non-Executive Directors (other than Meeting which shall not be longer than the Employee Representative Directors) may term of office of the relevant person to the be offered a second term of three years, Board. The General Meeting will also at the expiry of which they will not ordinarily decide whether a Director is appointed as be considered for re-appointment. an Executive Director or as a Non-Executive Director. 68 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The General Meeting has the power to The Chairman’s other significant Board diversity suspend or remove a Director at any time, commitments are set out in the table below: The Board recognises the benefits that the by means of a resolution for suspension or experience of a diverse Board can bring. removal. The Directors may be suspended Name of company Function The Company aims to ensure that the Board or removed by the General Meeting upon Member of the represents a balance in terms of diversity, a proposal by the Board. A resolution to Delta Partners, Dubai advisory board with criteria that include, background, age, suspend or remove a Director requires Watermill Group Member of the gender, education, nationality, skills, adoption by at least an absolute majority of Boston advisory board expertise and experience. The Board the votes cast, if adopted upon a proposal pursues a policy of having at least 30% of Georgetown University, by the Board. A resolution by the General School of Foreign Service, Member of the the seats on the Board held by men and at Meeting to suspend or remove a Director MSFS Program advisory board least 30% of the seats on the Board held by other than upon such proposal requires women, in accordance with the “balanced CORDT & PARTNER adoption by an absolute majority of the Managementund composition” requirement under Dutch law. votes cast representing more than one-third Finanzierungsconsulting In addition to this, the Board has a target of the Company’s issued capital. Executive GesmbH Managing partner to achieve a minimum of 33% female Directors may also be suspended by the representation on our Board and senior Citigroup Germany Guest member of Board. The Executive Directors shall not and Austria the advisory board leadership team. 50% of our Board participate in the discussion or decisionCommittees are chaired by women, making process of the Board in relation to when taking the nomination of the new the making of any proposal for suspension As the senior independent director (the Non-Executive Directors for appointment and removal of any Director. “Senior Independent Director”), James at the 2019 AGM into account. Leng’s role is to provide a sounding board for Any suspension may be extended one or the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary As set out in the report of the Nomination more times, but may not last longer than for the other Directors where necessary. Committee, the Board is very glad to have three months in aggregate. If, at the end of He is also available to shareholders if they nominated two female candidates for such period, no decision has been taken on have concerns that the normal channels of appointment at the 2019 Annual General termination of the suspension or on removal communication through the CEO and/or the Meeting towards achieving “balanced of the relevant Director, the suspension Chairman have failed to resolve or for which composition” required under Dutch law. shall end. A suspension can be ended contact with them is inappropriate. The Board is committed to encouraging by the General Meeting at any time. diversity and will continue to pursue its During the year Octavio Lopes stood down programme in this regard. The UKCGC requires that, excluding the as CFO and resigned as an Executive Chairman, at least half of the Board should Director on 31 December 2018. In addition, comprise of Non-Executive Directors Fersen Lambranho resigned as a Nondetermined to be independent. Executive Director on 21 January 2019. The Board has considered the The Board has nominated Ian Botha for independence of the Non-Executive appointment as Executive Director with the Directors, including potential conflicts title of CFO who, together with nominations of interest, and the table on page 70 sets of both Janet Ashdown and Fiona Paulus as out those Directors considered independent independent Non-Executive Directors, will in character and judgement. Each of these be considered at the Annual General Directors has also confirmed that there is Meeting to be held in June 2019. no reason why they should not continue to be considered independent. 69 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Report continued At the date of this Annual Report, the Board is composed as follows: Year of Date of Expiry/ Name Position birth appointment reappointment date Herbert Cordt Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman1 1947 20 June 2017 2019 AGM Stefan Borgas Executive Director (CEO) 1964 20 June 2017 2019 AGM David A. Schlaff Non-Independent Non-Executive Director1 1978 6 October 2017 2019 AGM Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 1 1965 6 October 2017 2019 AGM Celia Baxter Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1958 6 October 2017 2019 AGM Andrew Hosty Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1965 6 October 2017 2019 AGM James Leng Independent Non-Executive Director 2, 3 1945 6 October 2017 2019 AGM Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director John Ramsay Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1957 6 October 2017 2019 AGM Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Independent Non-Executive Director 2, 4 1950 20 June 2017 2019 AGM Karl Sevelda Independent Non-Executive Director2, 3 1950 6 October 2017 2019 AGM Franz Reiter Employee Representative Director 1962 13 November 20175 n/a Michael Schwartz Employee Representative Director 1966 8 December 2017 5 n/a 1 Non-independent within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code but independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code due to a difference in independence requirements under the respective codes 2 Independent within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code 3 Independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 4 Mr. Ruttenstorfer is, as a result of having undertaken a management board role for RHI on a temporary basis between June and November 2016, not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Notwithstanding this historic role, the Board considers Mr. Ruttenstorfer to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code 5 Delegation date 70 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Meetings and decision-making Attendance at Board meetings in 2018 Company Secretary of the Board (shown over a total number of meetings held): Jacqueline Knox The Board commits to meet six times a Jacqueline Knox replaced year or additionally as often as deemed Attended Robert K Moorhouse as Group necessary by the Chairman or the DeputyHerbert Cordt 10/10 Company Secretary with effect Chairman. Board papers are circulated in as of 1 December 2018. Stefan Borgas 10/10 advance of meetings to allow Directors sufficient time to consider their content Octavio Lopes 10/10 The Company Secretary advises the prior to the meeting. Fersen Lambranho 10/10 Board and ensures good information flows and comprehensive practical David A. Schlaff 9/10 In accordance with Dutch law, an Executive support is provided to the Directors. Director may not be allocated the tasks of: Stanislaus Prinz zu She maintains the Corporate (i) serving as Chairman; (ii) participating in Sayn-Wittgenstein 10/10 Governance Framework and the adoption of resolutions (including any Celia Baxter 8/10 organises Directors’ induction and deliberations in respect of such resolutions) Andrew Hosty 9/10 training. The Company Secretary related to the remuneration of Executive communicates with shareholders Directors; or (iii) nominating Directors for James Leng 10/10 as appropriate and ensures due appointment. Tasks that have not been John Ramsay 10/10 regard is paid to their interests. specifically allocated to a specific Director Both appointment and removal Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer 10/10 fall within the power of the Board as a of the Company Secretary is a whole. The Directors share responsibility for Karl Sevelda 9/10 matter for the Board as whole. all decisions and acts of the Board and for Franz Reiter 8/10 the acts of each individual member of the Michael Schwartz 8/10 Board regardless of the allocation of tasks. The Board has adopted Board Rules in Pursuant to the Articles of Association and accordance with the Articles of Association. the Board Rules, the Board has adopted The Board Rules describe, inter alia, the procedures under which each Director is procedure of holding meetings and required to declare the nature and extent decision-making by the Board, and the of any personal conflict of interest to the Board’s operating procedures. other Directors. Pursuant to the Articles of Association and All transactions in which there are the Board Rules, resolutions can be adopted conflicts of interest with Directors will without holding a meeting if the proposal be agreed on terms that are customary is submitted to all Directors, each of them in the sector concerned and disclosed in consents in writing and none of them has the Annual Report. objected to this manner of adopting resolutions. The existence of a personal conflict (or a potential conflict) of interest does not affect Conflict of interests and the authority to represent the Company, time commitment as described under “The Board Powers, Dutch law provides that a Director may responsibilities and functioning” on not participate in the discussions and page 68. decision-making by the Board if such Director has a direct or indirect personal On appointment, and each subsequent interest conflicting with the interests of the year, Non-Executive Directors are required Company or the business connected with it. to confirm in writing that they have sufficient Pursuant to the Articles of Association, this time to devote to the Company’s affairs. prohibition does not apply if all Directors In addition, they are required to seek prior have such a conflict of interest. A conflict approval from the Chairman before taking of interest only exists if in the situation at on any additional external commitments hand the Director is deemed to be unable that may affect their time available to devote to serve the interests of the Company and to the Company, and the Board is advised of the business connected with it with the any changes. The Board is satisfied that all required level of integrity and objectivity. Non-Executive Directors are contributing effectively to the operation of the Board. 71 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Report continued Performance of the Board, its ¥¥ maintaining relations with the external ¥¥ within the terms of the agreed policy, Committees and the Directors auditor, including, in particular, their determine with agreement of the Board During late 2018 the Chairman of the Board independence, remuneration and any the total individual remuneration and the Deputy Chairman introduced a non-audit services carried out by them package of the Chairman, each Executive review of the Board’s effectiveness, its for the Company. Director, and other designated senior Committees and individual Directors. executives including bonuses, incentive The evaluation was facilitated externally All members of the Audit and Compliance payments and share options or other and considered further at the meeting of Committee are independent Non-Executive share awards; the Board in January 2019. As at the date of Directors from a UKCGC standpoint, with ¥¥ approve the design of, and determine this report, the Board is developing a series at least one of whom having recent and targets for, any performance-related pay of recommendations and is committed to relevant financial experience and with plans operated by the Company and future annual reviews being facilitated competence in accounting and/or auditing. recommend to the Board for approval externally at least once every three years. The Audit and Compliance Committee as the total annual payments made under a whole has competence relevant to the such plans; sector in which the Company operates. Read about the evaluation ¥¥ review the design of all share incentive Members of the Audit and Compliance on page 77 plans for approval by the Board and Committee are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination shareholders. For any such plans, determine each year whether awards will Committees Committee in consultation with the be made and, if so, the overall amount of Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee. such awards, the individual awards to The Terms of Reference of the Audit and Executive Directors, and other Compliance Committee, available in full The Audit and Compliance Committee designated senior executives and the on the Company’s website, are summarised consists of John Ramsay (Chairman), performance targets to be used; below: Andrew Hosty and Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer. ¥¥ determine the policy for, and scope of, ¥¥ monitoring the integrity of the The composition of the Audit and retirement arrangements for each Company’s financial statements, Compliance Committee is compliant Executive Director and other designated including its annual and half-yearly with the UKCGC and the DCGC. senior executives; reports, preliminary announcements ¥¥ ensure that contractual terms on and any other formal statements Attendance at Audit and Compliance termination, and any payments made, relating to its financial performance; Committee meetings in 2018 are fair to the individual and the ¥¥ reviewing of and reporting to the Board (shown over a total number of meetings held): Company, that failure is not rewarded on significant financial reporting issues and that the duty to mitigate loss is Attended recognised; and judgements which those statements contain having regard to any matters John Ramsay 16/16 ¥¥ oversee any major changes in employee communicated to it by the internal or Andrew Hosty 15/16 benefits structures throughout the external auditor; Group; Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer 16/16 ¥¥ reviewing the Company’s internal ¥¥ reviewing the performance of any financial control systems and risk The Company confirms that it complied retained advisers and the effectiveness management that identify, assess, with the provisions of the Competition and of the Remuneration Committee; and manage and monitor financial risks, Markets Authority’s Order for the financial ¥¥ preparing the Remuneration Report. and its other internal control and risk year under review. management systems; The Remuneration Committee consists ¥¥ monitoring and assessing the Remuneration Committee of at least three members, all of whom compliance with recommendations and The Terms of Reference of the are Non-Executive Directors who meet observations from internal and external Remuneration Committee, available in full the independence requirements of the auditors such as management letters and on the Company’s website are summarised UKCGC and DCGC. management’s responses; below: ¥¥ monitoring the role and functioning of ¥¥ determine and agree with the Board the internal audit function and review of the framework or broad policy for the the Audit and Compliance Committee remuneration of the Chairman of the effectiveness; review of compliance, Board, the Executive Directors and other whistle-blowing and anti-fraud members of the executive management framework; and as it is designated to consider, to be proposed by the Board for approval at the General Meeting; 72 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Members of the Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee consists of reporting and controls; and corporate are appointed by the Board, on the at least three members, a majority of whom governance. The executive management recommendation of the Nomination are independent Non-Executive Directors. assist the Board with its responsibilities Committee in consultation with the Members of the Nomination Committee concerning the strategy of the Company; Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. are appointed by the Board, on the make strategy recommendations to the The Remuneration Committee consists recommendation of the Nomination Board; is accountable for implementing of Celia Baxter (Chairperson), James Leng Committee in consultation with the the Board’s decisions; and is responsible and Karl Sevelda. The composition of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee. for directing and overseeing the operations Remuneration Committee is compliant The Nomination Committee consists of of the Company. with the UKCGC and the DCGC. Herbert Cordt (Chairman), James Leng and Celia Baxter. Outline of anti-takeover measures Attendance at Remuneration No anti-takeover measures have been Committee meetings in 2018 The composition of the Nomination implemented. (shown over a total number of meetings held): Committee is compliant with the UKCGC and DCGC. Share capital and major shareholdings Attended At the date hereof, the Company is aware Celia Baxter 6/6 Attendance at Nomination of the following persons holding directly Committee meetings in 2018 or indirectly at least 3% of the issued and James Leng 6/6 (shown over a total number of meetings held): outstanding shares in the capital of the Karl Sevelda 6/6 Company: Attended Herbert Cordt 8/8 Number of The Committee has appointed Korn Ferry Shareholder shares % as consultants to provide advice on the James Leng 8/8 MSP Stiftung1 14,076,021 28.45 development of the Remuneration Policy Celia Baxter 8/8 and the development of the annual bonus GP Investments IV Ltd2 4,258,905 8.61 and Performance Share plan and ad hoc E. Prinzessin zu remuneration matters. Korn Ferry also Executive Management Team Sayn-Wittgensteinprovided executive search services to At the date of this Annual Report, the Berleburg3 2,088,461 4.22 the Company in 2018. Executive Management Team of the K.A. Winterstein4 2,088,461 4.22 Company is composed as follows: W. Winterstein 5 1,590,000 3.21 Nomination Committee The Terms of Reference of the Nomination ¥¥ Stefan Borgas, CEO; Committee, available in full on the ¥¥ Eduardo Gotilla, Acting CFO; Notes: Company’s website are summarised below: 1 Information obtained from the Issuer: Held ¥¥ Gerd Schubert, COO; directly by MSP Stiftung and through a subsidiary. MSP Stiftung is a foundation under Liechtenstein ¥¥ reviewing the structure, size, functioning ¥¥ Gustavo Franco, CSO; law, whose founder is Mag. Martin Schlaff and composition of the Board, the ¥¥ Luis Bittencourt, CTO; 2 Information obtained from the Issuer: Held diversity policy and degree of ¥¥ Thomas Jakowiak, Executive VP through GP Capital Partners IV, L.P., Grafita achievement, succession planning, Holdings, Inc and Alumina II Holdings S.À.R.L. Integration Management; 3 The interest is held through Chestnut and making recommendations to the Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (“Chestnut“). Board with regard to any changes; ¥¥ Luiz Rossato, Executive VP Corporate Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein made an agreement Development; with Mr. Winterstein which allows Chestnut ¥¥ keeping under review succession plans to exercise the voting rights of Silver for senior management appointments, ¥¥ Simone Oremovic, Executive VP People Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (“Silver“) including in relation to the Executive and Culture Management; and in the Issuer. Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein and Directors, and the Company’s policy and ¥¥ Jacqueline Knox, Executive VP General Mr. Winterstein share a family relationship 4 The interest is held through Silver. Ms. Saynprocess in relation to the recruitment of Counsel & Company Secretary. Wittgenstein made an agreement with candidates for these roles; Mr. Winterstein which allows Chestnut to ¥¥ making proposals for (re)appointments There is a clear division of responsibilities exercise the voting rights of Silver in the Issuer. between those reserved for the Board Ms. Sayn-Wittgenstein and Mr. Winterstein of Directors; and share a family relationship and those delegated to the Executive 5 Held directly and through FEWI ¥¥ making recommendations concerning Management Team. The types of decisions Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH membership of the Audit and reserved for the Board include, among other Remuneration Committees and any items, overall responsibility for strategy other Board Company as appropriate, and management; major acquisitions and in consultation with the Chairman of investments; structure and capital; financial those committees. 73 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Corporate Governance Report continued Culture There are no restrictions on voting rights and Head of Investor Relations hold The combination of RHI and and no holders of any securities with meetings with institutional investors as Magnesita in 2017 was a blend of special control rights. well as regular briefings with analysts two companies with complementary throughout the year. The Company hosts yet variant corporate cultures. Shares may be issued pursuant to a results presentations, webcasts, investor The development of a new joint resolution of the General Meeting or of the roadshows, one-to-one meetings and corporate culture and the definition Board, if and insofar as the Board has been site visits. The Company also uses RNS of common principles continued to designated for that purpose by a resolution announcements, the Annual Report and be a high priority in 2018. Key of the General Meeting. The General presentations as a way of disseminating cultural themes serve as guiding Meeting shall, for as long as any such information. principles and underpin the vision designation of the Board for this purpose is and strategy of the Company and in force, no longer have authority to resolve The Company’s major shareholders are for all employees. In the course of upon the issuance of shares. A designation encouraged to meet with the Chairman and 2018 a group of employees, our of the Board can be made for a fixed period, the Senior Independent Director to discuss “culture champions”, supported the not exceeding five years, and may be any matters they may wish to raise. implementation of this new culture extended, each time for a period not together with the integration plan exceeding five years. A designation must The Board receive regular updates on the throughout the Group. specify the number of shares which may Company’s major shareholders and receive be issued. This can be expressed in a reports on shareholder feedback. The The following key cultural themes percentage of the issued capital. Unless the Non-Executive Directors are invited to determine the actions of designation provides otherwise, it may not attend the Company’s results presentations. RHI Magnesita: be withdrawn. Within eight days after a resolution of the General Meeting to issue Corporate governance declaration ¥¥ act customer-focused and shares or to designate the Board as the body The DCGC requires companies to publish innovatively of the Company authorised to issue shares a statement concerning their approach to ¥¥ have open decision-making in or, if allowed, to withdraw such designation, corporate governance and compliance with a respectful environment the Company shall deposit the full wording the DCGC. This is referred to in article 2a of the resolution at the Dutch Trade of the decree on requirements for annual ¥¥ operate cross-functionally, Register. Within eight days after the end reports (Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag) collaboratively and pragmatically of each calendar quarter, the Company of 23 December 2004, as most recently across the global organisation shall notify each issuance of shares in the amended on 1 January 2018 (the “Decree”). ¥¥ be performance-driven and relevant calendar quarter to the Dutch accountable. Trade Register, stating the number of shares The information required to be included in issued. A resolution to issue shares shall this corporate governance statement as RHI Magnesita is also committed to stipulate the price and the other conditions described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the responsible management and its of issue. Decree, forms part of the Annual Report, activities are based on integrity, which is available on the Company’s honesty, reliability and respectful Transactions with majority shareholders website. The information required to be contact with employees and There have been no transactions between included in this corporate governance business partners. The Code of the Company and MSP Stiftung within the statement as described in sections 3, 3a Conduct, the Compliance Helpline meaning of best practice provision 2.7.5 of and 3b of the Decree can be found in the as well as additional policies and the DCGC. Since there are no other legal following chapters, sections and pages of procedures of our comprehensive or natural persons who hold at least 10% the Annual Report and are deemed to be compliance programme are of the shares in the capital of the Company, included and repeated in this statement: essential tools to embed the no declaration in accordance with best corporate culture and values as well practice provision 2.7.5 of the DCGC has ¥¥ the information concerning compliance as the fundamental legal and ethical to be published. with the Dutch Corporate Governance rules RHI Magnesita stands for. Code, as required by section three of Communications with shareholders the Decree, can be found on page 67: and other stakeholders ¥¥ the information concerning the Communication with the Company’s Company’s main features of the internal investors is a priority for the Board and risk management and control systems there is focus on proactively maintaining relating to the financial reporting an open dialogue with shareholders as process, as required by section 3a well as providing accurate and complete sub a of the Decree, can be found information in a timely and consistent way. on pages 42 and 43: The Company runs an extensive investor relations programme, and the CEO, CFO 74 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ¥¥ the information regarding the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities With reference to section 5.25c paragraph functioning of the General Meeting and The Directors are responsible for preparing 2c of the Dutch Act on Financial its main authorities and the rights of the the Company’s Annual Report. The Supervision, each of the Directors, whose Company’s shareholders and holders of Company’s Annual Report comprises the names and functions are listed in the certificates of shares and how they can Strategic Report, the Governance Report, Governance section, confirm that, to the be exercised, as required by section the Consolidated Financial Statements, the best of their knowledge: 3a sub b of the Decree, can be found Company’s Financial Statements and some on page 74: other information. The Directors are ¥¥ the Company’s financial statements ¥¥ the information regarding the responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial composition and functioning of the in accordance with applicable law and statements, which have been prepared Board and its Committees, as required regulations. The Directors are required by in accordance with IFRS as adopted by by section 3a sub c of the Decree, law to prepare the Annual Report for each the European Union and the relevant can be found on pages 68 to 73: financial year. The Directors have prepared provisions of the Dutch Civil Code, the Annual Report in accordance with give a true and fair view of the assets, ¥¥ the diversity policy with regard to International Financial Reporting Standards liabilities, financial position and profit the composition of the Board and (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union or loss of the Group; their Committees is referenced on and the relevant provisions of the Dutch page 77; and ¥¥ the Annual Report gives a true and fair Civil Code. The Directors must not approve view on the situation on the balance ¥¥ the information concerning the the Annual Report unless they are satisfied sheet date, the development and disclosure of the information required that it gives a true and fair view of the state performance of the business and the by the Decree on Section 10 EU Takeover of affairs of the Group and the Company position of the Company and the Group Directive, as required by section 3b of and of the profit or loss of the Group for that companies of which the financial the Decree, may be found on page 73. period. In preparing the Annual Report, the information is included in the Annual Directors are required to: Report and includes a description of the Listing Rules information principal risks and uncertainties that the For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the (a) select suitable accounting policies and Company faces; and information required to be disclosed by then apply them consistently; LR 9.8.4 R is set out in the table below. ¥¥ having taken all matters considered by (b) make judgements and accounting the Board and brought to the attention estimates that are reasonable of the Board during the financial year 1 Interest capitalised n/a and prudent; into account, the Directors consider 2 Publication of unaudited (c) state whether applicable IFRS as that the Annual Report, taken as a whole financial information n/a adopted by the European Union and the is fair, balanced and understandable. 4 Details of long-term 80-101, relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil The Directors believe that the disclosures incentive schemes 181-182 Code have been followed, subject to set out in the Annual Report provide 5 Waiver of emoluments any material departures disclosed and the information necessary for by a Director n/a explained in the Annual Report; and shareholders to assess the Company’s 6 Waiver of future emoluments (d) prepare the Annual Report on the going position, performance, business model by a Director n/a concern basis, unless it is inappropriate and strategy. 7 Non pre-emptive issues to presume that the Company will of equity for cash n/a continue in business. After conducting a review of management analysis, the Directors have reasonable 8 Item (7) in relation to major The Directors are responsible for keeping expectation that the Group has adequate subsidiary undertakings n/a adequate accounting records that are resources to continue in operational 9 Parent participation in a existence for the foreseeable future. placing by a listed subsidiary n/a sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose, For this reason, the Directors consider it 10 Contracts of significance n/a with reasonable accuracy at any time, the appropriate to adopt the going-concern 11 Provision of services by a financial position of the Company and the basis in preparing the Annual Report. controlling shareholder n/a Group and enable them to ensure that the Annual Report complies with applicable Directors are also required to provide a 12 Shareholder waiver of law and, as regards the consolidated broader assessment of viability over a longer dividends n/a financial statements, Article four of the period which can be found on page 43 13 Shareholder waiver of future (the “Viability Statement”) of the integrated dividends n/a IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company report and accounts. 14 Agreements with controlling and the Group and hence for taking shareholders n/a The financial statements on pages 102 reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. to 194 were approved by the Board on 26 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by Herbert Cordt and Stefan Borgas. 75 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Nomination Committee Report Members Activities during the Year In November 2018 the Company was Herbert Cordt (Chairman) In 2018 the Committee considered pleased to announce that Janet Ashdown a number of Board matters including and Fiona Paulus had accepted their James Leng executive and nonexecutive nomination as Independent Non-Executive Celia Baxter appointments, Board diversity and Directors. Details of their skills and independence and the establishment experience are set out on page 63. These of a Corporate Sustainability Committee. appointments will be put to shareholders for Committee purpose and responsibilities In addition, the Committee also led the approval at the AGM to be held on 6 June The Nomination Committee reviews the process of formulating a Board review 2019. A detailed induction programme has structure, size and composition of the Board programme and a related action been developed for them which include and its Committees. A summary of the programme focused on improving in-depth meetings with key members of the principal elements of its Terms of Reference the Board’s effectiveness. Executive Management Team, site visits, are set out in the Corporate Governance and detailed presentations on other key Report on page 73. At the heart of its work Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) matters including R&D, supply chain and is an ongoing assessment of the Board’s In June 2018 the Company’s CFO and major product ranges. collective skills, knowledge, competencies Executive Director, Octavio Lopes, informed and experience whilst paying particular the Board of his intention to leave by the end These appointments demonstrate the attention to independence and diversity. of 2018 and return to Brazil. The Nomination Board’s commitment to further enhance In spite of its long industrial heritage, in Committee instigated a comprehensive its composition in terms of independence, many ways RHI Magnesita is still a young recruitment programme to identify his skills and experience as well as building company, and the Committee has been successor, established key candidate criteria a balanced and diverse structure. dedicated to ensuring that the Board has and engaged consultants to assist with the the competencies and depth of skills to search both internally and internationally External search firm, Egon Zehnder, was meet the demands of a growing global for this strategically important appointment. used in connection with the appointment business. A diverse pool of candidates was identified of the new Independent Non-Executive and interviewed, including candidates with Directors. 2018 was a year of intense activity for the successful track records at UK listed Committee, whose members met on eight companies, operational exposure to Corporate Sustainability Committee occasions. In addition, considerable time international, capital intensive industries, The nominations of Janet Ashdown and was spent on the work associated with its M&A and the ability to act as a commercial Fiona Paulus have enabled the Company to programme which is summarised in the partner to the management team and comply with the undertaking included in its ‘Activities’ section below. Board. A cultural fit complementary to listing prospectus to establish a Corporate the Company was also required. Sustainability Committee. Committee composition, skills and experience In September 2018, the Company was Janet Ashdown will Chair the Committee The Corporate Governance Report on pleased to announce Ian Botha, the CFO and Fiona Paulus and Andrew Hosty will pages 67 to 75, details the Nomination of Anglo American Platinum, as its new be the other committee members. Terms Committee members; Herbert Cordt, CFO and Finance Director for appointment of Reference for the Committee include, James Leng and Celia Baxter. Details of at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. amongst other matters, the monitoring their skills and the experience of Committee Until Ian Botha commences in April 2019, of corporate sustainability goals and members can be found on pages 61 to 63. Eduardo Gotilla, the VP of Corporate targets, policies, standards, processes Finance and Investor Relations is fulfilling and procedures. The Committee will also Dependent on the specific nature of the the position of acting CFO. review and report on all accidents, incidents issue being considered by the Committee, and compliance with legal and regulatory other members of the Board and Executive Non-Executive Directors environmental standards and requirements. Management Team attend meetings of the The Nomination Committee led the search A Corporate Sustainability Committee Committee and during the year, attendees and selection for two new Non-Executive report will be included in the 2019 Annual included the Chairman of the Audit Independent Directors to further strengthen Report and Accounts. Committee, the Chief Executive and Head the Board and specifically support the of Human Resources. establishment of the Corporate General Counsel & Company Secretary Sustainability Committee. During the Year the Nomination Committee also played a key role, together with the CEO, in the search for a new Company Secretary who would also be General Counsel and a member of the Executive Management Team. External headhunters supported the process and the Company was pleased to announce that on 1 December 2018 Jacqueline Knox joined the Company. 76 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Diversity The review was weighted to ensure that The Board received a presentation from As highlighted above, the Nomination core areas of the Board’s and Committee Lintstock of the Review’s output at its Committee supports the Board in pursuing performance were addressed, with meeting in November 2018. This was its diversity agenda. Although the Board particular focus on the following: followed at the January Board meeting with currently enjoys a rich mix of nationalities, a discussion between Directors of potential gender, skills, experience and expertise, ¥¥ the evolution of the Board’s size and action points, which Linstock facilitated. the Board recognises that it could go further composition, independent Director in placing greater emphasis ensuring that representation and plans for Director As a result of the Review, the Board will its membership reflects diversity in the rotation, including the attributes the amongst other things develop plans for: broadest sense. Board should prioritise when seeking evolving its composition, its engagement new appointments; with investors and employees, making All new appointments are made on merit ¥¥ the performance of the Executive improvements to the materials it receives, and are underpinned by the specific skills Management Team, its key members and the allocation of time at its regular and experience which candidates can bring and their succession; meetings. to the overall Board composition. Subject ¥¥ the Board’s engagement with key to the appointment of Janet Ashdown and stakeholders, including investors and Fiona Paulus, female representation on employees, and Board site visits in the Board will stand at 25%, with half of providing insight into the business; the Board Committees chaired by women. In addition, approaching a quarter of the ¥¥ the continued development and Executive Management Team is now female. understanding of the UK listed environment, the handling of conflicts of Board Evaluation interest, and any areas in which Directors The Company engaged the services of would benefit from receiving further Lintstock, a corporate governance advisory training and support; specialist, to assist the Board conduct a ¥¥ the Board’s Committee structure, the review of its performance. The Company performance of each of the Committees has no other relationship with Lintstock. over the past year and the effectiveness with which the Committees report back The first stage of this review involved to the Board; Lintstock engaging with the Chairman ¥¥ the quality of the Board’s strategy and Senior Independent Director to set session, as well as the top strategic issues the context for the evaluation and to that face RHI Magnesita over a three to tailor the survey content to the specific five year period; and circumstances of RHI Magnesita. All Board members were then invited to complete an ¥¥ the Board’s oversight of risk management online survey addressing the performance and the quality of reporting and metrics of the Board and its Committees. In order provided in this area. to promote an open and frank exchange of views appropriate arrangement were made to ensure the anonymity of the respondents. 77 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA  udit & Compliance A Committee Report Members Committee activities Responsibilities of the Audit Committee John Ramsay (Chairman) The main activities of the Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee included the following: focus on supervising the activities of the Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Board with respect to: Andrew Hosty ¥¥ The critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in connection ¥¥ Supervising and monitoring the effect with the preparation of the Company’s of internal risk management and control The Audit Committee advises the Board in financial and related formal statements, systems, including supervision of the relation to the financial reporting process with the assistance of reports received enforcement of the relevant legislation and its other responsibilities and prepares from management and the external and regulations, and supervision the resolutions of the Board in relation thereto. auditor; effects of code of conduct; ¥¥ An assessment of the scope and ¥¥ Supervising the recording, management The Audit committee comprises three effectiveness of the systems established and submission of financial information members, all of whom are independent to identify, assess, manage and monitor by the Company (including choices of Non-Executive Directors. Appointments financial and non-financial risks; accounting policies, application and to the Committee are made by the Board. ¥¥ Monitoring and reviewing the plans, work assessment of the effects of new rules, The Board has satisfied itself that the and effectiveness of the internal audit information regarding the handling of Committee’s membership includes function, including any actions taken estimated items in the financial Directors with recent and relevant following any significant failures in statements, forecasts, work of the financial experience. internal controls; internal auditor and the external auditor); Meetings attendance ¥¥ Review of the 2017 and 2018 Annual ¥¥ Supervising the compliance with The Committee meets as required, but not Report; recommendations and observations less than three times a year. Other Directors, of the internal auditor and the ¥¥ Review of the quarterly trading updates; external auditor; including the CFO, attend Audit Committee meetings. The Chairman of the Committee ¥¥ Review of the interim financial ¥¥ Supervising the functioning of the has had regular private discussions with statements; internal audit department and the external auditor and the CFO during ¥¥ Review of the external auditor, its terms controllers, and in particular, the Year. of engagement, findings of its work and codetermining the plan of action at the end of the audit process reviewing for the internal audit department During 2018 the Committee met five times its effectiveness; and taking note of the findings and conducted 11 calls. The Committee ¥¥ Review of the independence and and considerations of the internal has also met three times and had two objectivity of the external auditor; audit department; calls since the end of the financial year, ¥¥ Supervising the policy of the Company ¥¥ Review of treasury guidelines; and prior to the signing of this Annual on tax planning; Report. The frequency of meetings and ¥¥ Review of financing options. calls was high as a result of 2018 being ¥¥ Supervising the financing of the the first year after the merger. Company; ¥¥ Supervising the applications of John Ramsay, as Chairman, and Wolfgang information and communication Ruttenstorfer have attended all Audit technology; Committee meetings and calls in 2018. ¥¥ Supervising the relationship with the Andrew Hosty attended all Committee external auditor, including in particular, meetings and 10 calls. The external auditors assessing its independence, attended three Committee meetings and remuneration and non-audit related three calls during the Year. work for the Company; 78 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ¥¥ Determining the involvement of Audit Committee evaluation Internal audit the external auditor in respect of An internal evaluation of the performance The annual assessment of the effectiveness the contents and publication of of the Audit Committee has been and capability of internal audit identified financial reporting by the Company undertaken. This review concluded that a need to strengthen the internal audit (other than the Annual Accounts), the Audit Committee has been operating function. A new role of Group Head of and acknowledging irregularities in effectively based on the subject matters Internal Audit was established and the respect of the content of the financial covered, the nature of the Committee two legacy internal audit functions reporting as may be reported by the meetings, thoroughness of approach and integrated into a single global team with external auditor; the business understanding, skills and enhanced coverage. Additional internal ¥¥ Recommending the appointment of experience of the Committee members. audit resources will be put into place in an external auditor by the General Americas, Europe and Asia in 2019. Meeting; and Assessment of the finance leadership team Internal control ¥¥ Approving the Annual Accounts. The Committee directly assessed the During the Year there have been several capability of the finance leadership team. internal and external activities focused on The Audit Committee furthermore The Committee reviewed presentations the control environment of the Company. maintains regular contact with and from each finance leader outlining the These have included: supervises the external auditor. vision for their respective areas within finance. The Committee also reviewed the ¥¥ The full year audit of the 12 months External auditor overall strategy to implement and transition ended 31 December 2018 of The Company’s external auditor, to shared service centres supported by IT RHI Magnesita N.V. performed PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), was integration activities, which commenced in by PwC for the purpose of this appointed at the Annual General Meeting Europe and will continue in the Americas in Annual Report and Accounts; held on 7 June 2018. 2019. The Committee concluded that the ¥¥ Review of Magnesita’s updated changes made to the Finance organisation preliminary purchase price allocation The external auditor reports to the and leadership team have enhanced its Committee on the actions taken to disclosed in the interim Accounts as capabilities. of 30 June 2018 performed by PwC; comply with professional and regulatory requirements and with best practice ¥¥ Review of Magnesita’s final purchase Corporate reporting review designed to ensure its independence. price allocation performed by PwC; During the Year, the Company’s 2017 TheCommittee reviews and approves financial statements were subject to a ¥¥ The internal audit function has requests for non-audit services on a routine review by the Dutch Financial performed reviews at a number of case by case basis. Market Authority (“AFM”). The Corporate the Group’s sites during the Year; Reporting Review team had questions ¥¥ Bottom-up identification and assessment During the Year, the Committee reviewed related to the preliminary purchase price of risks performed by the risk the effectiveness of PwC as an external allocation of Magnesita, impairment test management department. auditor. The evaluation took the form of and financial instruments disclosures. a survey comprising a range of questions ¥¥ The statutory audits have not resulted The review did not result in any material in any significant control issues being covering quality and efficiency of audit. findings that would require revision of the This was completed by senior finance brought to the attention of the 2017 financial statements. Committee that would require material managers of the RHI Magnesita Group. The results of this survey and review adjustment to the accounts. Purchase price allocation of Magnesita were assessed by the Committee and The Company completed the purchase discussed with PwC. The Committee price allocation of Magnesita within recommended that PwC should be 12 months from the acquisition date proposed for reappointment at the as required by IFRS. Deloitte has been upcoming Annual General Meeting. appointed as a principal advisor for the project, additional specialists have been RHI AG carried out an auditor tendering engaged for mining rights and fixed assets. process in 2016; given that the tender PwC scrutinised the final purchase price occurred shortly before the merger, allocation during the interim audit and the Audit Committee has considered completed the review without any findings. it unnecessary thus far for RHI Magnesita to re-tender. The external auditors are appointed for one year, with re-appointment being required at the Annual General Meeting. 79 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Remuneration Committee Report Members Remuneration is closely This all-round performance gives the Celia Baxter (Chairman) aligned with our strategy context for the Committee’s decisions Our Remuneration Policy continues to be during the Year. James Leng closely aligned to and supportive of our Karl Sevelda strategy. The objective of combining two Incentive outcomes for the Year companies to form RHI Magnesita was to As set out in the Annual Report of capture the strengths of each entity leading Remuneration, remuneration outcomes I am pleased to present the Report of the to an enlarged portfolio of products and for the Year were as follows: Remuneration Committee for the financial services, greater proximity to customers year ended 31 December 2018, providing through a broader geographical footprint, Annual Bonus Plan: Awards for the year a summary of the Committee’s work during technology leadership, as well as more for the CEO with 88.0% of maximum and the Year, as well as the context for the effective raw material integration. Another for the CFO 98.7% as maximum reflect decisions made. material benefit of this is the capturing the strong all-round performance of the of synergies and efficiencies, leading Company during the year. The operating This was the first full year of operation for to immediate earnings improvements. EBIT increased by 62.4%. The Company RHI Magnesita, following the combination Our remuneration policy and practices are generated €383.8 million of free cash flow of the businesses of RHI and Magnesita, in line with these objectives, with bonus and the synergy targets were exceeded. under a new Dutch holding company and plans that incentivise growth, cash flow Further details of our performance against admission to the London Stock Exchange generation and the achievement of synergy 2018 bonus targets can be seen on page 95. in October 2017. Being Dutch incorporated targets and strategic projects. Our LTIP and registered, whilst listed on the London rewards the creation of shareholder value Performance Share Plan: There were no Stock Exchange, RHI Magnesita is required and earnings growth. long-term incentives subsisting at the time to comply with both UK and Dutch of Admission. The CEO in 2017 received a reporting requirements and their respective Before the combination of the two phantom share award as part of his previous Corporate Governance Codes. Our companies, Magnesita used Economic Profit remuneration package. This vested prior to Remuneration Report is therefore made on Growth as a key performance indicator Admission and will be paid in three equal this basis and recognising transparency of (‘KPI’). Prior to the completion of the tranches in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The reporting, certain additional voluntary Integrated Tender Offer to the minority first Performance Shares under the new disclosures are also made. shareholders of Magnesita, it was difficult to long-term incentive plan were awarded introduce this KPI to the combined business. in 2018 and are not due to vest, subject We were pleased that at the 2018 Annual However, this will now be implemented as to performance, until 2021. General Meeting (“AGM”) all the resolutions a KPI from 2019 to measure the creation of relating to the Directors’ Remuneration long-term value. Economic Profit Growth The Committee is satisfied that the Policy, the Annual Statement and Report has therefore been included as one of the above outcome of the incentive plans on Remuneration and the new long-term KPIs in the 2019 LTIP in place of EBIT. was a fair reflection of the performance incentive plan (‘LTIP’) were approved by of the Company over the relevant period. more than 99% of our voting shareholders. RHI Magnesita’s performance during 2018 The above annual bonus plan outcome The Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which As laid out in the Chairman’s Statement was as calculated against quantitative is intended to operate until 2021, was as and the Chief Executive Officer’s Review, performance conditions, the Committee previously disclosed retrospectively applied RHI Magnesita delivered strong all round did not use its discretion to modify the from 1 January 2018. The new LTIP became performance during the Year under review: outcome, as it was considered that the operative following the 2018 AGM. Plan operated as intended. ¥¥ Group revenue increased by 21% ¥¥ Adjusted EBITA increase of 81% ¥¥ Adjusted EBITA margin increased to 13.9% demonstrating a 460 basis points improvement on 2017 ¥¥ Integration plans and increased synergy targets were met, achieving savings of €70 million ¥¥ Healthy cash generation and leverage to 1.2 x net debt to adjusted EBITA. 80 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key Committee activities during 2018 Review of new UK codes and regulations Policy amendment In addition to the responsibilities of the relating to remuneration For ease of reference we have included Committee (which are described in The Committee reviewed and considered again the Remuneration Policy within the summary on page 73), the Committee the impact of the 2018 UK Corporate Annual Report on pages 84 to 91. This spent time on the following matters Governance Code (“the 2018 Code”) policy which was approved by shareholders during the Year: and new regulation on RHI Magnesita’s at the 2018 AGM, included a number of remuneration practices. Many areas legacy items, relating in particular to the Further development of the introduced were already part of past CFO’s remuneration, that were not in Remuneration Report RHI Magnesita’s practices, for example, line with UK market practice. As we stated 2018 represents the first full year of workforce remuneration as a whole is last year it was our wish to bring Executive remuneration reporting for the Company, taken into consideration, holding periods Directors’ remuneration packages within with the 2017 report only covering the are in place on RHI Magnesita’s LTIP, the the new remuneration strategy and we also period from the date of Admission Committee has the ability to exercise acknowledged that this may only be fully (27 October 2017 to 31 December 2017), discretion on remuneration plan outcomes achieved when new appointments were therefore it should be noted that 2018 and comprehensive malus and clawback made. The recruitment of a new CFO will remuneration information is being provisions are in place. Also, a number of allow us to remove some of these legacy compared against a significantly shorter Employee Directors sit on the Board and this elements from our Remuneration Policy period of 2017. The 2019 remuneration gives the Committee direct engagement which we have highlighted within the report will be the first where year-on-year with the views of the wider workforce. Policy. This will be done formally when the comparators are for the same time period. Remuneration Policy is put to shareholders Last year in line with Dutch Regulations for approval again in 2021. Remuneration issues related to the and market practice we disclosed the change of the CFO pay ratio of the CEO to the average salary Implementation of the The Committee considered the impact of all employees in the Group as 50:1. Remuneration Policy for 2019 on remuneration of the past CFO, Similarly, on page 91 this year’s ratio of The base salary of the CEO was increased Octavio Lopes, leaving the business on 52:1 is calculated on the same basis. by 3.5% with effect from 1 January 2019. 31 December 2018. No payments were RHI Magnesita only has 104 employees This compares with an average of 4% for made for loss of office. Details of Octavio in the UK and falls below the required the majority of Austrian-based employees. Lopes’ remuneration are laid out on page threshold for UK pay ratio reporting The new CFO’s salary is lower than his 94 and 99. requirements. As UK employees represent predecessor. less than 1% of RHI Magnesita’s employees, In order to secure the recruitment of Ian the Committee is comfortable that the basis The bonus targets for 2019 are based 75% Botha as a Director and CFO, an appropriate of calculation comparing with all employees on Group financial metrics (35% Operating remuneration package was developed is appropriate. EBIT measured on a constant currency which is in line with the Company’s new basis; 30% Free Cash Flow; 10% Synergy remuneration policy. The new CFO’s The UK gender pay gap reporting targets) and 25% on key strategic goals of remuneration package incorporates requirement came into effect in April 2018 the business, which are critical to the future a lower fixed remuneration but higher for companies employing more than 250 profitability of the Group. Although the variable performance-based pay than his people in the UK and as described above, Committee retained the same Group predecessor, who had retained his legacy RHI Magnesita’s UK employees represent financial metrics, the weighting of each 2017 remuneration package for 2018. Ian less than 1% of its employees. The Board of the metrics was adjusted to reflect the Botha was recruited from Anglo American and leadership team recognises that current business priorities. The performance and held a variety of long-term incentives inclusion and diversity in all forms targets for the annual bonus are considered that will lapse when he leaves Anglo are essential ingredients in creating by the Board to be commercially sensitive American. To secure his appointment and diversity of thought, experience and and will be disclosed retrospectively in the in line with the Company’s remuneration skills within the Company (read more 2019 Remuneration Report provided they policy, the Committee offered share-based on the Company’s approach to diversity are not considered to be commercially remuneration to mirror the forfeited on page 56). The Committee will consider sensitive at that time. long-term incentives of his previous the best way of monitoring gender pay over employer but taking account of the the coming year. potential vesting. Full details of the new CFO’s remuneration package The scope of the Terms of Reference of can be found on page 100. the Committee has been revised to determine and set remuneration for senior management as well as the executive directors and the Chairman. During 2019, the Committee will develop a formal policy for post-employment shareholding requirements. 81 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Remuneration Committee Report continued The CEO and CFO will be granted a Conclusion long-term incentive Performance Share This is the Committee’s first full year of award in 2019 with the potential to receive operation. We have worked diligently to in 2022, if performance targets are met, develop an appropriate Remuneration shares with a market value at the date of Policy which we will continue to review grant (in 2019) of 200% and 150% of salary and refine. Furthermore, we believe that respectively. The performance targets that the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and its will determine vesting of the share awards. implementation for 2019 as well as the will be based as in 2018, on one-third on remuneration outcomes for 2018 remain adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) targets, strongly aligned to the Company’s business one-third on relative Total Shareholder strategy and long-term shareholder Return (“TSR”) and the other third in 2019 interests. will be based on Economic Profit Growth. As mentioned above, from 2019 Economic At the 2019 AGM an advisory shareholder Profit Growth will be used as a KPI for resolution to approve this Annual Statement managing the long-term value of the and the Annual Report on Remuneration Company, having been used for a number will be presented to shareholders and we of years by Magnesita as a key management look forward to your continued support. tool for the business. CELIA BAXTER Cascade of policy CHAIRMAN OF THE The principles of the Executive Directors’ REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Remuneration Policy, including participation in the Group’s LTIP through the grant of Performance Share awards, have been cascaded to the Executive Management Board and senior management across the Company. In addition, bonus structures throughout the Company have been revised to reflect those of the executive and senior management to give a clear line of sight of objectives, to support the building of the new organisational culture and to incentivise appropriate behaviours and the success of our workforce. 82 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 At a Glance: Operation of remuneration policy for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 Policy element S Borgas (CEO) O Lopes (CFO) Base salary from 1 January 2018 €826,000 £550,000 % increase from prior year -13%1 0% Retirement allowance Allowance of 15% of base salary Allowance of 30% of base salary Annual bonus Up to 150% of base salary Up to 120% of base salary Annual bonus metrics 75% of the annual bonus determined by Group financial targets and 25% by strategic targets as follows: 35% Operating EBIT measured on a constant currency basis; 25% Free Cash Flow; 15% Synergy targets and 25% strategic targets focusing on key strategic priorities of the business which are critical to the future profitability of the Group. Payment under this element is subject to the threshold EBIT target being met. Amount paid for threshold performance 0% 80% of salary (66.6% of max) based on 2017 legacy package Amount paid for target performance 75% of salary (50% of maximum annual bonus) 100% of salary (83.3% of max. annual bonus) based on 2017 legacy package to apply for 2018 Actual bonus result for 2018 performance €1,090,876 (88.0% of maximum) £651,398 (98.7% of base salary) Payment of bonus in shares 50% of annual bonus in excess of target after tax No requirement to purchase shares for 2018 is used by the executive to acquire shares that are held for a minimum of three years Performance Share Award 200% of base salary No award for 2018 Performance Share Award metrics 33.3% of the award: relative TSR vs FTSE 350 Index 33.3% of the award: Reported EBIT 33.3% of the award: Adjusted EPS Payment for threshold performance 25% N/A Performance period & post vesting 3 years and 2 years respectively holding period Malus and clawback Malus applies to the period prior to vesting for Performance Share awards and payment of the annual bonus Clawback applies to cash bonus and Performance Share awards for a period of three years following the date of vesting and three years following any cash payment Dividends on vested awards Participants are eligible for dividend equivalents on Performance Shares Shareholding requirement 200% of base salary to be met within five years Shareholding as % of salary at 2018 year-end 40% 921% 1 Base salary reduced by 13% but 15% of base salary provided as a retirement allowance 83 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy, This Directors’ Remuneration Policy was approved by over 99% of voting Certain aspects of this new policy are only applicable to our past CFO, Octavio Lopes, which complies with UK shareholders at the June 2018 AGM and became effective from 1 January 2018. reflecting the historic structure of his remuneration and legacy contract. and Dutch governance, Other than in the event of exceptional However, Octavio Lopes left the Company circumstances, the Committee does not on 31 December 2018 and these aspects was approved by intend to revert to shareholders with a of the Policy are therefore no longer shareholders in 2018. new Remuneration Policy before the end of the three year period at the 2021 AGM. applicable and will be removed when the Policy is brought to shareholders for approval in 2021 and are noted below Policy overview for ease of reference. The new CFO’s The Remuneration Committee has remuneration is in line with the ongoing responsibility for determining the new Remuneration Policy. remuneration for the Chairman and Executive Directors. The remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors The aim of the Company’s remuneration For ease of reference we have included on strategy is to provide a level of fixed pay pages 84 to 91 the remuneration policy for that, together with incentives, will attract, the Executive Directors and Non-Executive retain and motivate high-calibre, highDirectors. We have emboldened sections performing executives, aligning them of the Policy that related to the legacy to the long-term performance of the arrangements for our past CFO who left Company and its long-term share the business on 31 December 2018 and performance while rewarding them for which are not applicable going forward. creating and delivering shareholder value. The remuneration policy has been structured in line with market practice for UK-listed companies, while taking into account the legacy issues and Dutch law. The remuneration policy was put in place when the Company listed in 2017 replicated the Executive Directors’ existing remuneration arrangements created by RHI and Magnesita for the CEO and CFO respectively. This enabled the continuation of the Executive Directors’ remuneration structure prior to listing while a new policy was developed by the Remuneration Committee to bring to the Company’s first AGM in June 2018 for approval. 84 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Please note, in the policy we have highlighted parts that were only legacy items for our past CFO, which are not applicable going forward. Policy table for Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance-related framework and recovery Base salary Salaries are paid monthly and reviewed annually. There is no prescribed Salaries will be reviewed by the Committee To assist in the maximum annual base annually taking into account the various factors recruitment and The Company’s policy is to set salaries at salary or salary increase. noted in the “How it operates” section of the retention of appropriate mid-market levels taking into account salaries policy. talent. at companies of a similar size by market In respect of salary capitalisation, revenue and any other factors increases the Committee To provide a fair considered relevant by the Committee such is guided by the general fixed level of pay as international business mix and complexity. increase for the broader commensurate for the employee population and role ensuring no over Decisions on salary are influenced by: region where the executive reliance on variable pay. ¥¥ The performance and experience of the is based. individual ¥¥ The performance of the Group ¥¥ The individual’s role and responsibilities and any change in those responsibilities ¥¥ Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group ¥¥ Rates of inflation and market-wide increases across international locations ¥¥ The geographic location of the executive Retirement allowance Directors may participate in a defined For the CEO and new None To provide competitive contribution plan, and/or receive cash in lieu of Directors 15% of salary. retirement benefits all or some of such benefit. for recruitment and For our past CFO 30% of retention purposes. Only base salary is pensionable. salary valid for 2018 only. NB: The new CFO will Exceptionally for Executive Directors outside the receive 15% of salary, as UK the pension will be structured as required by detailed above. local regulation and in line with industry norms. Exceptionally for Executive Our past CFO received a cash payment in lieu Directors outside of the UK of pension of 30% of salary. This is a legacy an amount as required by issue where the pension entitlement was set local regulation and in line on recruitment. This was valid for 2018 only. with industry norms. Other benefits Benefits provided currently include: private There is no maximum level None To provide a competitive health insurance, life insurance, car/car of benefits provided to an benefit package allowance and fuel allowance. Executive Director. for recruitment and retention purposes Our past CFO was entitled to reasonable as well as to support relocation expenses on termination of his the personal health contract (by either party). This is a legacy and well-being of issue where the benefit was in place prior the executive. to Admission. Additional benefits and tax payable as a result of reimbursement of reasonable business expenses may be provided from time to time if the Committee decides payment of such benefits and tax is appropriate and in line with market practice. 85 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Policy table for Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance-related framework and recovery Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on the Group’s Up to 150% of base salary Details of the performance targets set for the To provide focus on the performance as set and assessed by the maximum potential year under review and performance against short-term performance Committee on an annual basis. opportunity. them will normally be provided each year in the of the Company and Annual Report on Remuneration. If, for reasons to provide a reward for The annual bonus is paid in cash and the Target potential of commercial sensitivity, the targets cannot achieving short-term Executive Directors (except for our past CFO in opportunity is 50% of be disclosed then they will be disclosed in the personal, strategic and respect of his 2018 annual bonus) are required maximum opportunity. following year. financial Company to acquire shares in the Company with 50% of the amount paid in excess of target (after For 2018 the CFO’s target Performance normally measured over a one performance. potential opportunity was tax) which will be held for a minimum period year period. To provide a mechanism of three years. 100% of salary which for alignment is 83.3% of maximum Targets will be based on the Group’s annual with longer-term (on the basis that his financial and non-financial performance performance and maximum potential for the particular performance year. At least shareholder alignment. opportunity was 120% 70% of the bonus will be subject to financial of salary), and threshold performance metrics. The requirement for potential opportunity Executive Directors was 66.6% of maximum The Committee may scale back the bonus to acquire shares with (being 80% of salary). that is payable if it considers the outcome their bonus aligns them to be reasonably unacceptable or if it to the “development is not representative of the underlying of the market price performance of the Company and/or there of the shares” in the have been regulatory, environmental or Company as provided health and safety issues that the Committee in the Dutch Corporate considers are of such severity that a scale back Governance Code. of the bonus is appropriate. For the financial targets, not more than 25% of the maximum potential bonus opportunity will be payable for achieving threshold performance rising on a graduated scale to 100% for maximum performance. Threshold performance being the level of performance required for the bonus to start paying. In relation to strategic targets the structure of the target will vary based on the nature of the target set and it will not always be practicable to set targets using a graduated scale. Vesting may therefore take place in full if specific criteria are met in full. Payments under the annual bonus plan may be subject to clawback/malus for a period of three years from payment in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, an error in calculating the level of grant or level of vesting or payment, a failure of risk management including the liquidation of the Group, if the participant has been guilty of fraud or gross misconduct or the Company has been brought into disrepute. The clawback/malus provisions as set out above do not limit Article 2:135 of the Dutch Civil Code. 86 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Policy table for Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance-related framework and recovery Performance Share PS awards may take the form of nil-cost options 200% of salary (face value Awards vest based on three year (or longer) (“PS”) awards or conditional awards. of award) annually (normal performance measured against a range of granted under the limit). Where the face value challenging targets set and assessed by the RHI Magnesita LongAwards are normally made annually. is the market value of the Remuneration Committee. The Committee Term Incentive Plan Awards normally vest after three years subject shares subject to an award will determine the specific metrics and targets to performance and continued service. Where at the time it is awarded. that will apply to each award prior to the date To incentivise and of award subject to the vesting of at least reward execution Executive Directors cease employment or are In exceptional under notice prior to the three year vesting date 25% of an award being determined by Total of the longer-term circumstances on Shareholder Return. business strategy. different rules may apply. recruitment 250% of salary Shares resulting from the exercise of an option (face value of award). The targets for each award will be set out in To provide alignment the Annual Report on Remuneration. to shareholders and or vesting of a conditional award cannot be sold the longer-term until five years have elapsed from the date of In relation to financial targets not more than performance of the award, other than to pay tax. 25% of the total award will vest for threshold Company and to To the extent an award vests, the Committee performance rising on a graduated scale to recognise and reward may permit dividend equivalents to be paid 100% for maximum performance. Threshold value creation over the either in the form of cash or shares representing performance being the level of performance longer term. the dividends that would have been paid on required for the PS award to start to vest. In those shares during the vesting period (and relation to strategic targets the structure of the The “development target will vary based on the nature of the target of the market price where the award is a nil-cost option to the fifth anniversary of award). Dividend equivalents are set and it will not always be practicable to set of the shares” in targets using a graduated scale and so vesting the Company is, as payments in cash or shares equal to the value of the dividends that would have been paid during may take place in full if specific criteria are met required by the Dutch in full. Corporate Governance the period referred to above, on the number of Code, taken into shares that vest. The Committee may scale back the level account by providing of vesting if it considers the outcome to a long-term incentive be reasonably unacceptable or if it is not using shares as the reflective of the underlying performance of the delivery mechanism. Company and/or there have been regulatory, In addition, part of the environmental or health and safety issues that award is determined the Committee considers are of such severity by Total Shareholder that a scale back of the PS award is appropriate. Return which is a measure of share price PS may be subject to clawback/malus for three performance. years from the date of vesting in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, an error in calculating the level of grant or level of vesting or payment, a failure of risk management including the liquidation of the Group, if the participant has been guilty of fraud or gross misconduct or the Company has been brought into disrepute. The clawback/malus provisions as set out above do not limit Article 2:135 of the Dutch Civil Code. Share ownership Requirement for the Executive Directors is to The level of requirement None To increase alignment normally retain all of the shares acquired from will be disclosed in between management annual bonus payments following expiry of the Annual Report and shareholders the three year holding period and normally on Remuneration. and the longer-term 50% of vested Performance Shares (net of tax) performance of following the two year holding period until the the Company. shareholding requirement is achieved. The Committee normally expects this requirement to be met within five years of appointment or approval of this Policy, if later. 87 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Policy table for Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance-related framework and recovery Share ownership Requirement for the Executive Directors is to The level of requirement None To increase alignment normally retain all of the shares acquired from will be disclosed in between management annual bonus payments following expiry of the Annual Report and shareholders the three year holding period and normally on Remuneration. and the longer-term 50% of vested Performance Shares (net of tax) performance of following the two year holding period until the the Company. shareholding requirement is achieved. The Committee normally expects this requirement to be met within five years of appointment or approval of this Policy, if later. The table below sets out the remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman). Policy table for Non-Executive Directors Element and purpose How it operates Maximum opportunity Performance-related framework and recovery Non-Executive The Non-Executive Directors are paid a There is no prescribed None Directors (including basic fee. Supplemental fees may be paid maximum annual fee or the Chairman and for additional responsibilities and activities, fee increase. Deputy Chairman) including for a Committee Chairman and member of the main Board Committees The Board is guided by To provide fees and the Senior Independent Director. the general increase in reflecting time the Non-Executive market commitments and Cash fee normally paid quarterly. The but may decide to award a responsibilities of Chairman’s fee is inclusive of all of his lower or higher fee increase each role to enable responsibilities. to recognise, for example, recruitment of the an increase in the scale, Reasonable expenses incurred by the Nonscope or responsibility right calibre of NonExecutive Directors in carrying out their duties Executive Directors of the role and/or take may be reimbursed by the Company including account of relevant who can further any personal tax payable by the Non-Executive the interests of the market movements. Directors as a result of reimbursement of Group through their those expenses. The Company may also pay experience, stewardship an allowance in lieu of expenses if it deems and contribution to this is appropriate. strategic development of the Group. Fees are reviewed periodically. 88 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Performance criteria and discretions The Committee also retains discretion to The Company may also pay outplacement Selection of criteria make non-significant changes to the Policy costs, legal costs and other reasonable The Committee assesses annually at the without reverting to shareholders (for relevant costs associated with termination beginning of the relevant performance example, for regulatory, tax, legislative or and may settle any claim or potential claim period which performance measures, or administrative purposes). relating to the termination. combination and weighting of performance measures, are most appropriate for both Executive Directors’ service contracts Treatment of variable pay awards annual bonus and any Performance Share and payments for loss of office on termination awarded to reflect the Company’s strategic Service contracts and letters of Annual bonuses and PS awards are initiatives for the performance period. The appointment are available for inspection non-contractual and are dealt with in Committee has the discretion to change the at the Company’s registered office. accordance with the rules of the relevant performance measures for awards granted plans except that if Octavio Lopes’ contract in future years based upon the strategic Service contracts and loss of office is terminated by the Company before plans of the Company. The Committee sets It is the Company’s policy that notice payment is made of his 2017 bonus then what it considers are demanding targets for periods for Executive Directors will not he shall remain entitled to that bonus to be variable pay in the context of the Company’s exceed 12 months and the service contracts paid on the same date of payment as for the trading environment and strategic for Executive Directors, Mr Borgas and other executives of the Company. objectives and considering the Company’s Mr Botha, are terminable by either the internal financial planning, and market Company or the Executive Director on At the discretion of the Committee, in forecasts. Any non-financial goals will be 12 months’ notice. certain circumstances, for example, to well defined. incentivise short-term retention and The Committee’s policy in relation to completion of key business deliverables, Discretions retained by the Committee termination of service contracts is to deal and where poor performance is not relevant The Committee operates the Group’s with each case on its merits having regard to the cessation, a pro-rata bonus may variable pay plans according to their to the circumstances of the individual, become payable at the normal payment respective rules. In administering these the termination of employment, any date for the period of employment with plans, the Committee may apply certain legal advice received and what is in the financial performance targets based on full operational discretions. These include the best interests of the Company and its year performance. Where the Committee following: shareholders. An Executive Director’s decides to make a payment, the rationale service contract may be terminated early will be fully disclosed in the Annual Report ¥¥ determining the extent of vesting based (other than for cause) by payment in lieu of on Remuneration. on the assessment of performance; salary in equal monthly instalments over the ¥¥ determining the status of leavers and, notice period. The Company may include The default treatment for share-based where relevant, the extent of vesting; pension contributions and benefits within awards is that any unvested award will lapse the payment in lieu of notice if this is on termination of employment or, in certain ¥¥ determining the extent of vesting of PS deemed appropriate or is specifically circumstances on the executive giving awards under share based plans in the provided for in the service contract. Unless notice. However, under the rules of the event of a change of control; a contract specifically provides otherwise, long-term incentive plan under which PS ¥¥ making appropriate adjustments all payments would discontinue or reduce awards will be made, in certain prescribed required in certain circumstances (e.g. to the extent that alternative employment is circumstances, such as death, injury, rights issues, corporate restructuring obtained. There are no enhanced provisions ill-health, retirement with the Company’s events, variation of capital and special on a change of control and there are no agreement, redundancy, leaving the Group dividends); and specific severance arrangements. because the employer company or business ¥¥ adjusting existing targets if events occur leaves the Group or where the Committee that cause the Committee to determine An Executive Director’s service contract determines otherwise, awards are eligible to that the targets set are no longer may be terminated without notice for certain vest subject to the performance conditions appropriate and that amendment is events such as gross misconduct in which being met over the normal performance required so the relevant award can case no payments or compensation beyond period (or a shorter period where the achieve its original intended purpose, sums accrued to the date of termination will participant has died) and with the award provided that the new targets are not be paid. being reduced (unless the Committee materially less difficult to satisfy. considers, in exceptional circumstances, a different treatment is appropriate) by an amount to reflect the proportion of the performance period not actually served. 89 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued Approach to recruitment and promotions On recruitment, the Company may How the views of shareholders and The recruitment package for a new compensate for incentive pay (or benefit employees are taken into account Director would be set in accordance with arrangements) foregone from a previous The Committee formally consults directly the terms of the Company’s approved employer. Replacement share awards would with employees on executive pay via the remuneration policy. be made under the Company’s long-term Employee Representatives appointed to incentive plan and any subsequently the Board. In addition, the Committee takes On recruitment, salary may be set below the adopted share plans using the separate due account of the overall approach to normal market rate, with phased increases specific limit for these purposes of 250% of remuneration and the remuneration as the Director gains experience. salary (face value) or as necessary and as structures for employees in the Group permitted under the Listing Rules. The new when setting pay for the Executive Annual bonus opportunity will reflect the awards would take account of the structure Directors, for example consideration is period of service for the year. of awards being forfeited (cash or shares), given to Group-wide increases when quantum foregone, the extent to which determining any Executive Director The normal annual PS award limit is performance conditions apply, the salary increases. The Committee receives 200% of salary face value in a financial likelihood of meeting any existing periodic updates from the CEO and Human year (face value being the market value of performance conditions and the time left Resources Director function of the Group the shares subject to an award at the time it to vesting. which includes employee feedback is awarded). A higher limit of 250% of salary received on remuneration practices across (face value) is included in the recruitment Policy for Executive Directors on the Group. The Committee recognises the policy for use in exceptional circumstances external appointments importance of employee communication for the Company to be able to attract and Subject to Board approval, Executive and this was a major consideration in the secure the right candidate if required. Directors may accept external nonappointment of the Employee A PS award may be made shortly after an executive positions and retain the fees Representatives to the Board. appointment if the usual annual award date payable for such appointments. has passed. Two of the Company’s major shareholders Non-Executive Directors act as directors on the Board and thus On an internal appointment, any variable Letters of appointment and policy regular consultation on all elements of pay element awarded in respect of their on recruitment remuneration is ongoing. In addition, prior role will normally be allowed to All Non-Executive Directors have letters the Committee consulted with other key continue according to its terms. of appointment for a fixed period of three shareholders and took guidance from years, subject to reappointment each year shareholder representative bodies on The policy enables the Committee to at the AGM. No additional compensation the terms of the remuneration policy include those benefits it deems appropriate is payable on termination, with fees being and the new LTIP which was brought for an Executive Director. On recruitment, payable to the date of termination. The to shareholders at the 2018 AGM. The this may include benefits such as relocation, appointments are terminable by either resolutions put to the AGM relating to housing or schooling expenses. In arriving party on three months’ written notice. remuneration all received more than 99% at a benefits package the Committee’s support from voting shareholders. This, plus prevailing consideration will be to pay On appointment of a new Non-Executive any feedback received from time to time, only what is considered necessary and Director, the fee arrangement will be set as well as guidance from shareholder appropriate taking into account the in accordance with the approved representative bodies more generally will importance of securing the right candidate remuneration policy in force at that time. be considered as part of the Company’s for the job and acting in the best interests annual review of remuneration policy and of the Company’s shareholders and Legacy arrangements implementation of that policy. limiting certain benefits to a specified In approving this Directors’ Remuneration period where possible. Policy, authority is given to the Company to Remuneration comparison measurement honour any commitments entered in to with was considered as part of the Committee’s Directors, which were fully disclosed in the formulation of policy in terms of considering Admission document. Details of any such remuneration data for companies of a payments will be set out in the Annual comparable size and complexity to the Report on Remuneration as they arise. Company. This was only one of many factors considered by the Committee. 90 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Committee has taken note of the views Pay ratios Remuneration scenarios for of the Executive Directors with regard to the The Dutch Corporate Governance Code Executive Directors amount and structure of their remuneration recommends that from the financial year The Executive Director remuneration policy and the provisions of 3.1.2 of the Dutch 2018, and the UK Directors’ Reporting provides that a significant proportion of Corporate Governance Code (matters that Regulations require that from 2019, that remuneration is determined by Group should be taken into consideration when the Committee report pay ratios including performance. The graph below illustrates formulating the remuneration policy) have changes from the prior year as part of its how the total pay opportunities vary under been brought to their attention. determination of executive pay. Last year three different performance scenarios: RHI Magnesita reported the pay ratio of minimum, target and maximum. We have How the Executive Directors’ the CEO to the average salary of all the also shown an assumed share price Remuneration Policy relates to employees using a methodology which was appreciation of 50% for the Performance the wider Group in line with Dutch market practice. The ratio Share award during the performance period The policy described above applies was calculated using the CEO’s Single Total under the maximum payment scenario. specifically to the Company’s Executive and Figure of remuneration shown on page 94 Non-Executive Directors. The Committee and the total employee remuneration figure Assumptions is aware of and provides feedback on the (for the entire RHI Magnesita Group) shown Minimum: Fixed pay only (base salary, wider Group remuneration structures. in the accounts on page 99. The total pension and benefits). The Company’s policy is for the Executive employee remuneration figure is for all Target: Fixed pay plus 50% of 2019 Directors’ remuneration policy and structure employees in all Group companies and maximum annual bonus opportunity for the to be cascaded as far as practicable to the includes countries with significantly lower CEO and CFO with 50% vesting of the 2019 senior management team and for the levels of pay than Europe and the United PS award. overriding principles to be taken into States. RHI Magnesita only has around 104 Maximum: Fixed pay plus maximum annual account for the Group-wide policy. employees in the UK and falls below the bonus opportunity and 100% vesting of required threshold for UK pay ratio reporting 2019 PS award with an assumed share price Base salaries for the whole Group are requirements. As UK employees represent appreciation of 50% for the Performance operated under broadly the same policy less than 1% of RHI Magnesita’s employees, Share award during the performance period. as for the Executive Directors. The key the Committee considers that the above difference between the Executive Directors’ approach is appropriate in the As required under the Dutch Corporate policy and the wider Group’s policy is that circumstances and therefore the ratio has Code, scenario analyses have been carried the Executive Directors’ packages (and the been calculated on the same basis this year, out as part of the formulation of the policy senior management team to a lesser extent) as shown below. and to establish that the policy results in are weighted more to variable pay. appropriate and fair levels of remuneration Performance Share awards are reserved 2018 2017* including that the level and ratio of fixed for those identified as having the greatest CEO pay ratio 52 : 1 50 : 1 to variable pay does not encourage potential to influence Group level inappropriate risk taking or over-reliance * As RHI Magnesita was admitted to trading on performance which, given the cost of on variable pay while ensuring there is 27 October 2017, the 2017 CEO pay ratio is based operating such a plan, the Committee on the period 27 October to 31 December 2017 sufficient alignment to investors and the considers is the right approach and in the long-term performance of the Company best interests of the Company and its and development of the market value of shareholders. the shares of the Company. CEO New CFO1 €000 €000 Minimum 100% €1,011 Minimum 100% €581 Target 100% 26% 34% €2,507 Target 100% 25% 42% €1,767 Maximum 100% 36% 24% 12% €3,576 Maximum 100% 30% 31% 15% €2,081 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term Share price Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term Share price incentives appreciation 50% incentives appreciation 50% 1 This reflects annual remuneration of the new CFO joining the business on 1 April 2019 91 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration As a Dutch incorporated The Board has also determined to provide certain additional voluntary disclosures The following section provides details of how the Company’s Directors were and registered and UK recognising the importance of transparency of reporting. This Annual Report is compiled paid during the financial year to 31 December 2018. listed company on this basis. Remuneration Committee membership RHI Magnesita is required The remuneration arrangements for the Celia Baxter is the Chairman of the to comply with both Executive Directors contribute to long-term value creation: Committee and James Leng and Karl Sevelda members of the Committee. UK and Dutch They are all Independent Non-Executive ¥¥ By providing a fair and appropriate level Directors within the meaning of the UK reporting requirements of fixed remuneration that does not result and Dutch Corporate Governance Codes. including the UK and in over-reliance on variable pay and undue risk taking, thereby encouraging The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. Dutch Corporate the executives to focus on sustained long-term value creation. Other individuals, such as the Chief Governance Codes. ¥¥ By providing a balance of shortand Executive Officer, the Human Resources long-term incentives to ensure there is Director and external professional advisers focus on short term objectives that will may be invited to attend for all or part of any over time build to create long-term value meeting as and when appropriate and creation as well as long-term goals. necessary. No individual is present when their own remuneration is discussed. ¥¥ By requiring executives to acquire and retain shares in the Company. The Committee meets at least three times ¥¥ By offering long-term incentives where a year and at such other times as the the reward is delivered in shares which Chairman of the Committee shall require aligns executives to shareholder interests or as the Board may direct. The Committee and value as well as the performance of has formal terms of reference that can be the Company over the longer term. viewed on the Company’s website. ¥¥ By requiring performance measures in our long-term incentive to be measured Advisers over the longer term and for shares to be Korn Ferry Hay Group (“KF”), signatories to held post vesting for a further two year the UK Remuneration Consultants Group’s period. Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct), ¥¥ By incorporating metrics focused on were appointed by the Committee in long-term shareholder value, such as 2017 having submitted a proposal which total shareholder return. demonstrated their skills and experience in executive remuneration. KF provides advice A scenario analysis has been carried out as to the Committee on matters relating to part of the formulation and implementation executive remuneration. of the policy and is referred to in more detail in the policy section of this report. The In 2018 KF also provided executive search Committee typically reviews, on at least services to the Company. The Committee an annual basis, the impact of different was satisfied that the advice provided by performance scenarios on the potential KF was objective and independent having opportunity and payouts to be received by noted their commitment to the Code of Executive Directors and the alignment of Conduct. KF’s fees in respect of the 2018 these with the returns that might be financial year were £109,597 KF’s fees were received by shareholders. charged on the basis of the firm’s standard terms of business for advice provided. The pay ratio of the CEO to the average Linklaters drafted the LTIP Rules and their employee within the Company is provided fees in respect of the 2018 financial year on page 91 of the policy section of this report. were £33,600. Linklaters also provided general legal advice to the Company. 92 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Principal activities and matters addressed during 2018 Agenda items One-off items February Update on the investor consultation regarding the Remuneration Policy and new LTIP Review of Plan Rules for the Annual Bonus Scheme and the approach for “Joiners and Leavers” Review of expected FY 2017 annual bonus outturn Review and approval of the draft Plan Rules for the Finalising target setting for FY 2018 annual bonus LTIP and the approach for “Joiners and Leavers” Review of measures and targets for 2018 PS award Review of Draft Remuneration Report March Update on the investor consultation LTIP: Review of rules for shareholder approval at the AGM Review and approve FY 2017 annual bonus outturn for the Executive Directors Approval of 2017 Remuneration Report April Update on the investor consultation Review of Regulatory News Statement, with details of performance targets for PS awards Approval of targets for 2018 PS award August Review and approval of remuneration arrangements for the past CFO, Octavio Lopes Review and consideration of proposed changes on leaving the Company to UK Corporate Governance Code and Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations Review of the 2018 AGM voting on remuneration-related resolutions Review and approval of the Committee’s updated Annual Work Plan Review and approval in broad terms of Remuneration package for a new CFO Review and approval of proposed approach for treatment of leavers and joiners to the LTIP November Review of proposed update to the Terms of Reference, following the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code Confirmation of new CFO’s remuneration package FY 2018 bonus (outlook and projections of bonus payments for 2018, proposal on bonus measures and targets for 2019) Annual review and approval of salary/fixed compensation for Executive Management Team Review of projected performance of 2018 PS award Proposal on measures and targets for 2019 PS award Review of Chairman fee data Statement of voting at AGM At last year’s AGM, held on 7 June 2018, votes on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration and long-term incentive plan were cast as follows: Reason for Action vote against taken by Voting For Against Total Withheld if known committee Annual Report on Remuneration Votes for 27,204,121 2,404 27,273,696 67,171 N/A N/A % 99.99% 0.01% 100% N/A Directors’ remuneration policy Votes for 27,204,121 134,556 27,273,696 1 N/A N/A % 99.51% 0.49% N/A Approval of long-term incentive plan Votes for 27,173,549 100,146 27,273,696 1 N/A N/A % 99.63% 0.37% N/A The total voting rights of the Company on the day on which shareholders had to be on the register in order to be eligible to vote was 44,819,039. A “Vote withheld” is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the % of shares voted “For” or “Against” a resolution. 93 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Single total figure table (audited) The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2018 financial year for each Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company, together with comparative figures for 2017 for the period from the date of Admission 27 October to 31 December 2017 being 66 days. Legacy incentive Director1,2 Salary Taxable benefits3 Bonus4 Pension payments5 Total remuneration Year 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive Directors Stefan Borgas €826,000 €171,780 €8,823 €1,539 €1,090,876 €171,437 €147,650 €132,2255 €2,073,350 €476,981 Octavio Lopes £550,000 £99,452 £20,440 £3,696 £651,398 £100,447 £165,000 £29,836 £550,0007 £1,936,838 £233,431 Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt (Chairman) £220,000 £39,781 £220,000 £39,781 Celia Baxter £82,500 £14,918 £82,500 £14,918 Andrew Hosty £77,500 £14,014 £77,500 £14,014 Farsen Lambranho £65,000 £11,753 £65,000 £11,753 James Leng £102,500 £18,534 £102,500 £18,534 Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgeinstein £65,000 £12,658 £65,000 £12,658 John Ramsay £77,500 £14,014 £77,500 £14,014 Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer £72,500 £13,110 £72,500 £13,110 David A. Schlaff £65,000 £11,753 £65,000 £11,753 Karl Sevelda £72,500 £13,110 £72,500 £13,110 Janet Ashdown6 £6,250 N/A £6,250 N/A Fiona Paulus 6 £5,833 N/A £5,833 N/A Franz Reiter1 Michael Schwarz1 1 Employee directors attending Board meetings do not receive remuneration for that role, they are remunerated as employees of the Group 2 All amounts for 2017 detailed in the table above are in respect of the period from Admission on 27 October 2017 to 31 December 2017. Amounts payable in respect of the financial year 2017 have therefore been apportioned. All amounts are disclosed in the currencies in which the relevant elements of pay are set. Actual payment may be made in the currency where the recipient resides using the exchange rate at the time of payment 3 Benefits in 2018 comprise for Stefan Borgas a car benefit of €8,500 for the year and for Octavio Lopes a package of standard insured benefits being private medical and life insurance with an annual value of £20,440 4 For 2017 Stefan Borgas and Octavio Lopes received annual bonus payments determined by performance for the year ended 31 December 2017 against targets set at the beginning of the year for the RHI and Magnesita businesses respectively. The amounts shown in the table for 2017 are the pro-rating for the period 27 October to 31 December 2017 of the total amounts payable 5 Legacy incentive payments: This comprises the phantom share award for the CEO which was subject to a potential downward adjustment determined by performance for the year ended 31 December 2017 and accounted for in that year. The total value of the phantom shares is €731.247 and is payable in three equal annual instalments in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The amount shown in the table is the pro-rating for the period 27 October to 31 December 2017 of the total amount payable 6 Janet Ashdown and Fiona Paulus have accepted their nomination as Non-Executive Directors and their appointment will be voted upon at the 2019 AGM 7 Octavio Lopes received the second half of his retention bonus in October 2018 of 100% of salary (as disclosed in the 2017 Remuneration Report) which was awarded prior to Admission No loans, advances or guarantees have been provided to any Director. 94 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 2018 Annual bonus performance against targets (audited) The annual bonus for the Executive Directors Stefan Borgas and Octavio Lopes was determined following assessment of achievement of qualitative and quantitative targets as set out below: Past CFO CEO Payment Performance Performance Performance Payment (% of target for target for target for (% of salary) threshold target vesting maximum salary) Maximum Past CFO vesting (0% of of 75% of vesting 150% of CEO (% Maximum CEO cash Past CFO total cash bonus salary for CEO salary for CEO salary for CEO of total total pay bonus based (% of total payout based on Measure and and 80% of and 100% of and 120% of Actual for each out 150% on salary of for each 120% of salary of weighting salary for CFO) salary for CFO salary for CFO performance element) of salary €826.000 element) salary £550.000 Operating EBIT1 (35%) €302,9 million €329,6 million €409,7 million €399,6 million 93.6% 49.2% €406,060 97.9% 41.1% £226,101 Free Cash Flow FCF2 (25%) €207 million €228,8 million €294,8 million €370,5 million 100.0% 37.5% €309,750 100.0% 30.0% £ 65,000 Net Synergy Tracking3 (15%) €37,8 million €42,5 million €56,6 million €97 million 100.0% 22.5% €185,850 100.0% 18.0% £99,000 Strategic 61.1% 22.9% €189,216 98.2% 29.3% £61,297 See tables below Objectives4 (25%) Total 88.0% 132.1% € 1,090,8764 98.7% 118.4% £651,398 1 At constant currency and w/o restructuring expenses 2 Operating cash flow at constant currency. EBTIDA w/o restructuring expenses + CapEx + ΔWK + cash tax 3 Synergies are (financial) benefits achieved through the merger of the two companies 4 The CEO is expected to purchase shares in the Company to the value of 50% of any bonus paid net of tax, for performance above Target Chief Executive Officer Strategic measures* and weighting Performance Score China Business plan objective 2018 (33.3%) Performance measured against sales, EBIT and CAPEX targets 100% Development and implementation of new system (33.3%) Performance measured against delivery timing and adherence to system 83.30% Development and commencing implementation of business plan for strategic initiative (33.3%) Performance measured against sales, EBIT and CAPEX targets 0% Total score 61.1% * The CEO’s strategic objectives are market sensitive and details of all the specific initiatives are not therefore disclosed as the Board believes they would provide information to competitors. They will remain market sensitive because they are an integral part of our on-going business operations. The Committee has provided as much information as it is able given the nature of the objectives so that investors can be comfortable that the Committee has used a thorough approach in setting the objectives and targets and measuring the outcome Past Chief Financial Officer Strategic measures and weighting Performance Score Performance measured against fund raising with maximum specified cost and Restructuring of RHIM combined balance sheet (33.3%) repayment of Magnesita bonds 100% Implementation of operational hub in the Netherlands (33.3%) Performance measured against implementation timetable and annual savings 100% GBS(IMO) implementation (33.3%) Performance measured against target savings run rate, EBIT and build costs 94.40% Total score 98.2% No bonuses were awarded to Non-Executive Directors. 95 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Share awards where vesting is based on performance periods ending during the financial year ended 31 December 2018 (audited) There were no share awards where vesting is determined based on performance period during the financial year ended 31 December 2018. Share awards awarded during the financial year ended 31 December 2018 (audited) During 2018 our CEO was awarded Performance Shares with a value at the date of grant of 200% of salary. Details of the PS award and the performance targets that will determine the extent to which the award vests are set out below. There was no award to our past CFO Octavio Lopes. Percentage Percentage Share Price vesting at End of Basis of Date of of Salary used Face value threshold Number of performance Director Scheme award award Award €1 €000 performance shares period Stefan Borgas LTIP Annual award 7 Jun 2018 200% 57.773 1,652 25% 28,594 31 Dec 2020 1 The face value of the awards was calculated using the average closing price for the five trading days prior to the PS award being granted being £50.62 converted to € (using average FX rate over the same 5 days period of €1.14 to £1 = €57.773) The performance conditions and targets for the award are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold (25% vests) Maximum (100% vests) Performance period Relative TSR1 33.3% Equal to index Index +25%2 3 financial years commencing 20183 Adjusted EPS 33.3% €5.20 per share €6.50 per share (+ 2 years holding EBIT 33.3% €380m €435m post vesting) 1 Measured against the FTSE 350 Index 2 Being at least 25% in absolute terms higher than the Index (e.g. if Index TSR is 23% over three years then the vesting range is TSR of 23% to 48%) 3 For EPS and EBIT Performance Conditions the period of three financial year commencing with 2018. For the TSR Performance Condition the period of three financial year and one calendar month commencing with the financial year 2018 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum. Directors’ interests in RHI Magnesita’s long-term incentive plan The table below details outstanding PS awards. Share awards Share awards Share awards held at Awarded Vested lapsed held at 1 January during the during the during the 31 December Share value Vesting Director Scheme Award Date 2018 year year year 2018 at award date Stefan Borgas PSP 7 June 2018 28,594 28,594 1,652,0001 7 June 2021 1 The face value of the awards was calculated using the average closing price for the five trading days prior to the PS award being granted being £50.62 converted to EUR (using average FX rate over the same 5 days period of 1.14 EURO to £1 = €57.773) 96 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) Under the share ownership requirements set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Executive Directors are required to build normally over five years and maintain a shareholding equivalent to at least 200% of salary. At the 2018 year-end, the Executive Directors each held shares in the Company as detailed below. Shares are valued using the Company’s closing middle market share price on 31 December 2018 of £39.60. The table below shows how each Director complies with the shareholder guidelines at 31 December 2018 was as follows: Unvested Unvested Shares Shares and subject and held at 31 held at 31 to a service subject to December December requirement performance Shareholding Current Requirement 2018 2017 only conditions requirement shareholding met? Executive Directors Stefan Borgas 9,750 4,300 28,594 200% salary 40% No Octavio Lopes 127,894 127,894 200% salary 921% Yes Non-Executive Directors Herbert Cordt Celia Baxter 1,002 1,002 Andrew Hosty 379 379 Fersen Lambranho1 James Leng Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein2 Franz Reiter Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer David A. Schlaff3 11,347,058 11,347,058 John Ramsay 2,130 2,130 Michael Schwarz Janet Ashdown Fiona Paulus Karl Sevelda 1 4,258,905 ordinary shares are held by Alumina Holdings LLC, a corporate controlled by funds managed by GP Investments, which is itself controlled, indirectly, by persons including Fersen Lambranho and in which Octavio Lopes has a minority interest 2 Mr. Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein has a family relationship with persons who control Chestnut and Silver, each of which holds 2,088,461 ordinary shares 3 MSP Stiftung is a foundation under Liechtenstein law, whose founder is Mag. Martin Schlaff. Mr. Schlaff has certain supervisory rights and the right to unilaterally amend the foundation documents with respect to MSP Stiftung. Upon completion of the Merger MSP Stiftung directly and Mr. Schlaff indirectly (via MSP Stiftung) will hold 14,076,021 voting rights in the Issuer There were no changes in the Directors’ shareholdings and share interests between the end of the year and 31 March 2019. 97 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Review of past performance and CEO remuneration table (unaudited) Share price performance The closing middle market price of the shares at 31 December 2018 was £39.60 (2017: £39.05). During 2018, the shares traded in the range of £33.18 to £53.50. RHI Magnesita total shareholder return The graph below compares the Total Shareholder Return of the Company with the FTSE 350 Index over the 14-month period from Admission to 31 December 2018. This is considered an appropriate comparator for RHI Magnesita and aligns with the use of the FTSE 350 in the TSR performance measure for the Performance Share awards. 180 160 140 Value (£) (Rebased) 120 100 80 60 10/17 12/17 02/18 04/18 06/18 08/18 10/18 12/18 RHI Magnesita FTSE 350 Source: Datastream (Thompson Reuters) Remuneration of the CEO 2017 2018 Single figure of total remuneration €476,9811 €2,073,350 Annual bonus pay-out as % of maximum 83.16%2 88.04% Long-term incentive vesting rates as % of maximum 3 N/A N/A 1 The 2017 Single figure of Total Remuneration relates to the period 27 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 2 The 2017 Annual bonus pay-out as a % of maximum relates to bonus targets set prior to the merger of the two companies that now form RHI Magnesita 3 A long-term incentive plan was introduced when the Company was formed in October 2017. The first awards are not due to vest until 2021 based on a performance period ending 31 December 2020 (and shortly thereafter for the TSR element) 98 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Percentage change in remuneration of the CEO (unaudited) A comparison of the percentage change in Stefan Borgas’ salary, benefits and bonus against a relevant group of employees will be provided in 2019 when the percentage change between 2018 and 2019 will be given. This will be the first year where full 12-month comparative data will be available. Relative importance of spend on pay (unaudited) The following table sets out the change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year ended 31 December 2018 compared with the period from 27 October 2017 when the Company was admitted to trading and 31 December 2017. 27 Oct 2017 2018 31 Dec 2017 €million €million Total gross employee pay 594,2 82,2 Dividends2 74,3 33,6 1) Due to only having figures for 2017 from 27 October till year end we have not provided the % change with 12 months of 2018. The % of change between the full year of 2019 against 2018 will be given in next year Annual Report 2) Dividend is subject to AGM approval and is not time apportioned Payments to past Directors (audited) There were no payments to past Directors in the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. Payments for loss of office (audited) No payments were made to any Director in respect of loss of office in the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. As announced on 5 June 2018, the CFO, Octavio Lopes left the Company on 31 December 2018. Octavio Lopes received no compensation for loss of office. Following his departure, all salary and benefit payments will cease with the following exceptions: as Octavio Lopes worked the whole of 2018, he received a bonus in line with performance against the bonus targets, as described on page 95 and he will receive tax advisory services in respect of his personal tax affairs; the total cost for such services is unlikely to exceed £3,000. There are no outstanding long-term incentive awards. 2019 Remuneration (audited) Set out below is how the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be implemented during 2019. Salaries and fees for 2019 Percentage 2019 2018 change Executives Stefan Borgas €855,000 €826,000 3.5%1 Ian Botha2 €500,000 Non-Executives Chairman (inclusive all Committee fees) £ 220,000 £ 220,000 0% Non-Executive Directors £ 65,000 £ 65,000 0% Deputy Chair/Senior Independent Director £ 25,000 £ 25,000 0% Chairs of Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee £ 17,500 £ 12,500 40% Membership of the Audit & Compliance, and Remuneration Committees £ 7,500 £ 7,500 0% Chairs of Nomination Committee (unless held by the Chairman) and Corporate Sustainability Committee £ 17,500 £ 10,000 75% Membership of the Nomination and the Corporate Sustainability Committee £ 5,000 £ 5,000 0% 1 Base salary increased by 3,5% based on performance and aligned to salary increases of the workforce 2 Ian Botha will start 1 April 2019, and therefore in 2019 will receive €375,000 prorated from the full year annual salary as stated in the table 99 GOVERNANCE R H I M A G N E S I TA Annual Report on Remuneration continued Recruitment of new CFO Ian Botha will join the Company on 1 April 2019 on an annual base salary of €500,000. The structure of Ian Botha’s remuneration package is fully aligned to that of our CEO with the same annual bonus and long-term incentive targets and vesting schedules. Ian Botha’s annual bonus maximum opportunity is aligned to our CEO at 150% of salary and for 2019 pro-rated for service from 1 April and his PSP award is 150% of salary (our CEO’s is 200% of salary). Half of any bonus in excess of target (50% of maximum bonus) must be used to acquire shares in the Company and be held for at least three years. The PSP awards have a two year post vesting holding period. Ian Botha has the same shareholding requirement as our CEO at 200% of salary and a retirement allowance of 15% of salary. Ian Botha’s terms of appointment including his remuneration package were agreed and then an announcement made to the market on 21 September 2018. Ian Botha’s retirement allowance of 15% of salary was agreed to match the retirement allowance paid by his previous employer, to be the same as our CEO’s allowance and in line with the current shareholder approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The Committee has noted the provision of the updated UK Corporate Governance Code that executives’ pension provision should be aligned with the workforce and will address this requirement as part of the next policy review as well as take it into account when making any new Executive Director appointment. To secure his appointment and in line with the remuneration policy, the Committee will grant Ian Botha on joining the Company the following share awards to compensate for variable pay forfeited on leaving his previous employer. The expectation is that all the shares will be retained post vesting net of tax towards Ian Botha’s shareholding requirement. Both awards vest over a longer time horizon than the awards given up and the total value is less than the expected value of the awards forfeited. 1. A restricted share award over shares with a value at the date of grant of up to €750,000, vesting on the third anniversary of grant. This award is to replace deferred bonus share awards forfeited with the actual value awarded determined once the exact value of shares forfeited is known; this may result in a reduction in the value of shares awarded but no increase. 2. A PS award to replace a forfeited Performance Share award, over shares with a value at the date of grant of €750,000 and vesting determined by the same performance targets and vesting schedule as those set for the “normal” annual 2019 PSP award and as detailed on page 101. This award will have a two year post vesting holding period. These awards will be subject to the same clawback provisions applicable to our other share awards. Annual bonus for 2019 With the recruitment of Ian Botha as the new CFO, the bonus structure of the CEO and CFO will be aligned. The maximum potential annual bonus opportunity for FY2019 will be 150% of salary for both the CEO and CFO. The weighting of financial targets and strategic deliverables remains the same as in 2018, 75% of the annual bonus to be determined by Group financial targets and 25% by strategic deliverables. However, the weighting of the financial targets has been amended to increase the free cash flow weighting to 30% (2018: 25%) and the new synergy targets reduce to 10% (2018: 15%) as follows: Weighting (%) Performance criteria 2019 2018 Operating EBIT measured on a constant currency basis 35% 35% Free Cash Flow 30% 25% Net Synergy 10% 15% Strategic deliverables1,2 25% 25% 1 No bonus will be payable for strategic goals unless the Threshold target for EBIT is met 2 The specific targets relating to the 2019 bonus have not been disclosed at this stage as they are considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive and it is not considered in the interests of shareholders to disclose further details on a prospective basis. Details will be provided on a retrospective basis in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration All other elements of the annual bonus structure remain unchanged and are in line with the approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The CEO and the new CFO are required to use 50% of any bonus earned in excess of target (net of tax) to acquire shares in the Company that will be held for a minimum of three years. 100 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 2019 LTIP awards Our CEO will be granted a PS award over shares with a value at grant of 200% and our new CFO 150% of salary. The performance measures and targets for the 2019 awards are set out below. Our 2018 LTIP awards were subject to relative TSR, adjusted EPS and EBIT targets. For 2019 the Committee has replaced the EBIT metric with Economic Profit Growth. Economic Profit Growth was a key performance indicator (KPI) of the Magnesita business prior to the Combination (of RHI and Magnesita) and has been introduced as a KPI for the combined businesses from 2019 onwards in order to manage and measure the long-term value of the Company. The Committee therefore consider it important to include Economic Profit Growth as one of the performance measures for the 2019 LTIP. The Committee has changed the measurement of TSR from the percentage growth against the FTSE 350 index to reviewing its performance against a relevant group of FTSE 350 companies. This change of measurement is seen to be no less challenging than the previous measurement. Shares resulting from the exercise of a Performance Share award cannot be sold until five years have elapsed from the date of award, other than to pay tax. Awards will be subject to clawback and malus provisions. Performance measure Weighting Threshold (25% vesting) Maximum (100% vesting) Performance period Relative TSR1 ranking 33.30% 50th percentile 75th percentile 2019 to 2021 Adjusted EPS 33.30% €7.8 per share €9.0 per share (+ 2 year holding period post vesting) Economic profit growth 33.30% €600m €670m 1 Measured against the FTSE 350, excluding sectors with limited direct relevance to RHI Magnesita 2 Being at least 25% in absolute terms higher than the Index (e.g. if Index TSR is 23% over three years then the vesting range is TSR of 23% to 48%) Awards vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum. Terminology for Performance Share awards The RHI Magnesita long-term incentive plan (the Plan) was approved by shareholders at the AGM 2018. After approval Performance Share awards may be granted under the Plan. The grant of an award is when participants are told they will receive shares provided performance targets are met. Participants do not receive shares at the time an award is granted. Performance targets are set at the time the award is granted and measured over a performance period of three financial years. At the end of the performance period the performance targets are tested against performance. An award will vest if the performance targets are met. If the performance targets are only met in part then only part of the award will vest. When the award vests the participant receives shares in the Company. If therefore a participant is granted an award over 100 shares but the performance targets are only met in part and only 50% of the award vests, the participant will receive 50 shares. Once an award vests the Executive Directors must retain the vested shares for a further two years (subject to the sale of sufficient shares to meet any tax payable on vesting). This Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 26 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by order of the Board. CELIA BAXTER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 101 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA 102 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 102 Financial statements 104 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 105 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2018 195 Independent Auditor’s Report Other information 203 Alternative performance measures (“APMs”) 204 Shareholder information 103 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of 31.12.2018 in € million Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill (11) 117.4 120.2 Other intangible assets (12) 334.4 373.0 Property, plant and equipment (13) 1,094.8 1,141.7 Investments in joint ventures and associates (14) 21.8 21.4 Other non-current financial assets (15) 18.0 25.1 Other non-current assets (16) 34.3 24.2 Deferred tax assets (17) 171.1 140.1 1,791.8 1,845.7 Current assets Inventories (18) 717.8 654.5 Trade and other current receivables (19) 481.2 522.6 Income tax receivables (20) 18.4 13.5 Other current financial assets (21) 38.6 34.1 Cash and cash equivalents (22) 491.2 442.4 1,747.2 1,667.1 3,539.0 3,512.8 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital (23) 48.3 44.8 Group reserves (24) 752.2 574.0 Equity attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. 800.5 618.8 Non-controlling interests (25) 84.8 226.9 885.3 845.7 Non-current liabilities Borrowings (26) 844.8 983.8 Other non-current financial liabilities (27) 49.5 55.5 Deferred tax liabilities (17) 78.4 64.7 Provisions for pensions (28) 304.3 308.7 Other personnel provisions (29) 78.5 82.5 Other non-current provisions (30) 109.2 115.7 Other non-current liabilities (31) 10.3 9.0 1,475.0 1,619.9 Current liabilities Borrowings (26) 321.6 241.8 Other current financial liabilities (27) 15.0 17.4 Trade payables and other current liabilities (32) 756.9 678.2 Income tax liabilities (33) 32.2 16.1 Current provisions (34) 53.0 93.7 1,178.7 1,047.2 3,539.0 3,512.8 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1102 04 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AANNNNUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018 in € million Notes 2018 20171) Revenue (35) 3,081.4 1,950.1 Cost of sales (36) (2,344.5) (1,543.4) Gross profit 736.9 406.7 Selling and marketing expenses (37) (128.9) (101.2) General and administrative expenses (38) (208.4) (143.1) Other income (39) 43.9 10.4 Other expenses (40) (44.9) (107.3) EBIT 398.6 65.5 Interest income (41) 9.7 5.6 Interest expenses on borrowings (48.5) (23.6) Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives (42) (81.3) (50.8) Other net financial expenses (43) (42.6) (13.6) Net finance costs (162.7) (82.4) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (14) 10.1 11.0 Profit/(Loss) before income tax 246.0 (5.9) Income tax (44) (58.9) (4.9) Profit/(Loss) after income tax 187.1 (10.8) attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. 158.1 (17.4) attributable to non-controlling interests (25) 29.0 6.6 in € Earnings per share (basic and diluted) (51) 3.52 (0.43) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita and the changes in presentation. 1103 05 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018 in € million Notes 2018 20171) Profit/(Loss) after income tax 187.1 (10.8) Currency translation differences Unrealised results from currency translation (7) (20.3) (49.3) Deferred taxes thereon (17) 0.9 1.7 Current taxes thereon 0.0 (0.4) Reclassification to profit or loss 0.0 40.7 Deferred taxes thereon 0.0 (5.7) Current taxes thereon 0.0 (0.5) Cash flow hedges Unrealised fair value changes (53) (6.8) 0.6 Deferred taxes thereon (17) 1.8 (0.1) Reclassification to profit or loss (53) 0.0 0.5 Deferred taxes thereon (17) 0.0 (0.1) Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (14) 0.1 0.0 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, if necessary (24.3) (12.6) Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (28) (11.5) (11.3) Deferred taxes thereon (17) 3.0 2.9 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (14) 0.0 (0.1) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (8.5) (8.5) Other comprehensive (loss) after income tax (32.8) (21.1) Total comprehensive income/(loss) 154.3 (31.9) attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. 137.9 (30.7) attributable to non-controlling interests (25) 16.4 (1.2) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1104 06 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AAN NN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018 in € million Notes 2018 20171) Profit/(Loss) after income tax 187.1 (10.8) Adjustments for income tax 58.9 4.9 depreciation 124.8 66.2 amortisation 28.6 13.4 impairment losses of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.0 19.8 income from the reversal of investment subsidies (0.5) (1.2) write-ups/ impairment losses on securities 0.3 1.9 losses from the disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.5 gains from the disposal of securities and shares (0.7) 0.0 losses from the disposal of subsidiaries 0.0 19.3 net interest expense and derivatives 92.5 13.3 share of profit of joint ventures and associates (10.1) (11.0) other non-cash changes 18.1 82.0 Changes in inventories (56.7) (89.3) trade receivables 20.0 12.1 other receivables and assets (29.5) 7.6 provisions (59.4) (15.2) trade payables 55.1 111.1 prepayments received on orders 30.2 9.1 other liabilities 2.1 20.6 Cash generated from operations 462.2 255.3 Income tax paid less refunds (67.9) (41.9) Net cash inflow from operating activities (47) 394.3 213.4 Investments in subsidiaries net of cash acquired 0.0 45.1 Proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries net of cash disposed of 0.0 30.6 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (122.6) (72.0) Cash inflows from the sale of property, plant and equipment 2.9 2.7 Investments in/ cash inflows from non-current receivables 0.4 (0.2) Investments in securities (121.2) (11.8) Cash inflows from the sale of securities and shares 118.4 21.8 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 11.0 10.8 Investment subsidies received 2.1 1.2 Interest received 8.2 5.1 Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (100.8) 33.3 Share issue costs (6.2) (3.0) Capital contribution to associates (1.4) 0.0 Proceeds from sale of non-controlling interests 9.2 0.0 Acquisition of non-controlling interests (80.1) (0.6) Dividend payments to shareholders of the Group (33.6) (29.9) Dividend payments to non-controlling interests (1.1) (1.1) Proceeds from non-current borrowings and loans 489.8 459.8 Repayments of non-current borrowings and loans (650.9) (375.6) Proceeds from current borrowings and loans 245.1 0.0 Repayments of current borrowings and loans (151.0) 0.0 Changes in current borrowings 26.4 (8.3) Interest payments (71.1) (24.9) Cash flows from derivatives (20.1) 8.2 Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (48) (245.0) 24.6 Total cash flow 48.5 271.3 Change in cash and cash equivalents 48.5 271.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 442.4 182.9 Foreign exchange impact 0.3 (11.8) Cash and cash equivalents at year-end (22) 491.2 442.4 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1105 07 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018 Additional Share paid-in in € million capital capital Mandatory reserve Notes (23) (24) (24) 31.12.20171) 44.8 165.7 288.7 Effects of initial application of IFRS 15 (net of tax) Effects of initial application of IFRS 9 (net of tax) 01.01.2018 44.8 165.7 288.7 Profit after income tax Currency translation differences Market valuation of cash flow hedges Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates Other comprehensive income after income tax Total comprehensive income Dividends Issue of ordinary shares related to the mandatory tender offer of Magnesita 3.5 139.8 Sale of non-controlling interests without loss of control Acquisition in non-controlling interests without change of control Share-based payments Transactions with shareholders 3.5 139.8 31.12.2018 48.3 305.5 288.7 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Additional Share paid-in in € million capital capital Mandatory reserve Notes (23) (24) (24) 01.01.2017 289.4 38.3 Profit after income tax Currency translation differences Cash flow hedges Remeasurement of defined benefit plans Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures Other comprehensive income after income tax Total comprehensive income Dividends Issue of ordinary shares related to business combinations 5.0 174.5 Share issue costs, net of tax (8.8) Change in non-controlling interests due to addition to consolidated companies Transactions with shareholders 5.0 165.7 Disposal of defined benefit plans Downstream merger from RHI AG to RHI Magnesita N.V. (249.6) (38.3) 288.7 Reclassifications (249.6) (38.3) 288.7 31.12.20171) 44.8 165.7 288.7 1106 08 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AAN NNNU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Group reserves Accumulated other comprehensive income Equity attributable Defined to shareholders Non-controlling Retained earnings Cash flow hedges benefit plans Currency translation of RHI Magnesita N.V. interests Total equity (24) (24) (24) (24) (25) 281.9 0.1 (107.7) (54.7) 618.8 226.9 845.7 (6.0) (6.0) (0.6) (6.6) 1.8 1.8 1.8 277.7 0.1 (107.7) (54.7) 614.6 226.3 840.9 158.1 158.1 29.0 187.1 (8.5) (8.5) (10.9) (19.4) (5.2) (5.2) 0.2 (5.0) (6.6) (6.6) (1.9) (8.5) 0.1 0.1 0.1 (5.2) (6.6) (8.4) (20.2) (12.6) (32.8) 158.1 (5.2) (6.6) (8.4) 137.9 16.4 154.3 (33.6) (33.6) (1.2) (34.8) 143.3 143.3 7.2 0.2 7.4 1.7 9.1 (59.4) 0.1 0.1 (10.9) (70.1) (158.4) (228.5) 1.0 1.0 1.0 (84.8) 0.1 0.1 (10.7) 48.0 (157.9) (109.9) 351.0 (5.0) (114.2) (73.8) 800.5 84.8 885.3 Group reserves Accumulated other comprehensive income Equity attributable Defined to shareholders Non-controlling Total Retained earnings Cash flow hedges benefit plans Currency translation of RHI Magnesita N.V. interests equity (24) (24) (24) (24) (25) 331.0 (0.7) (100.3) (49.0) 508.7 15.3 524.0 (17.4) (17.4) 6.6 (10.8) (5.7) (5.7) (7.8) (13.5) 0.8 0.8 0.1 0.9 (8.3) (8.3) (0.1) (8.4) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 0.8 (8.4) (5.7) (13.3) (7.8) (21.1) (17.4) 0.8 (8.4) (5.7) (30.7) (1.2) (31.9) (29.9) (29.9) (1.2) (31.1) 179.5 179.5 (8.8) (8.8) 0.0 214.0 214.0 (29.9) 140.8 212.8 353.6 (1.0) 1.0 (0.8) (1.8) 1.0 281.9 0.1 (107.7) (54.7) 618.8 226.9 845.7 1 107 09 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2018 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS 1. General RHI Magnesita N.V. (the “Company”), a public company with limited liability under Dutch law is registered with the Dutch Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce under the number 68991665 and has its corporate seat in Arnhem, Netherlands. The administrative seat and registered office is located at Kranichberggasse 6, 1120 Vienna, Austria. The Company and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (the “Group”) is a global industrial group whose core activities comprise of the development and production, sale, installation and maintenance of high-grade refractory products and systems used in industrial high-temperature processes exceeding 1,200°C. The Group supplies customers in the steel, cement, lime, glass and nonferrous metals industries. In addition, the Group’s products are used in the environment (waste incineration), energy (refractory construction) and chemicals (petrochemicals) sectors. The shares of RHI Magnesita N.V. are listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and are included in the FTSE 250 Index. RHI Magnesita N.V. was incorporated on 20 June 2017 and became the ultimate parent of the RHI Magnesita Group as of 26 October 2017, after completing the corporate restructuring of RHI AG. Until then, RHI AG was the ultimate parent of the Group. This restructuring represented a common control transaction that had no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements, except for the reclassification of individual equity components. The financial year of RHI Magnesita N.V. and the Group corresponds to the calendar year. If the financial years of subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements do not end on 31 December due to local legal requirements, a special set of financial statements are prepared for the purpose of consolidation. The reporting date of the Indian subsidiaries is 31 March. The Consolidated Financial Statements for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018 were drawn up in accordance with all International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) mandatory at the time of preparation as adopted by the European Union (EU). The presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position distinguishes between current and non-current assets and liabilities. Assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are due within one year or within a longer normal business cycle or if the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date. Inventories as well as trade receivables and trade payables are generally presented as current items. Deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as assets and provisions for pensions and termination benefits are generally presented as non-current items. The Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is drawn up in accordance with the cost of sales method. Under this method, revenue is offset against the expenses incurred to generate it, which are allocated to the functions production, sales and administration. With the exception of specific items such as derivative financial instruments and plan assets for defined benefit obligations, the Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in agreement with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, as adopted by the EU, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that influence the amount and presentation of assets and liabilities recognised as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the reporting date and the recognition of income and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates reflect the best knowledge of the management based on experience from comparable transactions, the actual values recognised at a later date may differ from these estimates. All amounts in the Notes and tables are shown in € million, unless indicated otherwise. For computational reasons, rounding differences may occur. The Annual Report was authorised for issue on 26 March 2019 and is subject to adoption at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 6 June 2019. 1108 10 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 2. Initial application of new financial reporting standards In 2018, the Group has applied for the first time a number of new standards and interpretations as well as amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2018. Publication Effects on RHI Magnesita Standard Title (EU endorsement)1) Consolidated Financial Statements New standards and interpretations 24.07.2014 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (22.11.2016) No material effects 28.05.2014/ 11.09.2015 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (22.09.2016) Timing differences in revenue recognition 12.04.2016 IFRS 15 Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (31.10.2017) Timing differences in revenue recognition 08.12.2016 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration (28.03.2018) No effect 08.12.2016 Various Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle (07.02.2018) No effect Amendments of standards 08.12.2016 IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property (14.03.2018) Not relevant Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment 20.06.2016 IFRS 2 Transactions (26.02.2018) No effect Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance 12.09.2016 IFRS 4 Contracts (03.11.2017) Not relevant 1 According to EU Endorsement Status Report of 11.02.2019. IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” IFRS 9 was published in July 2014 and endorsed by the European Union on 22 November 2016. It is to be applied effective 1 January 2018. IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on classification and measurement of financial instruments, including a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and new general hedge accounting requirements. The standard replaces existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. RHI Magnesita implemented IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 using the modified retrospective approach, meaning that the 2017 comparative numbers in the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements are not restated. The impact of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018 amounting to €1.8 million was recognised in equity additional information on that effect is disclosed in the table at the end of Note (2) summarising the effects of the initial application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. No reclassifications between different components of equity were required due to the initial application of IFRS 9. With regard to the revised classification and measurement principles, IFRS 9 contains three classification categories: “measured at amortised cost”, “fair value through other comprehensive income” and “fair value through profit or loss”. The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories: “loans and receivables”, “held to maturity” and “available-for-sale”. The resulting effect of the reclassification of the financial assets due to the adoption of IFRS 9 was immaterial. Subsequent accounting differences may arise due to the new classification under IFRS 9. Shares in investment funds that were previously classified as “available-for-sale”, with respective changes in fair value accounted for through other comprehensive income, are now classified as “fair value through profit or loss” as the payments made in connection with the funds do not solely constitute payments of principal and interest. Changes in fair value are therefore recognised in profit or loss. In addition, equity instruments from the “at amortised cost” and “available-for-sale” categories were classified as “fair value through profit or loss”. For the category “measured at amortised cost”, IFRS 9 replaces the previously applied incurred loss model under IAS 39 with the expected loss model. The expected loss model implies a three-stage model for financial assets. Stage 1 is applied when the credit risk has not risen significantly and an investment grade rating exists. Consequently, a risk provision for credit losses expected from possible default events within the next twelve months has to be recognised. Stage 2 is applied when the credit risk of receivables has risen significantly, in which case a risk provision amounting to the expected credit losses that result from all default events over the remaining term of the instrument has to be recognised. Stage 3 is equivalent to default. IFRS 9 requires a simplified impairment approach for trade receivables and contract assets that do not contain a significant financing component. With this simplified approach, the risk provision is to be 109 111 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued recognised according to Stage 2. Therefore, the expected credit losses are recognised over the remaining term of the instrument. The initial application effect in equity resulting from the impairment of trade receivables after deduction of deferred taxes amounted to €1.8 million, which is shown in retained earnings. In accordance with the transition provisions for hedge accounting laid out in IFRS 9, the Group applied the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements prospectively from the date of initial application on 1 January 2018. The Group’s qualifying hedging relationships in place as at 1 January 2018 also qualify for hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 and were therefore regarded as continuing hedging relationships. The following table provides information about the impact of IFRS 9 only. It states each class of financial assets and financial liabilities as well as the respective carrying amounts under the original category IAS 39 compared to the new IFRS 9 category. Original Carrying amount as Carrying amount measurement Measurement per IAS 39 as per IFRS 9 in € million1) category IAS 392) category IFRS 92) 31.12.20173) 01.01.2018 Interests in subsidiaries not consolidated (FAAC) AC FVPL 0.8 0.8 Available-for-sale investments (AfS) FVOCI FVPL 0.4 0.4 Available-for-sale securities (AfS) FVOCI FVPL 12.6 12.6 Available-for-sale shares (AfS) FVOCI FVPL 2.4 2.4 Securities designated as fair value through profit or loss (FAFVTPL) FVPL FVPL 2.3 2.3 Interest derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 1.5 1.5 Non-current receivables from disposal of subsidiaries (LaR) AC AC 2.6 2.6 Other non-current financial receivables (LaR) AC AC 2.5 2.5 Trade and other current receivables4) (LaR) AC AC 412.5 414.9 Other current financial receivables (LaR) AC AC 0.1 0.1 Financial assets held for trading securities (FAHfT) FVPL FVPL 32.3 32.3 Financial assets held for trading derivatives (FAHfT) FVPL FVPL 1.7 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents (LaR) AC AC 442.4 442.4 Financial assets 914.1 916.5 Liabilities to financial institutions (FLAAC) AC AC 953.0 953.0 Perpetual bonds (FLAAC) AC AC 215.3 215.3 Senior notes (FLAAC) AC AC 55.6 55.6 Other financial liabilities (FLAAC) AC AC 1.7 1.7 Financial liabilities held for trading derivatives (FLHfT) FVPL FVPL 40.9 40.9 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests (FLAAC) AC AC 32.0 32.0 Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries (FLFVTPL) FVPL FVPL 0.6 0.6 Trade payables and other current liabilities (FLAAC) 5) AC AC 507.0 507.0 Financial liabilities 1,806.1 1,806.1 1 FAAC: Financial assets at amortised cost. AfS: Available for sale financial instruments. LaR: Loans and receivables. FAHfT: Financial assets held for trading. FLAAC: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. FLHfT: Financial liabilities held for trading. FLFVTPL: Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. 2 FVPL: Financial assets/financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. AC: Financial assets/financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. FVOCI: Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. 3 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 4 Thereof non-financial receivables per 01.01.2018: €110.1 million. 5 Thereof non-financial liabilities per 01.01.2018: €171.2 million. In addition to this table, a change took place for receivables from long-term construction contracts previously accounted for using the percentage of completion method according to IAS 11. These receivables were reclassified from non-financial receivables to financial receivables and are now included in trade and other current receivables in accordance with IFRS 15. 1110 12 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 “Revenue” and IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” as well as the corresponding interpretations. RHI Magnesita Group applied IFRS 15 using the modified retrospective approach with effect as of 1 January 2018. The cumulative effect of initial application was therefore recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 without restating the comparable period. Changes from the initial application of IFRS 15 arose in the following areas:  Revenue from the delivery of products is recognised at the point in time when control over the products is passed to the customer, which is determined based on the individual Incoterms rules agreed in the customer contract. In the course of contracts for the delivery of refractory products, control of the goods is passed to the customer typically when physical possession has been transferred to the customer. Therefore, for the Incoterms rules CPT (Carriage paid to), CIP (Carriage and Insurance paid to) as well as for CFR (Cost and Freight) and CIF (Cost, Insurance and Freight) it was determined, that the time of passing control deviates from the time of transfer of significant risks and rewards. As a result, revenue will be recognised at a later point in time than previously under IAS 18. Therefore, the effect from the initial application of IFRS 15 resulted in a reduction of trade and other current receivables in the amount of €28.4 million and in an increase of inventories in the amount of €19.9 million. The negative equity effect from the reversal of revenue from the delivery of products, after deduction of deferred taxes, amounted to €6.6 million as of 1 January 2018.  Changes in presentation of expected penalty fees were necessary. Previously, expected penalty fees were recognised as provisions, whereas according to IFRS 15 they are considered as variable consideration and therefore shown as either a contract liability or refund liability. Consequently, a total amount of €4.3 million was reclassified from current provisions to trade payables and other current liabilities as of 1 January 2018 in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  Receivables from long-term construction contracts in the amount of €11.7 million were reclassified to trade receivables within the same item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position trade and other current receivables as of 1 January 2018 because RHI Magnesita’s right to consideration is unconditional. The summary of the effects on the individual positions of the Statement of Financial Position from the initial application of IFRS 15 as of 1 January 2018 is shown in the table at the end of this Note. For the purpose of the transition to IFRS 15, the Group did not apply the available optional practical expedients. The following tables show the effects of IFRS 15 for the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of 31 December 2018 and the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss from 1 January to 31 December 2018. 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 Adjustments without application in € million as reported IFRS 15 of IFRS 15 Inventories 717.8 (25.0) 692.8 Trade and other current receivables 481.2 25.6 506.8 Current assets 1,747.2 0.6 1,747.8 ASSETS 3,539.0 0.6 3,539.6 Group reserves 752.2 5.5 757.7 Equity attributable to the shareholders 800.5 5.5 806.0 Non-controlling interests 84.8 0.1 84.9 Equity 885.3 5.6 890.9 Trade payables and other current liabilities 756.9 (10.5) 746.4 Income tax liabilities 32.2 1.7 33.9 Current provisions 53.0 3.8 56.8 Current liabilities 1,178.7 (5.0) 1,173.7 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,539.0 0.6 3,539.6 1 111 13 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Adjustments without application in € million as reported IFRS 15 of IFRS 15 Revenue 3,081.4 32.3 3,113.7 Cost of sales (2,344.5) (25.0) (2,369.5) Gross profit 736.9 7.3 744.2 EBIT 398.6 7.3 405.9 Profit before income tax 246.0 7.3 253.3 Income tax (58.9) (1.7) (60.6) Profit after income tax 187.1 5.6 192.7 attributable to the shareholders 158.1 4.9 163.0 attributable to non-controlling interests 29.0 0.7 29.7 Summary of the effects of the initial application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 Effects of the initial Effects of the initial application of application of in € million 31.12.20171) IFRS 9 IFRS 15 01.01.2018 Deferred tax assets 140.1 (0.6) 1.7 141.2 Non-current assets 1,845.7 (0.6) 1.7 1,846.8 Inventories 654.5 0.0 19.9 674.4 Trade and other current receivables 522.6 2.4 (28.4) 496.6 Current assets 1,667.1 2.4 (8.5) 1,661.0 ASSETS 3,512.8 1.8 (6.8) 3,507.8 Group reserves 574.0 1.8 (6.0) 569.8 Equity attributable to the shareholders 618.8 1.8 (6.0) 614.6 Non-controlling interests 226.9 0.0 (0.6) 226.3 Equity 845.7 1.8 (6.6) 840.9 Deferred tax liabilities 64.7 0.0 (0.2) 64.5 Non-current liabilities 1,619.9 0.0 (0.2) 1,619.7 Trade payables and other current liabilities 678.2 0.0 4.3 682.5 Current provisions 93.7 0.0 (4.3) 89.4 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,512.8 1.8 (6.8) 3,507.8 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1112 14 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTAA AN A NN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 3. Other changes in comparative information Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The Statement of Financial Position per 31 December 2017 was adjusted for the final fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities of Magnesita. The details of the effects are shown in Note (5) Group of consolidated companies under Acquisition of Magnesita. Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss The Statement of Profit or Loss 2017 was adjusted for the effects of the subsequent measurement of the values determined in the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Additionally, in order to improve comparability with other FTSE 350 companies and ensure better understanding of the entity’s financial performance, certain items in the Statement of Profit or Loss 2017 were reclassified. As of 31 December 2017, the effect on revenue amounted to €4.0 million, on gross profit to €(23.3) million, on EBIT to €50.8 million and on net finance costs to €(50.8) million. Variable commissions in the amount of €(27.3) million as of 31 December 2017 were reclassified from selling and marketing expenses to cost of sales and the expenses for strategic and merger-related projects (2017: €24.4 million) are now presented in other expenses, instead of general and administrative expenses. Variable commissions are costs directly linked with revenue. This reclassification should ensure better interpretation of these costs. Foreign exchange gains and losses as well as the effects from derivatives were reclassified from other income and expenses to a separate line item in net finance costs which is called “Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives”. This reclassification was done because the majority of foreign exchange effects are incurred due to financing activities and the effects from derivatives are related to foreign exchange effects. Additionally, interest expenses on borrowings are now reported as a separate item due to its significance. Other net financial expenses include all remaining financial income and expenses. The information for the previous year was adjusted accordingly. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Cash flows from derivatives in the amount of €8.2 million were reclassified from cash flow from operating activities to net cash flow from financing activities because they are related to foreign exchange effects of financing activities. Segment reporting In 2018, RHI Magnesita reorganised its internal structure and reporting. The activities formerly concentrated in the Raw material segment are now split between the Steel and Industrial segment. Each segment serves different customers and generates exclusively external revenue. The gross profit serves the management of the RHI Magnesita Group for internal performance management. The profit of joint ventures and associates, net finance costs and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated. The information for the previous year was adjusted accordingly. 4. New financial reporting standards not yet applied The Group has chosen to not early adopt the following new and revised IFRSs, that have been issued by the IASB, but are not yet mandatory: Expected effects on RHI Publication Mandatory application for Magnesita Consolidated Standard Title (EU endorsement)1) RHI Magnesita Financial Statements New standards 12.10.2017 IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (22.03.2018) 01.01.2019 No effect 13.01.2016 IFRS 16 Leases (31.10.2017) 01.01.2019 Material effects expected 07.06.2017 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments (23.10.2018) 01.01.2019 No effect Amendments of standards 12.10.2017 IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures (08.02.2019) 01.01.2019 No effect 1 According to EU Endorsement Status Report of 11.02.2019. 1113 15 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued IFRS 16 “Leases” General impact of application of IFRS 16 Leases The accounting standard IFRS 16, which was issued in January 2016, supersedes IAS 17 “Leases” and the related interpretations and is applicable to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Accounting for the lessor according to IFRS 16 is comparable to the current regulations. In contrast, accounting will change fundamentally for the lessee with the application of IFRS 16. In future, most leases will have to be recognised as assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position of the lessee, regardless of whether they are considered operating or financing leases under the previous criteria of IAS 17. According to IFRS 16, a lessee recognises a right of use, which represents his right to use the underlying asset, and a liability from the lease, which reflects the obligation of lease payments. Exemptions are provided for short-term leases and assets of minor value. Moreover, the type of expenses related to these leases will change since IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line expenses for operating leases with a depreciation charge for rights of use and interest expenses for liabilities from the lease. In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, there is a shift from cash flow from operating activities to cash flow from financing activities since the repayment of leasing liabilities must in any case be shown as cash flow from financing activities. RHI Magnesita has chosen the modified retrospective application of IFRS 16 in accordance with IFRS 16:C5(b). Consequently, the Group will not restate the comparative information. RHI Magnesita will make use of the practical expedient available on transition to IFRS 16 not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease. Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 will continue to apply to those leases entered or modified before 1 January 2019. The change in definition of a lease mainly relates to the concept of control. IFRS 16 distinguishes between leases and service contracts on the basis of whether the use of an identified asset is controlled by the customer. Control is considered to exist if the customer has:  The right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of an identified asset; and  The right to direct the use of that asset. RHI Magnesita will apply the definition of a lease and related guidance set out in IFRS 16 to all lease contracts entered into or modified on or after 1 January 2019. Impact on Lessee Accounting IFRS 16 has no economic impact on the Group. It has no effect on how the business is run, nor on cash flows for the Group. It does however have a significant impact on the way the assets, liabilities and the Statement of Profit or Loss of the Group are presented, as well as the classification of cash flows relating to lease contracts. On initial application of IFRS 16, for all leases (except as noted below), RHI Magnesita will:  Recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments;  Recognise depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss;  Separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion (presented within financing activities) and interest (presented within operating activities) in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Furthermore, on initial application RHI Magnesita will make use of the following practical expedients:  Applying a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics;  Relying on its assessment of whether leases are onerous immediately before the date of initial application as an alternative to performing impairment review;  Treating leases for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial application as short-term leases. For short-term leases (lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low-value assets, the RHI Magnesita Group will opt to recognise a lease expense on a straight-line basis as permitted by IFRS 16. Based on a preliminary assessment, it is expected that the RHI Magnesita Group will recognise right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities of €62.0 million in respect of all these leases. The impact on profit or loss is estimated to be a decrease in other expenses by €13.3 million, an increase in depreciation by €12.6 million and an increase in interest expense by €0.6 million. 1114 16 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Under IAS 17, all lease payments on operating leases are presented as part of cash flows from operating activities. Under IFRS 16, the cash generated by operating activities is expected to increase by €13.3 million and the net cash outflow in financing activities is expected to increase by the same amount. For existing finance leases RHI Magnesita does not expect an impact on the amounts recognised in the Group’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The following financial reporting standards were issued by the IASB, but had not yet been adopted by the EU at the time of the preparation of the RHI Magnesita Consolidated Financial Statements: Expected effects on RHI Mandatory application for Magnesita Consolidated 1) Standard Title Publication RHI Magnesita Financial Statements New standards and interpretations IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 30.01.2014 No EU endorsement Not relevant IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 18.05.2017 01.01.2021 Not relevant Amendments of standards IAS 1, IAS 8 Definition of Material 31.10.2018 01.01.2020 No material effects IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 07.02.2018 01.01.2019 No material effects IFRS 3 Business Combinations 22.10.2018 01.01.2020 No effect Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework Various in IFRS Standards 29.03.2018 01.01.2020 No effect Various Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle 12.12.2017 01.01.2019 No effect 1 According to EU Endorsement Status Report of 11.02.2019. 1115 17 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 5. Group of consolidated companies Changes in the group of consolidated companies in the previous year Acquisition of Magnesita On 26 October 2017, RHI Magnesita N.V. via its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary Dutch Brasil Holding B.V. obtained control in Magnesita Refratários S.A. and its subsidiaries (Magnesita) after acquiring 50% plus one share and corresponding voting rights in Magnesita Refratários S.A. The acquisition led to a cash inflow of €50.2 million (purchase price paid of €117.3 million less acquired cash and cash equivalents of €167.5 million). The fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities at the acquisition date have been adjusted according to IFRS 3 compared to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2017 over the course of the measurement period. The final fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised as a result of the acquisition are presented as follows: in € million Preliminary fair value Adjustments made Final fair value Property, plant and equipment 439.0 251.2 690.2 Other intangible assets 161.4 160.2 321.6 thereof customer relationships 122.0 (20.0) 102.0 thereof mining rights 0.0 185.1 185.1 Investments in joint ventures and associates 9.9 (9.1) 0.8 Other non-current financial assets 4.3 0.0 4.3 Other non-current assets 16.3 0.0 16.3 Deferred tax assets 49.9 (35.5) 14.4 Inventories 244.7 1.0 245.7 Trade and other current receivables 175.6 (7.4) 168.2 Income tax receivables 9.2 0.0 9.2 Other current financial assets 42.7 0.0 42.7 Cash and cash equivalents 166.2 0.0 166.2 Assets held for sale 33.6 0.0 33.6 Non-current financial liabilities (550.8) 0.0 (550.8) Deferred tax liabilities (0.3) (91.6) (91.9) Provisions for pensions (81.0) 0.0 (81.0) Other personnel provisions (1.5) 0.0 (1.5) Other non-current provisions (51.7) (62.9) (114.6) Other non-current liabilities (2.0) 0.0 (2.0) Current financial liabilities (131.4) 0.0 (131.4) Current derivative financial liabilities (0.2) 0.0 (0.2) Trade and other current liabilities (238.4) (6.8) (245.2) Income tax liabilities (10.1) 0.0 (10.1) Current provisions (25.8) (21.4) (47.2) Liabilities relating to assets held for sale (9.4) 0.0 (9.4) Net assets 250.2 177.7 427.9 Non-controlling interest (125.1) (88.9) (214.0) Proportional share of net assets acquired 125.1 88.8 213.9 Goodwill 171.7 (88.8) 82.9 Purchase price 296.8 0.0 296.8 The goodwill of €82.9 million essentially reflects expected synergies achieved by optimising production capacities and cost structure as well as new business of the enlarged Group. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill has been allocated to cashgenerating unit Steel Linings in the amount of €82.1 million and to cash-generating unit Industrial Raw Material in the amount of €0.8 million. 1116 18 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AANNN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The table below provides information on the carrying amount of goodwill: in € million Preliminary goodwill recognised per acquisition date as at 31 December 2017 171.7 Adjustments relating to business combination fair values (88.8) Exchange rate differences 2017 (1.4) Goodwill recognised as at 31 December 2017 81.5 Exchange rate differences 2018 (1.7) Goodwill recognised as at 31 December 2018 79.8 Non-controlling interests have been measured at their proportionate share of Magnesita’s identifiable net assets. Material adjustments to final fair values since prior reporting date Intangible assets arising from non-patented technology and customer relationships were recognised in the purchase price allocation to the amount of €11.5 million and €102.0 million respectively. Discounted cash flow models were applied to value these intangible assets. The reason for the fair value adjustment of customer relations was that higher quality information was obtained over the course of the reporting period. Furthermore, since the valuation of property, plant and equipment was not completed as of 31 December 2017, valuation of intangible assets arising from customer relationships could not be considered final. The increase in the value of property, plant and equipment in the measurement period reduced the fair value of the customer relationships to a varying degree because of the associated higher contributory asset charges. As at the previous financial reporting date, the preliminary fair value of property, plant and equipment was approximated by using mainly historical book values because the technical valuation was not completed at the majority of the production sites. After completion of the valuation of property, plant and equipment within the measurement period, fair value amounts to €690.2 million and was determined by external appraisers applying a replacement cost approach. As part of the business combination, the Group recognised intangible assets for mining rights arising from three significant mines in Brazil and the USA. These were initially not recognised as at 31 December 2017, as insufficient data was available at that time. After finalisation of the purchase price allocation fair value of the mining rights amounts to €185.1 million. The intangible assets arising from mining rights were valued using discounted cash flow models, based on the life-of-mine plans as at the acquisition date. Expected cash flows are based on estimates of future production, margins, operating costs and forecast capital expenditure. The value of PPE items that form part of the mines (but valued separately) was deducted from the value of the mining rights in order to avoid double counting. The total amortisation of the acquired technology, mining rights, and customer relationships in the current reporting period amounts to €11.2 million (11-12/2017: €2.2 million). The total depreciation of property, plant and equipment increased by €37.1 million in 2018 (11-12/2017: €6.3 million) as a result of the fair value adjustments. A liability for an unfavourable contract was recognised as at the previous reporting date, the value of which has been adjusted and finalised during the measurement period. The fair value of the liability amounts to €109.3 million. This value was calculated using a discounted cash flow model based on foregone profits compared to market conditions, the term of the contract, assumptions of future costs and an appropriate discount rate. The provision for an unfavourable contract has been amortised by €10.0 million (11-12/2017: €1.6 million) in other income and €(8.7) million (11-12/2017: €(1.0) million) were accrued as interest expense in the current reporting period. The Group was required – in accordance with the share purchase agreement (SPA) and Brazilian laws and regulations – to make a mandatory public offer in Brazil which had to be addressed to all remaining Magnesita shareholders and had to be made on the same terms and conditions as those made available to the Sellers under the SPA, including as to purchase price and form of consideration. The Group decided to combine the mandatory offer with a so-called “delisting tender offer” in an Integrated Tender Offer (ITO) and has filed with the Brazilian Securities Commission the respective request. The launch of the ITO was communicated to the minority shareholders on 10 November 2018. Magnesita shareholders received the option of selling each Magnesita share in exchange of: (i) R$18.46, adjusted by SELIC (the Brazilian benchmark interest rate) from 26 October 2017 until the date of the settlement of the auction of the Integrated Tender Offer, plus 0.1998 RHI Magnesita shares or (ii) a cash-only alternative consideration. 1117 19 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The consideration of the cash-only alternative offer was the highest between: (i) R$31.09, adjusted by SELIC from 26 October 2017 until the date of the settlement of the auction of the Integrated Tender Offer, and (ii) R$35.56, not adjusted by SELIC. In the course of the first close of the ITO, the Group acquired an additional 35.2% of shares in Magnesita, increasing its ownership from 50% plus one share to 85.2% as of 31 December 2018. The fair value of the consideration is €228.5 million and includes a cash part in the amount of €85.2 million, including transaction costs, and the issue of 3,518,008 new ordinary shares of RHI Magnesita N.V. These shares were delivered to the minority shareholders and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange's main market on 17 December 2018. The closing price of £36.62 per share on that day was used for the determination of the fair value of the issued ordinary shares totalling up to €143.3 million. The cash part of the consideration has been settled on 20 December 2018 and 35.2% of the Magnesita shares were transferred to the Group. The carrying amount of Magnesita’s net assets in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements on the date of acquisition was €450.0 million. Consequently, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired amounts to €158.4 million. This transaction results in a decrease in equity attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. in the amount of €70.1 million. Subsequent to the first close of the ITO, the remaining shareholders had three months to elect from the two options (‘‘Supervening Acquisition Period“), which ended on 10 March 2019. These effects are disclosed in Note (63). Companies of the RHI Magnesita Group The main operating companies of the RHI Magnesita Group and their core business activities are as follows: Country of Name and registered office of the company core activity Core business activity Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Germany Germany Production Magnesit Anonim Sirketi, Turkey Turkey Mining, production, sales Magnesita Mineração S.A., Brazil Brazil Mining Magnesita Refractories Company, USA USA Mining, production, sales Magnesita Refractories GmbH, Germany Germany Production Magnesita Refratários S.A., Brazil International Production, sales Orient Refractories Limited, India India Production, sales Production, sales, RHI Canada Inc., Canada Canada provision of services RHI Magnesita GmbH, Austria International Sales, R&D, financing RHI GLAS GmbH, Germany International Sales RHI Refractories (Dalian) Co., Ltd., PR China PR China Production Production, sales, RHI US Ltd., USA USA provision of services RHI-Refmex, S.A. de C.V., Mexico Latin America Sales Veitsch-Radex GmbH & Co OG, Austria Austria Mining, production 6. Methods of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are companies over which RHI Magnesita N.V. exercises control. Control exists when the company has the power to decide on the relevant activities, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. The acquisition method is used to account for all business combinations. The purchase price for shares is offset against the proportional share of net assets based on the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition or when control is obtained. Intangible assets which were previously not recognised in the separate Financial Statements of the company acquired are also measured at fair value. Intangible assets identified when a company is acquired, including for example technology, mining rights and customer relations, are only measured separately at the time of acquisition if they are identifiable and are in the control of the company and a future economic benefit is expected. For acquisitions where less than 100% of shares in companies are acquired, IFRS 3 allows an accounting policy choice whereby either goodwill proportionate to the share held or goodwill including the share accounted for by non-controlling interests can be recognised. 1118 20 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A A NN AN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 This accounting policy choice can be exercised for each acquisition. For the acquisition of Magnesita, non-controlling interests have been measured at their proportionate share of Magnesita’s identifiable net assets. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted within twelve months of the acquisition to reflect new information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. After completing the purchase price allocation, the determined goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit and tested for impairment. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3, negative goodwill is immediately recognised to profit or loss in other income after renewed measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Net assets of subsidiaries not attributable to RHI Magnesita N.V. are shown separately under equity as non-controlling interests. The basis for non-controlling interests is the equity after adjustment to the accounting and measurement principles of the RHI Magnesita Group and proportional consolidation entries. Transaction costs which are directly related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. Contingent consideration included in the purchase price is recorded at fair value at initial consolidation. When additional shares are acquired in entities already included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as subsidiaries, the difference between the purchase price and the proportional carrying amount in the subsidiary’s net assets is offset against shareholders’ equity. Gains and losses from the sale of shares are recorded in equity unless they lead to a loss of control. For step acquisitions the difference between the carrying amount to be transferred and the fair value at initial full consolidation, is realised through profit or loss. All intragroup results are fully eliminated. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated on temporary differences arising from the consolidation. Subsidiaries are deconsolidated on the day control ends. Joint ventures and associates Shares in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method. A joint venture is a joint arrangement between the RHI Magnesita Group and one or several other partners whereby the parties that have joint control over the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. An associate is an entity over which the RHI Magnesita Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the investee’s financial and operating policy decisions without control or joint control. There is the rebuttable presumption that if a company holds directly or indirectly 20% of the shares of the investee or has other abilities (e.g. through seats in the supervisory board) to influence the company’s financial and operating policy decisions it has significant influence. At the date of acquisition, a positive difference between the acquisition costs and the share in the fair values of identified assets and liabilities of the joint ventures and associates is determined and recognised as goodwill. Goodwill is shown as part of investments in joint ventures and associates in the Statement of Financial Position. The acquisition cost of investments accounted for using the equity method is adjusted each year to reflect the change in the equity of the individual joint venture or associate that is attributable to the RHI Magnesita Group. Unrealised intragroup results from transactions are offset against the carrying amount of the investment on a pro-rata basis during consolidation, if material. RHI Magnesita examines at every reporting date whether there exist any objective indications of an impairment of the shares in joint ventures and associates. If such indications exist, the required impairment is determined as the difference between the recoverable amount and the carrying amount of the joint ventures and associates and recognised in profit and loss in the item share of profit of joint ventures and associates. The Financial Statements of the companies accounted for using the equity method are prepared in accordance with uniform accounting and measurement methods throughout the Group. 1119 21 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 7. Foreign currency translation Functional currency and presentation currency The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Euro, which represents the functional and presentation currency of RHI Magnesita N.V. The items included in the Financial Statements of each group company are based on the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates (functional currency). Foreign currency transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions in the individual Financial Statements of Group companies are translated into the functional currency based on the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction. Gains and losses arising from the settlement of such transactions and the measurement of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the closing rate are recognised in profit or loss undernet expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives. Unrealised currency translation differences from monetary items which form part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income in equity. Non-monetary items in foreign currency are carried at historical rates. Group companies The Annual Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries that have a functional currency differing from the Group presentation currency are translated into Euros as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the reporting date of the Group, while monthly income and expenses and consequently the profit for the year as presented in the Statement of Profit or Loss are translated at the respective closing rates of the previous month. Differences resulting from this translation process and differences resulting from the translation of amounts carried forward from the prior year are recorded under other comprehensive income without recognition to profit or loss. Monthly cash flows are translated at the respective closing rates of the previous month. Goodwill and adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities related to the purchase price allocations of a subsidiary outside the European currency area are recognised as assets and liabilities of the respective subsidiary and translated at the closing rate. RHI Magnesita has evaluated the effect of applying IAS 29 “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies” in Argentina with the conclusion that the effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements is considered immaterial to the Group. The Euro exchange rates of currencies important for the RHI Magnesita Group are shown in the following table: Closing rate Average rate1) Currencies 1€= 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 2018 2017 Argentine Peso ARS 43.10 22.93 32.58 18.65 Brazilian Real BRL 4.44 3.96 4.29 3.60 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.56 1.50 1.53 1.46 Chilean Peso CLP 793.69 735.00 753.18 733.37 Chinese Renminbi Yuan CNY 7.87 7.78 7.81 7.61 Indian Rupee INR 79.88 76.40 80.45 73.36 Mexican Peso MXN 22.49 23.56 22.70 21.27 Norwegian Krone NOK 9.94 9.85 9.62 9.30 Pound Sterling GBP 0.90 0.89 0.89 0.87 Swiss Franc CHF 1.13 1.17 1.15 1.11 South African Rand ZAR 16.46 14.75 15.45 15.02 US Dollar USD 1.14 1.20 1.18 1.12 1 Arithmetic mean of the monthly closing rates. 1120 22 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 8. Principles of accounting and measurement Goodwill Goodwill is recognised as an asset in accordance with IFRS 3. It is tested for impairment at least once each year, or when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the asset could be impaired. In accordance with IFRS 3, negative goodwill is recognised through profit or loss immediately after a new assessment of the identified assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Other intangible assets Mining rights were recognised in the course of the purchase price allocation for Magnesita and are amortised based on the depletion of the related mines. Depletion is calculated based on the volume mined in the period in proportion to the total estimated volume. Customer relations were recognised in the course of purchase price allocations of acquired subsidiaries and are amortised on a straightline basis over the expected period of useful life. Research costs are expensed in the year incurred and included under general and administrative expenses. Development costs are only capitalised if the allocable costs of the intangible asset can be measured reliably during its development period. Moreover, capitalisation requires that the product or process development can be clearly defined, is feasible in technical, economic and capacity terms and is intended for own use or sale. In addition, future cash inflows which cover not only normal costs but also the related development costs must be expected. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, however, with a maximum useful life of ten years, and recognised in cost of sales. The development costs for internally generated software are expensed as incurred if their primary purpose is to maintain the functionality of existing software. Expenses that can be directly and conclusively allocated to individual programmes and represent a significant extension or improvement over the original condition of the software are capitalised as production costs and added to the original purchase price of the software. These direct costs include the personnel expenses for the development team as well as a proportional share of overheads. Software is predominantly amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of four years. Purchased intangible assets are measured at acquisition cost, which also includes acquisition-related costs, less accumulated amortisation and impairments. Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected period of useful life. The following table shows the most important useful lives: Customer relationships 6 to 15 years Patents 7 to 18 years Brand rights 20 years Land use rights 30 to 65 years Software 4 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at acquisition or production cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairments. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life, calculated pro rata from the month the asset is available for use. Leased property, plant and equipment that qualifies as a finance lease, is capitalised at the market value of the asset or the lower present value in accordance with IAS 17. The leased assets are depreciated on a systematic basis over the useful life. The payment obligations resulting from future lease instalments are discounted and recorded as liabilities. Current lease payments are apportioned between a finance charge and the amortisation of the outstanding liability. As of the reporting date, the amount of property, plant and equipment leased through finance leases is low. All other leases are treated as operating leases with payments expensed. Production costs of internally generated assets comprise direct costs as well as a proportionate share of capitalisable overheads and borrowing costs. If financing can be specifically allocated to an investment, borrowing costs are capitalised as production costs. If no direct connection can be made, the average rate on borrowed capital of the Group is used as the capitalisation rate due to the central funding of the Group. 1 121 23 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Expected demolition and disposal costs at the end of an asset’s useful life are capitalised as part of acquisition cost and recorded as a provision. The criteria for this treatment are a legal or constructive obligation towards a third party and the ability to prepare a reliable estimate. Real estate, land and plant under construction are not depreciated. Depreciation of other material property, plant and equipment is based on the following useful lives in the RHI Magnesita Group: Factory and office buildings 15 to 50 years Land improvement 8 to 30 years Crusher machines and mixing facilities 8 to 20 years Presses 10 to 12 years Tunnel, rotary and shaft kilns 50 years Other calcining and drying kilns 20 to 30 years Cars, other plant, furniture and fixtures 3 to 35 years The residual values and economic useful lives are reviewed regularly and adjusted if necessary. When components of plant or equipment have to be replaced at regular intervals, the relevant replacement costs are capitalised as incurred if the criteria per IAS 16 have been met. The carrying amount of the replaced components is derecognised. Regular maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. Gains or losses from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, which result as the difference between the net realisable value and the carrying amount, are recognised as income or expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill, are tested for impairment if there is any indication that the value of these items may be impaired. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are tested for impairment at least annually. An asset is considered to be impaired if its recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use (present value of future cash flows). If the carrying amount is higher than the recoverable amount, an impairment loss equivalent to the resulting difference is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss. If the reason for an impairment loss recognised in the past for property, plant and equipment and for other intangible assets ceases to exist, a reversal of impairment on the amortised acquisition and production costs is recognised to profit or loss. In the case of impairments related to cash-generating units (CGU) which contain goodwill, existing goodwill is initially reduced. If the required impairment exceeds the carrying amount of goodwill, the difference is apportioned proportionately to the remaining noncurrent tangible and intangible assets of the CGU. Reversals of impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not permitted and are therefore not considered. The effects of impairment tests at the CGU level are shown separately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. If there is an indication for an impairment of a specific asset, only this specific asset will be tested for impairment. The recoverable amount is determined through fair value. If the fair value is lower than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded in EBIT or, in the case of restructuring, in restructuring costs. Cash-generating units (CGU) In the RHI Magnesita Group the individual assets do not generate cash inflows independent of one another; therefore, no recoverable amount can be presented for individual assets. As a result, the assets are combined in CGUs, which largely generate independent cash inflows. These units are combined in strategic business units and reflect the market presence and the market appearance and are as such responsible for cash inflows. CGU's are determined based on group of assets that can generate cash inflows independent of other assets. The organisational structures of the Group reflect these units. In addition to the joint management and control of the business activities in each unit, the sales know-how, the knowledge of RHI Magnesita’s long-standing customer relationships or knowledge of the customer’s production facilities and processes further support these units. Product knowledge is manifested in the application-oriented knowledge of chemical, physical and thermal properties of RHI Magnesita products. The services offered extend over the life cycle of RHI Magnesita products at the customer’s plant, from the appropriate installation and support of optimal operations, to environmentally sound disposal with the customer or the sustainable reuse in RHI Magnesita’s production process. These factors determine cash inflow to a significant extent and consequently form the basis for the CGU structures of RHI Magnesita. 1122 24 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The CGUs of the strategic business unit Steel are Linings and Flow Control. These two units are determined according to the production stages in the process of steel production. In the Industrial Division, each industry line of business (glass, cement/lime, non-ferrous metals and environment, energy, chemicals) forms a separate CGU. All raw material producing facilities with the exception of Norway are combined in one CGU. The plant in Porsgrunn, Norway, is not included in the raw materials unit, but treated as a separate CGU because a management team was installed specifically for the coordination and implementation of the optimisation measures due to the dimension and the special situation at the Porsgrunn plant. This organisation goes beyond plant management and also includes sub-tasks of the administration processes. As in the previous year, the impairment test is based on the value in use; the recoverable amount is determined using the discounted cash flow method and incorporates the terminal value. The detailed planning of the first five years is congruent with the strategic business and financial planning. Based on the detailed planning period, it is geared to a steady-state business development, which balances out possible economic or other non-sustainable fluctuations in the detailed planning period and forms the basis for the calculation of the terminal value. As in the previous year, the terminal value is based on a growth rate derived from the difference of the current and the possible degree of utilisation of the assets. The net cash flows are discounted using a discount rate that is calculated taking into account the weighted average cost of capital of comparable companies (peer group); the corresponding parameters are derived from capital market information. In addition, countryspecific risk premiums are considered in the weighted average cost of capital.The discount rate ranges between 10.1% and 13.0% in the year 2018. In the previous year, the discount rates ranged between 5.7% and 8.6%. The increase of the discount rate resulted from annual update of the peer group parameters as well as considering the location of the CGU’s assets (as a cash outflows originator) in the discount rate determination methodology. Composition of estimated future cash flows The estimates of future cash flows include forecasts of the cash flows from continued use. If assets are disposed at the end of their useful life, the related cash flows are also included in the forecasts. A simplified statement of cash flows serves to determine the cash flows on the basis of strategic business and financial planning. The forecasts include cash flows from future maintenance investments. Expansion investments are only taken into account when there has been a significant cash outflow or significant payment obligations have been entered into due to services received and it is sufficiently certain that the investment measure will be completed. All other expansion investments are not considered; this applies in particular to expansion investments that have been decided on but not begun. Working capital is included in the carrying amount of the CGU; therefore, the recoverable amount only takes into account changes in working capital. Basis for Planning Basis for the impairment test was the Long Term Plan 2019 to 2025, which was approved by the Board, and developed with the growth rates used in the forward-looking business plan. To forecast the CGUs’ cash flows, management predicts the growth rate using external sources for the development of the customer’s industries and expert assumptions. This includes forecasts about the regional growth of the steel production and the output of the non-steel clients. In combination with the development of the specific refractory consumption, which considers also technological improvements, the growth rates for the individual CGUs are determined. 2018 2017 Discount rate Perpetual annuity Goodwill Discount rate Perpetual annuity Goodwill before Tax growth rate in € million before tax growth rate in € million Steel Division Linings 11.3% 0.9% 88.4 8.6% 0.9% 90.1 Steel Division Flow Control 11.3% 0.9% 27.3 8.5% 0.9% 28.3 The remaining goodwill of €1.7 million (31.12.2017: €1.8 million) is spread among the remaining CGU's, all of them having sufficient headroom. 1123 25 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Result of impairment test Based on the impairment test conducted in the financial year 2018, the recoverability of the assets was demonstrated in all CGUs. As in the previous year, no reversals of impairments were made in the financial year 2018. Other financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are classified as at amortised cost, if the contractual cash flows of the financial asset include solely payments of principal and interest and they are held in order to collect the contractual cash flows. If the contractual cash flows of financial assets include solely payments of principal and interest, but they are held in order to both collect the contractual cash flows and sell the financial asset, then the financial assets are classified as at fair value through other comprehensive income. If the contractual cash flows of financial assets do not solely include payments of principal and interest, then these financial assets are classified as at fair value through profit or loss. The Group initially recognises securities on the trading date when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. All other financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised on the date when they are originated. Financial instruments, except for trade receivables, are initially recognised at fair value. Financial assets are derecognised if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards or if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards and has not retained control. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the contractual obligations are settled, withdrawn or have expired. The item other financial assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position of RHI Magnesita includes shares in non-consolidated subsidiaries and other investments, securities, financial receivables and positive fair values of derivative financial instruments. The item other financial liabilities includes negative fair values of derivative financial instruments as well as liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests. Shares in non-consolidated subsidiaries, investments in other companies as well as securities are classified as at fair value through profit or loss in the RHI Magnesita Group. For materiality reasons if such financial assets are of minor significance cost serves as an approximation of fair value. Directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Securities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value and changes therein, including any interest income, are recognised in profit or loss. Financial receivables are measured at amortised cost applying the effective interest method. Any doubt concerning the collectability of the receivables is reflected in the use of the lower present value of the expected future cash flows according to the impairment model described below. Foreign currency receivables are translated at the closing rate. Derivative financial instruments, which are not part of an effective hedging relationship in accordance with IFRS 9 or do not meet the hedge accounting requirements, must be classified as at fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value through profit or loss. In the RHI Magnesita Group, this measurement category includes derivatives related to purchase obligations, forward exchange contracts, embedded derivatives in open orders that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps. Derivative financial instruments relating to purchase obligations are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 and concern a long-term power supply contract which provides for the purchase of fixed amounts of electricity at fixed prices. The measurement is made taking into account quoted electricity prices in the futures market. Based on the fixed amounts of electricity, the cash flows for the entire term of the contract are initially determined as the difference between forward rates and contractually fixed prices and discounted at the reporting date using a cost of borrowing rate corresponding to the term. The measurement effects resulting from this electricity derivative are shown as gain or loss from derivatives from supply contracts in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The measurement of forward exchange contracts and embedded derivatives in open orders denominated in a currency other than the functional currency is made on a case-by-case basis at the respective forward rate on the reporting date. These forward rates are based on spot rates, and also include forward premiums and discounts. Unrealised valuation gains or losses and results from the realisation are recognised to the Statement of Profit or Loss under net expense of foreign exchange effects and related derivatives. The underlying transactions for the derivatives are carried at amortised cost. For derivative financial instruments, which are incorporated in an effective hedging relationship in accordance with IFRS 9, the provisions regarding hedge accounting are applied. RHI Magnesita has concluded derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flow risk of financial liabilities carrying variable interest. Hedging transactions are shown as part of cash flow hedge accounting. The interest rate swaps as hedging instruments are measured at fair value, which corresponds to the amount which RHI Magnesita would receive or has to pay on the reporting date when the financial instrument is terminated. The fair value is calculated using the interest rates and yield curves relevant on the reporting date. The effective part of the fair value changes is initially recorded in other comprehensive income as an unrealised gain or loss. Only at the time of the realisation of the underlying transaction, the contribution of 1124 26 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 the hedging instrument is shown in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Ineffective parts of the fair value changes of cash flow hedges are recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. If the underlying transaction is no longer expected to take place, the accumulated amount previously recorded in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the Statement of Profit or Loss. Capital shares of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries with a fixed term are recognised under other financial liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in accordance with IAS 32. The liabilities are measured at amortised cost. The share of profit attributable to non-controlling interests is recognised under other net financial expenses in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Dividend payments to non-controlling interests reduce liabilities. Furthermore, the RHI Magnesita Group has entered into purchase obligations with non-controlling shareholders of a subsidiary. Based on these agreements, the shareholders receive the right to tender their shares at any time on previously defined conditions. In this case, IAS 32 provides for carrying a liability in the amount of the probable future exercise price. The difference between the estimated liability and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest was recognised to equity at the time of initial recognition without affecting profit or loss. Subsequently, the liability to puttable non-controlling interests is measured at amortised cost and changes are recorded in net finance costs. Impairment of financial assets Impairment of financial instruments is based on expected credit losses (ECL). Expected credit losses are defined as the difference between all contractual cash flows the entity is entitled to according to the contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive. The measurement of expected credit losses is generally a function of the probability of default, loss given default and the exposure at default. RHI Magnesita recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt instruments that are measured at amortised cost, trade receivables and contract assets. The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The Group recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables and contract assets by applying the simplified approach. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are generally estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience for customer groups located in different geographic regions. Forward-looking information is incorporated in the determination of the applicable loss rates for trade receivables. For the Group, the general economic development of the countries in which it sells its goods and services is the relevant for the determination if adjustment of the historical loss rates is necessary. For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month ECL. Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. In contrast, 12-month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. RHI Magnesita takes use of the practical expedient that if a financial instrument has an ‘investment grade’ rating that it is assumed to be of low credit risk and no significant increase in the credit risk took place and the expected credit loss is calculated using the 12 month ECL. Among other factors the Group considers a significant increase in credit risk to have taken place when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The Group considers the following as constituting an event of default, hence leading to a credit-impaired financial asset:  significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;  a breach of contract;  the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower concessions that the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;  it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;  the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties. In addition to these factors, RHI Magnesita applies the presumption in regards to trade receivables, that a default event has occurred when such receivables are 180 days past due unless the Group has reasonable and supportable information for anything different. 180 days past due are used as an objective evidence of default as this is presumed to reflect the Group’s customer industry. 1125 27 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued For those financial instruments where objective evidence of default is present an individual assessment on expected credit losses takes place. Generally, financial instruments are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Financial assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss. Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are recognised on temporary differences between the tax base and the IFRS carrying amount of assets and liabilities, taxloss carryforwards and consolidation entries. Deferred tax assets are recognised on temporary differences to the extent it is probable that sufficient deferred tax liabilities exist or that sufficient taxable income before the reversal of temporary differences is available for the settlement of deductible temporary differences. Deferred taxes are recognised on temporary differences relating to shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the parent company is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse. No temporary differences are recognised for financial instruments which were issued by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests and which are classified as a financial liability in accordance with IFRS. The calculation of deferred taxes is based on the tax rate expected in the individual countries at the time the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability is settled and generally reflects the enacted or substantively enacted tax rate on the reporting date. As in the previous year, deferred taxes of the Austrian group companies are determined at the corporation tax rate of 25.0%. Deferred tax assets and liabilities of the Brazilian group companies are measured mainly at 34.0%. Tax rates from 12.5% to 34.9% (31.12.2017: 12.5% to 35.0%) were applied to the other companies. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is an enforceable right to offset current tax receivables against current tax liabilities, and if the deferred taxes relate to income taxes due from/to the same tax authorities. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value as of the reporting date. The determination of acquisition cost of purchased inventories is based on the average cost. Finished goods and work in process are valued at fixed and variable production cost. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business minus any estimated cost to complete and to sell the goods. Impairments due to reduced usability are reflected in the calculation of the net realisable value. Trade and other current receivables Trade receivables are initially measured at the transaction price according to IFRS 15 and subsequently carried at amortised cost minus any valuation allowances. Valuation allowances are calculated in accordance with the simplified approach of the impairment model for financial instruments (see impairment of financial assets above). Receivables denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the closing rate. Emission certificates Emission certificates acquired for a consideration are carried at cost and recognised to profit and loss in cost of sales when used up, written down to fair value or sold. In the case of a shortfall, a provision is recognised equivalent to the fair value of the lacking emission certificates. Emission certificates allocated free of charge are not accounted for. Proceeds from the sale of these rights are recognised as income. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, cheques received and cash at banks with an original term of a maximum of three months. Moreover, shares in money market funds, which are only exposed to insignificant value fluctuations due to their high credit rating and investments in extremely short-term money market instruments and can be converted to defined cash amounts within a few days at any time, are also recorded under cash equivalents under IAS 7. Cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate. 1126 28 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A A NN AN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups which can be sold in their present state and whose sale is highly probable are classified as held for sale. Assets and liabilities which are intended to be sold together in a single transaction represent a disposal group held for sale and are shown separately from other assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position. Non-current assets and disposal groups which are classified as held for sale are carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying amount. Impairments are initially allocated to existing goodwill and then to the non-current assets on a pro-rata basis, based on the carrying amount of each individual asset of the disposal group. Impairments beyond that are allocated to current assets pursuant to the liquidity principle and recognised through profit or loss in the item other expenses. Non-current assets are not depreciated as long as they are classified as held for sale. Borrowings and other financial liabilities Financial liabilities include liabilities to financial institutions and other lenders and are measured at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs at initial recognition. In subsequent measurements these liabilities are measured at amortised cost applying the effective interest method. Financial liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the closing rate. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged (by payment or legal release), cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is subsequently recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, including any costs or fees. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group incurs a legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet this obligation, and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. Non-current provisions are measured at their discounted settlement value as of the reporting date if the discounting effect is material. If maturities cannot be estimated, they are shown under current provisions. Provisions for pensions With respect to post-employment benefits, a differentiation is made between defined contribution and defined benefit plans. Defined contribution plans limit the company’s obligation to the agreed amount of contributions to earmarked pension plans. The related expenses are shown in the functional areas and thus in EBIT. No provisions are necessary. Defined benefit plans require the company to provide the agreed amount of benefits to active and former employees and their dependents, with a differentiation made between pension systems financed through provisions and pension systems financed by funds. For pension plans financed through external funds, the pension obligation according to the projected unit credit method is netted out against the fair value of the plan assets. If the plan assets are not sufficient to cover the obligation, the net obligation is recognised under provisions for pensions. However, if the plan assets exceed the obligations, the asset recognised is limited to reductions of future contribution payments to the plan and is shown under other non-current assets. The present value of defined benefit obligations for current pensions, future pension benefits and similar obligations and the related expenses are calculated separately for each plan annually by independent qualified actuaries in accordance with the provisions of IAS 19. The present value of future benefits is based on the length of service, expected wage/salary developments and pension adjustments. The expense to be recognised in a period includes current and past service costs, settlement gains and losses, interest expenses from the interest accrued on obligations, interest income from plan assets and administration costs paid from plan assets. The net interest expense is shown separately in net finance costs. All other expenses related to defined benefit plans are allocated to the costs of the relevant functional areas. Actuarial assumptions required to calculate these obligations, include the discount rate , increases in wages/salaries and pensions, retirement starting age and probability of employee turnover and actual claims. The calculation is based on local demographic parameters. 1 127 29 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Interest rates chosen on the basis of the interest on high-quality corporate bonds issued with adequate maturities and currencies are applied to determine the present value of pension obligations. In countries where there is no sufficiently liquid market for high-quality corporate bonds, the returns on government bonds are used as a basis. The rates of increase for wages/salaries were based on an average of past years, which is also considered to be realistic for the future. The fluctuation probabilities were estimated specific to age or according to seniority. The retirement age used for the calculation is based on the respective statutory provisions of the country concerned. The calculation is based on the earliest possible retirement age according to the current statutory provisions of the respective country, among other things depending on gender and date of birth. Remeasurement gains and losses are recorded net of deferred taxes under other comprehensive income in the period incurred. Other personnel provisions Other personnel provisions include provisions for termination benefits, service anniversary bonuses, payments to semi-retirees, sharebased payments and lump-sum settlements. Provisions for termination benefits are primarily related to obligations to employees whose employment is subject to Austrian law. Employees who joined an Austrian company before 31 December 2002 receive a one-off lump-sum termination benefit as defined by Austrian labour legislation if the employer terminates the employment relationship or when the employee retires. The termination payment depends on the relevant salary at the time of the termination as well as the number of years of service and ranges between two and 12 monthly salaries. These obligations are measured in accordance with IAS 19 using the projected unit credit method applying an accumulation period of 25 years. Remeasurement gains and losses are recorded directly to other comprehensive income after considering tax effects and shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. For employees who joined an Austrian company after 31 December 2002, employers are required to make regular contributions equal to 1.53% of the monthly wage/salary to a statutory termination benefit scheme. The company has no further obligations. Claims by employees to termination benefits are filed with the statutory termination benefit scheme, while the regular contributions are treated like defined contribution pension plans and included under personnel expenses of the functional areas. Service anniversary bonuses are one-time special payments that are dependent on the employee’s wage/salary and length of service. The employer is required by collective bargaining agreements or company agreements to make these payments after an employee has reached a certain number of uninterrupted years of service with the same company. Obligations are mainly related to service anniversary bonuses in Austrian and German group companies. Under IAS 19 service anniversary bonuses are treated as other long-term employee benefits. Provisions for service anniversary bonuses are calculated based on the projected unit credit method. Remeasurement gains or losses are recorded in the personnel costs of the functional areas in the period incurred. Local labour laws and other similar regulations require individual group companies to create provisions for semi-retirement obligations. The obligations are partially covered by qualified plan assets and are reported on a net basis in the Statement of Financial Position. In 2018, the Remuneration Committee of RHI Magnesita developed a new Remuneration Policy for the members of senior management of the Group. Based on this new long-term incentive programme, share-options are granted. The fair value of these options as well as any adjustments of the fair value are measured at every reporting date and recognised in equity. Obligations for lump-sum settlements are based on company agreements in individual companies. Other provisions Provisions for warranties are created for individual contracts at the time of the sale of the goods concerned or after the service has been provided. The amounts of the provisions are based on the expected or actual warranty claims. Provisions for restructuring are created providing a detailed formal restructuring plan has been developed and announced prior to the reporting date or whose implementation was commenced prior to the reporting date. 1128 30 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A A NN AN NU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The Group recognises provisions for demolition and disposal costs and environmental damages. RHI Magnesita’s facilities and its refractory, exploration and mining operations are subject to environmental and governmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws govern, among other things, reclamation or restoration of the environment in mined areas and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Provisions for demolition and disposal costs and environmental damages include the estimated demolition and disposal costs of plants and buildings as well as environmental restoration costs arising from mining activities, based on the present value of estimated cash flows of the expected costs. The estimated future costs of deactivation of assets are reviewed annually and adjusted, if appropriate. A provision for a contract obligation is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. The non-current provisions are measured at the present value of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation under the contract which exceed the economic benefits expected to arise from that contract. Provisions for labour and civil contingencies are recognised for all risks referring to legal proceedings that represent probable loss. Assessment of the likelihood of loss includes analysis of available evidence, including the opinion of internal and external legal advisors of the RHI Magnesita Group. Trade payables and other current liabilities These liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate. Government grants Government grants to promote investments are recognised as deferred income and released through profit or loss over the useful life of the relevant asset distributed on a straight-line basis. Grants that were granted as compensation for expenses or losses are recognised to profit or loss in the periods in which the subsidised expenses are incurred. In the RHI Magnesita Group, they mainly include grants for research and employee development. Grants for research are recorded as income in general and administrative expenses. Revenue and expenses Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The transaction price is the expected consideration to be received, to the extent that it is highly probable that there will not be a significant reversal of revenue in future periods. If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods or services to the customer. The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The average credit term is 60 days upon transfer of goods or service. The Group is using the practical expedient in IFRS 15 and does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if it expects, at contract inception, that the period between the transfer of the promised good or service to the customer and payment will be one year or less. At contract inception, the Group identifies the goods or services promised in the contract and assesses which of the promised goods or services shall be identified as separate performance obligations. Promised goods or services give rise to separate performance obligations if they are capable of being distinct. Revenue is recognised as control is transferred, either over time or at a point of time. Control is defined as the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from an asset. With regard to delivery contracts of refractory products the goods promised are distinct and control of the goods is passed to the customer typically when physical possession has been transferred to the customer. The transport service does not give rise to a separate performance obligation to which a part of revenue would have to be allocated, as this service is performed before control of the products is transferred to the customer. In consignment arrangements, RHI Magnesita Group ships products to a customer but retains control of the goods until a predetermined event occurs. Revenue is not recognised on delivery of the products to the customer if the delivered products are held on consignment, but generally when the withdrawal of the products from the consignment stock occurs. Most of the products within consignment arrangements have a high stock turn rate. 129 131 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The Group provides services (e.g. supervision, installation) that are either sold separately or bundled together with the sale of products to a customer. Contracts for bundled sales of products and installation services are comprised of two performance obligations as the promises to transfer products and provide services are capable of being distinct and separately identifiable. Accordingly, the transaction price allocated is based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the product and services. Revenue from services is recognised over time, using an input method to measure progress towards complete satisfaction of the service, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group. Contracts for bundled sales of refractory products and non-refractory products (e.g. machines) provided to the customer free of charge comprise two performance obligations that are separately identifiable. Consequently, the Group allocates the transaction price based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of these performance obligations and also allocates revenue to the non-refractory product which is delivered free of charge. For contracts in the Steel segment with variable payment arrangements (transaction price depends on the customer’s production performance) the management has determined that the promise to transfer each of the products and services to the customer is not separately identifiable from all the other promises in the context of such contracts. Thus, only one single performance obligation, the performance of a management refractory service, exists. Further information is provided under Note (10). With regard to these contracts, revenue is recognised over time on the basis using the output-oriented method (e.g. quantity of steel produced in the customer aggregate serviced). Expected penalty fees from guaranteed durabilities when using refractory products are considered as a variable consideration in the form of a contract or a refund liability. Based on the expected value method, the amount of the variable consideration is estimated. The estimation of the variable consideration is not subject to a constraint as the Group has significant experience with promising durabilities. Thus, it is concluded that a significant reversal of revenue is highly unlikely once the uncertainty no longer exists. All other warranties guarantee that the transferred products correspond to the contractually agreed specifications and are classified as assurance type warranties. Consequently, no separate distinct performance obligation to the customer exists. If transfer of goods or services to a customer is performed before the customer pays consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset, excluding any amounts presented as a receivable is recognised. A contract asset is an entity’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer. If a customer pays consideration before the entity transfers a good or service to the customer, the entity shall present the contract as a contract liability when the payment is made or the payment is due (whatever is earlier). A contract liability is an entity’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. Contract costs are the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and must be recognised as an asset if the company expects to recover those costs. As a practical expedient, RHI Magnesita expenses such costs when incurred, if the amortisation period would be 12 months or less. In general, the term of customer contracts in accordance with IFRS 15 is no longer than one year. Therefore, the Group decided, as a practical expedient, not to disclose the remaining performance obligations for contracts with original expected duration of less than one year. Expenses are recognised to the Statement of Profit or Loss when a service is consumed or the costs are incurred. Interest income and expenses are recognised in accordance with the effective interest method. Dividends from investments that are not accounted for using the equity method are recognised to profit and loss at the time the legal claim arises. Income taxes are recognised according to the local regulations applicable to each company. Current and deferred income taxes are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss unless they are related to items which were recorded directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. In such a case, income taxes are also recorded in equity or other comprehensive income. 1130 32 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria, acts as the head of a corporate tax group. A tax compensation agreement was concluded in 2017 between the head of the group and eight Austrian group members. According to the group and tax compensation agreement, the members of the group have to pay a positive tax compensation of 20% of the taxable profit to the head of the group if the result is positive, as long as tax loss carry forwards exist with the head of the group; subsequently 25% of the taxable profit have to be paid. In case of a tax loss of the group member, the head of the group has to pay a negative tax compensation to the member of the group, with a rate of 12.5% being applied insofar as the loss can be utilised within the group. In case the losses of a group member were compensated (negative tax allocation payment) and this group member generates taxable income within the next three years (after compensation), the positive tax allocation amounts to 12.5%. In case of a loss in the tax group, an unused tax loss of a group member is retained and offset against future taxable profits of the group member. When the contract is terminated, a compensation payment is agreed for unused tax losses of a group member, which were allocated to the head of the group. In Germany, Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Wiesbaden, acts as the head of a tax group for corporate and trade tax purposes. The seven tax group members are obliged to transfer their profit or loss to Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft based on a profit or loss transfer agreement. Additionally, Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Wiesbaden, acts as the head of a tax group for VAT purposes with nine German tax group members. Furthermore, Rearden G Holdings Eins GmbH, Hagen, acts as the head of a two-level structure tax group with four group members for corporate, trade tax and VAT purposes. 9. Segment reporting The RHI Magnesita Group comprises the operating segments Steel and Industrial. The segmentation of the business activities reflects the internal control and reporting structures and is regularly reported to the Chief Executive Officer. The Steel segment specialises in supporting customers in the steel-producing and steel-processing industry. The Industrial segment serves customers in the glass, cement/lime, nonferrous metals and environment, energy, chemicals industries. The main activities of the two segments consist of market development, global sales of high-grade refractory bricks, mixes and special products as well as providing services at the customers’ sites. The globally located manufacturing sites, which extract and process raw materials, are combined in one organisational unit. The allocation of manufacturing cost of the production plants to the Steel and Industrial Divisions is based on the supply flow. Statements of Profit or Loss up to gross profit are available for each segment. The gross profit serves the management of the RHI Magnesita Group for internal performance management. Selling and marketing expenses, general and administrative expenses, other income and expenses, profit of joint ventures, net finance costs and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated. Segment assets include trade receivables and inventories, which are available to the operating segments and are reported to the management for control and measurement, as well as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, which are allocated to the segments based on the capacity of the assets provided to the segments. All other assets are not allocated. The recognition of segment assets is determined on the basis of the accounting and measurement methods applied to the IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements. Data on revenue by country are disclosed by the sites of the customers. Data on non-current assets (goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment) are disclosed on the basis of the respective locations of the companies of the RHI Magnesita Group. 10. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty The RHI Magnesita Group used forward-looking assumptions and estimates, especially with respect to business combinations, noncurrent assets, valuation adjustments to inventories and receivables, provisions and income taxes to a certain extent in the application of accounting and measurement methods. The estimates are based on comparable values in the past, plan data and other findings regarding transactions to be accounted. The actual values may ultimately deviate from the assumptions and estimates made. The resulting changes in value of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses are accounted for in the reporting period in which the change is made and in the affected future reporting periods. 1 131 33 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Critical accounting judgments Revenue recognition For customer contracts in the Steel segment with variable payment arrangements where transaction price depends on the customer’s production performance, (e.g. quantity of steel produced in the customer aggregate serviced) the management has determined that the promise to transfer each of the products and services to the customer is not separately identifiable from the other promises in the context of such contracts. The customer expects complete refractory management for the agreed product areas in the steel plant in order to enable steel production. Thus, only one single performance obligation, performance of a management refractory service, exists. There are no other critical accounting judgments made in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Key sources of estimation uncertainty Business combinations (initial consolidation) Estimates relating to the calculation of fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are required within the context of business combinations. If intangible assets are identified, estimates are necessary for the determination of fair values by means of discounted cash flows, including the duration, amount of future cash flows, and discount rate. When determining the fair value of land, buildings and technical plant, above all the estimate of comparability of the reference objects with the objects subject to valuation is discretionary. When making estimates in the context of purchase price allocations on major acquisitions, RHI Magnesita consults with independent experts who accompany the execution of the discretionary decisions and record it in appraisal documents. Impairment of intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment Intangible assets with a finite useful life and property, plant and equipment must be tested for impairment when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying amounts of these assets amounted to €1,427.4 million at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €1,512.9 million). In accordance with IAS 36, such impairment losses are determined through comparisons with the discounted future cash flows expected from the related assets of the cash-generating units (CGUs). As part of the annual planning process, the impairment test is conducted for the CGUs defined in the RHI Magnesita Group, thus taking into account all changes resulting from updates of strategic planning. Sensitivity analyses are also performed as part of the impairment test. In their calculation one of the main parameters is changed as follows: increase in the discount rate by 10%, reduction in the form of the contribution margin by 10% and reduction of the growth rate in terminal value by 50%. In all CGUs, these simulations do not result in impairments. Likewise, in all CGUs a reduction of the discount rate by 10%, an increase in profitability in the form of the contribution margin by 10% and an increase in the growth rate in terminal value by 50% do not result in reversals of impairments. There was no triggering event in 2018. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful life The effect of an adverse change by plus 10% in the estimated interest rates as of 31 December 2018 or by minus 10% in the contribution margin would not result in an impairment of goodwill recognised (carrying amount 31.12.2018: €131.2 million, 31.12.2017: €38.7 million) nor in an impairment charge to intangible assets with indefinite useful lives (carrying amount at 31.12.2018 and 31.12.2017: €1.8 million). Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Management uses its experience to estimate the remaining useful life of an asset. The actual useful life of an asset may be impacted by an unexpected event that may result in an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset. Provisions for pensions and termination benefits The present value of pension and termination benefit obligations depends on a number of factors, which are based on actuarial assumptions such as interest rates, future salary and pension increases as well as life expectancy. Due to the long-term orientation of these obligations, these assumptions are subject to significant uncertainties. The following sensitivity analysis shows the change in present value of the pension and termination benefit obligations if one key parameter changes, while the other influences are maintained constant. In reality, however, it is rather unlikely that these influences do not correlate. The present value of the pension obligations for the sensitivities shown was calculated using the same method as for the actual present value of the pension obligations (projected unit credit method). 1132 34 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTAA AN A NN NU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Change of assumption in percentage points Termination Termination in € million or years Pension plans benefits Pension plans benefits Present value of the obligations 506.6 55.5 517.1 58.1 Interest rate +0.25 (14.0) (1.5) (14.9) (1.5) (0.25) 15.0 1.5 15.7 1.6 Salary increase +0.25 0.9 1.5 0.8 1.6 (0.25) (1.7) (1.4) (0.7) (3.5) Pension increase +0.25 10.3 10.6 (0.25) (10.1) (10.2) Life expectancy +1 year 17.2 18.3 (1) year (17.3) (23.6) These changes would have no immediate effect on the result of the period as remeasurement gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income without impact on profit or loss. The assumptions regarding the interest rate are reviewed semi-annually; all other assumptions are reviewed at the end of the year. Other provisions The recognition and measurement of other provisions totalling €162.2 million (31.12.2017: €209.4 million) were based on the best possible estimates using the information available at the reporting date. The estimates take into account the underlying legal relationships and are performed by internal experts or, when appropriate, also by external experts. Despite the best possible assumptions and estimates, cash outflows expected at the reporting day may deviate from actual cash outflows. As soon as additional information is available, the estimates made are reviewed and provisions are also adjusted. The majority of the provisions refers to an unfavourable contract which was recognised in the course of the acquisition of Magnesita and is mainly based on an estimate of forgone profit margins compared to market conditions which is further explained in Note (5) Group of consolidated companies. Income taxes The calculation of income taxes of RHI Magnesita N.V. and its subsidiaries is based on the tax laws applicable in the individual countries. Due to their complexity, the tax items presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements may be subject to different interpretations by local finance authorities. RHI Magnesita is continually adapting its global presence to better serve its customers and maintain its competitive advantage. As a result, in this way the Group maintains discussions with tax authorities about functions transferred between related parties and their exit value, however due to its nature, they do not impact the Group's accounts. When determining the amount of the capitalisable deferred tax assets, an estimate of the management is required regarding the amount of future taxable income and the expected time. Should the future taxable profit deviate by 10% from the assumption made on the reporting date within the planning period defined for the accounting and measurement of deferred taxes, the net position of deferred tax assets amounting to €92.7 million (31.12.2017: €75.4 million) would have to be increased by €0.6 million (31.12.2017: €0.8 million) or reduced by €0.6 million (31.12.2017: €0.9 million). 1133 35 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 11. Goodwill Goodwill developed as follows: in € million 2018 20171) At beginning of year 122.1 40.2 Acquisitions of subsidiaries (Note 5) 0.0 85.3 Reclassified as held for sale 0.0 (0.4) Currency translation (2.8) (3.0) Cost at year-end 119.3 122.1 Accumulated impairment at beginning of year (1.9) (2.4) Currency translation 0.0 0.1 Reclassification as held for sale 0.0 0.4 Accumulated impairment at year-end (1.9) (1.9) Carrying amount at year-end 117.4 120.2 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 12. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets changed as follows in the financial year 2018: Internally Customer generated Other intangible in € million Mining rights relationship intangible assets assets Total Cost at 01.01.2018 1) 179.2 100.0 47.6 143.1 469.9 Currency translation (9.8) (2.1) 0.0 (2.6) (14.5) Additions 0.0 0.0 2.9 1.2 4.1 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2.5) (2.5) Reclassifications 0.0 10.8 0.0 (10.0) 0.8 Cost at 31.12.2018 169.4 108.7 50.5 129.2 457.8 Accumulated amortisation 01.01.2018 0.8 1.1 30.2 64.8 96.9 Currency translation 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.8) (0.8) Amortisation charges 3.9 6.5 3.9 14.3 28.6 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (1.3) (1.3) Reclassifications 0.0 10.2 0.0 (10.2) 0.0 Accumulated amortisation 31.12.2018 4.7 17.8 34.1 66.8 123.4 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2018 164.7 90.9 16.4 62.4 334.4 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1134 36 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Other intangible assets changed as follows in the previous year: Internally Customer generated Other intangible in € million Mining rights relationship intangible assets assets Total1) Cost at 01.01.2017 0.0 0.0 45.9 114.0 159.9 Currency translation (5.9) (2.5) (0.2) (5.9) (14.5) Acquisitions of subsidiaries 185.1 102.5 0.0 36.1 323.7 Additions 0.0 0.0 4.1 1.5 5.6 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.6) (0.6) Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 (0.6) (0.3) (0.9) Reclassified as held for sale 0.0 0.0 (1.6) (1.7) (3.3) Cost at 31.12.2017 179.2 100.0 47.6 143.1 469.9 Accumulated amortisation 01.01.2017 0.0 0.0 27.7 61.1 88.8 Currency translation 0.0 0.0 (0.2) (2.1) (2.3) Amortisation charges 0.8 1.1 3.8 7.7 13.4 Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.8 Retirements and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.6) (0.6) Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 (0.6) 0.2 (0.4) Reclassified as held for sale 0.0 0.0 (1.3) (1.5) (2.8) Accumulated amortisation 31.12.2017 0.8 1.1 30.2 64.8 96.9 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2017 178.4 98.9 17.4 78.3 373.0 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Internally generated intangible assets comprise capitalised software and product development costs. The customer relations of Magnesita have a carrying amount of €90.0 million (31.12.2017: €116.1 million) and a remaining useful life of 10 to 14 years. Other intangible assets include in particular acquired patents, trademark rights, software, and land use rights. The land use rights have a carrying amount of €23.4 million (31.12.2017: €26.0 million) and a remaining useful life of 19 to 59 years. There are no restrictions on the sale of intangible assets. 1135 37 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 13. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment developed as follows in the year 2018 and in the previous year: Real Prepayments estate, Technical Other plant, made and land and Raw material equipment, furniture and plant under in € million buildings deposits machinery fixtures construction Total Cost at 01.01.2018 1) 630.1 33.8 1,155.6 298.2 99.4 2,217.1 Currency translation (14.8) (0.7) (22.8) (3.0) (3.8) (45.1) Additions 2.9 0.3 9.1 11.2 99.4 122.9 Retirements and disposals (8.3) 0.0 (12.4) (6.7) 0.0 (27.4) Reclassifications 8.5 4.1 37.4 11.8 (62.6) (0.8) Cost at 31.12.2018 618.4 37.5 1,166.9 311.5 132.4 2,266.7 Accumulated depreciation 01.01.2018 256.8 21.3 575.8 220.7 0.8 1,075.4 Currency translation (1.1) (0.1) (1.5) (1.1) 0.0 (3.8) Depreciation charges 12.8 1.3 93.9 16.8 0.0 124.8 Retirements and disposals (6.9) 0.0 (11.3) (6.3) 0.0 (24.5) Reclassifications 0.2 0.0 0.3 0.2 (0.7) 0.0 Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2018 261.8 22.5 657.2 230.3 0.1 1,171.9 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2018 356.6 15.0 509.7 81.2 132.3 1,094.8 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Real Prepayments estate, Technical Other plant, made and land and Raw material equipment, furniture and plant under in € million buildings deposits machinery fixtures construction Total1) Cost at 01.01.2017 453.7 32.1 877.9 294.2 43.8 1,701.7 Currency translation (16.3) (0.2) (26.3) (6.7) (2.3) (51.8) Acquisitions of subsidiaries 224.7 4.5 390.8 15.9 54.4 690.3 Additions 6.5 1.5 13.6 8.8 34.4 64.8 Retirements and disposals (20.4) 0.0 (24.4) (9.5) 0.0 (54.3) Reclassifications 7.3 1.0 16.5 6.1 (30.0) 0.9 Reclassified as held for sale (25.4) (5.1) (92.5) (10.6) (0.9) (134.5) Cost at 31.12.2017 630.1 33.8 1,155.6 298.2 99.4 2,217.1 Accumulated depreciation 01.01.2017 285.6 24.5 639.3 229.6 0.9 1,179.9 Currency translation (5.3) 0.0 (11.2) (5.0) (0.1) (21.6) Depreciation charges 8.7 0.4 42.8 14.3 0.0 66.2 Impairment losses 9.4 0.0 7.9 1.1 0.3 18.7 Retirements and disposals (19.6) 0.0 (23.1) (9.0) 0.0 (51.7) Reclassifications 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 Reclassified as held for sale (22.4) (3.6) (79.9) (10.3) (0.3) (116.5) Accumulated depreciation 31.12.2017 256.8 21.3 575.8 220.7 0.8 1,075.4 Carrying amounts at 31.12.2017 373.3 12.5 579.8 77.5 98.6 1,141.7 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. In 2017, impairment losses of €18.7 million were mainly caused by the restructuring of operations in Germany and Brazil. They are related to the Steel segment. 1136 38 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The item prepayments made and plant under construction includes plant under construction with a carrying amount of €129.9 million (31.12.2017: €96.5 million), with the modification of the smelter at the site in Radenthein, Austria, representing the largest investment project under construction in 2018. There are no restrictions on the sale of property, plant and equipment. 14. Investments in joint ventures and associates The following investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method in the RHI Magnesita Consolidated Financial Statements: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Investments in joint ventures 19.6 20.7 Investments in associates 2.2 0.7 Carrying amount at year-end 21.8 21.4 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Joint ventures The RHI Magnesita Group holds a share of 50% (2017: 50%) in MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co KG (“MAGNIFIN”), a private company based in St. Jakob, Austria. The company’s core business activity is the production and sale of halogen-free flame retardants for plastics. The investment in MAGNIFIN is treated as a financial investment. MAGNIFIN is set up as an independent vehicle. RHI Magnesita has a residual interest in the net assets of the company and accordingly classified its share as a joint venture. There are no listed market prices available. The following table summarises the income and expenses of MAGNIFIN: in € million 2018 2017 Revenue 38.8 40.3 Profit before income tax 17.9 20.8 Depreciation 1.5 1.5 Interest expense 0.2 0.2 Other comprehensive income 0.0 (0.2) Total comprehensive income 17.9 20.6 Income taxes on the share of profit of MAGNIFIN amounting to €2.4 million (2017: €2.7 million) are recognised by the head of the tax group, RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria, due to the legal form of the joint venture and transferred to Veitscher Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna, Austria, in accordance with the provisions of the tax compensation agreement. The net assets of MAGNIFIN are shown in the table below: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Non-current assets 8.9 9.3 Current assets (without cash and cash equivalents) 11.2 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents 16.5 19.7 Non-current liabilities and provisions (4.0) (4.0) Current provisions (1.3) (1.2) Trade payables and other current liabilities (2.9) (2.7) Net assets 28.4 31.3 1 137 39 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The movement in the carrying amount of the share in MAGNIFIN in the RHI Magnesita Consolidated Financial Statements is shown below: in € million 2018 2017 Proportional share of net assets at beginning of year 15.7 15.6 Share of profit 9.4 10.8 Share of other comprehensive income (remeasurement losses) 0.0 (0.1) Dividends received (10.8) (10.7) Other changes in value 0.0 0.1 Proportional share of net assets at year-end 14.3 15.7 Goodwill 4.9 4.9 Carrying amount of investment at year-end 19.2 20.6 In the course of the acquisition of Magnesita in 2017 the Group acquired interests in an immaterial joint venture with a carrying amount of €0.4 million as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €0.1 million). The Group’s share of the profit after income tax, other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in 2018 amounts to €0.3 million (November and December 2017: less than €0.1 million). Associates As part of the acquisition of Magnesita in 2017 the Group acquired two immaterial associated companies with a carrying amount of €2.2 million as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €0.7 million). In the course of the purchase price allocation the fair value of one associate was determined as zero at the acquisition date. The Group’s share of the profit after income tax for 2018 amounts to €0.3 million (November and December 2017: €0.1 million). Total comprehensive income including other comprehensive income of €0.1 million amounts to €0.4 million (November and December 2017: €0.1 million). 15. Other non-current financial assets Other non-current financial assets consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Interests in subsidiaries not consolidated 0.7 0.8 Other investments 0.0 0.4 Marketable securities and shares 15.0 17.3 Interest rate swaps 0.6 1.5 Non-current receivables from disposal of subsidiaries 0.0 2.6 Other non-current financial receivables 1.7 2.5 Other non-current financial assets 18.0 25.1 Accumulated impairments on investments, securities and shares amounted to €4.3 million (31.12.2017: €3.8 million). 16. Other non-current assets Other non-current assets include the following items: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Tax receivables 20.7 9.9 Prepaid stripping costs 6.8 8.0 Judicial deposits 3.7 3.7 Plan assets from overfunded pension plans 2.1 2.0 Prepaid expenses 1.0 0.6 Other non-current assets 34.3 24.2 1138 40 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTAA AN A NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Prepaid expenses for stripping costs arising from mining raw materials in a surface mine are included in non-current assets due to the planned use of the mine. Tax receivables relate to input tax credits, which are expected to be utilised in the medium term. 17. Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are related to the following significant balance sheet items and loss carryforwards: 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 2018 31.12.20171) 31.12.20171) 20171) Deferred tax Deferred tax in € million Deferred tax assets liabilities Expense/(Income) Deferred tax assets liabilities Expense/(Income) Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets 20.1 159.7 (25.1) 52.1 219.8 (29.9) Inventories 33.3 5.6 (9.8) 20.5 (1.6) (1.5) Trade receivables, other assets 7.7 7.1 (24.8) 6.4 38.4 (11.5) Pensions and other personnel provisions 69.6 (0.2) 2.3 70.2 0.3 6.4 Other provisions 26.1 1.6 (0.1) 25.9 (0.7) 3.9 Trade payables, other liabilities 18.0 4.4 10.6 26.6 4.7 (1.4) Tax loss carried forward 96.1 29.9 134.6 8.4 Offsetting (99.8) (99.8) (196.2) (196.2) Deferred taxes 171.1 78.4 (17.0) 140.1 64.7 (25.6) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. As of 31 December 2018, subsidiaries which generated tax losses in the past year or the previous year recognised net deferred tax assets on temporary differences and on tax loss carryforwards of €47.8 million (31.12.2017: €26.0 million). Deferred Tax Assets have been recognised because the companies concerned are expected to generate taxable income in the future. Tax loss carryforwards totalled €467.7 million in the RHI Magnesita Group as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €609.7 million). A significant part of the tax loss carryforwards originated in Austria and Brazil where their deduction can be carried forward indefinitely. The annual compensation of tax loss carryforwards in Austria is limited to 75% and in Brazil to 30% of the respective taxable profits. Deferred taxes on tax losses of €155.1 million (31.12.2017: €157.7 million) were not recognised. Of these losses, €5.8 million (31.12.2017: €3.4 million) will expire in 2021, while the remainder will be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, no deferred tax assets were recognised for temporary differences totalling €5.1 million (31.12.2017: €16.2 million) as it is not sufficiently probable that they can be used. The deductible temporary differences can be carried forward indefinitely. Taxable temporary differences of €1,085.7 million (31.12.2017: €667.0 million) and deductible temporary differences of €501.1 million (31.12.2017: €295.6 million) were not recognised on shares in subsidiaries because the corresponding distributions of profit or the sale of the investments are controlled by the Group and are not expected in the foreseeable future. The maturity structure of deferred taxes is shown in the table below: 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) in € million Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Deferred tax assets 78.0 93.1 171.1 11.0 129.1 140.1 Deferred tax liabilities 2.9 (81.3) (78.4) 78.8 (14.1) 64.7 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 139 141 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 18. Inventories Inventories as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Raw materials and supplies 176.8 183.7 Work in progress 140.8 122.1 Finished products and goods 391.9 331.5 Prepayments made 8.3 17.2 Inventories 717.8 654.5 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Inventories include €2.3 million (31.12.2017: €9.0 million) carried at net realisable value. Net impairment losses amount to €2.6 million (2017: €4.0 million). There are no restrictions on the disposal of inventories. 19. Trade and other current receivables Trade and other current receivables as presented in the Statement of Financial Position are classified as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Trade receivables 349.9 394.9 Receivables from long-term construction contracts 0.0 11.7 Contract assets 1.9 0.0 Other taxes receivable 87.6 77.0 Receivables from joint ventures and associates 11.3 12.0 Prepaid expenses 3.0 3.7 Receivables from disposal of investments 2.6 0.0 Receivables from property transactions 2.2 2.5 Emission rights 1.7 1.6 Receivables from employees 1.7 1.3 Receivables from non-consolidated subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Prepaid transaction costs related to financial liabilities 0.0 2.5 Receivables from personnel welfare foundation 0.0 0.8 Other current receivables 19.0 14.3 Trade and other current receivables 481.2 522.6 thereof financial assets 367.2 412.5 thereof non-financial assets 114.0 110.1 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Other taxes receivable include VAT credits and receivables from energy tax refunds, research, education and apprentice subsidies. Trade receivables with a total nominal value of €34.0 million were assigned as security against financial liabilities as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €34.0 million). 20. Income tax receivables Income tax receivables amounting to €18.4 million (31.12.2017: €13.5 million) are mainly related to tax prepayments and deductible withholding taxes. 1140 42 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 21. Other current financial assets This item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consists of the following components: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Marketable securities 36.3 32.3 Derivatives in open orders 1.0 0.8 Forward exchange contracts 1.1 0.9 Other current financial receivables 0.2 0.1 Other current financial assets 38.6 34.1 Accumulated impairments on other current financial receivables amounted to €1.1 million (31.12.2017: €1.1 million). 22. Cash and cash equivalents This item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consists of the following components: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Cash at banks 426.7 373.2 Money market funds 61.9 67.5 Cheques 2.5 1.4 Cash on hand 0.1 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 491.2 442.4 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash totalling €42.5 million at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €80.8 million). Restricted cash is mainly related to cash and cash equivalents at subsidiaries (mainly in Brazil, India and China) to which the company only has limited access due to foreign exchange and capital transfer controls. €23.8 million (31.12.2017: €75.8 million) are accounted for by subsidiaries with non-controlling interests. 23. Share capital In exchange for the cancellation of the RHI AG shares as a result of the merger in the year 2017, in which RHI AG merged with and into RHI Magnesita N.V., the shareholders of RHI AG received one newly issued ordinary share of RHI Magnesita N.V. for each RHI AG share. As part of the purchase price for the acquisition of control of Magnesita, RHI Magnesita N.V. issued 5,000,000 new ordinary shares to the sellers of Magnesita shares as at 26 October 2017. Following the merger and the acquisition of control and also at year-end 2017, RHI Magnesita N.V.’s issued and fully paid-in share capital consisted of 44,819,039 ordinary shares at €1 each share. In the course of the first close of the Integrated Tender Offer (ITO) in 2018 and the acquisition of additional 35.2% of shares in Magnesita, RHI Magnesita N.V. issued 3,518,008 new ordinary shares. Hence, share capital consists of 48,337,047 ordinary shares at €1 each share as of 31 December 2018. The authorised share capital of RHI Magnesita N.V. amounts to €100,000,000 divided into 100,000,000 ordinary shares, of which 48,337,047 ordinary shares are issued and outstanding as explained before. All outstanding RHI Magnesita shares grant the same rights. The shareholders are entitled to dividends and have one voting right per share at the Annual General Meeting. There are no RHI Magnesita shares with special control rights. 24. Group reserves Additional paid-in capital At 31 December 2018 as well as at 31 December 2017, additional paid-in capital comprised premiums on the issue of shares less issue costs by RHI Magnesita N.V. Mandatory reserve The articles of association stipulate a mandatory reserve of €288,699,230.59 which was created in connection with the merger. No distributions, allocations or additions may be made and no losses of the company may be allocated to the mandatory reserve. 1 141 43 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Retained earnings Retained earnings includes the result of the financial year and results that were earned by consolidated companies during prior periods, but not distributed. Accumulated other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges includes gains and losses from the effective part of cash flow hedges less tax effects. The accumulated gain or loss from the hedge allocated to reserves is only reclassified to the Statement of Profit or Loss if the hedged transaction also influences the result or is terminated. Defined benefit plans includes the gains and losses from the remeasurement of defined benefit pension and termination benefit plans taking into account tax effects. No reclassification of these amounts to the Statement of Profit or Loss will be made in future periods. Currency translation includes the accumulated currency translation differences from translating the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries as well as unrealised currency translation differences from monetary items which are part of a net investment in a foreign operation, net of related income taxes. If foreign companies are deconsolidated, the currency translation differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as part of the gain or loss from the sale of shares in subsidiaries. In addition, when monetary items cease to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, the currency translation differences of these monetary items previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. In 2017, the Group reassessed its internal financing structure and as a result reclassified accumulated losses of €38.9 million to the Statement of Profit or Loss. Due to the disposal of Fused Cast accumulated foreign currency translation losses of €1.8 million were reclassified to the Statement of Profit or Loss. The corresponding tax effect led to an income of €6.2 million. 25. Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests in Magnesita Non-controlling interests held a share of 50% minus one share in the company Magnesita Refratários S.A. and its subsidiaries (“Magnesita”) until 20 December 2018. After completion of the Integrated Tender Offer, the non-controlling interests were reduced to 14.8%. Total comprehensive income of the year 2018 attributable to non-controlling interests of Magnesita reflects this development in ownership structure. Detailed information of this transaction and the consequences of the change of the ownership interest in Magnesita that do not result in a change of control are provided under Note (5). Magnesita is a global group dedicated to the production and sale of an extensive line of refractory materials and industrial minerals and distinguishes itself through its vertically integrated operations. Based on the net assets of Magnesita, the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests is determined as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Non-current assets 969.7 1,008.1 Current assets 561.0 647.7 Non-current liabilities (400.6) (734.4) Current liabilities (676.0) (498.4) Net assets before intragroup eliminations 454.1 423.0 Intragroup eliminations (3.9) (0.1) Net assets 450.2 422.9 Percentage of non-controlling interests 14.8% 50.0% Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 66.7 211.5 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1142 44 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The aggregate Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Comprehensive Income are shown below: in € million 2018 11-12/20171) Revenue 1,067.5 172.2 Operating expenses, net finance costs and income tax (1,011.4) (163.8) Profit after income tax before intragroup eliminations 56.1 8.4 Intragroup eliminations (3.4) 0.0 Profit after income tax 52.7 8.4 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of Magnesita 26.3 4.2 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. in € million 2018 11-12/20171) Profit after income tax 52.7 8.4 Other comprehensive income (24.4) (13.3) Total comprehensive income 28.3 (4.9) thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of Magnesita 14.2 (2.5) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. The following table shows the summarised Statement of Cash Flows: in € million 2018 11-12/2017 Net cash flow from operating activities 164.9 46.5 Net cash flow from investing activities (10.2) 18.7 Net cash flow from financing activities (258.5) (2.8) Total cash flow (103.8) 62.4 Non-controlling interests in Orient Refractories Ltd. Non-controlling interests hold a share of 33.5% (31.12.2017: 30.4%) in the listed company Orient Refractories Ltd. (in the following “ORL”), based in New Delhi, India. ORL is allocated to the Steel segment. In August 2018, the Group sold 3.1% of the shares in ORL. The carrying amount of ORL’s net assets in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements on the date of the sale was €53.9 million. Consequently, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests sold amounts to €1.7 million. The cash part of the consideration received is €9.1 million. This transaction results in an increase in equity attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. in the amount of €7.4 million. Based on the net assets of the company, the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests is determined as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Non-current assets 24.3 25.6 Current assets 56.0 48.8 Non-current liabilities (6.3) (6.8) Current liabilities (19.6) (16.6) Net assets before intragroup eliminations 54.4 51.0 Intragroup eliminations (0.4) (0.2) Net assets 54.0 50.8 Percentage of non-controlling interests 33.5% 30.4% Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 18.1 15.4 1143 45 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The aggregate Statement of Profit or Loss and Statement of Comprehensive Income are shown below: in € million 2018 2017 Revenue 91.0 77.9 Operating expenses, net finance costs and income tax (81.6) (70.1) Profit after income tax before intragroup eliminations 9.4 7.8 Intragroup eliminations (0.2) 0.1 Profit after income tax 9.2 7.9 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of ORL 2.7 2.4 in € million 2018 2017 Profit after income tax 9.2 7.9 Other comprehensive income (2.3) (3.6) Total comprehensive income 6.9 4.3 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests of ORL 2.2 1.3 The following table shows the summarised Statement of Cash Flows of ORL: in € million 2018 2017 Net cash flow from operating activities 9.5 6.4 Net cash flow from investing activities (1.8) (1.0) Net cash flow from financing activities (3.6) (3.8) Total cash flow 4.1 1.6 Net cash flow from financing activities includes dividend payments to non-controlling interests amounting to €1.2 million (2017: €1.1 million). Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests The development of accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests is shown in the following table: Defined benefit Currency in € million Cash flow hedges plans translation Accumulated other comprehensive income 01.01.2018 0.1 (0.1) (7.6) Unrealised results from currency translation (11.0) Unrealised results from fair value change 0.2 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (1.9) Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control (0.1) (0.1) 10.7 Accumulated other comprehensive income 31.12.2018 0.2 (2.1) (7.9) 1144 46 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AAN NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 26. Borrowings Borrowings include all interest-bearing liabilities due to financial institutions and other lenders. Borrowings have the following contractual remaining terms: Total Remaining term in € million 31.12.2018 up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Syndicated Term Loan 479.9 0.0 479.9 0.0 Bonded loans ( Schuldscheindarlehen ) 216.0 0.0 152.0 64.0 Export credits and investment financing 171.9 34.4 137.5 0.0 Other credit lines and other loans 278.9 278.9 0.0 0.0 Accrued interest 6.9 6.9 0.0 0.0 Total liabilities to financial institutions 1,153.6 320.2 769.4 64.0 Other financial liabilities 16.6 2.3 13.7 0.6 Capitalised transaction costs (3.8) (0.9) (2.9) 0.0 Borrowings 1,166.4 321.6 780.2 64.6 Total Remaining term in € million 31.12.2017 up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Export credits and investment financing 346.4 65.6 280.0 0.8 Syndicated Financing 266.2 0.0 266.2 0.0 Bonded loans ( Schuldscheindarlehen ) 230.5 0.0 162.0 68.5 Other credit lines and other loans 102.1 102.1 0.0 0.0 Accrued interest 7.8 7.8 0.0 0.0 Total liabilities to financial institutions 953.0 175.5 708.2 69.3 Perpetual bond 215.3 64.3 0.0 151.0 Senior notes 55.6 1.1 54.5 0.0 Other financial liabilities 4.8 1.6 3.1 0.1 Capitalised transaction costs (3.1) (0.7) (2.4) 0.0 Borrowings 1,225.6 241.8 763.4 220.4 RHI Magnesita Group optimised its financial structure in 2018. In the first quarter, the Group refinanced the syndicated financial agreement, which was concluded in July 2017, with a new €305.6 million five year term loan of the Austrian export credit agency (OeKB). The refinancing extends the final maturity of the term loan by one year, from June 2022 to June 2023. This new syndicated term loan replaces the existing €477.2 million syndicated financial agreement for which only €266.2 million had been drawn down. Cash inflows from the new term loan in the amount of €305.6 million are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in proceeds from noncurrent borrowings and loans, whereas cash outflows from the redemption of the syndicated loan in the amount of €266.2 million are included in repayments of non-current borrowings and loans. In addition, on 3 August 2018 the Group raised a new unsecured five year term loan amounting to US$200 million and a revolving credit facility in the amount of US$400 million with a syndicate of 10 international banks. The proceeds of the borrowings have been used to redeem the entire amount of the outstanding Magnesita Perpetual Bonds and Senior notes and other export credits and investment financing, which will generate significant interest expense savings as well as ensure higher liquidity. €34.0 million (31.12.2017: €34.0 million) of the liabilities to financial institutions are secured by receivables. As at 31.12.2017 €2.6 million were secured by cash and cash equivalents. Net debt/adjusted EBITDA is the most important financial covenant of the loan agreements. Calculation of net debt/adjusted EBITDA is shown under Note (55). Compliance with the covenants is measured predominantly on an annual or semi-annual basis. Covenant ratio is limited at 3.5. Breach of covenant will lead to repay the debts prior to maturity. During 2018 and 2017, the Group met all covenant requirements. 1145 47 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued For liabilities of €1,052.6 million (31.12.2017: €1,109.9 million), lenders have a termination option in the case of a change of control. In the event that certain reasons for termination exist, the lenders may declare the loan due with immediate effect and demand immediate repayment of the principal including interest, as well as the payment of other amounts payable that may have been incurred. Taking into account interest swaps, 55% (31.12.2017: 34%) of the liabilities to financial institutions carry fixed interest and 45% (31.12.2017: 66%) carry variable interest. The following table shows fixed interest terms and conditions, taking into account interest rate swaps, without liabilities from deferred interest: Interest 31.12.2018 Interest 31.12.2017 terms CurCarrying amount terms CurCarrying amount fixed until Effective annual interest rate rency in € million fixed until Effective annual interest rate rency in € million 2019 EURIBOR + margin EUR 132.0 2018 EURIBOR + margin EUR 369.6 LIBOR + margin USD 221.7 LIBOR + margin USD 54.4 Interbank Deposit Certificate Interbank Deposit Certificate (CDI) + margin BRL 113.9 (CDI) + margin BRL 145.5 Variable interest rate + margin EUR 34.0 Variable interest rate + margin EUR 34.0 3.77% EUR 3.0 4.11% USD 18.3 4.15% USD 13.4 Various variable rate Var. 16.5 Various variable rate Var. 16.0 Various fixed rate Var. 10.5 2019 0.68% EUR 10.0 0.72% EUR 7.1 3.77% EUR 3.0 1.59% EUR 4.0 2020 1.28% USD 32.8 2020 4.19% USD 70.7 2.30% EUR 12.4 4.98% USD 62.4 7.50% BRL 8.2 2022 1.74% EUR 62.0 2022 1.74% EUR 63.0 4.60% EUR 3.0 4.60% EUR 3.0 2023 1.56% EUR 196.2 1.12% EUR 109.4 3.94% USD 174.8 2024 3.10% EUR 35.0 2024 3.10% EUR 37.0 3.20% EUR 5.5 4.00% EUR 9.6 1,146.7 945.2 In some cases, the terms to maturity of the contracts are substantially longer than the period during which interest terms are fixed. 1146 48 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 27. Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities include the negative fair value of derivative financial instruments as well as fixed-term and puttable noncontrolling interests in Group companies. This item of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consists of the following items: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 in € million Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Derivatives from supply contracts 0.9 20.0 20.9 6.8 33.4 40.2 Interest rate swaps 0.0 7.3 7.3 0.0 0.2 0.2 Derivatives in open orders 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 Derivative financial liabilities 0.9 27.3 28.2 7.3 33.6 40.9 Fixed-term or puttable noncontrolling interests 14.1 22.2 36.3 10.1 21.9 32.0 Other financial liabilities 15.0 49.5 64.5 17.4 55.5 72.9 Additional explanations on derivative financial instruments are provided under Note (54). 28. Provisions for pensions The net liability from pension obligations in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Present value of pension obligations 506.6 517.1 Fair value of plan assets (223.9) (228.6) Funded status 282.7 288.5 Asset ceiling 19.5 18.3 Net liability from pension obligations 302.2 306.8 thereof assets from overfunded pension plans 2.1 1.9 thereof pensions 304.3 308.7 The present value of pension obligations by beneficiary groups is as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Active beneficiaries 101.4 107.9 Vested terminated beneficiaries 68.7 71.9 Retirees 336.5 337.3 Present value of pension obligations 506.6 517.1 The calculation of pension obligations is based on the following actuarial assumptions: in % 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Interest rate 3.3% 3.1% Future salary increase 2.7% 2.8% Future pension increase 2.2% 2.1% These are average values which were weighted with the present value of the respective pension obligation. 1147 49 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The calculation of the actuarial interest rate for the European currency area is based on a yield curve for returns of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in EUR with an average rating of AA, which is derived from pooled index values. The calculation of the actuarial interest rate for the USD and GBP currency area is based on a yield curve for returns of high-quality corporate bonds denominated in USD and GBP with an average rating of AA, which is derived from pooled index values. Where there are very long-term maturities, the yield curve follows the performance of bonds without credit default risk. The interest rate is calculated annually at 31 December, taking into account the expected future cash flows which were determined based on the current personal and commitment data. The calculation in Austria was based on the AVÖ 2018-P (31.12.2017: AVÖ 2008-P) demographic calculation principles for salaried employees from the Actuarial Association of Austria. In Germany, the Heubeck 2018 G (31.12.2017: Heubeck 2005 G) actuarial tables were used as a basis. In the other countries, country-specific mortality tables were applied. The main pension regulations are described below: The Austrian group companies account for €125.8 million (31.12.2017: €122.6 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €26.4 million (31.12.2017: €26.1 million) of the plan assets. The agreed benefits include pensions, invalidity benefits and benefits for surviving dependents. Commitments in the form of company or individual agreements depend on the length of service and the salary at the time of retirement. For the majority of commitments the amount of the company pension subsidy is limited to 75% of the final remuneration including a pension pursuant to the General Social Insurance Act (ASVG). RHI Magnesita has concluded pension reinsurance policies for part of the commitments. The pension claims of the beneficiaries are limited to the coverage capital required for these commitments. Pensions are predominantly paid in the form of annuities and are partially indexed. For employees joining the company after 1 January 1984, no defined benefits were granted. Rather, a defined contribution pension model is in place. In addition, there are commitments based on the deferred compensation principle, which are fully covered by pension reinsurance policies, and commitments for preretirement benefits for employees in mining operations. The pension plans of the German group companies account for €155.1 million (31.12.2017: €158.6 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €0.7 million (31.12.2017: €0.7 million) of plan assets. The benefits included in company agreements comprise pensions, invalidity benefits and benefits for surviving dependents. The amount of the pension depends on the length of service for the majority of the commitments and is calculated as a percentage of the average monthly wage/salary of the last 12 months prior to retirement. In some cases commitments to fixed benefits per year of service have been made. The pensions are predominantly paid in the form of annuities and are adjusted in accordance with the development of the consumer price index for Germany. The pension plans are closed for new entrants, except one contribution-based plan. There is no defined contribution model on a voluntary basis. Individual commitments have been made, with major part of them being retired beneficiaries. The pension plan of the US group company Magnesita Refractories Company, York, USA, accounts for €74.2 million (31.12.2017: €73.7 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €61.8 million (31.12.2017: €60.0 million) of the plan assets. The pension plan is a non-contributory defined benefit plan covering a portion of the employees of the company. The plan is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Effective 21 June 1999, the company offered the participants the opportunity to elect to participate in a single enhanced defined contribution plan. Participants who make this election are no longer eligible for future accruals under this plan. All benefits accrued as of the date of transfer will be retained. Employees hired after 21 June 1999 and employees that did not meet the plan's eligibility requirements as of 21 June 1999 are not eligible for this plan. The pensions are predominantly paid in the form of annuities and are adjusted annually based on the US consumer price index. The company's contributions for the year ended 31 December 2018 met, or exceeded, the minimum funding requirements of ERISA. The pension plan of the UK group company Magnesita Refractories Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom, accounts for €53.0 million (31.12.2017: €60.7 million) of the present value of pension obligations and holds €69.6 million (31.12.2017: €76.5 million) of assets, although only €53.0 million (31.12.2017: €60.7 million) of the plan assets are reflected on the balance sheet due to the application of IFRIC 14 (asset ceiling). The company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension plan for qualifying UK employees. The plan is administered by a separate board of trustees which is legally separate from the company. The trustees are composed of representatives of both the employer and employees, plus an independent professional trustee. The trustees are required by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day administration of the benefits. Under the plan, employees are entitled to annual pensions on retirement at age 65 of one-sixtieth of final pensionable salary for each year of service. Pensionable salary is defined as basic salary less the Lower Earnings Limit. Benefits are also payable on death and following other events such as withdrawing from active service. No other post-retirement benefits are provided to these employees. The pension liabilities of the Brazilian group company Magnesita Refratários S.A. account for €62.6 million (31.12.2017: €62.3 million) of the present value of pension obligations and for €34.6 million (31.12.2017: €36.3 million) of the plan assets. The pension plan qualifies as an optional benefit plan. Employees are entitled to contribute to the plan, with the company contributing 1.5 times this value. The agreed benefits include pensions, invalidity benefits and benefits for surviving dependents. Commitments in the form of company or individual agreements depend on the length of service and salary at the time of retirement. For the majority of commitments, the amount of the 1148 50 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 company pension obligation is limited to 75% of the final remuneration. At retirement the employee may choose to receive up to 25% of his/her amount at once or receive it on a pro-rata base with different options of monthly quotes. The following table shows the development of net liability from pension obligations: in € million 2018 2017 Net liability from pension obligations at beginning of year 306.8 234.7 Currency translation (1.9) (2.3) Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 81.0 Pension cost 11.6 8.5 Remeasurement losses 12.2 6.0 Benefits paid (17.3) (17.8) Employers' contributions to external funds (9.0) (3.3) Reclassifications (0.2) 0.0 Net liability from pension obligations at year-end 302.2 306.8 The present value of pension obligations developed as follows: in € million 2018 2017 Present value of pension obligations at beginning of year 517.1 289.2 Currency translation (3.0) (7.9) Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 240.3 Current service cost 3.9 3.3 Past service cost (0.5) 0.0 Interest cost 15.2 7.2 Remeasurement losses/(gains) from changes in demographic assumptions 7.8 (0.6) from changes in financial assumptions (5.8) 6.1 due to experience adjustments 2.7 2.2 Benefits paid (31.1) (23.1) Employee contributions to external funds 0.5 0.4 Reclassifications (0.2) 0.0 Present value of pension obligations at year-end 506.6 517.1 The movement in plan assets is shown in the table below: in € million 2018 2017 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 228.6 56.4 Currency translation (1.2) (5.9) Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 174.6 Interest income 7.7 2.3 Administrative costs (paid from plan assets) (0.3) (0.2) Income on plan assets less interest income (6.6) 3.0 Benefits paid (13.8) (5.3) Employers' contributions to external funds 9.0 3.3 Employee contributions to external funds 0.5 0.4 Fair value of plan assets at year-end 223.9 228.6 149 151 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The changes in the asset ceiling are shown below: in € million 2018 2017 Asset ceiling at beginning of year 18.3 1.9 Currency translation (0.1) (0.3) Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 15.3 Interest expense 0.4 0.1 Losses from changes in asset ceiling less interest expense 0.9 1.3 Asset ceiling at year-end 19.5 18.3 At 31 December 2018 the weighted average duration of pension obligations amounts to 12 years (31.12.2017: 12 years). The following amounts were recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: in € million 2018 2017 Current service cost 3.9 3.3 Negative past service cost (0.5) 0.0 Interest cost 15.2 7.2 Interest income (7.7) (2.3) Interest expense from asset ceiling 0.4 0.1 Administrative costs (paid from plan assets) 0.3 0.2 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss 11.6 8.5 The remeasurement results recognised in other comprehensive income are shown in the table below: in € million 2018 2017 Accumulated remeasurement losses at beginning of year 119.3 113.3 Remeasurement losses on present value of pension obligations 4.6 7.7 Expenses/(Income) on plan assets less interest income 6.6 (3.0) Losses from changes in asset ceiling less interest 0.9 1.3 Accumulated remeasurement losses at year-end 131.4 119.3 The present value of plan assets is distributed to the following classes of investments: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 in € million Active market No active market Total Active market No active market Total Insurances 0.0 39.1 39.1 0.0 38.4 38.4 Equity instruments 4.7 18.5 23.2 4.8 23.1 27.9 Debt instruments 14.3 49.2 63.5 17.2 45.2 62.4 Cash and cash equivalents 32.3 4.1 36.4 35.0 0.4 35.4 Other assets 57.9 3.8 61.7 60.8 3.7 64.5 Fair value of plan assets 109.2 114.7 223.9 117.8 110.8 228.6 1150 52 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The present value of the insurances to cover the Austrian pension plans corresponds to the coverage capital. Insurance companies predominantly invest in debt instruments and to a low extent in equity instruments and properties. Plan assets do not include own financial instruments of the Group or assets utilised by the RHI Magnesita Group. RHI Magnesita works with professional fund managers for the investment of plan assets. They act on the basis of specific investment guidelines adopted by the pension fund committee of the respective pension plans. The committees consist of management staff of the finance department and other qualified executives. They meet regularly in order to approve the target portfolio with the support of independent actuarial experts and to review the risks and the performance of the investments. In addition, they approve the selection or the extension of contracts of external fund managers. The largest part of the other assets is invested in pension reinsurance, which creates a low counterparty risk towards insurance companies. In addition, the Group is exposed to interest risks and longevity risks resulting from defined benefit commitments. The Group generally endows the pension funds with the amount necessary to meet the legal minimum allocation requirements of the country in which the fund is based. Moreover, the Group makes additional allocations at its discretion from time to time. In the financial year 2019, RHI Magnesita expects employer contributions to external plan assets to amount to €4.8 million and direct payments to entitled beneficiaries to €17.1 million. In the previous year, employer contributions of €4.8 million and direct pension payments of €17.9 million had been expected for the financial year 2018. 29. Other personnel provisions Other personnel provisions consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Termination benefits 55.5 58.1 Service anniversary bonuses 19.4 19.4 Legacy share-based payment programme 1.6 2.9 Semi-retirements 1.9 1.4 Lump-sum settlements 0.1 0.7 Other personnel provisions 78.5 82.5 Provisions for termination benefits Provisions for termination benefits were based on the following weighted average measurement assumptions: in % 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Interest rate 2.1% 1.7% Future salary increase 3.9% 3.8% The interest rate for the measurement of termination benefit obligations in the Euro area was determined taking into account the company specific duration of the portfolio. 1 151 53 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Provisions for termination benefits developed as follows in the financial year and the previous year: in € million 2018 2017 Provisions for termination benefits at beginning of year 58.1 58.5 Currency translation 0.0 (0.1) Current service cost 1.6 1.5 Interest cost 0.9 1.0 Remeasurement losses/(gains) from changes in demographic assumptions 1.1 0.0 from changes in financial assumptions (2.3) 5.1 due to experience adjustments 0.5 0.4 Benefits paid (4.4) (4.1) Reclassification 0.0 (0.4) Reclassification as held for sale 0.0 (3.8) Provisions for termination benefits at year-end 55.5 58.1 Payments for termination benefits are expected to amount to €3.5 million in the year 2019. In the previous year, the payments for termination benefits expected for the year 2018 amounted to €3.0 million. The following remeasurement gains and losses were recognised in other comprehensive income: in € million 2018 2017 Accumulated remeasurement losses at beginning of year 27.9 23.6 Remeasurement (gains)/losses1) (0.7) 5.6 Reclassification as held for sale 0.0 (1.3) Accumulated remeasurement losses at year-end 27.2 27.9 1 Including €0.0 million (2017: €0.1 million) from a joint venture accounted for using the equity method. At 31 December 2018 the weighted average duration of termination benefit obligations amounts to 11 years (31.12.2017: 11 years). Provisions for service anniversary bonuses The measurement of provisions for service anniversary bonuses is based on an average weighted interest rate of 1.7% (31.12.2017: 1.4%) and takes into account salary increases of 3.7% (31.12.2017: 3.6%). Provisions for semi-retirement The funded status of provisions for obligations to employees with semi-retirement contracts is shown in the table below: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Present value of semi-retirement obligations 5.1 5.0 Fair value of plan assets (3.2) (3.6) Provisions for semi-retirement obligations 1.9 1.4 External plan assets are ring-fenced from all creditors and exclusively serve to meet semi-retirement obligations. 1152 54 RRHHII M MAAG GN NEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 30. Other non-current provisions The development of non-current provisions is shown in the table below: Demolition/ disposal costs, Contract Labour and civil environmental in € million obligations contingencies damages Other Total 1.1.2018 1) 91.1 9.4 10.8 4.4 115.7 Currency translation (9.7) (1.0) (0.2) (0.1) (11.0) Utilised 0.0 (0.4) 0.0 (0.1) (0.5) Reversals 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.1) (0.1) Additions 1.7 0.3 1.9 0.5 4.4 Additions interest 9.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.8 Reclassifications (9.1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (9.1) 31.12.2018 83.8 8.3 12.5 4.6 109.2 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. In November 2017, RHI Magnesita sold a plant located in Oberhausen, Germany, in order to satisfy the conditions imposed by the European Commission in connection with their approval of the Acquisition of Control of Magnesita. As RHI Magnesita is obligated to provide raw materials at cost, the Group has recognised a provision for unfavourable contracts as part of the purchase price allocation to reflect the foregone profit margin. The non-current portion of this contract obligation amounts to €80.0 million as of 31.12.2018 (31.12.2017: €87.8 million). Furthermore, provisions for contract obligations amounting to €3.2 million (31.12.2017: €1.9 million) are due to contracts for logistics services and the procurement of raw materials. The provision for labour and civil contingencies primarily comprises of labour litigation provisions against RHI Magnesita in a total of 323 cases amounting to €7.1 million (31.12.2017: €8.3 million). The provision for demolition and disposal costs and environmental damages primarily includes provisions for the estimated costs of mining site restoration of several mines in Brazil amounting to €5.9 million (31.12.2017: €4.6 million) and various sites in the United States amounting to €6.1 million (31.12.2017: €5.8 million). The other provisions primarily include provisions related to tax litigation procedures in Peru regarding corporate income tax of fiscal year 2009 amounting to €2.7 million (31.12.2017: €2.6 million) and judicial action filed in Colombia related to corporate income tax of fiscal year 2010 amounting to €1.9 million (31.12.2017: €1.5 million). 31. Other non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Deferred income for subsidies received 6.2 4.7 Liabilities to employees 2.5 2.8 Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Miscellaneous non-current liabilities 1.0 0.9 Other non-current liabilities 10.3 9.0 thereof financial liabilities 0.6 0.6 thereof non-financial liabilities 9.7 8.4 1153 55 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 32. Trade payables and other current liabilities Trade payables and other current liabilities included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position consist of the following items: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Trade payables 502.5 467.6 Contract liabilities 64.8 0.0 Prepayments received on orders 0.0 24.1 Liabilities to employees 99.6 99.2 Taxes other than income tax 30.0 23.2 Payables from commissions 13.0 13.2 Payables from property transactions 9.2 4.8 Customers with credit balances 7.3 6.5 Liabilities to joint ventures and associates 5.4 9.1 Liabilities to non-consolidated subsidiaries 1.0 1.6 Other current liabilities 24.1 28.9 Trade payables and other current liabilities 756.9 678.2 thereof financial liabilities 539.3 507.0 thereof non-financial liabilities 217.6 171.2 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Contract liabilities mainly consist of prepayments received on orders. Prepayments received on orders as of 31 December 2017 were recognised as revenue in the current reporting period. The item liabilities to employees primarily consists of obligations for wages and salaries, payroll taxes and employee-related duties, performance bonuses, unused vacation and flexitime credits. Other current liabilities include €1.6 million (31.12.2017: €3.7 million) investment reimbursement obligation to the former subsidiary Dolomite Franchi S.p.A.,and other accrued expenses. 33. Income tax liabilities Income tax liabilities amounting to €32.2 million (31.12.2017: €16.1 million) primarily include income taxes for the current year and previous years which have not yet been definitively audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. Taking into account a multitude of factors, including the interpretation, commenting and case law regarding the respective tax laws as well as past experiences, adequate liabilities have been recognised as far as apparent. 34. Current provisions The development of current provisions is shown in the table below: Demolition/ disposal costs, Restructuring environmental Contract Guarantees in € million costs damages Warranties obligations provided Other Total 1.1.20181) 37.6 9.3 4.4 26.2 2.9 9.0 89.4 Currency translation (0.4) 0.0 (0.2) (2.0) 0.0 (0.4) (3.0) Utilised (25.2) (2.9) (3.3) (18.7) 0.0 (3.2) (53.3) Reversals (7.0) (0.7) (0.2) (2.4) 0.0 0.0 (10.3) Additions 4.1 1.7 2.0 9.7 0.1 1.9 19.5 Reclassifications 1.0 0.0 0.0 8.3 0.0 1.4 10.7 31.12.2018 10.1 7.4 2.7 21.1 3.0 8.7 53.0 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita and of the initial application of IFRS 15. Provisions for restructuring costs amount to €10.1 million as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €37.6 million) and primarily consist of benefit obligations to employees due to termination of employment resulting from corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita. 1154 56 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The item demolition and disposal costs, environmental damages includes an amount of €2.5 million (31.12.2017: €2.7 million) which refers to the former site in Aken, Germany. It is assumed that this provision will be used up within the next 12 months. Provisions for warranties include provisions for claims arising from warranties and other similar obligations from the sale of refractory products. Provisions for contract obligations include the current portion of the Oberhausen contract obligation amounting to €11.5 million (31.12.2017: €16.9 million). The amortisation of this provision led to an income of €10.0 million in 2018. Furthermore, provisions for other unfavourable contracts amounting to €6.7 million (31.12.2017: €6.9 million) and provisions for unfavourable contracts related to contracts for logistics services and the procurement of raw materials totalling €2.9 million (31.12.2017: €2.4 million) are included. Provisions for guarantees provided include obligations from sureties and guarantees to banks and insurance companies in the country and abroad. The exact due date of the cash outflow is uncertain. The item other provisions includes provisions for real estate transfer tax amounting to €1.3 million (31.12.2017: €2.4 million) resulting from corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita as well as a provision for the share-based remuneration programme of the members of the former Management Board of RHI AG of €1.4 million (31.12.2017: €1.4 million). In addition, provisions for legal proceedings including attorney’s fees amounting to €3.2 million (31.12.2017: €3.1 million) are included in the item other provisions. It is currently uncertain when precisely the cash outflow is due. Furthermore, several provisions, which are individually immaterial and cannot be allocated to one of the above-mentioned categories, are included in other provisions. A large part of these costs is expected to be paid within 12 months. 1155 57 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS 35. Revenue Revenue is essentially generated by product deliveries and by performing management refractory services. The distribution of revenue by product group, division and country is given in the explanations to segment reporting under Note (50). 36. Cost of sales Cost of sales comprises the production cost of goods sold as well as the purchase price of merchandise sold. In addition to direct material and production costs, it also includes overheads including depreciation charges on production equipment, amortisation charges of intangible assets as well as impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses of inventories. Moreover, cost of sales also includes the costs of services provided by the Group or services received. 37. Selling and marketing expenses This item includes personnel expenses for the sales staff as well as depreciation charges and other operating expenses related to the market and sales processes. 38. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel expenses for the administrative functions, legal and other consulting costs, expenses for research and non-capitalisable development costs. Research and development expenses totalled €32.6 million (2017: €24.0 million), of which development costs amounting to €8.3 million (2017: €4.6 million) were capitalised. Income from research grants amounted to €3.8 million (2017: €3.8 million) in 2018. Amortisation and impairment of development costs amounting to €3.8 million (2017: €4.3 million) are recognised under cost of sales. 39. Other income The individual components of other income are: in € million 2018 20171) Result from derivatives from supply contracts 19.6 4.9 Amortisation of Oberhausen provision 10.0 1.6 Income from restructuring 5.4 0.3 Income from the disposal of non-current assets 2.2 0.9 Miscellaneous income 6.7 2.7 Other income 43.9 10.4 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita and the changes in presentation. Income from restructuring amounting to €5.4 million results from the reversal of acquisition-related provisions for redundancy programmes. 1156 58 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AAN NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 40. Other expenses Other expenses include: in € million 2018 20171) Restructuring costs (22.3) (62.7) Expenses for strategic projects (13.5) (24.4) Losses from the disposal of non-current assets (3.0) (7.6) Impairment losses 0.0 (2.1) Miscellaneous expenses (6.1) (10.5) Other expenses (44.9) (107.3) 1 Adjusted to reflect the changes in presentation. Restructuring costs primarily relate to costs incurred in connection with the corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita, including costs for termination of employment amounting to €5.4 million. Furthermore, dismantling and demolition costs amounting to €3.7 million and expenses for unused logistics services in the Porsgrunn plant, Norway, amounting to €3.9 million (2017: €4.4 million) are included. In 2017, restructuring costs included expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition-related global restructuring programme totalling €35.3 million and the disposal of the dolomite and fused cast business amounting to €23.0 million. Expenses for strategic projects amounting to €13.5 million mainly include legal and consulting fees for the acquisition and integration of Magnesita and the related corporate reorganisation of RHI Magnesita. For the acquisition of Magnesita, costs totalling €33.5 million were incurred in 2017. They were primarily related to legal and other advisory fees and fees for the consulting investment banks. Of the total costs, €24.4 million were recognised in profit or loss and €9.1 million were accounted for as a deduction from equity since these costs were directly attributable to the issue of RHI Magnesita shares in 2017. €3.0 million were cash-effective and formed part of capital expenses for the issue of shares in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 41. Interest income This item includes interest on cash at banks and similar income amounting to €8.8 million (2017: €2.8 million), interest income on financial receivables amounting to €0.2 million (2017: €0.2 million) and interest income on securities and shares amounting to €0.7 million (2017: €2.5 million), of which €0.4 million (2017: €2.0 million) is accounted for by impaired securities. 42. Foreign exchange effects and related derivatives The net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives consists of the following items: in € million 2018 2017 Foreign exchange gains 98.6 68.2 Gains from related derivative finanical instruments 4.5 14.2 Foreign exchange losses (160.2) (126.3) Losses from from related derivative finanical instruments (24.2) (6.9) Net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives (81.3) (50.8) The net expense on foreign exchange effects and related derivatives results mainly from the devaluation of the Euro, Argentine Peso and Brazilian Real against the US Dollar, affecting both intercompany and third-party loans, accounts payable and accounts receivable. 1 157 59 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 43. Other net financial expenses Other net financial expenses consist of the following items: in € million 2018 20171) Interest income on plan assets 7.3 2.2 Interest expense on provisions for pensions (15.2) (7.2) Interest expense on provisions for termination benefits (0.9) (1.0) Interest expense on other personnel provisions (0.3) (0.3) Net interest expense personnel provisions (9.1) (6.3) Unwinding of discount of provisions and payables (15.6) (0.9) Interest expense on non-controlling interests (5.3) (3.3) Impairment losses on securities (1.4) (1.9) Expenses from the valuation of put options (1.0) (0.9) Gains from the disposal of securities and shares 0.7 0.0 Other interest and similar expenses (10.9) (0.3) Other net financial expenses (42.6) (13.6) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita and the changes in presentation. 44. Income tax Income tax consists of the following items: in € million 2018 2017 Current tax expense 75.9 30.5 Deferred tax expense/(income) relating to temporary differences (46.7) (34.0) tax loss carryforwards 29.7 8.4 (17.0) (25.6) Income tax 58.9 4.9 The current tax expense of the year 2018 includes tax expenses for previous periods of €7.1 million (2017: €2.8 million) and income from income tax relating to other periods of €0.5 million (2017: €8.6 million). In 2018, €3.8 million are related to an ongoing tax audit respectively tax loss forfeit in Germany. In 2017, €6.7 million were attributable to the reversal of a provision related to a tax audit in Germany. In addition to the income taxes recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss, tax income totalling €5.7 million (2017: €4.1 million), which is attributable to other comprehensive income, was also recognised in other comprehensive income. In 2017, tax expense totalling €6.3 million was reclassified from other comprehensive income to the Statement of Profit or Loss. 1158 60 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The reasons for the difference between the income tax expense, which would result from the application of the Austrian corporate tax rate of 25% on the profit before income tax, and the income tax reported are shown below: in € million 2018 20171) Profit before income tax 246.0 (5.9) Income tax expense calculated at 25% (2017: 25%) 61.5 (1.5) Different foreign tax rates 1.8 (0.7) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, non-creditable taxes 10.1 20.4 Non-taxable income and tax benefits (32.3) (7.1) Tax losses and temporary differences of the financial year not recognised 9.5 11.9 Utilisation of previously unrecognised loss carryforwards and temporary differences (0.2) (1.2) Recognition of previously unrecognised loss carryforwards and temporary differences (0.7) (5.8) Change in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 1.2 3.7 Deferred tax expense due to tax rate changes (1.8) (12.9) Deferred income tax relating to prior periods 2.4 3.3 Current income tax relating to prior periods 6.7 (5.8) Other 0.7 0.6 Recognised tax expense 58.9 4.9 Effective tax rate (in %) 23.9% (83.1)% 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Deferred tax expense due to tax rates changes is primarily attributable to the reduction of the corporate income tax rate in Norway from 24% to 23% (2018: €(0.9) million) and an increase in corporate income tax rate in Turkey from 20% to 22% (2018: €0.4 million). In 2017, deferred tax expense due to tax rates changes was primarily attributable to the reduction of the corporate income tax rate in the United States from 35% to 21% (2017: €(7.5) million) and in Norway (2017: €(1.1) million). Non-taxable income and tax benefits include the SUDENE tax regime amounting to 20.4 million. This tax regime is calculated on profits from activities covered by the incentive tax treatment for priority projects for the development of the SUDENE region in Brazil. 45. Expense categories The presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is based on the function of expenses. The following tables show a classification by expense category for 2018 and the previous year: General and Selling and administrative Other income/ in € million Cost of sales marketing expenses expenses expenses Total 2018 Changes in inventories, own work capitalised (79.2) 0.0 (2.8) 0.0 (82.0) Cost of materials 1,550.8 0.6 2.4 0.0 1,553.8 Personnel costs 409.6 72.8 106.2 5.6 594.2 Depreciation and amortisation charges 133.5 7.9 12.0 0.0 153.4 Other income (27.5) (0.2) (4.2) (9.9) (41.8) Other expenses 357.3 47.8 94.8 5.3 505.2 Total 2,344.5 128.9 208.4 1.0 2,682.8 1159 61 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued General and Selling and administrative Other income/ in € million Cost of sales marketing expenses expenses expenses Total 20172) Changes in inventories, own work capitalised (27.3) 0.2 (3.9) 1.5 (29.5) Cost of materials 919.2 4.0 5.3 (0.3) 928.2 Personnel costs 259.2 72.4 100.2 22.8 454.6 Depreciation and amortisation charges1) 75.8 0.4 6.0 17.2 99.4 Other income (8.5) 0.0 (6.9) (10.5) (25.9) Other expenses 325.0 24.2 42.4 66.2 457.8 Total2) 1,543.4 101.2 143.1 96.9 1,884.6 1 Including impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. 2 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita and the changes in presentation. Cost of materials includes expenses for raw materials and supplies, and purchased goods of €1,321.3 million (2017: €759.0 million) as well as expenses for services received, especially energy, amounting to €232.5 million (2017: €169.2 million). Amortisation charges of intangible assets are largely recognised in cost of sales. Other expenses mainly include freight costs, commissions, travel costs as well as consulting and other outside services. 46. Personnel costs Personnel costs consist of the following components: in € million 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 474.0 360.1 Pensions Defined benefit plans 3.7 3.4 Defined contribution plans 5.2 3.4 Termination benefits Defined benefit plans 1.6 1.5 Defined contribution plans 1.5 2.0 Other expenses 2.9 1.5 Social security costs 73.7 68.7 Fringe benefits 31.6 14.0 Personnel expenses (without interest expenses) 594.2 454.6 Personnel costs do not include amounts resulting from the interest accrued on personnel provisions. They amount to €9.1 million (2017: €6.3 million) and are recorded in other net financial expenses. 1160 62 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTAA AAN NNNUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The Statement of Cash Flows shows how cash and cash equivalents of the Group change through cash inflows and cash outflows during the reporting year. In accordance with IAS 7, cash flows from operating activities, from investing activities and from financing activities are distinguished. Cash flows from investing and financing activities are determined on the basis of cash payment, while cash flow from operating activities is derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements using the indirect method. The respective monthly changes in items of the Statement of Financial Position of companies that report in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate of the previous month and adjusted for effects arising from changes in the group of consolidated companies or in other businesses. Therefore, the Statement of Cash Flows cannot be derived directly from changes in items of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. As in the Statement of Financial Position, cash and cash equivalents are translated at the closing rate. The effects of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents are shown separately. 47. Net cash flow from operating activities Other non-cash expenses and income include mainly the net interest expenses for defined benefit pension plans amounting to €9.1 million (2017: €6.3 million), net remeasurement losses of monetary foreign currency positions and derivative financial instruments of €14.5 million (2017: €51.2 million). In 2017, other non-cash funding of provisions for restructuring amounted to €13.6 million. 48. Net cash flow from financing activities The reconciliation of movements of financial liabilities and assets to cash flows arising from financing activities is shown in the tables below: Cash changes Non-cash changes Changes in foreign Interest expense in € million 01.01.2018 exchange rates and other changes Reclassification 31.12.2018 Liabilities to financial institutions 953.0 164.8 (12.0) 60.3 (12.5) 1,153.6 Perpetual bond 215.3 (215.0) 1.3 (1.6) 0.0 0.0 Senior notes 55.6 (54.6) 0.6 (1.6) 0.0 0.0 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 32.0 (1.8) (0.4) 6.5 0.0 36.3 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 1.7 (0.5) (0.3) (0.6) 12.5 12.8 Prepaid transaction costs related to financial liabilities (2.5) 0.0 0.0 2.5 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 0.0 (4.5) 0.0 6.3 0.0 1.8 Changes of financial liabilities and assets arising from financing activities 1,255.1 (111.6) (10.8) 71.8 0.0 1,204.5 1 161 63 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Cash changes Non-cash changes Additions to Changes in foreign consolidated Interest expense in € million 01.01.2017 exchange rates companies and other changes 31.12.2017 Liabilities to financial institutions 475.5 60.1 (13.3) 407.9 22.8 953.0 Perpetual bond 0.0 0.0 (5.6) 217.9 3.0 215.3 Senior notes 0.0 0.0 (1.4) 56.3 0.7 55.6 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 32.5 (3.2) (1.7) 0.0 4.4 32.0 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 7.7 (3.4) (0.1) 0.1 (2.6) 1.7 Prepaid transaction costs related to financial liabilities 0.0 (2.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (2.5) Changes of financial liabilities and assets arising from financing activities 515.7 51.0 (22.1) 682.2 28.3 1,255.1 49. Total interest paid and interest received Total interest paid amounts to €72.4 million in the reporting period (2017: €25.6 million), of which €0.3 million (2017: €0.1 million) is included in cash flow from operating activities, €1.0 million (2017: €0.6 million) in cash flow from investing activities and €71.1 million (2017: €24.9 million) in cash flow from financing activities. Total interest received amounts to €8.5 million for the financial year 2018 (2017: €5.1 million), of which €0.2 million (2017: €0.0 million) are included in cash flow from operating activities and €8.3 million (2017: €5.1 million) in cash flow from investing activities. 1162 64 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 OTHER DISCLOSURES 50. Segment reporting Segment reporting by operating company division The following tables show the financial information for the operating segments for the year 2018 and the previous year: in € million Steel Industrial Group 2018 Revenue 2,204.3 877.1 3,081.4 Gross profit 522.4 214.5 736.9 EBIT 398.6 Net finance costs (162.7) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 10.1 Profit before income tax 246.0 Depreciation and amortisation charges (97.5) (55.9) (153.4) Segment assets 31.12.2018 1,666.3 948.0 2,614.3 Investments in joint ventures and associates 31.12.2018 21.8 Reconciliation to total assets 902.9 3,539.0 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (according to noncurrent assets statement) 67.7 59.3 127.0 in € million Steel Industrial Group 20171) Segment revenue 1,312.6 637.5 1,950.1 Gross profit 284.4 122.3 406.7 EBIT 65.5 Net finance costs (82.4) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 11.0 Profit before income tax (5.9) Depreciation and amortisation charges (53.0) (26.6) (79.6) Segment assets 31.12.2017 1,941.9 742.2 2,684.1 Investments in joint ventures and associates 31.12.2017 21.4 Reconciliation to total assets 807.3 3,512.8 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (according to noncurrent assets statement) 135.5 17.8 153.3 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita and the changes in presentation. 1163 65 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Revenue amounting to €317.5 million (2017: €195.5 million) was realised with one customer in 2018, which is included in the Steel segment. No other single customer contributed 10% or more to consolidated revenue in 2018 or 2017. Companies which are known to be part of a group are treated as one customer. When allocating revenue to product groups, a distinction is made between shaped products (e.g. hydraulically pressed bricks, fused cast bricks, isostatically pressed products), unshaped products (e.g. repair mixes, construction mixes and castables), refractory management services as well as other revenue. Other mainly includes revenue from the sale of non-group refractory products. In the reporting year, revenue is classified by product group as follows: in € million Steel Industrial Group 2018 Shaped products 1,110.3 580.5 1,690.8 Unshaped products 336.8 196.2 533.0 Management refractory services 616.0 0.0 616.0 Other 141.2 100.4 241.6 Revenue 2,204.3 877.1 3,081.4 In 2017, revenue was classified by product group as follows: in € million Steel Industrial Group 20171) Shaped products 654.8 436.0 1,090.8 Unshaped products 252.9 123.6 376.5 Management refractory services 334.5 0.0 334.5 Other 70.4 77.9 148.3 Revenue 1,312.6 637.5 1,950.1 1 Adjusted to reflect the changes in presentation. Revenue from shaped and unshaped products is transferred to the customers at a point in time, whereas revenue from management refractory services is transferred over time. Other revenue amounting to €100.9 million (2017: €67.9 million) is transferred over time and an amount of €140.7 million (2017: €80.4 million) is transferred at a point of time. Segment reporting by country Revenue is classified by customer sites as follows: in € million 2018 20171) Netherlands 25.8 14.1 All other countries USA 407.9 195.3 Brazil 333.2 92.5 India 245.3 204.1 Germany 183.4 137.3 PR China 165.7 121.9 Mexico 161.0 119.3 Italy 131.6 105.7 Canada 92.2 70.8 Russia 86.9 59.0 Other countries, each below €62.9 million (2017: €44.8 million) 1,248.4 830.1 Revenue 3,081.4 1,950.1 1 Adjusted to reflect the changes in presentation. 1164 66 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AN A NN NU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The carrying amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are classified as follows by the respective sites of the group companies: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Brazil 520.7 595.6 USA 233.1 236.4 Austria 220.6 214.0 Germany 198.6 210.0 PR China 160.1 158.7 India 58.0 58.8 Mexico 34.5 33.4 France 31.8 37.1 Turkey 30.6 31.8 Other countries, each below €18.6 million (31.12.2017: €19.1 million) 58.6 59.1 Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1,546.6 1,634.9 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 51. Earnings per share In accordance with IAS 33, earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year. 2018 20171) Profit after income tax attributable to the owners of the parent (in € million) 158.1 (17.4) Weighted average number of shares 44,963,615 40,682,053 Earnings per share (in €) 3.52 (0.43) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 52. Dividend payments and proposed dividend Based on a resolution adopted by the Annual General Meeting of RHI Magnesita N.V. on 7 June 2018, dividends totalling €33.6 million were paid out to the shareholders in 2018 for 2017, which corresponded to a dividend of €0.75 per share. For 2018, the Board of Directors will propose a dividend of €1.50 per share for the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. The proposed dividend is subject to the approval by the Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2019 and was not recognised as a liability in the Consolidated Financial Statements 2018. Dividend payments to the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. have no income tax consequences for RHI Magnesita N.V. 1165 67 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 53. Additional disclosures on financial instruments The following tables show the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and level and the allocation to the measurement category in accordance with IFRS 13. In addition, carrying amounts are shown aggregated according to measurement category. 31.12.2018 01.01.2018 Measurement category Carrying Carrying in € million IFRS 91) Level amount Fair value amount Fair value Other non-current financial assets Interests in subsidiaries not consolidated FVPL 3 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 Investments FVPL 3 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 Marketable securities FVPL 1 14.5 14.5 14.9 14.9 Shares FVPL 1 0.0 0.0 1.9 1.9 Shares FVPL 3 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Interest derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 2 0.6 0.6 1.5 1.5 Non-current receivables from disposal of subsidiaries AC 0.0 2.6 Other non-current financial receivables AC 1.7 2.5 Trade and other current receivables2) AC 367.2 426.6 Other current financial assets Marketable securities FVPL 1 35.2 35.2 32.3 32.3 Shares FVPL 1 1.1 1.1 0.0 0.0 Derivatives FVPL 2 2.1 2.1 1.7 1.7 Other current financial receivables AC 0.2 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents AC 491.2 442.4 Financial assets 915.0 928.2 Non-current and current borrowings Liabilities to financial institutions AC 2 1,153.6 1,165.6 953.0 966.1 Perpetual bonds AC 1 0.0 0.0 215.3 217.0 Senior notes AC 2 0.0 0.0 55.6 55.6 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs AC 2 12.8 12.8 1.7 1.7 Non-current and current other financial liabilities Derivatives FVPL 2 20.9 20.9 40.9 40.9 Interest derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 2 7.3 7.3 0.0 0.0 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests AC 2 36.3 36.3 32.0 32.0 Other non-current liabilities Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries FVPL 3 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Trade payables and other current liabilities3) AC 539.3 507.0 Financial liabilities 1,770.8 1,806.1 Aggregated according to measurement category Financial assets measured at FVPL 54.1 52.5 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 860.3 874.2 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 1,742.0 1,764.6 Financial liabilities measured at FVPL 21.5 41.5 1 FVPL: Financial assets/financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. AC: Financial assets/financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 2 Thereof non-financial receivables per 01.01.2018: €98.4 million. 3 Thereof non-financial liabilities per 01.01.2018: €175.5 million. 1166 68 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 In the RHI Magnesita Group marketable securities, derivative financial instruments, shares, investments and interests in subsidiaries not consolidated are measured at fair value. Fair value is defined as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between market participants in an arm's length transaction on the day of measurement. When the fair value is determined it is assumed that the transaction in which the asset is sold or the liability is transferred takes place either in the main market for the asset or liability, or in the most favourable market if there is no main market. RHI Magnesita considers the characteristics of the asset or liability to be measured which a market participant would consider in pricing. It is assumed that market participants act in their best economic interest. RHI Magnesita takes into account the availability of observable market prices in an active market and uses the following hierarchy to determine fair value: Level 1: Prices quoted in active markets for identical financial instruments. Level 2: Measurement techniques in which all important data used are based on observable market data. Level 3: Measurement techniques in which at least one significant parameter is based on non-observable market data. The fair value of securities, shares, investments and interests in subsidiaries not consolidated is based on price quotations at the reporting date (Level 1), where such quotations exist. In other cases a valuation model (Level 3) would be used for such instruments with the exception that such instruments are immaterial to the group, in which case amortised cost serves as an approximation of fair value. The fair value of interest derivatives in a hedging relationship (interest rate swaps) is determined by calculating the present value of future cash flows based on current yield curves taking into account the corresponding terms (Level 2). The fair value of other derivative contracts corresponds to the market value of the forward exchange contracts and the embedded derivatives in open orders denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, as well as the market value of a long-term power supply contract, which was classified as a derivative financial instrument since 2015. These derivatives are measured using quoted forward rates that are currently observable (Level 2). The fair value of the contingent consideration liability amounting to €0.6 million recognised in 2017 due to the acquisition of Agellis is determined by discounting the estimated earn-out with the transaction’s internal rate of return (Level 3). RHI Magnesita takes into account reclassifications in the measurement hierarchy at the end of the reporting period in which the changes occur. Apart from the initial application of IFRS 9, there were no shifts between the different measurement levels in the two reporting periods. Financial liabilities and liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests are carried at amortised cost in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position; the fair values of the financial liabilities are only shown in the notes. The fair value of the perpetual bond is based on price quotations at the reporting date (Level 1), all other liabilities are calculated at the present value of the discounted future cash flows using yield curves that are currently observable (Level 2). The financial receivables approximately correspond to the fair value as due to the amount of the existing receivables no material deviation between the fair value and the carrying amount is assumed and the credit default risk is accounted for by forming valuation allowances. The remaining terms of trade and other current receivables and liabilities as well as cash and cash equivalents are predominantly short. Therefore, the carrying amounts of these items approximate fair value at the reporting date. At the two reporting dates, no contractual netting agreement of financial assets and liabilities were in place. 1 167 69 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued Net results by measurement category in accordance with IFRS 9/IAS 39 The effect of financial instruments on the income and expenses recognised in 2018 and 2017 is shown in the following table, classified according to the measurement categories defined in IFRS 9/IAS 39: in € million 2018 2017 Net gain from financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 1.4 0.0 Net (loss)/gain from financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss designated on initial recognition (1.2) 0.1 Net loss from financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost (123.5) 0.0 Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in profit or loss 0.0 0.5 Net loss from loans and receivables as well as financial liabilities at amortised cost 0.0 (87.7) Net gain on financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading 0.0 12.2 The net gain on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss includes income from securities and shares, income from the disposal of securities and shares, as well as impairment losses and income from reversals of impairment losses. According to IFRS 9 these financial instruments are now included in the fair value through profit or loss category, hence the corresponding gains or losses are included in the gains or losses from financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. The net loss arising from loans and receivables as well as financial liabilities includes interest income and expenses, changes in valuation allowances and losses on derecognition, foreign exchange gains and losses as well as expenses related to the measurement of put options. According to IFRS 9 these financial instruments are now included in the amortised cost category, hence the corresponding gains or losses are included in the gains or losses from financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost. The net gain of financial assets held for trading and financial liabilities includes unrealised results from the measurement of a long-term commodity futures contract as well as changes in the market value and realised results of forward exchange contracts and embedded derivatives in open orders in a currency other than the functional currency of RHI Magnesita, interest derivatives which do not meet the requirements of hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 and interest income from securities. According to IFRS 9 these financial instruments are now included in the fair value through profit or loss category, hence the corresponding gains/losses are included in the gains/losses from financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. The net gain from financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated on initial recognition includes income related to the measurement of securities and personnel obligations. Net finance costs include interest income amounting to €9.5 million (2017: €5.0 million) and interest expenses of €69.5 million (2017: €26.5 million), which result from financial assets and liabilities which are not carried at fair value through profit or loss. 54. Derivative financial instruments Commodity forward The RHI Magnesita Group concluded a commodity forward contract for electricity for the fusion plant in Porsgrunn, Norway, in November 2011 which has been accounted for as a financial instrument in accordance with IFRS 9 since 31 December 2015 because the “own-use exemption” (exemption for own use in accordance with IFRS 9.2.6) no longer applies. The measurement of the entire term of the contract until the end of the year 2023 at market price level leads to a financial liability of €20.9 million at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €40.1 million). The corresponding present value of the cash flows for the agreed electricity supply totals €71.3 million at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €83.4 million); the present value of the cash flow at market price amounts to €50.4 million (31.12.2017: €43.3 million). Interest rate swaps RHI Magnesita has concluded interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flow risk associated to financial liabilities carrying variable interest rates. Variable interest cash flows of financial liabilities were designated as hedged items. The cash flow changes of the hedged items, which result from the changes of the variable interest rates, are balanced out by the cash flow changes of the interest rate swaps. These hedging measures pursue the objective to transform variable-interest financial liabilities into fixed interest financial liabilities, thus hedging the cash flow from the financial liabilities. Ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship may arise due to credit risk, although this risk is assessed to be very low. 1168 70 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 In the year 2018, RHI Magnesita concluded an interest rate swap with a nominal volume of €305.6 million maturing in 2023. The interest and compensation payments are due on a quarterly basis. Fixed interest rate amounts to roughly 0.28%, the variable interest rate is based on the EURIBOR. Furthermore, one other interest rate swap has been concluded in 2018, with a nominal volume of US$200.0 million and a term until 2023. The interest and compensation payments are also due on a quarterly basis. Fixed interest rate amounts to roughly 3.1%, the variable interest rate is based on the USD LIBOR. A hedging relationship with a nominal volume of US$50.0 million (31.12.2017: US$160.0 million) ends in the second half of 2020. The interest and compensation payments for this hedging relationship are due semi-annually. Fixed interest rates amount to roughly 1.3%; the variable interest rates are based on the LIBOR. Two interest rate swaps measured at fair value through profit or loss with an original maturity until 2019 and with a nominal volume of €12.2 million (31.12.2017: €17.2 million) were early settled in the current reporting period. Total expense in 2018 of this transaction amounts of €0.3 million and is recognised within other net financial expenses. In 2017, a hedging relationship with a nominal value of €50.0 million ended on 31 July 2017. The expense of €0.2 million recognised in other comprehensive income was reclassified to profit or loss and recognised within other net financial expenses. The fair values of the interest rate swaps totalled €(6.7) million at the reporting date (31.12.2017: €1.3 million), which is shown within other non-current financial assets in the amount of €0.6 million(31.12.2017: €1.5 million) and within other non-current financial liabilities in the amount of €7.3 million (31.12.2017: €0.2 million) in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. For the year ended, €6.8 million (2017: €0.2 million) have been recognised within other comprehensive income. In 2017, an expense amounting to €0.5 million has been reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss and recognised within other net financial expenses. No ineffectiveness has been recognised in profit and loss. Forward exchange contracts As of 31 December 2017, there were no material open forward exchange contracts. The nominal value and fair value of forward exchange contracts as of 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below: 31.12.2018 Nominal value Fair value in € Purchase Sale in million million EUR USD USD 182.0 1.1 USD INR EUR 890.0 0.0 Forward exchange contracts 1.1 55. Financial risk management Financial risks are incorporated in RHI Magnesita’s corporate risk management and are centrally controlled by Group Treasury. None of the following risks have a significant influence on the going concern of the RHI Magnesita Group. Credit risks The maximum credit risk from recognised financial assets amounts to €915.0 million (31.12.2017: €914.1 million) and is primarily related to investments with banks and receivables due from customers. The credit risk with banks related to investments (especially cash and cash equivalents) is reduced as business transactions are generally only carried out with financial institutions with a good credit rating. To counteract the default risk related to these transactions, receivables from customers are hedged as far as possible through credit insurance and collateral arranged through banks (guarantees, letters of credit), Credit and default risks are monitored continuously, and provisions are formed for risks that have occurred and are identifiable. In the following, the credit risk from trade receivables is shown classified by customer industry, by foreign currency and by term. 169 171 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued This credit risk, which is hedged by existing credit insurance, letters of credit and bank guarantees, is shown by customer segment in the following table: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Segment Steel 250.3 294.3 Segment Industrial 99.6 100.6 Trade receivables 349.9 394.9 Credit insurance and bank guarantees (139.8) (158.1) Net credit exposure 210.1 236.8 The following table shows the carrying amounts of receivables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the group companies. The carrying amounts of the receivables in the functional currency of the respective Group company are included under other functional currencies: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 US Dollar 75.4 96.0 Euro 11.6 9.9 Pound Sterling 5.8 3.8 Other currencies 7.0 7.9 Other functional currencies 250.1 277.3 Trade receivables 349.9 394.9 The movement in the valuation allowance in respect of trade and other receivables and contract assets during the year was as follows. Comparative amounts for 2017 represent the allowance account for impairment losses under IAS 39. 2018 2017 Individually Collectively assessed assessed in € million credit impaired not credit impaired Accumulated valuation allowance at beginning of year under IAS 39 34.4 0.0 35.2 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 (5.7) 3.3 Accumulated valuation allowance at beginning of year under IFRS 9 28.7 3.3 35.2 Currency translation (1.1) 0.0 (1.1) Addition 5.0 0.0 11.2 Use (3.0) 0.0 (3.2) Reversal 0.0 0.0 (5.6) Net remeasurement of loss allowance (2.1) 0.0 Reclassification as held for sale 0.0 0.0 (2.1) Accumulated valuation allowance at year-end 29.6 1.2 34.4 1170 72 RRHHII M MAAGGNNEESSIITTA A AAN NN NU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 For trade receivables and contract assets, for which no objective evidence of impairment exists, lifetime expected credit losses have been calculated using a provision matrix as shown below: in € million Trade receivables days past due between 31 and between 61 and between 91 and 31.12.2018 Not past due less than 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days more than 180 days Total Expected credit 0.05 loss rate in % 0.45% 0.11 1.08% 0.50 7.04% 1.39 13.33% 2.27 17.63% 5.86 33.81% Gross carrying amount 294.0 34.0 7.6 3.2 2.8 4.0 345.6 Life time expected credit loss 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 1.2 in € million Trade receivables days past due between 31 and between 61 and between 91 and 01.01.2018 Not past due less than 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days more than 180 days Total Expected credit 0.02 loss rate in % 0.32% 0.03 0.73% 0.11 5.63% 0.19 10.59% 0.28 14.06% 0.71 76.86% Gross carrying amount 310.5 46.2 19.3 7.2 4.2 9.6 397.0 Life time expected credit loss 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 2.3 3.4 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that financial obligations cannot be met when due. The Group’s financial policy is based on long-term financial planning and is centrally controlled and monitored continuously at RHI Magnesita. The liquidity requirements resulting from budget and medium-term planning are secured by concluding appropriate financing agreements. As of 31 December 2018, the RHI Magnesita Group has a credit facility of €319.3 million (31.12.2017: €317.2 million) at its disposal, which is unused and available immediately. These lines of credit were concluded with different international banks in order to ensure independence of banks. The companies of the RHI Magnesita Group are integrated into a clearing process managed by Central Treasury and provided with financing limits in order to minimise the need of borrowings for the Group as a whole. Non-derivative financial instruments An analysis of the terms of non-derivative financial liabilities based on undiscounted cash flows including the related interest payments shows the following expected cash outflows: Remaining term Carrying amount Cash in € million 31.12.2018 outflows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions fixed interest 116.1 127.3 2.7 88.5 36.1 variable interest 1,037.5 1,100.9 338.6 732.9 29.4 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 12.8 15.2 2.2 12.3 0.7 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 36.3 211.8 14.2 18.4 179.2 Contingent consideration for acquired subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0 Trade payables and other current liabilities 539.3 539.3 539.3 0.0 0.0 Non-derivative financial liabilities 1,742.6 1,995.1 897.0 852.7 245.4 1 171 73 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued This credit risk, which is hedged by existing credit insurance, letters of credit and bank guarantees, is shown by customer segment in the Remaining term following table: Carrying amount Cash in € million 31.12.20171) outflows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Liabilities to financial institutions Segment Steel 250.3 294.3 fixed interest 176.7 202.7 60.6 96.8 45.3 Segment Industrial 99.6 100.6 variable interest 776.3 858.1 146.5 683.7 27.9 Trade receivables 349.9 394.9 Perpetual bond 215.3 309.5 79.1 52.9 177.5 Credit insurance and bank guarantees (139.8) (158.1) Senior Notes 55.5 66.0 5.2 60.8 0.0 Net credit exposure 210.1 236.8 Other financial liabilities and capitalised transaction costs 1.7 1.8 0.9 0.8 0.1 Liabilities to fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests 32.0 161.0 10.1 12.3 138.6 The following table shows the carrying amounts of receivables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the Contingent consideration group companies. for acquired The carrying subsidiaries amounts of the receivables in the0.6 0.6 functional currency 0.0 of the respective Group company 0.6 are included0.0 underpayables Trade other functional currencies: and other current liabilities 507.0 507.0 507.0 0.0 0.0 Non-derivative financial liabilities 1,765.1 2,106.7 809.4 907.9 389.4 in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. US Dollar 75.4 96.0 Euro 11.6 9.9 Derivative financial instruments Pound The Sterling terms of derivative financial instruments based on expected undiscounted cash flow as of 31 December remaining 5.8 2018 and 3.8 31 OtherDecember currencies 2017 are shown in the table below: 7.0 7.9 Other functional currencies 250.1 277.3 Trade receivables 349.9 Remaining term 394.9 Carrying amount in € million 31.12.2018 Cash flows up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years The movement Receivables fromin the valuation derivatives with allowance net in respect of trade and other receivables and contract assets during the year was as follows. settlement Comparative amounts for 2017 represent the allowance account for impairment losses under IAS 39. Interest rate swaps 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.1 0.0 Derivatives in open orders 1.0 1.0 1.02018 0.0 2017 0.0 Forward exchange contracts 1.1 1.1 Individually1.1 0.0 Collectively 0.0 assessed assessed Liabilities from derivatives with net settlement in € million credit impaired not credit impaired Derivatives from supply contracts 20.9 22.2 1.0 21.2 0.0 Accumulated valuation allowance at beginning of year under IAS 39 34.4 0.0 35.2 Interest rate swaps 7.3 8.1 2.4 5.7 0.0 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 (5.7) 3.3 Accumulated valuation allowance at beginning of year under IFRS 9 28.7 3.3 35.2 Currency translation (1.1) 0.0 (1.1) Remaining term Addition 5.0 0.0 11.2 Carrying amount Use in € million 31.12.2017 Cash flows up to 1(3.0) year 0.0 2 to 5 years (3.2) over 5 years Reversal Receivables from derivatives with net 0.0 0.0 (5.6) settlement Net remeasurement of loss allowance (2.1) 0.0 Reclassification as held for sale Interest rate swaps 1.5 1.5 0.0 0.9 0.0 0.6 (2.1) 0.0 Accumulated valuation Financial assets trading at year-end held forallowance 1.7 1.7 29.61.7 1.2 0.0 34.4 0.0 Liabilities from derivatives with net settlement Financial liabilities held for trading 40.9 43.5 7.5 28.8 7.2 Foreign currency risks Foreign currency risks arise where business transactions (operating activities, investments, financing) are conducted in a currency other than the functional currency of a company. They are monitored at the group level and analysed with respect to hedging options. Usually the net position of the Group in the respective currency serves as the basis for decisions regarding the use of hedging instruments. 1170 172 74 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AAN NNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Foreign currency risks are created through financial instruments which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency (in the following: foreign currency) and are monetary in nature. Important primary monetary financial instruments include trade receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents as well as financial liabilities as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Equity instruments are not of a monetary nature, and therefore not linked to a foreign currency risk in accordance with IFRS 7. The majority of foreign currency financial instruments in the RHI Magnesita Group result from operating activities, above all from intragroup financing transactions, unless the foreign exchange effects recognised to profit or loss on monetary items, which represent part of a net investment in a foreign operation in accordance with IAS 21, are eliminated or hedged through forward exchange contracts. Significant provisions denominated in foreign currencies are also included in the analysis of risk. The following table shows the foreign currency positions in the major currencies as of 31 December 2018: in € million USD EUR MXN CAD Other Total Financial assets 651.5 104.1 0.4 23.1 71.4 850.5 Financial liabilities, provisions (938.6) (241.7) (21.5) (6.8) (45.7) (1,254.3) Net foreign currency position (287.1) (137.6) (21.1) 16.3 25.7 (403.8) The foreign currency positions as of 31 December 2017 are structured as follows: in € million USD EUR MXN CAD Other Total Financial assets 583.9 88.5 (0.1) 22.7 48.6 743.6 Financial liabilities, provisions (727.5) (218.6) (18.6) (2.4) (47.1) (1,014.2) Net foreign currency position (143.6) (130.1) (18.7) 20.3 1.5 (270.6) The disclosures required by IFRS 7 for foreign exchange risks include a sensitivity analysis that shows the effects of hypothetical changes in the relevant risk variables on profit or loss and equity. In general, all non-functional currencies in which Group companies enter into financial instruments are considered to be relevant risk variables. The effects on a particular reporting period are determined by applying the hypothetical changes in these risk variables to the financial instruments held by the Group as of the reporting date. It is assumed that the positions on the reporting date are representative for the entire year. The sensitivity analysis does not include the foreign exchange differences that result from translating the net asset positions of the foreign group companies into the Group currency, the Euro. A 10% appreciation or devaluation of the relevant functional currency against the following major currencies as of 31 December 2018 would have had the following effect on profit or loss and equity (both excluding income tax): Appreciation of 10% Devaluation of 10% in € million Gain/(loss) Equity Gain/(loss) Equity US Dollar 27.0 27.0 (33.0) (33.0) Euro 12.4 12.4 (15.1) (15.1) Mexican Peso 1.9 1.9 (2.3) (2.3) Canadian Dollar (1.5) (1.5) 1.8 1.8 Other currencies (2.3) (2.3) 2.7 2.7 1173 75 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The hypothetical effect on profit or loss at 31 December 2017 can be summarised as follows: Appreciation of 10% Devaluation of 10% in € million Gain/(loss) Equity Gain/(loss) Equity US Dollar 20.3 20.3 (24.8) (24.8) Euro 11.9 11.9 (14.5) (14.5) Mexican Peso 1.7 1.7 (2.1) (2.1) Canadian Dollar (1.8) (1.8) 2.3 2.3 Other currencies (0.4) (0.4) 0.3 0.3 Interest rate risks The interest rate risk in the RHI Magnesita Group is primarily related to financial instruments carrying variable interest rates, which may lead to fluctuations in results and cash flows. At 31 December 2018, interest rate hedges amounting to a nominal value of €305.6 million (31.12.2017: €17.2 million) and a nominal value of US$250 million (31.12.2017: US$160.0 million) existed; a variable interest rate was converted into a fixed interest rate through an interest rate swap. The exposure to interest rate risks is presented through sensitivity analyses in accordance with IFRS 7. These analyses show the effects of changes in market interest rates on interest payments, interest income and interest expense and on equity. The RHI Magnesita Group measures fixed interest financial assets and financial liabilities at amortised cost, and did not use the fair value option a hypothetical change in the market interest rates for these financial instruments at the reporting date would have had no effect on profit and loss or equity. Changes in market interest rates on financial instruments designated as hedges as a part of cash flow hedges to protect against interest rate-related payment fluctuations have an effect on equity and are therefore included in the equity-related sensitivity analysis. If the market interest rate as of 31 December 2018 had been 25 basis points higher or lower, equity would have been €3.8 million (31.12.2017: €0.5 million) higher or lower taking into account tax effects. Changes in market interest rates have an effect on the interest result of primary variable interest financial instruments whose interest payments are not designated as hedged items as a part of cash flow hedge relationships against interest rate risks, and are therefore included in the calculation of the result-related sensitivities. If the market interest rate as of 31 December 2018 had been 25 basis points higher or lower, the interest result would have been €0.1 million (31.12.2017: €0.5 million) lower or higher. Other market price risk RHI Magnesita holds certificates in an investment fund amounting to €12.0 million (31.12.2017: €12.6 million) to cover the legally required protection of personnel provisions of Austrian group companies. The market value of these certificates is influenced by fluctuations of the worldwide volatile stock and bond markets. In 2015, an energy supply contract with a term until the year 2023 was classified as a derivative financial instrument in and the fair value of the financial liability amounts to €20.9 million at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €40.1 million). If the quoted forward prices at 31 December 2018 had been 20% higher or lower, EBIT would have been €10.1 million (31.12.2017: €8.7 million) higher or lower. In contrast, if the borrowing costs relevant for discounting had been 25 basis points higher or lower at the reporting date, EBIT would have been €0.2 million (31.12.2017: €0.3 million) higher or lower. 56. Capital management The objectives of the capital management strategy of the RHI Magnesita Group are to secure going concern at all times by creating a solid capital base to finance growth, investments, to increase shareholders value on a sustained basis and to generate adequate returns to enable attractive dividend payments to the shareholders and to service debt. The RHI Magnesita Group manages its capital structure through careful monitoring and assessment of the overall economic framework conditions, credit, interest rate and FX risks and the requirements and risks related to operations and taking into account strategic projects. As the Group optimised its financial structure in 2018 and there are only two months of Magnesita results in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in 2017, the key figures of capital management for 2017 are not comparable. Therefore they are not included in the disclosure. 1174 76 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The capital structure key figures at the reporting date are shown below: 31.12.2018 Net debt (in € million) 638.9 Net gearing ratio (in %) 72.2% Group leverage 1.16 Net debt, which reflects borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, is controlled by Corporate Treasury. The main task of the Corporate Treasury department is to execute the capital management strategy as well as to secure liquidity to support business operations on a sustainable basis, to use banking and financial services efficiently and to limit financial risks while at the same time optimising earnings and costs. The net gearing ratio is the ratio of net debt to equity. The key performance indicator for net debt in the RHI Magnesita Group is the group leverage, which reflects the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA. It is calculated as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 EBIT 398.6 Amortisation 28.6 Depreciation 124.8 Other operating income and expenses 1.0 Adjusted EBITDA 553.0 Total debt 1,166.4 Cash and cash equivalents 491.2 Marketable securities 36.3 Net debt 638.9 Group leverage 1.16 In both 2018 and 2017, all externally imposed capital requirements were met. The Group has sufficient liquidity headroom within its committed debt facilities. RHI Magnesita N.V. is subject to minimum capital requirements according to its articles of association. The articles of association stipulate a mandatory reserve of €288,699,230.59 which was created in connection with the merger. 57. Contingent liabilities At 31 December 2018, warranties, performance guarantees and other guarantees amount to €43.0 million (31.12.2017: €39.8 million). Contingent liabilities have a remaining term between two months and three years, depending on the type of liability. Based on experiences of the past, the probability that contingent liabilities are used is considered to be low. In addition, contingent liabilities from sureties of €0.3 million (31.12.2017: €0.5 million) were recorded, of which €0.3 million (31.12.2017: €0.3 million) are related to contingent liabilities to creditors from joint ventures. Individual proceedings and lawsuits which result from ordinary activities are pending as of 31 December 2018 or can potentially be exercised against RHI Magnesita in the future. The related risks were analysed with a view to their probability of occurrence. The Group is party to tax proceedings in Brazil with the estimated amount of €169.0 million (31.12.2017: €178.3 million) for the following lawsuits, for which no provision was set up according to IFRS, as management classified risks of loss (based on the evaluation of legal advisors) as possible but not probable: 1175 77 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued In 2011, the Brazilian Tax Authorities made an assessment regarding income tax and social contribution on tax goodwill deducted in the years 2008 and 2009. The Tax Authority thus disallowed the deductibility of the amortisation of tax goodwill arising from operations with subsidiaries. In 2016, the company was notified of the decision issued by CARF (Administrative Council of Tax Appeals), which cancelled more than 90% of the tax assessment regarding the disallowed deductibility. However, this decision can still be changed as a result of appeals filed by the company and by the General Counsel to the National Treasury (PGFN). The final decision is expected within one to two years. The potential loss of this process amounts to €81.4 million (including interest and penalties) as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €87.8 million). In 2016, the Brazilian tax authorities extended the above view for the years 2011 and 2012. In December 2016, the company filed a defence against the assessment. The final decision is expected within two to three years. The potential loss of this process amounts to €37.5 million (including interest and penalties) as of 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €40.0 million). In 2013, the Brazilian Tax Authorities raised an assessment notice for allegedly failing to pay social security contributions in the period from January to December 2009. The company has appealed the assessment. Legal opinions demonstrate that the company has solid supporting documentation capable of reversing the assessment. The potential loss from this proceeding amounts to €4.8 million (including interest and penalties) as at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €6.0 million). Furthermore, the Brazilian Tax Authorities raised an assessment into a former holding company in Brazil in respect of federal taxes. The assessment relates to federal tax offsets made by the company up to and including 2008 which have not been approved by the Federal Revenue Service. Legal opinions demonstrate that the company has solid supporting documentation capable of reversing the assessment. The potential loss amounts to €10.7 million (including interest and penalties) as at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €11.1 million). In addition, the Brazilian Tax Authorities raised an assessment into the calculation basis of CFEM (Financial Compensation for Exploration of Mineral Resources). Based on the opinion of the legal advisors the company has appealed the assessment and the loss was considered possible due to jurisprudence of the Brazilian court. Additionally, recent changes on CFEM legislation, mostly adopting the company’s interpretation, also demonstrate that the interpretation taken is the most accurate, which is a fact judges can decide upon. The potential loss from this proceeding amounts to €12.9 million (including interest and penalties) as at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €13.9 million). In 2018, the Brazilian Tax Authorities raised an assessment in respect of tax on the circulation of goods and services for the alleged nonfulfillment of ancillary obligation and non-payment of tax in the period from 2013 to 2017. The decision by the Taxpayers Council is expected within the year 2019. Any decision taken by the Council will be subject to appeal. The potential loss from this proceeding amounts to €4.1 million (including interest and penalties) as at 31 December 2018. Magnesita Refratários S.A., Contagem, Brazil, is also involved in other minor lawsuits totalling €17.6 million (31.12.2017: €19.5 million) which relate to a number of assessments concerning various taxes and related obligations. Furthermore, Magnesita Refratários S.A., Contagem, Brazil, is party to a public civil action for damages caused by overloaded trucks in contravention with the Brazilian traffic legislation. In 2017, a decision was rendered in favour of Magnesita in the trial court considering the requests submitted by the Federal Public Attorney's Office to be completely devoid of legal merit. The decision taken by the trial court was subject to appeal by the Public Ministry of Minas Gerais. The potential loss from this proceeding amounts to €12.1 million as at 31 December 2018 (31.12.2017: €7.1 million). Other minor proceedings and lawsuits in which subsidiaries are involved have no significant negative influence on the financial position and performance of the RHI Magnesita Group. 58. Other financial commitments Other financial commitments consist of the following items: Total Remaining term in € million 31.12.2018 up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Obligations from rental and leasing contracts 73.7 16.3 27.7 29.7 Capital commitments 5.4 5.4 0.0 0.0 Other financial commitments 79.1 21.7 27.7 29.7 1176 78 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AANNNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Total Remaining term in € million 31.12.2017 up to 1 year 2 to 5 years over 5 years Obligations from rental and leasing contracts 56.9 16.1 24.2 16.6 Capital commitments 5.9 5.9 0.0 0.0 Other financial commitments 62.8 22.0 24.2 16.6 Other financial commitments are exclusively due to third parties. They are shown at nominal value. Rental and leasing commitments for property, plant and equipment of €34.4 million (2017: €23.1 million) are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for 2018. The conditions of the most important operating rental and leasing agreements can be summarised as follows: The old rental agreement of the company’s head office ended in 2018 and the Group’s headquarter moved into a new office in Vienna, Austria. Another new office was opened in Oviedo, Spain. Both have a contractual term until 2028 and include a prolongation option. Another rental contract for offices has a term until 30 April 2020. The tenant has a two-time optional right to extend the contract by three years each. The annual rent is coupled to the development of the consumer price index. At one production site, the area for operating a plant has been leased for the long term. The related contract ends in April 2062 and includes an extension option for another 30 years. The rent is subject to adaptation to inflation. The Group also rents numerous mining vehicles, diggers, forklifts and the like by cancellable leasing agreements. The contracts have terms ranging from two to seven years; most of them do not include a purchasing option after the contract ends. In addition to the aforementioned financial commitments, the RHI Magnesita Group also has long-term purchase commitments related to the supply with raw materials, especially for electricity, natural gas, strategic raw materials as well as for the transport of raw materials within the Group. This results in other financial commitments of the nominal value of €96.2 million at the reporting date (31.12.2017: €99.9 million). The remaining terms of the contracts amount to up to nine years. Purchases from these arrangements are recognised in accordance with the usual course of business. Purchase contracts are regularly reviewed for imminent losses, which may occur, for example, when requirements fall below the agreed minimum purchase volume or when contractually agreed prices deviate from the current market price level. 59. Expenses for the Group auditor The expensed fees for the activities of the Group auditor PwC that are included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss are shown in the following table: in € million 2018 2017 Audit of the Financial Statements 2.7 2.4 thereof invoiced by PwC Accountants N.V. 0.2 0.2 thereof invoiced by PwC network firms 2.5 2.2 Other audit-related services 0.1 0.1 Tax compliance services 0.9 0.9 Other non-audit services 0.0 2.5 Total fees 3.7 5.9 Other audit-related services, tax compliance services and other non-audit services were performed and invoiced by PwC network firms outside of the Netherlands. The other non-audit services of €2.5 million in 2017 are mainly related to services in connection with the acquisition of Magnesita and listing on the London Stock Exchange. 1177 79 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued 60. Annual average number of employees The average number of employees of the RHI Magnesita Group based on full time equivalents amounts to: 2018 2017 Salaried employees 5,947 3,788 Waged workers 8,171 4,781 Number of employees on annual average 14,118 8,569 Sixteen full time equivalents of salaried employees work in the Netherlands. 61. Transactions with related parties Related companies include subsidiaries that are not fully consolidated, joint ventures, associates and MSP Foundation, Liechtenstein, as a shareholder of RHI Magnesita N.V. since it exercises significant influence based on its share of more than 25% in RHI Magnesita N.V. In accordance with IAS 24.9v, the personnel welfare foundation of Stopinc AG, Hünenberg, Switzerland, also has to be considered a related company. Related persons are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group (key management personnel) and their close family members. Since 26 October 2017, key management personnel comprises of members of the Board of Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. and the Executive Management Team. Before that, members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of RHI AG formed the key management personnel. Related companies In 2018, the Group conducted the following transaction with its related companies: Nonconsolidated Joint ventures Associates subsidiaries in € million 2018 2017 2018 20171) 2018 20171) Revenue from the sale of goods and services 3.1 3.4 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.1 Purchase of raw materials 3.2 2.5 20.3 3.8 0.1 0.0 Interest income 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Asset purchase 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade and other receivables 0.9 1.3 0.0 1.1 0.2 0.2 Loans granted 0.0 0.0 10.4 9.6 0.1 0.1 Trade liabilities 0.3 0.6 5.1 8.5 0.9 1.6 Dividends received 10.8 10.7 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. In 2018 and 2017, the Group charged electricity and stock management costs to the joint venture MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co KG, St. Jakob, Austria, and purchased raw materials. In 2018 and in November and December 2017, the associate Sinterco S.A., Nameche, Belgium, sold sintered doloma to the RHI Magnesita Group. Furthermore, the Group has a financing receivable of €10.4 million (31.12.2017: €9.6 million) from a loan agreement with Sinterco. The balances at the end of 2018 are unsecured and will be paid in cash. All income and expenses 2017 of the joint ventures, associates and non-consolidated subsidiaries acquired in the course of the acquisition of Magnesita relate to the periods November and December 2017. Before the acquisition of Magnesita the Group had no associates. To secure a pension claim of a former employee of MAGNIFIN, RHI Magnesita has assumed a surety amounting to €0.3 million (31.12.2017: €0.3 million). A resulting cash outflow is not expected. No guarantees were received. 1178 80 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 In 2018 and 2017, no transactions were carried out between the RHI Magnesita Group and MSP Foundation, with the exception of the dividend paid. A service relationship with respect to the company pension scheme of the employees of Stopinc AG exists between the personnel welfare foundation of Stopinc AG and the fully consolidated subsidiary Stopinc AG. Stopinc AG makes contribution payments to the plan assets of the foundation to cover pension obligations. The pension plan is recognised as a defined benefit plan and is included in Note (28). At 31 December 2018, no current account receivables existed (31.12.2017: €0.8 million). In the past reporting period, no employer contributions (2017: €0.5 million) were made to the personnel welfare foundation. The overfunding of the pension plan is recognised as a non-current asset of €2.1 million (31.12.2017: €2.0 million). Related persons Remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is subject to disclosure in accordance with IAS 24, comprises the remuneration of the active Board of Directors and the Executive Management Team (EMT) in 2018 and from November to December 2017 as well as the former Management Board and Supervisory Board of RHI AG until October 2017. For the financial year 2018, expenses for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and EMT members, active in 2018, recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss total €10.1 million (2017: €12.6 million including also remuneration of the former Management Board). The expenses, not including non-wage labour costs, amount to €9.1 million (2017: €11.8 million), of which €8.4 million (2017: €9.8 million) were related to current benefits (fixed, variable and other earnings), €0.0 million (2017: €0.0 million) to benefits related to the termination of employment and €0.7 million (2017: €1.9 million) to share-based remuneration. At 31 December 2018, liabilities for performance-linked variable earnings and share-based payments for active members of the former Management Board of €5.6 million (2017: €6.7 million) are recognised as liabilities. There are no obligations arising from post-employment benefits and legally required termination benefits. In addition to the variable remuneration, the members of the former Management Board of RHI AG active in 2017 were also entitled to share-based payments. The programme was terminated after RHI AG merged with and into RHI Magnesita N.V. and the provisioned amount will be paid until 2020. In the financial year 2018, a payment of €1.4 million was made in this regard (2017: €1.2 million). For Non-Executive Directors, remuneration totalling €1.0 million (2017: €0.8 million including remuneration for the former Supervisory Board) was recognised through profit or loss in the year 2018. The compensation paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the members of the former Supervisory Board only consists of short-term employee benefits. Employee representatives acting as Non-Executive Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. who are employed by the Group, do not receive compensation for their activity as Non-Executive Directors. For their activity as employees in the Company and the activity of their close relatives employed with RHI Magnesita, expenses of €0.8 million (2017: €0.7 million) are recognised. No advance payments or loans were granted to key management personnel. The RHI Magnesita Group did not enter into contingent liabilities on behalf of the key management personnel. Directors Dealings reports are published on the websites of RHI Magnesita N.V. and of the London Stock Exchange. The members of the Board of Directors are covered by D&O insurance at RHI Magnesita. Detailed and individual information on the remuneration of the Board of Directors is presented in the Annual Report on Remuneration,in the Remuneration Committee report and the Remuneration Policy on pages 80 to 101 of the Annual Report of the RHI Magnesita Group. Earnings of former members of the former Management Board amounted to €2.6 million (2017: €3.5 million), of which €0.6 million (2017: €1.4 million) are related to share-based remuneration. RHI Magnesita and a close relative of a Non-Executive Director concluded a non-remunerated consultancy agreement to advise the Group on the economic and political framework in countries in which it does not yet have strong business links. Equity-settled share option plan (LTIP) The Company has a share option plan for the members of senior management of the Group which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 June 2018. Each share option converts into one ordinary share of the Company on exercise. No amounts are paid or payable by the recipient on receipt of the option. The options carry rights to dividends but no voting rights. Options may be exercised at any time from the date of vesting to the date of their expiry. 1179 81 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes continued The number of options granted is calculated in accordance with the performance-based formula approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting and is subject to approval by the remuneration committee. The formula rewards employees to the extent of the Group’s achievements judged against quantitative criteria from the following measures:  Group’s earnings per share,  Group’s earnings before interest and tax,  comparing the performance of the Group’s total shareholder return (TSR) against the FTSE 350. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of seven years from the vesting date the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. 2018 2017 Number of options Number of options As at 1 January 0 0 Granted during the year 107,599 0 Exercised during the year 0 0 Forfeited during the year (13,494) 0 As at 31 December 94,105 0 Vested and exercisable at 31 December 0 0 No options expired or were exercised during the periods covered by the above tables. The options outstanding at 31 December 2018 have a weighted-average contractual life of 2.5 years. The outstanding share options, which were granted on 7 June 2018, will expire on 7 June 2028. The share price at grant date for the 94,105 options was €53.13. The assessed fair value at grant date of options granted during the year ended 31 December 2018 was €52.51 per option. The fair value of share options with non-market performance conditions has been calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of options with market-related performance conditions has been measured using the Monte Carlo model. The calculation takes into account the exercise price, the term of the option, the share price at grant date and expected price volatility of the underlying share, the expected dividend yield, the risk free interest rate for the term of the option and the correlations and volatilities of the peer group companies. The requirement that the employee has to save in order to purchase shares under the share purchase plan has been incorporated into the fair value at grant date by applying a discount to the valuation obtained. The discount has been determined by estimating the probability that the employee will stop saving based on historical behaviour. The inputs used in the measurement of the fair values at grant date of the equity-settled share-based payment plans were as follows: in € million 2018 2017 Fair value at grant date 5.0 0.0 Expected volatility (weighted-average) 21.45% 0.0% Expected life (weighted-average) 36 Months 0 Expected dividends 0.5 0.0 Risk-free interest rate 0.89% 0.0% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous years. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 1180 82 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NNNU UAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 62. Board of Directors of RHI Magnesita N.V. The members of the Board of Directors are as follows: Herbert Cordt, Chairman Stefan Borgas, CEO Octavio Lopes (until 31 December 2018) Fersen Lambranho (until 22 January 2019) David Schlaff Stanislaus Prinz zu Sayn-Wittgenstein-Berleburg Celia Baxter Andrew Hosty James Leng John Ramsay Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer Karl Sevelda Franz Reiter Michael Schwarz 63. Material events after the reporting date On 10 March 2019 the Supervening Acquisition Period of the Integrated Tender Offer (as described in Note (5) of the Consolidated Financial Statements) ended. RHI Magnesita N.V. via its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary Dutch Brasil Holding B.V. received valid acceptances from holders of 6,167,636 Magnesita Refratários S.A. common shares, representing approximately 12.3% of the total share capital of Magnesita Refratários S.A. increasing its total ownership to 97.5%. As a result, 1,139,400 new RHI Magnesita N.V. shares were issued. The cash disbursement of this transaction amounts to €30.2 million. After the reporting date on 31 December 2018, there were no other events of special significance which may have a material effect on the financial position and performance of the RHI Magnesita Group. 1 181 83 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Company Financial Statements of RHI Magnesita N.V. Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018 (before appropriation of result) in € million Notes 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) ASSETS Fixed assets Financial fixed assets (A) 915.5 569.3 915.5 569.3 Current assets Receivables from Group companies 0.0 62.5 Cash and cash equivalents (B) 0.1 0.1 Total current assets 0.1 62.6 Total assets 915.6 631.9 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital (C) 48.3 44.8 Additional paid-in capital (D) 305.5 165.7 Legal and mandatory reserves (E) 209.9 234.1 Other reserves 78.7 263.5 Result for the period (H) 158.1 (89.3) Shareholders' Equity 800.5 618.8 Current liabilities Other current liabilities (F) 115.1 13.1 Total current liabilities 115.1 13.1 Total equity and liabilities 915.6 631.9 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Company Statement of Profit or Loss for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018 in € million Notes 2018 20171) General and administrative expenses (8.5) (13.0) Result before taxation (8.5) (13.0) Income tax 0.0 0.0 Net result from investments (G) 166.6 (76.3) Net result for the period (H) 158.1 (89.3) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1182 84 RRHHII MMAAG GNNEESSIITTAA AANNNNU UA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 Movements in Shareholders’ Equity Legal and mandatory reserves Other reserves Additional Retained Share paid-in Cash flow Currency Mandatory earnings Net Equity attributable to in € million capital capital hedges translation reserve result shareholders 31.12.20171) 44.8 165.7 0.1 (54.7) 288.7 263.5 (89.3) 618.8 Effects of initial application of IFRS 15 (net of tax) (6.0) (6.0) Effects of initial application of IFRS 9 (net of tax) 1.8 1.8 01.01.2018 44.8 165.7 0.1 (54.7) 288.7 259.3 (89.3) 614.6 Appropriation of prior year result (89.3) 89.3 Net result 158.1 158.1 Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control 0.1 (10.7) (52.1) (62.7) Issue of ordinary shares 3.5 139.8 143.3 Share-based payments 1.0 1.0 Dividends (33.6) (33.6) Net income / (expense) recognised directly in equity (5.2) (8.4) (6.6) (20.2) 31.12.2018 48.3 305.5 (5.0) (73.8) 288.7 78.7 158.1 800.5 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Legal and mandatory reserves Other reserves Additional Retained Share paid-in Cash flow Currency Mandatory earnings Net Equity attributable to in € million capital capital hedges translation reserve result shareholders Incorporation 20 June 2017 0.0 Increase of equity 70.0 70.0 30.06.2017 70.0 70.0 Net result (89.3) (89.3) Downstream merger from RHI AG 39.8 (70.0) (0.1) (71.2) 288.7 270.0 457.2 Issue of ordinary shares minus costs 5.0 165.7 170.7 Net income/ (expense) recognised (6.5) directly in equity 0.2 16.5 10.2 31.12.20171) 44.8 165.7 0.1 (54.7) 288.7 263.5 (89.3) 618.8 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. 1183 85 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2018 General RHI Magnesita N.V. (the “Company”), a public company with limited liability under Dutch law is registered with the Dutch Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce under the number 68991665 and has its corporate seat in Arnhem, Netherlands. The administrative seat and registered office is located at Kranichberggasse 6, 1120 Vienna, Austria. The shares of RHI Magnesita N.V. (ISIN code NL0012650360) are listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and are included in the FTSE 250 Index. On 16 October 2017, the general meeting of the Company decided to amend the articles of association of the Company and to fully accept them. With this amendment of the articles of association of the Company, it has been determined that the financial year of RHI Magnesita N.V. corresponds to the calendar year. The current financial year is therefore the same as the calendar year, while the previous year ran from 1 July 2017 up to and including 31 December 2017. Basis of preparation The Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Company uses the option of Section 362, subsection 8, of Part 9, Book 2, of the Dutch Civil Code to prepare the Company Financial Statements on the basis of the same accounting principles as those applied for the Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation is based on recognition and measurement requirements of accounting standards adopted by the EU (i.e. only IFRS that is adopted for use in the EU at the date of authorisation) as explained further in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in comparative information The Company Balance Sheet as of 31.12.2017 and the Company Statement of Profit or Loss 2017 have been adjusted for the final fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities of Magnesita and the effects of the subsequent measurement of the values determined in the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. Further information is included in Note (3) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant accounting policies Financial fixed assets Investments in Group companies in the Company Financial Statements are accounted for using the equity method. Net result from investments The share in the result of investments comprises the share of the Company in the result of these investments. Fixed assets (A) Financial fixed assets The financial fixed assets comprise investments in: 2018 2017 Country of core Name and registered office of the company activity Share in % Share in % Didier Werke A.G., Wiesbaden, Germany Germany 12.5 12.5 RHI Refractories Raw Material GmbH, Vienna, Austria Austria 25.0 25.0 RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria Austria 100.0 100.0 RHI Magnesita Trading B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands Netherlands 100.0 186 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AN A NNNUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 The investments have developed as follows: in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) At beginning of year 569.3 0.0 Effects of the initial application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 (4.2) 0.0 From downstream merger 0.0 457.2 Transactions with non-controlling interests without change of control (59.2) 0.0 Capital contributions 262.1 179.5 Changes from currency translation and cash flow hedges (13.6) 16.7 Changes from defined benefit plans (6.5) (5.6) Equity settled transaction 1.0 (2.2) Net result from investments 166.6 (76.3) Balance at year-end 915.5 569.3 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. The following list, prepared in accordance with the relevant legal requirements (Dutch Civil Code, Book 2, Sections 379), shows all companies in which RHI Magnesita N.V. holds a direct or indirect share of at least 20% (with the exception of the RHISA Employee Trust): 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 1. RHI Magnesita N.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 1185 87 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M AG N E S I TA to the Company Financial Statements 2018 Notes Fully consolidated subsidiaries to the Company Financial Statements 2018 2. Agellis Group AB, Sund, Sweden 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 3. Baker Fully Refractories consolidated Holding Company, Wilmington, USA subsidiaries 43. 100.0 43. 100.0 4. Baker Refractories I.C., Inc., Wilmington, USA 3. 100.0 3. 100.0 5. Baker Refractories, Las Vegas, USA 43. 100.0 43. 100.0 2. 6. Agellis Group BetriebsAB, Sund, Sweden und Baugesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Wiesbaden, Germany 56. 10. 100.0 56. 10. 100.0 3. Baker Refractories D.S.I.P.C.-Didier Holding Société Company,de Industrielle Wilmington, Production USA et de 43. 100.0 43. 100.0 7. 4. Constructions, Baker RefractoriesValenciennes, France I.C., Inc., Wilmington, USA 10. 3. 100.0 100.0 10. 3. 100.0 100.0 8. 5. Didier Belgium N.V.,Las Baker Refractories, Evergem, Belgium Vegas, USA 71.,104. 43. 100.0 100.0 71.,104. 43. 100.0 100.0 9. 6. Didier Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH, Betriebsund Baugesellschaft mitWiesbaden, beschränkterGermany Haftung, Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 10. 100.0 100.0 10. 10. 100.0 100.0 10. Didier-Werke Aktiengesellschaft, Wiesbaden, D.S.I.P.C.-Didier Société Industrielle de Production Germany et de 1.,56. 100.0 1.,56. 100.0 7. 11. Constructions, Dutch Valenciennes, Brasil Holding France B.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 10. 110. 100.0 10. 110. 100.0 8. 12. Didier Belgium MAS B.V.,N.V., Dutch Evergem, Arnhem, Belgium Netherlands 71.,104. 10. 100.0 71.,104. 10. 100.0 9. 13. Didier Vertriebsgesellschaft Dutch US Holding B.V., Arnhem, mbH,Netherlands Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 110. 100.0 10. 110. 100.0 10. 14. Didier-Werke FE Aktiengesellschaft, VERA , Dnepropetrovsk, UkraineWiesbaden, Germany 1.,56. 56. 100.0 1.,56. 56. 100.0 11. 15. Dutch Brasil Holding Feuerfestwerk B.V., Arnhem, Bad Hönningen GmbH,Netherlands Hagen, Germany 110. 115. 100.0 110. 115. 100.0 12. 16. Dutch MAS FireShark B.V., Arnhem, Refractories GmbH,Netherlands Vienna, Austria 10. 74. 100.0 10. 74. 100.0 13. 17. Dutch Full USSupply Line Holding B.V.,(Pty) Africa Arnhem, Netherlands Ltd., Sandton, South Africa; i.l. 110. 83. 100.0 110. 83. 100.0 14. 18. FE VERA , GIX Dnepropetrovsk, International Ukraine United Kingdom Limited, Dinnington, 56. 116. 100.0 56. 116. 100.0 15. 19. Feuerfestwerk INDRESCO U.K.Bad Hönningen Ltd., Dinnington, GmbH, UnitedHagen, Germany Kingdom 115. 18. 100.0 115. 18. 100.0 16. 20. (Shanghai)GmbH, FireShark Refractories INTERSTOP Vienna, Co., Ltd., Austria Shanghai, PR China 74. 109. 100.0 74. 109. 100.0 17. 21. Full Line RHI Liaoning Supply Africa Jinding (Pty) Ltd., Magnesia Sandton, Co., City, i.l. South Africa; Ltd., Dashiqiao PR China1) 83. 56. 100.0 83.3 83. 56. 100.0 83.3 18. 22. GIX International LLC Limited, Dinnington, RHI Wostok Service , Moscow, RussiaUnited Kingdom 116. 56.,74. 100.0 116. 56.,74. 100.0 19. 23. INDRESCO LLC U.K. Ltd., RHI Wostok , Dinnington, Moscow, RussiaUnited Kingdom 18. 56.,74. 100.0 56.,74.18. 100.0 20. 24. INTERSTOP Lokalbahn (Shanghai) Mixnitz-St. Co., Ltd., Erhard Shanghai, PR China Aktien-Gesellschaft, Vienna, Austria 109. 95. 100.0 109. 95. 100.0 21. 25. Liaoning LWB RHI Jinding Holding Company, Magnesia Co., USA Las Vegas, Ltd., Dashiqiao City, PR China1) 56. 57. 83.3 100.0 56. 57. 83.3 100.0 22. LLC RHI Wostok Service , Moscow, Russia 56.,74. 100.0 56.,74. 100.0 23. LLC RHI Wostok , Moscow, Russia 56.,74. 100.0 56.,74. 100.0 24. Lokalbahn Mixnitz-St. Erhard Aktien-Gesellschaft, Vienna, Austria 95. 100.0 95. 100.0 25. LWB Holding Company, Las Vegas, USA 57. 100.0 57. 100.0 1186 88 RRHHII M MAAG GNNEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUAA LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 26. LWB Refractories Belgium S.A., Liège, Belgium 45.,115. 100.0 45.,115. 100.0 27. LWB Refractories Beteiligungs GmbH & Co. KG, Hagen, Germany 35.,57. 100.0 35.,57. 100.0 28. LWB Refractories Hagen GmbH, Hagen, Germany 115. 100.0 115. 100.0 29. LWB Refractories Holding France S.A.S., Valenciennes, France 115. 100.0 115. 100.0 30. M.E. Refractories Company FZE i. l., Dubai, United Arab Emirates 34. 100.0 34. 100.0 Mag Data Participaçoes e Investimentos em Projetos de Mineração S.A., 31. Contagem, Brazil 100.0 50. 100.0 32. Magnesit Anonim Sirketi, Eskisehir, Turkey2) 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 33. Magnesita Asia Refractory Holding Ltd, Hong Kong, PR China 29. 100.0 29. 100.0 34. Magnesita Finance S.A., Luxembourg, Luxembourg 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 35. Magnesita Grundstücks-Beteiligungs GmbH, Hagen, Germany 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 36. Magnesita International Limited, London, United Kingdom 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 37. Magnesita Malta Finance Ltd., St. Julians, Malta 38.,115. 100.0 38.,115. 100.0 38. Magnesita Malta Holding Ltd., St. Julians, Malta 45.,115. 100.0 45.,115. 100.0 39. Magnesita Mineração S.A., Brumado, Brazil 34.,50.,120. 100.0 34.,50.,122. 100.0 40. Magnesita NAM Insurance Company, Wilmington, USA 25. 100.0 25. 100.0 41. Magnesita Refractories (Canada) Inc., Montreal, Canada 3. 100.0 3. 100.0 42. Magnesita Refractories (Dalian) Co. Ltd., Dalian, PR China 34. 100.0 34. 100.0 43. Magnesita Refractories Company, York, USA 25. 100.0 25. 100.0 44. Magnesita Refractories de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Monterrey, Mexico 3.,4. 100.0 3.,4. 100.0 45. Magnesita Refractories GmbH, Hagen, Germany 115. 100.0 115. 100.0 46. Magnesita Refractories Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom 3. 100.0 3. 100.0 47. Magnesita Refractories Middle East FZE, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 34. 100.0 34. 100.0 48. Magnesita Refractories S.C.S., Valenciennes, France 29.,115. 100.0 29.,115. 100.0 49. Magnesita Refractories S.R.L., Milano, Italy 115. 100.0 115. 100.0 50. Magnesita Refratários S.A., Contagem, Brazil 11. 85.2 11. 50.0 51. Magnesita Resource (Anhui-Chizhou) Company. Ltd., Chizhou, PR China 33. 100.0 33. 100.0 52. Mezubag AG, Pfäffikon, Switzerland 109. 100.0 109. 100.0 53. Orient Refractories Limited, Mumbai, India 13. 66.5 13. 69.6 54. Premier Periclase Limited, Drogheda, Ireland 13. 100.0 13. 100.0 55. Producción RHI México, S. de R.L. de C.V., Ramos Arizpe, Mexico 87.,116. 100.0 87.,116. 100.0 56. Radex Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Leoben, Austria 112. 100.0 112. 100.0 57. Rearden G Holdings Eins GmbH, Hagen, Germany 34. 100.0 34. 100.0 58. Refractarios Argentinos S.A.I.C.M., Buenos Aires, Argentina 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 59. Refractarios Magnesita Chile S/A, Santiago, Chile 58. 100.0 58. 100.0 60. Refractarios Magnesita Colombia S/A, Sogamoso, Colombia 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 61. Refractarios Magnesita del Perú S.A.C., Lima, Peru 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 62. Refractory Intellectual Property GmbH & Co KG, Vienna, Austria 63.,74. 100.0 63.,74. 100.0 63. Refractory Intellectual Property GmbH, Vienna, Austria 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 64. Reframec Manutenção e Montagens de Refratários S.A., Matozinhos, Brazil 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 65. RHI Argentina S.R.L., San Nicolás, Argentina 13.,116. 100.0 13.,116. 100.0 66. RHI Canada Inc., Burlington, Canada 116. 100.0 116. 100.0 67. RHI Chile S.A., Santiago, Chile 18.,116. 100.0 18.,116. 100.0 68. RHI Clasil Private Limited, Mumbai, India1) 116. 53.7 116. 53.7 69. RHI Dinaris GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 104. 100.0 104. 100.0 1 187 89 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 70. RHI Finance A/S, Hellerup, Denmark 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 71. RHI GLAS GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 104. 100.0 104. 100.0 72. RHI India Private Limited, Navi Mumbai, India 11.,116. 100.0 11.,116. 100.0 73. RHI ITALIA S.R.L., Brescia, Italy 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 74. RHI Magnesita GmbH, Vienna, Austria 1. 100.0 1. 100.0 75. RHI Magnesita Distribution B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands 76. 100.0 76. RHI Magnesita Trading B.V., Rotterdam, Netherlands 1. 100.0 77. RHI Marvo Feuerungsund Industriebau GmbH, Gerbstedt, Germany 78. 100.0 78. 100.0 78. RHI MARVO Feuerungsund Industriebau GmbH, Kerpen, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 79. RHI MARVO S.R.L., Ploiesti, Romania 56.,110. 100.0 56.,110. 100.0 80. RHI Normag AS, Porsgrunn, Norway 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 81. RHI Refractories (Dalian) Co., Ltd., Dalian, PR China 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 82. RHI Refractories (Site Services) Ltd., Dinnington, United Kingdom 19. 100.0 19. 100.0 83. RHI Refractories Africa (Pty) Ltd., Sandton, South Africa 56.,107. 100.0 56.,107. 100.0 84. RHI Refractories Andino C.A., Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela 116. 100.0 116. 100.0 85. RHI Refractories Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., Singapore 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 86. RHI Refractories Egypt LLC., Cairo, Egypt 56.,110. 100.0 56.,110. 100.0 87. RHI Refractories España, S.L., Lugones, Spain 10.,12. 100.0 10.,12. 100.0 88. RHI Refractories France SA, Valenciennes, France3) 108. 100.0 108. 100.0 89. RHI Refractories Holding Company, Wilmington, USA 116. 100.0 116. 100.0 90. RHI Refractories Ibérica, S.L., Lugones, Spain 108. 100.0 108. 100.0 91. RHI Refractories Italiana s.r.l., Brescia, Italy; i.l. 108. 100.0 108. 100.0 92. RHI Refractories Liaoning Co., Ltd., Bayuquan, PR China1) 56. 66.0 56. 66.0 93. RHI Refractories Mercosul Ltda., Sao Paulo, Brazil 110.,116. 100.0 110.,116. 100.0 94. RHI Refractories Nord AB, Stockholm, Sweden 108. 100.0 108. 100.0 95. RHI Refractories Raw Material GmbH, Vienna, Austria 1.,56.,74. 100.0 1.,56.,74. 100.0 96. RHI Refractories Site Services GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 97. RHI Refractories UK Limited, Bonnybridge, United Kingdom 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 98. RHI Refratários Brasil Ltda, Belo Horizonte, Brazil 11.,116. 100.0 11.,116. 100.0 99. RHI Sales Europe West GmbH, Mülheim-Kärlich, Germany 10.,108. 100.0 10.,108. 100.0 100. RHI Trading (Dalian) Co., Ltd., Dalian, PR China 56. 100.0 56. 100.0 101. RHI Ukraina LLC, Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine 56.,110. 100.0 102. RHI United Offices America, S.A. de C.V., Monterrey, Mexico 87.,103. 100.0 87.,103. 100.0 103. RHI United Offices Europe, S.L., Lugones, Spain 87. 100.0 87. 100.0 104. RHI Urmitz AG & Co. KG, Mülheim-Kärlich, Germany 9.,10. 100.0 9.,10. 100.0 105. RHI US Ltd., Wilmington, USA 13. 100.0 13. 100.0 106. RHI-Refmex, S.A. de C.V., Ramos Arizpe, Mexico 87.,116. 100.0 87.,116. 100.0 107. RHISA Employee Trust, Sandton, South Africa4) 0.0 0.0 108. SAPREF AG für feuerfestes Material, Basel, Switzerland 116. 100.0 116. 100.0 109. Stopinc Aktiengesellschaft, Hünenberg, Switzerland 10.,56. 100.0 10.,56. 100.0 110. Veitscher Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna, Austria 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 111. Veitsch-Radex America LLC., Wilmington, USA 105. 100.0 105. 100.0 112. Veitsch-Radex GmbH & Co OG, Vienna, Austria 74.,113. 100.0 74.,113. 100.0 113. Veitsch-Radex GmbH, Vienna, Austria 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 114. Veitsch-Radex Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna, Austria 74. 100.0 74. 100.0 1188 90 RRHHII M MAAGGN NEESSIITTA A AN A NN NUUA A LL R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ShareShare ShareShare Ser. no. Name and registered office of the company holder in % holder in % 115. Vierte LWB Refractories Holding GmbH, Hagen, Germany 27.,57. 100.0 27.,57. 100.0 116. VRD Americas B.V., Arnhem, Netherlands 56.,74. 100.0 56.,74. 100.0 117. Zimmermann & Jansen GmbH, Düren, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 Subsidiaries not consolidated due to minor significance 118. Agellis Process AB, Lund, Sweden 100.0 2. 100.0 119. Agellis Surface AB, Lund, Sweden 100.0 2. 100.0 120. Araçuaí Holding S.A., São Paulo, Brazil 131. 100.0 131. 100.0 121. Dr.-Ing. Petri & Co. Unterstützungsgesellschaft m.b.H., Wiesbaden, Germany 10. 100.0 10. 100.0 122. Grayhill MDMM Holding Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 123. Guapare S.A, Montevideo, Uruguay 50. 100.0 124. Magnesita Australia PTY Ltd. i. l., Australia 33. 100.0 33. 100.0 125. Magnesita Refractories A.B., Köping, Sweden 115. 100.0 115. 100.0 126. Magnesita Refractories PVT Ltd, Mumbai, India 57.,115. 100.0 57.,115. 100.0 127. Magnesita Refractories S.A. (Pty) Ltd., Middleburg, South Africa 45. 100.0 45. 100.0 128. MAG-Tec Participações Ltda. Ltda., Contagem, Brazil 50. 98.7 50. 98.7 129. Metal Data Participações Ltda., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 50. 61.0 50. 61.0 130. Metal Data S.A. – Mineração e Metalurgia, Contagem, Brazil 50.,129. 100.0 50.,129. 100.0 131. MMD Araçuaí Holding Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 50. 100.0 31.,50. 100.0 132. MPC, Metal Process Control AB, Lund, Sweden 100.0 2. 100.0 133. Refractarios Especiales Y Moliendas S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 58. 100.0 58. 100.0 134. Refractarios Magnesita Uruguay S/A, Montevideo, Uruguay 50. 100.0 50. 100.0 135. RHI Réfractaires Algérie E.U.R.L., Sidi Amar, Algeria 88. 100.0 88. 100.0 Equity-accounted joint ventures and associated companies 136. Krosaki Magnesita Refractories LLC, York, USA 43. 40.0 43. 40.0 137. Magnesita Envoy Asia Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 3. 50.0 3. 50.0 138. MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH & Co KG, St. Jakob, Austria 110.,142. 50.0 110.,142. 50.0 139. Sinterco S.A., Nameche, Belgium 57. 70.0 57. 70.0 Other immaterial investments, measured at cost 140. LLC NSK Refractory Holding , Moskau, Russia 49.0 56. 49.0 141. LLC NSK Refractory , Novokuznetsk, Russia 49.0 56. 49.0 142. MAGNIFIN Magnesiaprodukte GmbH, St. Jakob, Austria 110. 50.0 110. 50.0 1 In accordance with IAS 32, fixed-term or puttable non-controlling interests are shown under liabilities. 2 Further shareholders are VRD Americas B.V., Lokalbahn Mixnitz St. Erhard Aktien-Gesellschaft and Veitscher Vertriebsgesellschaft mbH. 3 Further shareholders are Didier-Werke AG, RHI Dinaris GmbH and RHI GLAS GmbH. 4 Controlling influence due to contractual terms and conditions. i.l. in liquidation 1189 91 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA TA Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2018 Current assets (B) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are at RHI Magnesita N.V.’s free disposal. Equity (C) Share capital The Company’s authorised share capital amounts to €100,000,000, comprising 100,000,000 ordinary shares, each of €1 nominal value. As at 31 December 2018, RHI Magnesita N.V.’s issued and fully paid-in share capital consists of 48,337,047 ordinary shares. (As at 31 December 2017: 44,819,039 ordinary shares). (D) Additional paid-in capital Additional paid-in capital comprises premiums on the issue of shares less issue costs by RHI Magnesita N.V. (E) Legal and mandatory reserves Cash flow hedges The item cash flow hedges includes gains and losses from the effective part of cash flow hedges less tax effects. Further information on hedge accounting is included in Note (54) of the Consolidated R HFinancial I M A G N EStatements. S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Currency translation Currency translation includes the accumulated currency translation differences from translating the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries as well as unrealised currency translation differences from monetary items which are part of a net investment in a foreign operation, net of related income taxes. If foreign companies are deconsolidated, the currency translation differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as part of the gain or loss from the sale of shares in subsidiaries. In addition, when monetary items cease to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation, the currency translation differences of these monetary items previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. The cash flow hedges reserve and the currency translation reserve are legal reserves in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code and are restricted for distribution. Mandatory reserve The articles of association stipulate a mandatory reserve of €288,699,230.59 which was created in connection with the merger. No distributions, allocations or additions may be made and no losses of the Company may be allocated to the mandatory reserve. Current liabilities (F) Other current liabilities in € million 31.12.2018 31.12.20171) Trade payables 5.1 2.8 Payables to group companies 105.6 0.0 Accrued liabilities 4.4 10.3 Total current liabilities 115.1 13.1 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. The other current liabilities fall due in less than one year. The fair value of other current liabilities approximates the book value, due to their short-term character. (G) Net results from investments In the year 2018 the full year results of the investments amount to a profit of €166.6 million and are recognised in the Company Statement of Profit or Loss. In year 2017 the exact legal steps of the merger were reflected in the Company Financial Statements. Consequently the interests in the investments were recognised as per date of the transaction, in this case 26 October 2017. The (adjusted) results of the investments for the period from 26 October to 31 December 2017 amounted to a loss of €76.3 million. The results of the investments for the period from 1 January to 25 October 2017 amounted to a profit of €71.9 million and were recognised as an effect from the downstream merger under retained earnings. (H) Net result for the period 1190 In 92018, 2 there are no differences in the result between the Company Financial Statements and the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2017, a different accounting treatment of the merger has been applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Company Financial Statements. In the Consolidated Financial Statements the results of a full year have been recognised in the Consolidated Accrued liabilities 4.4 10.3 Total current liabilities 115.1 13.1 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. The other current liabilities fall due in less than one year. The fair value of other current liabilities approximates the book value, due to their short-term character. (G) Net results from investments In the year 2018 the full year results of the investments amount to a profit of €166.6 million and are recognised in the Company Statement of Profit or Loss. In year 2017 the exact legal steps of the merger were reflected in the Company Financial Statements. Consequently the interests in the investments were recognised as per date of the transaction, in this case 26 October 2017. The (adjusted) results of the investments for the period from 26 October to 31 December 2017 amounted to a loss of €76.3 million. The results of the investments for the period from 1 January to 25 October 2017 amounted to a profit of €71.9 million and were recognised as an effect from the downstream merger under retained earnings. (H) Net result for the period In 2018, there are no differences in the result between the Company Financial Statements and the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2017, a different accounting treatment of the merger has been applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Company Financial Statements. In the Consolidated Financial Statements the results of a full year have been recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss (the so called ‘pooling of interest methodology’), whereas in the Company Financial Statements the results of the period 26 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 have been recognised in the Company Statement of Profit or Loss (the so called ‘carryover accounting methodology). The difference in year 2017 between the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Company Financial Statements is shown in the table below: in € million 20171) Company’s net result for the period 1 July to 31 December 2017 (89.3) Result of the investments for the period from 1 January 2017 to 25 October 2017 recognised in retained earning 71.9 Company’s consolidated results 2017 (attributable to shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V.) (17.4) 1 Adjusted to reflect the effects of the final purchase price allocation of Magnesita. FProposed I N A N C I Aappropriation L S TAT E M E N Tof S result R H I M AG N E S I TA It is proposed that pursuant to Article 27 clause 1 of the articles of association of the Company the result shown in RHI Magnesita N.V. income statement be appropriated as follows: in € million 2018 Notes Profit attributable to shareholders 158.1 In accordance with Article 27 clause 1 to be transferred to reserves 0.0 At the disposal of the General Meeting of shareholders 158.1 to the Company Financial Statements 2018 For 2018, the Board of Directors will propose a dividend of €1.50 per share for the shareholders of RHI Magnesita N.V. The proposed dividend is subject to the approval by the Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2019. 191 Other notes Number of employees The average number of employees of RHI Magnesita N.V. during 2018 amounts to nil (2017: nil). Other information Information regarding auditor's fees, number of employees of RHI Magnesita Group and the remuneration of the Board of Directors is included in Note (59) to (61) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Material events after the reporting date On 10 March 2019 the Supervening Acquisition Period of the Integrated Tender Offer (as described in Note (5) of the Consolidated Financial Statements) ended. RHI Magnesita N.V. via its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary Dutch Brasil Holding B.V. received valid acceptances from holders of 6,167,636 Magnesita Refratários S.A. common shares, representing approximately 12.3% of the total share capital of Magnesita Refratários S.A. increasing its total ownership to 97.5%. As a result, 1,139,400 new RHI Magnesita N.V. shares were issued. The cash disbursement of this transaction amounts to €30.2 million. After the reporting date on 31 December 2018, there were no other events of special significance which may have a material effect on the financial position and performance of RHI Magnesita N.V. 193 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S RHR IHM MG I A AN TIAT A GENSEI STA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 2018 Other Vienna,notes 26 March 2019 Number of employees Board FThe N of C I Directors I N Aaverage S TAT E Mof A L number E Nemployees TS of RHI Magnesita N.V. during R H I M2018 A G Namounts E S I T A to nil (2017: nil). Other Herbert information Cordt, Chairman Information Stefan Borgas, regarding CEO auditor's fees, number of employees of RHI Magnesita Group and the remuneration of the Board of Directors is included David Schlaff in Note (59) to (61) of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Stanislaus Prinz zu SaynWittgenstein-Berleburg Material Celia Baxter events after the reporting date On Andrew10 March Hosty2019 the Supervening Acquisition Period of the Integrated Tender Offer (as described in Note (5) of the Consolidated Financial James Statements) Leng ended. RHI Magnesita N.V. via its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary Dutch Brasil Holding B.V. received valid acceptances John from holders of 6,167,636 Magnesita Refratários S.A. common shares, representing approximately 12.3% of the total share capital of Ramsay Magnesita Refratários S.A. increasing its total ownership to 97.5%. As a result, 1,139,400 new RHI Magnesita N.V. shares were issued. The Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer cash disbursement of this transaction amounts to €30.2 million. Karl Sevelda Franz Reiter After Michael theSchwarz reporting date on 31 December 2018, there were no other events of special significance which may have a material effect on the financial position and performance of RHI Magnesita N.V. Other information Provisions of the articles of association on profit and distributions The stipulations of Article 27 and 28 of the Articles of Association concerning profit and distributions are: 27 Profit and distributions 27.1 The Board may resolve that the profits realised during a financial year will fully or partially be appropriated to increase and/or form reserves. With due regard to Article 26.2, a deficit may only be offset against the reserves prescribed by law to the extent this is permitted by law. 27.2 The allocation of profits remaining after application of Article 27.1 shall be determined by the General Meeting. The Board shall make a proposal for that purpose. A proposal to make a distribution of profits shall be dealt with as a separate agenda item at the General Meeting. 27.3 Distribution of profits shall be made after adoption of the annual accounts if permitted under the law given the contents of the annual accounts. 27.4 The Board may resolve to make interim distributions and/or to make distributions at the expense of any reserve of the Company, other than the Mandatory Reserve. 27.5 Distributions on shares may be made only up to an amount which does not exceed the amount of the Distributable Equity. If it concerns an interim distribution, the compliance with this requirement must be evidenced by an interim statement of assets and liabilities as referred to in Section 2:105 paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Company shall deposit the statement of assets and liabilities at the Dutch Trade Register within eight days after the day on which the resolution to make the distribution is published. 27.6 Distributions on shares payable in cash shall be paid in euro, unless the Board determines that payment shall be made in another currency. 27.7 The Board is authorised to determine that a distribution on shares will not be made in cash but in kind or in the form of shares, or to determine that shareholders may choose to accept the distribution in cash and/or in the form of shares, all this out of the profits and/or at the expense of reserves, other than the Mandatory Reserve, and all this if and in so far the Board has been designated by the General Meeting in accordance with Article 6.1. The Board shall set the conditions under which such a choice may be made. 28 Release for payment Distributions of profits and other distributions shall be made payable four weeks after adoption of the relevant resolution, unless the Board or the General Meeting at the proposal of the Board determine another date. 1192 94 193 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent auditor’s report To: the general meeting and the board of directors of The basis for our opinion RHI Magnesita N.V. We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. We have further described our Report on the financial and consolidated responsibilities under those standards in the section ‘Our financial statements 2018 responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. Our opinion In our opinion: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. ¥¥ RHI Magnesita N.V.’s consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at 31 Independence December 2018 and of its result and cash flows for the year then We are independent of RHI Magnesita N.V. in accordance with the ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with audit of public-interest entities, the ‘Wet toezicht Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; accountantsorganisaties’ (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the ¥¥ RHI Magnesita N.V.’s company financial statements give a true ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at 31 assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO – Code of Ethics for Professional December 2018 and of its result for the year then ended in Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen What we have audited beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA – Code of Ethics for We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2018 Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to rules of of RHI Magnesita N.V., Vienna (‘the Company’). The financial professional conduct). statements include the consolidated financial statements of RHI Magnesita N.V. together with its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) Our audit approach and the company financial statements. Overview and context RHI Magnesita N.V. is a worldwide producer of refractory products. The consolidated financial statements comprise: Refractory products are used in all the world’s high-temperature industrial processes. The Group is comprised of several ¥¥ the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 components and therefore we considered our group audit scope December 2018; and approach as set out in the section ‘The scope of our group audit’. We paid specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the ¥¥ the following statements for 2018: the Consolidated Statement operations of the Group, as set out below. of Profit or Loss and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows The financial year 2018 was characterised by the integration of and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity; and Magnesita Refratários S.A., the in 2017 acquired Magnesita Group, ¥¥ the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, comprising and by organisational changes throughout the Group. This affected significant accounting policies and other explanatory the determination of materiality, the scope of our group audit and information. our audit procedures as described in the sections ‘Materiality’, ‘The scope of our audit’ and ‘Key audit matters’. The company financial statements comprise: As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and ¥¥ the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018; assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial ¥¥ the company statement of profit or loss for the year then ended; statements. In particular, we considered where the board of ¥¥ the notes, comprising the accounting policies applied and other directors made important judgements, for example, in respect of explanatory information. significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. In note The financial reporting framework applied in the preparation of the 10 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company describes financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 the areas of judgement in applying accounting policies and the key of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated financial sources of estimation uncertainty. Given the significant estimation statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the uncertainty and the related higher inherent risks of material company financial statements. misstatement in the recoverability of deferred tax assets, final accounting of the Magnesita acquisition, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, we considered these matters as key audit matters as set out in the section ‘Key audit matters’ of this report. Furthermore we identified the implementation of IFRS 15, the new revenue standard, as a key audit matter. 195 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA Independent auditor’s report continued Other areas of focus, that were not considered to be key audit Overall group €13.8 million (2017: €8.0 million). matters, were the disclosures as required by IAS 8 concerning the materiality transition to the new accounting standard IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. As in all Basis for determining We used our professional judgement to determine of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of materiality overall materiality. As a basis for our judgement, we internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence used approximately 2.5% of earnings before interest, of bias by the board of directors that may represent a risk of material taxes depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA). misstatements due to fraud. Rationale for We used EBITDA as the benchmark, a generally benchmark applied accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis We ensured that the audit teams at both group and component of the common information needs of users of the level included the appropriate skills and competences, which are financial statements. On this basis, we believe that EBITDA is an important metric for the financial needed for the audit of an international industrial products performance of the Company. company. We therefore included specialists in the areas of IT and corporate income tax, as well as experts in the areas of valuation Component To each component in our audit scope, we, based on materiality our judgement, allocate materiality that is less than and employee benefits, in our audit team. our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between €0.9 The outline of our audit approach was as follows: million and €11 million. Materiality ¥¥ Overall materiality: €13.8 million. We also take misstatements and possible misstatements into account that, in our judgement, are material for qualitative reasons. Audit scope Materiality ¥¥ We conducted audit work in 42 locations. We agreed with the board of directors that we would report to them ¥¥ Site visits were conducted to 6 misstatements identified during our audit above €0.7 million (2017: countries – Brasil, US, Canada, €0.4 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in Audit scope China, India and Austria. our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. ¥¥ Audit coverage: 93% of consolidated revenue, 93% of consolidated total The scope of our group audit assets, 97% of consolidated EBIT and Key audit RHI Magnesita N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The 99% of consolidated EBITDA. matters financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of RHI Magnesita N.V. Key audit matters ¥¥ Recoverability of deferred tax assets; We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed ¥¥ Finalisation of the purchase price allocation in respect of sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial the acquisition of Magnesita Refratários S.A.; statements as a whole, taking into account the management ¥¥ Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets; structure of the Group, the nature of operations of its components, the accounting processes and controls, and the markets in which ¥¥ Implementation of IFRS 15, the new revenue standard. the components of the Group operate. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work Materiality required to be performed at component level by the Group The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of engagement team and by each component auditor. materiality, which is further explained in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’. We have audited the complete financial information of 20 components, of which 5 components are individually financially Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain significant to the Group: quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the ¥¥ RHI Magnesita GmbH (formerly RHI Feuerfest GmbH), Austria table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit ¥¥ Magnesita Refratários S.A., Brasil procedures on the individual financial statement line items and ¥¥ Magnesita Mineracao S.A., Brasil disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements, ¥¥ RHI US, USA both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a ¥¥ Magnesita Refractories Company, USA whole and on our opinion. 196 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 We further performed specific risk-focussed audit procedures for 3 The group engagement team at the head office audited the group components as they include significant or higher risk areas: consolidation, financial statements disclosures, IFRS 15 adjustments, inventory valuation and a number of complex items. ¥¥ Magnesita Refractories Middle East, Dubai These include acquisition accounting, impairment testing and ¥¥ Magnesita Finance S.A., Luxembourg valuation of deferred tax assets. ¥¥ Dutch Brasil Holding B.V., Netherlands By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to Additionally, we selected 21 components for audit procedures to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the Group’s achieve appropriate coverage on financial line items in the financial information, as a whole, to provide a basis for our opinion consolidated financial statements and to build an element of on the financial statements. unpredictability in our audit. Our focus on fraud In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following Our objectives coverage on the financial line items: We assess and respond to the risk of fraud in the context of our audit of the financial statements. In this context and with reference to the Revenue 93% sections on responsibilities in this report, our objectives in relation Total assets 93% to fraud are: EBIT 97% ¥¥ to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the EBITDA 99% financial statements due to fraud; ¥¥ to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the None of the remaining components represented more than 1% of assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through total group revenue or total group assets. For those remaining designing and implementing appropriate audit responses; components we performed, among other things, analytical ¥¥ to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no during the audit. significant risks of material misstatements within those components. However, because of the characteristics of fraud, particularly those The group engagement team performed the audit work for the involving sophisticated and carefully organised schemes to conceal parent company RHI Magnesita N.V. and the Austrian entities in it, such as forgery, deliberate failure to record transactions and scope for the group audit. For all other components, we used collusion, our audit might not detect instances of material fraud. component auditors who are familiar with the local laws and regulations to perform the audit work. Our risk assessment We obtained an understanding of the entity and its environment, Where component auditors performed the work, we determined including the entity’s internal control. We made enquiries of group the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be and local management, the internal audit function, legal and able to conclude whether we had obtained sufficient appropriate compliance departments and the audit committee. In addition, we audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated considered other external and internal information. As part of our financial statements as a whole. process of identifying fraud risks, we evaluated fraud risk factors with respect to financial reporting fraud, misappropriation of assets We issued instructions to the component audit teams in our audit and bribery and corruption. Fraud risk factors are events or scope. These instructions included amongst others our risk analysis, conditions, which indicate an incentive or pressure, an opportunity, materiality and scope of the work. We explained to the component or an attitude or rationalisation to commit fraud. We evaluated the audit teams the structure of the Group, the main developments that fraud risk factors to consider whether those factors indicated a risk are relevant for the component auditors, the risks identified, the of material misstatement due to fraud. materiality levels to be applied and our global audit approach. We had individual calls with each of the in-scope component audit As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of management teams during the year including upon conclusion of their work. override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there During these calls, we discussed the significant accounting and was evidence of bias by the board of directors that may represent a audit issues identified by the component auditors, the reports of the risk of material misstatement due to fraud. component auditors, the findings of their procedures and other matters, which could be of relevance for the consolidated financial statements. wwThe group engagement team visits the component teams and local management on a rotational basis. In the current year, the group audit team visited the Magnesita finance functions in Brasil, China and US given the importance of the judgements involved in the final purchase price allocation resulting from the acquisition of Magnesita Group, as well as the Chinese, Canadian, US, Austrian and Indian operating locations. For each of these locations we reviewed selected working papers of the component auditors. 197 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA Independent auditor’s report continued Our response to the risk of fraud Key audit matters We evaluated the design and the implementation and, where Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional considered appropriate, tested the operating effectiveness of judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial internal controls that mitigate fraud risks. In addition, we performed statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the procedures, which include journal entry testing and evaluating board of directors. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive accounting estimates for bias. reflection of all matters identified by our audit and that we discussed. In this section, we described the key audit matters and In particular, our procedures consisted of checking the results of included a summary of the audit procedures we performed on those whistleblowing and complaints procedures with the entity, data matters. analysis of high-risk journal entries and evaluation of key estimates and judgements by RHI Magnesita N.V. (including retrospective We addressed the key audit matters in the context of our audit of reviews of prior year’s estimates). Where we identified instances of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion unexpected journal entries or other risks through our data analytics, thereon. We do not provide separate opinions on these matters or we performed additional audit procedures to address each on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments or identified risk. These procedures also included testing of observations we made on the results of our procedures should be transactions back to source information. We also incorporated read in this context. elements of unpredictability in our audit. Given the non-recurring nature of the restructuring following the We considered the outcome of our other audit procedures and Magnesita acquisition in 2017, the key audit matter “Accounting for evaluated whether any findings or misstatements were indicative of restructuring” as considered in the 2017 auditor’s report, in our fraud. If so, we reevaluate our assessment of fraud risk and its opinion, does not longer warrant the classification of key audit resulting impact on our audit procedures. matter in 2018. We refer to the key audit matters “Recoverability of deferred income tax assets”, “Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets” and “Finalisation of the purchase price allocation in respect of the acquisition of Magnesita Refratários S.A.”, which are examples of our approach related to areas of higher risk due to accounting estimates where management makes significant judgements. Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Recoverability of deferred tax assets Refer to note 8, 10, 17 and 44 of the consolidated financial statements The Group capitalised deferred tax assets on tax loss carry-forwards and We have requested and obtained confirmation letters from third party tax advisors to confirm the deductible temporary differences arising on various items for the amount existence and accuracy of the tax loss carry-forwards, taking into account the expiration dates per of €171.1 million. Reference is made to note 17 of the financial statements. jurisdiction. In addition, together with our tax specialists, we have assessed per tax jurisdiction the level of potential offsetting of the deferred tax assets with the deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets are capitalised based on the assumption that sufficient taxable income will be generated against which loss carry-forwards and Furthermore, we have critically assessed the underlying assumptions of the forecasted taxable other deductible temporary differences can be offset. This assumption is income through agreeing the forecasted future taxable profits with approved business plans in based on estimates of the current and the estimated taxable results, and a tax jurisdiction. We also assessed the past performance against the expected future tax profits any future measures implemented by the company in several jurisdictions in the business plans used by the Group, by using our knowledge of the Group and the industry concerned that will have an effect on income tax. The Group also has in which it operates. In addition, we have considered the local expiry period together with any losses and other temporary differences for which no deferred tax asset applicable restrictions in recovery for each individual jurisdiction. has been recognised in these consolidated financial statements. We assessed and corroborated the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosure made in the Due to the inherent level of uncertainty, the potential limitations in consolidated financial statements. the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the significant judgement involved, we considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets to be a The above procedures did not result in material audit findings. key audit matter for our audit. 198 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Finalisation of the Purchase Price Allocation in respect of the acquisition of Magnesita Refratários S.A. Refer to note 5 of the consolidated financial statements On 26 October 2017, RHI Magnesita Group acquired Magnesita We reviewed management’s assessment that the acquisition should be accounted for as a Refratários S.A., the Magnesita Group. IFRS 3, Business Combinations, business combination and determined that it was appropriately performed in accordance with the requires recognising the identifiable assets and liabilities at fair value at definition set out in IFRS 3. the date of the acquisition, with the excess of the acquisition cost over the identified fair value of recognised assets, and liabilities as goodwill. We compared the group’s accounting policies over business combinations with requirements in The purchase price allocation (“PPA”) was finalised within the 12 months EU-IFRS and evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the independent valuator period as required by the Standard. This acquisition was considered as a and other management experts such as valuators and evaluated the work done. significant purchase to the whole Group. Together with our valuation experts, we have assessed the completeness of the assets and Management determined that the fair value of the net identifiable assets liabilities identified in the purchase price allocation. For the assets and liabilities acquired, of acquired is € 427.9 million with €404.5 million relating to intangible which the most significant items relate to customer relationships, mining rights, property, plant assets (incl. goodwill) that arose from the business combination. The and equipment and the liability for an unfavourable contract, we have evaluated the models used Executive Directors have engaged two independent valuators to issue a to derive the fair values of the assets and liabilities. final report on the PPA, calculating fair values of the identified assets and liabilities at the respective acquisition date through, among other things, We engaged valuation experts to compare the valuation assumptions with external benchmarks assessments of future cash flows and assessing appropriate discount including a peer group analysis to assess the discount rates and to assess assumptions and rates. The finalisation of the PPA exercise for Magnesita resulted in inputs underlying future cash flows based on our knowledge of the group and its subsidiaries. goodwill, amounting to €82.9 million recognised at the acquisition date We have further evaluated the fair values of the remaining assets and liabilities including the (see note 5, Group of consolidated companies), representing a decrease reasonableness of any underlying assumptions in their respective valuation. These assumptions from the preliminary PPA of 88.8 million, mainly allocated to the fair value and inputs include estimates on future production, (foregone) margins, operating cost and capital of mining rights and property, plant and equipment offset by an increase expenditure. This also included the assessment on the reasonableness of the useful lives on the in the deferred tax liabilities and other non-current provisions. tangible and intangible assets and the consideration given. We focused on the intangible assets arising from the business We assessed and corroborated the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosure made in note combination as a significant area of judgement. The valuation 5 to the consolidated financial statements. methodology, as well as the inputs and assumptions in the model, are affecting the fair value of the intangible assets. The goodwill arising We have not identified any significant issues with the allocation of the intangible assets at the from the acquisition is also highly dependent on the fair value of the balance sheet date and noted no significant exceptions in the accounting for the business identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition combination. date. Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets Refer to note 8, 10, 11, and 12 of the consolidated financial statements The Group capitalised goodwill for €117.4 million of which €82.9 million A major part of goodwill and intangible assets were identified as part of the Purchase Price relates to the acquisition of Magnesita Group, the remainder mainly Allocation (“PPA”) from the Magnesita Acquisition. Procedures performed on the PPA are related to goodwill from the Steel divisions Lining and Flow control. In described in the key audit matter Purchase Price Allocation for the acquisition of Magnesita addition, the company capitalised intangible assets for €334.4 million Refratários S.A. of which €275.5 million relates to the Magnesita acquisition. These assets form part of cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) to the extent that they As part of our audit procedures, we have evaluated and challenged the composition of independently generate cash inflows. If and to the extent to which these management’s future cash flow forecast and process applied to identity and define cashCGUs include goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or generating units, calculate the recoverable amount, test for impairment, calculate the capital cost show sign for impairment, the recoverable amount is assessed. Annual rate and the growth rate as well as the calculation model. planning process data is used to make assumptions on the discount rates, profitability as well as growth rates, and sensitivity analyses are carried We have reconciled the assumed future cash flows used in the budget planning with the out with regard to any accounting effects. The assessment did not result information included in the forecast made by the directors. in an impairment. With the support of our valuation specialists, we have evaluated management’s assumptions such We identified the impairment assessment as a key audit matter due as revenue and margin, the discount rate, terminal value, operational and capital expenditure. We to significant estimates and assumptions about the discount rates, have obtained corroborative evidence for these assumptions. We performed analyses to assess profitability as well as growth rates. the reasonableness of forecasted revenues, margins and expenditures in line with the level of activity forecasted and corroboration to contracted revenue for the coming years and price trends, and obtained further explanations when considered necessary. We compared the long term growth rates used in determining the terminal value with economic and industry forecasts. We have reperformed calculations, compared the methodology applied with generally accepted valuation techniques, assessed appropriateness of the cost of capital for the company and comparable assets, as well as considered territory specific factors and assessed appropriateness of disclosure of the key assumptions and sensitivities underlying the tests. We found the assumptions to be reasonable and supported by the available evidence. 199 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA Independent auditor’s report continued Key audit matter Our audit work and observations Implementation of IFRS 15, the new revenue standard Refer to note 2, 8, 10, 35 and 50 of the consolidated financial statements As described in note 2, 8 and 10 of the consolidated financial statements We performed inquiries of Management to obtain an understanding of the process for the the Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. revenue recognition under IFRS 15. The application and adoption of this accounting standard is complex. IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, We evaluated the design and technical implementation of the processes of the Group, how much and when revenue is recognised. surrounding the implementation and recording adjustments arising from the adoption of IFRS 15. The Group has applied the modified retrospective approach and has We have obtained a schedule of contract types with the underlying master agreements for the recognised the cumulative effect of initial application as an adjustment Group. We evaluated the accuracy and completeness of the contract types in the schedule, to the opening balance of retained earnings as per 1 January 2018. The including the technical implementation thereon, based on our knowledge of the Group Group applies several practical expedients in its implementation. and experience of the industry in which it operates. We analysed the existing contracts with customers and considered the Group’s revenue recognition policies in respect of those revenue In relation to the recognition of revenue under IFRS 15 the Group has to streams. We evaluated the judgement applied by the Group, in particular with respect to when apply judgement in multiple areas, such as when control over refractory control over refractory products passes to the customer, bundling of contracts, identifying products passes to the customer, bundling of contracts, identifying performance obligations and allocating the transaction price to these performance obligations performance obligations and allocating the transaction price to these and whether revenue should be recognised at a point in time or over time. performance obligations and whether revenue should be recognised at a point in time or over time. We obtained a schedule of the cumulative effect and adjustments as at 1 January 2018 and for the current year and evaluated the completeness and mathematical accuracy of the schedule As a result, we consider the adoption and implementation of IFRS 15 a key by assessing whether the schedule of adjustments is complete and reflects appropriate audit matter. consideration for the changes in the revenue accounting under IFRS 15. We have performed substantive testing in order to verify that the accounting for the revenue transactions are appropriately reflecting the revenue recognition policies in line with IFRS 15. Furthermore, we have assessed the adequacy of the related (IFRS 15) disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit procedures did not indicate material findings with respect to the application of IFRS 15 and disclosures thereto. 200 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Report on the other information included in Responsibilities for the financial statements the annual report and the audit In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report Responsibilities of the executive directors for the thereon, the annual report contains other information that financial statements consists of: The executive directors are responsible for: ¥¥ the section strategic report; ¥¥ the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements ¥¥ the section governance; in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for ¥¥ the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. ¥¥ such internal control as the executive directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud that the other information: or error. ¥¥ is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the executive material misstatements; directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting ¥¥ contains the information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of frameworks mentioned, the executive directors should prepare the the Dutch Civil Code. financial statements using the going-concern basis of accounting unless the executive directors intend either to liquidate the We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but understanding obtained in our audit of the financial statements or to do so. The executive directors should disclose events and otherwise, we have considered whether the other information circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s contains material misstatements. ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of The board of directors is responsible for overseeing the Company’s Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard financial reporting process. 720. The scope of such procedures was substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a The directors are responsible for the preparation of the other manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit information, including the directors’ report and the other evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims information in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial Code. statements are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance, which Report on other legal and regulatory makes it possible that we may not detect all misstatements. requirements Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could Our appointment reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of We were appointed as auditors of RHI Magnesita N.V. by the users taken on the basis of the financial statements. supervisory board following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the annual meeting held on 4 October 2017. Our Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement misstatements on our opinion. appointment of 2 years. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the No prohibited non-audit services appendix to our report. To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the Amsterdam, 26 March 2019 European Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. audit of public-interest entities. E.M.W.H. van der Vleuten RA MSc Services rendered The services, in addition to the audit, that we have provided to the Company and its controlled entities, for the period to which our statutory audit relates, are disclosed in note 59 to the consolidated financial statements. 201 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S R H I M A G N E S I TA Independent auditor’s report continued Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the consolidated financial statements, we are responsible for the statements 2018 of RHI Magnesita N.V. direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report, we have context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of procedures for components of the Group to ensure that we the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the geographic structure of the Group, the significance and/or risk financial statements profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. On this professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and financial information or specific balances was considered independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain necessary. reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or We communicate with the board of directors regarding, among error. Our audit consisted, among other things of the following: other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in ¥¥ Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect, we the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing also issue an additional report to the audit committee in accordance and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one in this auditor’s report. resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional We provide the board of directors with a statement that we have override of internal control. complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding ¥¥ Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. From the matters communicated with the board of directors, we ¥¥ Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore disclosures made by the executive directors. the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s ¥¥ Concluding on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about use of the going-concern basis of accounting, and based on the the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material communicating the matter is in the public interest. uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. ¥¥ Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 202 R H I M A G N E S I TA ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Alternative performance measures (“APMs”) APMs used by the Group are reviewed Adjusted EBITDA and EBITA To provide further transparency and clarity to the ongoing, below to provide a definition and underlying financial performance of the Group, adjusted EBITDA and EBITA are used. Both measures exclude other reconciliation from each non-IFRS income and expenses as presented in Consolidated Statement APM to its IFRS equivalent, and to of Profit and Loss. explain the purpose and usefulness Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) Adjusted EPS is used to assess the Company’s operational of each APM. performance per ordinary share outstanding. It is calculated using adjusted EBITA (as described above) and removes the impact of In general, APMs are presented externally to meet investors’ foreign exchange effects, amortisation, restructuring expenses, requirements for further clarity and transparency of the Group’s one-off non-cash expenses related to the refinancing of the underlying financial performance. The APMs are also used legacy debt, and other non-cash financial income and expenses internally in the management of our business performance, that are not directly related to operational performance. budgeting and forecasting. Operating cash flow and free cash flow APMs are non-IFRS measures. As a result, APMs allow investors Alternative measures for cash flow are presented to reflect and other readers to review different kinds of revenue, profits and net cash inflow from operating activities before certain items. costs and should not be used in isolation. Commentary within the Free cash flow is considered relevant to reflect the cash Annual Report, including the Financial Review, as well as the performance of business operations after meeting the usual Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes, obligations of financing and tax. It is therefore measured before should be referred to in order to fully appreciate all the factors that all other remaining cash flows, being those related to acquisitions affect our business. We strongly encourage readers not to rely on and disposals, other equity-related and debt-related funding any single financial measure, but to carefully review our reporting movements, and foreign exchange impacts on financing and in its entirety. investing activities. Adjusted pro-forma results at a constant currency Working capital Whilst the merger became effective on 27 October 2017, the Working capital and intensity provides a measure how efficient adjusted pro-forma results were prepared as if the combined the Company is in managing operating cash conversion cycles. Group had existed since 1 January 2017. The pro-forma results Working capital is the sum of manageable working capital, are, where appropriate, adjusted to reflect the purchase price composed of inventories, trade receivables and trade payables allocation (“PPA”) related to the acquisition of Magnesita and and other receivables and payables. Working capital intensity is other adjustments. This measure provides an estimation of the measured as a percentage of last three months annualised revenue. historical financial performance of the current Group structure. Net debt Given the changes in capital structure arising from the acquisition We present an alternative measure to bring together the various of Magnesita, the historical interest, tax and dividend charges are funding sources that are included in the Consolidated Balance not deemed to be meaningful. As a result, adjusted pro-forma Sheet and the accompanying notes. Net debt is a measure defined results have only been provided down to EBITA. in the Group’s principal financing arrangements and reflects the net indebtedness of the Group and includes all cash, cash equivalents Figures presented at constant currency represent 2017 amounts and marketable securities; and any debt or debt-like items. retranslated to average 2018 exchange rates. EBITA EBIT, as presented in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, excluding amortisation and impairments. EBITDA EBIT, as presented in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairments. 203 O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N R H I M A G N E S I TA Shareholder information RHI Magnesita N.V. is a public company with limited liability Dividend under Dutch law and was incorporated on 20 June 2017. It has its The Board of Directors has recommended a dividend of corporate seat in Arnhem, the Netherlands, its administrative seat €1.50 per share, for the year ended 31 December 2018. in Vienna, Austria and its registered office at Kranichberggasse 6, Payment of this dividend is subject to approval at the 1120 Vienna, Austria. 2019 Annual General Meeting. The telephone number of the Issuer is +43 50 2136200. Investor relations department Sackville House The shares of RHI Magnesita N.V. are listed on the Premium 40 Piccadilly Segment of the Official List on the Main Market of the London London W1J 0DR Stock Exchange. United Kingdom Ticker symbol: RHIM T: +44 20 7292 6171 ISIN Code: NL0012650360 Email: investor.relations@rhimagnesita.com Investor information Corporate brokers The Company’s website www.rhimagnesita.com provides Peel Hunt LLP information for shareholders and should be the first port of call Moor House for general queries. The investors section contains details on the 120 London Wall current and historical share price, Annual and Interim Reports, London EC2Y 5ET analyst presentations, shareholder meetings as well as a United Kingdom ‘Shareholders FAQ’ section. T: +44 20 7418 8900 You can also subscribe to an email alert service to automatically www.peelhunt.com receive an email when significant announcements are made. Barclays Shareholding information 10 The North Colonnade Please contact our Registrar, Computershare, for all administrative Canary Wharf enquiries about your shareholding, such as the loss of a share London E14 4BB certificate, dividend payments, or a change of address: United Kingdom Computershare Investor Services PLC T: +44 20 7623 2323 The Pavilions, www.barclays.com Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Auditor United Kingdom PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Thomas R. Malthusstraat 5 Website: https://www-uk.computershare.com 1066 JR Amsterdam T: +44 (0) 370 707 1402 P.O. Box 90357 Financial calendar T: +31 88 792 00 20 Q1 Trading Update May 2019 www.pwc.nl Annual General Meeting 6 June 2019 Follow us Half Year Results August 2019 Q3 Trading Update November 2019 204 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.merchantcantos.com RHI Magnesita Headquarters Kranichberggasse 6 1120 Vienna Austria www.rhimagnesita.com
