RESPONSIBILITY AT MIPRO GROUP LTD OY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT 2018 MIPRO GROUP LTD OY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT GENERAL This document is the Communication on Progress (COP) report for Mipro Group Ltd Oy covering the reporting period of 01.05.2018 – 30.4.2019. STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 27 April 2019 To our stakeholders, We are pleased to confirm that Mipro Group Ltd Oy and its subsidiaries support the United Nations Global Compact, including each of the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions of integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, company culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Stiina-Maria Snäll Chairman of the Board 1. Control centre level, ATS system with automatic route setting 2. Interlocking level, interlocking system At Mipro Group, we have always been concerned about doing the 3. Interfaces to track equipment, track equipment interfaces and their control things 4. we do for the community. Operating in the field of functional Track equipment and environmental safety, we understand our responsibility and impact on providing The interlocking safe and system is implemented usingfunctional solutions defined architecture for layers with mass each layer divided into a necessary number of modules in order to achieve the required system capacity. The modular system transportation andandproviding structure (hardware software) canclean be easilywater. expanded, so there is no need to limit the number of controlled elements and track equipment. ABOUT THE COMPANY AND COP At Mipro Group, our work has always been engaged in building safe and well-functioning communities. Reliable and responsible operations have always been an integral part of Mipro Group’s activities, vision and values. Throughout the company’s history, it has been of the highest importance for the owners and the management to do things right and keep our promises. The Group has special expertise in functional safety; we supply safety related solutions to rail traffic and water supply ensuring the safety of public transport, environment, water supply and drinking water. Customers and the legislation set strict requirements for our products and services in regard to reliability and functionality. Hence, responsibility is highly important for us in our daily business. Reporting on our social responsibility has become not only a great tool for improving our operations, but also a way to remind ourselves why we are in this business in the first place. We want to actively be part of building and improving communities, and see the value and opportunity in building a successful company through both our local and global involvement in social responsibility. Responsibility reporting and endeavours are important for us; we communicate our values to our stakeholders through them, and encourage other small and mediumsized enterprises to participate. We strive to be in that group of companies that has a pervasive approach to corporate social responsibility, and have made it a natural part of their daily operations. In recent years our customers, personnel and job applicants have had a growing interest in corporate responsibility. Matters of responsibility are increasingly discussed; employees have taken initiatives related to responsibility. FOCUS ON STRENGTHENING BASIC VALUES The Group has evolved in recent years. Our operations and the number of employees have grown considerably. In the midst of all change and growth we are committed to long-term continuity and our goal is to retain and strengthen our basic values, our commitment to the ten UNGC Principles [ https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ what-is-gc/mission/principles] and our long-term operating policy of doing the right thing. Human Rights Environment • Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; and challenges; • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote in human rights abuses. greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development Labour and diffusion of environmentally friendly • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-Corruption • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced • Principle 10: Businesses should work against and compulsory labour; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; bribery. and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN Global Compact is driving business awareness Although as a regional medium -sized company and action in support of achieving the UN’s 2030 our impact in the global context is relatively small, Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 we believe that even the smallest act is of great Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). significance for achieving the SDGs. In our own operations, we have already set our standards at a Since we supply safety related systems to rail traffic high level, in terms of SDGs, however, we recognise and water supply, our solutions have a direct impact the risk of adverse development and the need for on a number of the SDGs. We can have a significant continuous effort going forward. positive effect on these goals locally, as we conduct our business responsibly and strive for new enhanced solutions. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Our goal is to adhere to all aspects of the Our employees have been informed of the contents Declaration of Human Rights, and through our own of the Declaration of Human Rights, and have been example and actions influence all our stakeholders advised to look for and report any breaches of its and business partners to set their standards to a contents caused either by our own actions or by our similar level. stakeholders. The Management System is reviewed periodically to ensure that human rights principles are As a company primarily based in Finland, Mipro appropriately taken into account in our daily operations. Group adheres to Finnish laws and regulations. On that account, our standard on enforcing human rights is already at a high level. However, we do not Mipro Group has not been even wish to be complacent about our own and current implicitly involved in any breaches of partners’ actions. Instead we have to look for ways to ensure that we will not be part of any human rights human rights principles during the infringements either due to our own actions or even reporting period. implicitly. LABOUR PRINCIPLES We are committed to comply with labour legislation and we want to be a good and fair employer. A competent and committed personnel has been one of the company’s main assets through its history and will be in the future. We have identified “Doing things together” as one of the key factors in our strategy and we measure employee satisfaction with annual employee satisfaction surveys. This financial year’s employee satisfaction survey has been scheduled to take place in August; thus no survey was conducted on this reporting period. 1. Control centre level, ATS system with automatic route setting 2. Interlocking level, interlocking system 3. Interfaces to track equipment, track equipment interfaces and their control 4. Track equipment The interlocking system is implemented using defined architecture layers with each layer divided into a necessary number of modules in order to achieve the required system capacity. The modular system structure (hardware and software) can be easily expanded, so there is no need to limit the number of controlled elements and track equipment. EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYEE’S RIGHTS AND LABOUR LAW ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our recruitment process is designed to prevent any (even unintentional) possibility of breaching the Our goal is to adhere to all local laws and regulations contents of ILO conventions regarding child labour, in addition to adhering to the labour principles stated forced labour or discrimination. in the Global Compact. As Finnish law is compliant with the labour principles set by the ILO conventions, we We provide training to our managers in matters related believe that our actions fulfil the labour principles to to labour legislation to ensure that we act correctly satisfactory levels when operating in Finland. However, and in accordance with the laws. We aim to support the we realise that we need to pay attention to recruitment knowledge of employees about labour legislation by and rights of employees when operating abroad and to providing copies of the labour legislation to employee our dealings with foreign stakeholders, should the need cafeterias. arise. As a part of our internal purchasing and partner management procedures, we discuss the labour IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES principles with our partners and subcontractors. We provide our smaller partners with feedback, information Our employees have been informed of the labour and our experience that may help them to develop their principles and contents of the ILO conventions, and have own practices in relation to labour principles. been advised to report any breaches of these terms should they come across any. All our employees are Mipro Group has not been involved in covered by the collective agreement. All our employees have contracts of employment adhering to Finnish any breaches of labour principles during labour laws. the reporting period. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DEVELOPMENT ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS development discussions and policies. In general, the management together with each employee We recognise the importance of a diverse, skilled define requirements for skills and knowledge and workforce for our success. We are committed to creating create individual plans for personal development a corporate culture that provides all employees with and education. At the beginning of the employment equal opportunities. We are dedicated to provide our relationship, a preliminary training plan is drawn up for employees with possibilities to develop their skills and the employee and it will be complemented during his/ knowledge in order to support their work and personal her career when needed. development in different stages of their careers. The group companies participate in the Finnish Government’s labour educational program that is IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES designed to provide further education to job seekers and create jobs in the ICT sector2 . We also cooperate On this reporting period, we participated in “Father with local universities, colleges and polytechnics by Challenge”1 that promotes father-friendly working life providing their students with internships and practical and fathers’ equal right to parental leaves. We want to job placement for thesis work. We employ students promote both parents’ right to balanced work and family directly and also through their educational institutions. life. Since our employees are predominantly males, the In all cases, we provide the students with the same goals of the father-challenge resonate with us. Our benefits as the other employees and implement the practical tools to enhance work-life balance include, for same employment principles. example, parental leave, temporary childcare services in case of child’s temporary illness, as well as flexible The outcome of our culture that supports equal working hours and remote work arrangements that are opportunities and our support on employees’ available to all employees. personal development is perhaps best reflected in the composition of our management the management We support our employees in advancing their career, group, board of directors and team leaders. Our developing their skills and acquiring education. On management includes equally women and men, and this reporting period, we have renewed our personal people of various educational backgrounds and age. 1 Isä haaste http://www.isahaaste.fi/ 2 http://www.digitalentakatemia.fi/ OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS To improve the availability of occupational health services we arrange visits of occupational health Our goal is to adhere to all local occupational health service providers to our office. laws and regulations, and we believe that our actions result in a good occupational health environment for Mipro Group companies have implemented preventive our operations in Finland. policies that aim to ensure a good occupational health. The goal of the Early Support Program2 is to The experts we employ are critical for the success of identify possible health issues and take any necessary the group; therefore our goal is to minimise the number preventive actions as early as possible. We also conduct of sick leaves. We aim to achieve a low level of absences a semi-annual review of occupational health status with caused by health related issues through preventive our private health care provider, which is reviewed by actions and policies as well as with an inclusive the management team of each subsidiary. We realise employee health insurance policy. the importance of employees’ own actions and thus we encourage our employees to actively take care of their own health and well-being (TYKY). As in previous IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES years, the group has organised various events for the personnel to promote their health and well-being Finland provides its citizens with wide-ranging public (TYKY). health services which we have complemented with a comprehensive employee health insurance policy that The group has healthy, active and relatively young gives our employees access to additional private health employees and as a result of this and our long-term services. The policy includes instant access to basic focus on occupational health issues we have been able private health services and complementary specialist to achieve a relatively low number of sick leave days. services such as the services of a physiotherapist Our sick leave days per employee ratio is below the and trained professional work supervisors1. The industry average in Finland. Furthermore, the number professional work supervision can assist an employee of long-term sick leaves has remained low over the with professional development or for example help an years. For the reporting period, health-related absences employee to cope with pressures of the daily work or have remained at the similar low level as in the previous adapt to changes in working environment. reporting periods. 2 Varhaisen tuen malli; http://www.ttk.fi/tyoterveyshuolto/tyoky1 koulutettu työnohjaaja www.suomentyonohjaajat.fi vyn_hallinta OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Occupational safety committee members include both employee and management level representatives. Managing occupational safety is a part of our The committee works in a yearly cycle which includes management system, including controls required creating objectives, planning, implementation and by Finnish law, and the ones we have put in place measurement. voluntarily. Our goal is simply to ensure the safety, health, well-being and physical ability of all our Occupational safety is measured by the number of employees working in and outside the office. incident-related absence days, ”close call” incidents, safety-related deviations, audits of safety equipment The field we work in requires a multitude of trainings, usage, reviewing risk management documentation approvals and certificates regarding safety. Keeping and a facility safety scorecard. The first meeting of all these up to date on the employee level constitutes the cycle is dedicated to a review of all the results of an integral part of occupational safety. Some of the measurement. required training is rather specific and not directly available; in such cases our goal is to acquire enough expertise in the company itself to be able to train our own employees with regard to occupational safety. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Occupational safety is managed by the occupational safety committee which is responsible for and empowered by the management to handle all observations, notices, incidents and improvement suggestions regarding safety, well-being and work environment. 1. Control centre level, ATS system with automatic route setting 2. Interlocking level, interlocking system 3. Interfaces to track equipment, track equipment interfaces and their control 4. Track equipment The interlocking system is implemented using defined architecture layers with each layer divided into a necessary number of modules in order to achieve the required system capacity. The modular system structure (hardware and software) can be easily expanded, so there is no need to limit the number of controlled elements and track equipment. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We apply the following environmental principles to develop our operations and products: Mipro Group is committed to take the environment into consideration in all company activities. 1. Our operation policy, products and services meet the requirements of legislation and regulations, and Since May 2014 Mipro Oy has operated the Environmental customers. Management System (EMS) certified according to 2. We develop our operations and products so as to ISO 14001:2015. The system is based on continual reduce detrimental environmental impacts. reviewing, self-assessment, planning and improvement. 3. We develop products that have a long lifecycle and It requires us to adopt an active role and a pre-emptive are maintainable and extendable. stance in overcoming challenges and our impact on 4. We extend the lifecycle of the systems we have the environment. Furthermore, it encourages us to delivered by means of our own proactive measures. implement new technologies and practices which are Our organisational structure and operations policy environmentally friendly and sustainable. support lifecycle management tasks. 5. We track energy consumption and reduce the amount The certificate is granted by DNV GL that audits the of waste generated by making correct daily choices. Environmental Management System on an annual basis. 6. We reduce the number of business trips by planning them carefully and by using remote meeting applications and remote connections. Mipro Group operates in the field of environmental technology, and consequently is committed to take the environment into consideration in all company activities. IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Mipro Oy’s implementation of EMS is described in the More detailed discussion of outcomes and relevant documents that are part of the company-wide implementation of our six environmental management system. All the roles and responsibilities principles are presented on the following are assigned, and Mipro Oy’s EMS is subject to both pages. internal and external reviews and audits. In general, there were no incidents with an environmental impact during the reporting period. There were no incidents of non-compliance with environmental regulations and legislation. As such, no corrective actions were required during 2018. Further, the EMS was subject to an independent external audit in February 2019; two minor environmental non-conformities were identified and corrective actions have been taken. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT AND REGULATIONS (Principle 1) (Principles 3, 4) In order to be well informed and prepared for possible Mipro Group companies provide solutions with long legislative and regulatory changes, we have a lifecycles. The aim is to provide our clients with the systematic approach to the identification and review best possible long-term yield on their investments of relevant environmental regulation and legislation. in our solutions. Furthermore, we provide lifecycle There were no incidents of non-compliance with management services to sustain the value of the environmental regulatios and legislation; thus, no investment and as long a lifecycle as possible. corrective actions were needed. Our goal is to take environmental aspects into account in all the various phases of our solutions’ lifecycle. DEVELOPMENT (Principle 2) Our subcontractors and cooperation partners are mainly Finnish and operate according to the relatively strict We strive to make efficient solutions for safe Finnish environmental laws and instructions. We are transportation and water management, and interested whether our suppliers have an environmental continuously develop new and improved solutions certificate and we perform supplier audits and follow up for our clients. the results of audits very carefully. During this reporting period, the focus of our We monitor and manage the environmental load caused environmental campaign was to find new ways to by our own actions by means of the environmental reduce our environmental impacts. The idea competition system; for example, we have specified our own daily called for good ideas on how we could enhance our operations for site instructions. products or our operations to reduce environmental We dispose discarded equipment, including our own impacts, and how our products could be more resilient equipment and customers’ equipment returning to us – for climate change. The ideas will be taken into action for example in connection with service and upgrade – in during future reporting periods. a responsible manner, paying attention to information security and environmental aspects. We deliver electronic waste to an ISO 14001 certified company for disposal. We draw up and supply recycling instructions for imported equipment. Mipro Group has developed tools for the management of environmental safety to facilitate water protection and improve water quality. The digital tool is based on the Mipro REGO situation awareness system that collects real-time situational information about the environment and risks. ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND REDUCE BUSINESS TRIPS WASTE (Principle 5) (Principle 6) In our own operations, office waste, emissions We strive to use video conferences and VoIP from transportation and energy consumption have sessions for internal and external communication been identified as our most significant sources of whenever possible. We have invested in video environmental impact. conference equipment and connections and made relevant arrangements inside the company and To reduce the environmental impact, we monitor between different offices and with important the company’s energy use and emissions. We have customers. Our goal is to improve communication completed our site instructions with environmental and reduce business trips at the same time. aspects, for example by including a number of diverse environmental measurements, such as On average, employees use VoIP and instant carbon dioxide emissions, on the site. We have messaging tools two to three times per day and also brought up environmental aspects in supplier on average they participate in or host two remote audits. meetings each week. Mipro encourages personnel to perform practical environmental actions in accordance with the principle that even the smallest act is of great significance for the environment. In December we encouraged our employees to participate in “Kinkkutemppu”1 campaign. The campaign collects household cooking fats and turns this holidayseason food waste into biofuel. 1http://www.kinkkutemppu.fi/ FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Reliability and responsibility have always been subcontractors must provide information regarding an integral part of Mipro Group’s vision and are proper insurance coverage, fulfilment of their consequently reflected in our day-to-day operations statutory tax obligations and statutory filings for and activities. Legal compliance, business ethics, example. trustworthiness and responsibility are important values for us. As part of our internal purchasing and partner management procedures we check that such We require all our partners and subcontractors to information is up-to date and available from all our fulfil their statutory obligations. Partners and subcontractors and partners. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES As a company primarily based in Finland, corruption In our guidance and internal material, we outline what and bribery have traditionally been exempt from corruption (in all its forms) constitutes, and we inform the business environment. However, we realise that our employees periodically against partaking in any corruption appears in many forms outside the exact form of corruption or bribery. letter of the law and these can be hard to identify. They are also instructed to report on any evidence of During interactions with officials and customers corruption they come in contact with. To emphasise the there may be many borderline, seemingly legal and importance of upright dealings, the group has given silently accepted practices that are not in line with the instructions and principles, and provided personnel principle of upholding a transparent and fair business with instructions concerning corporate gifts. In environment. Our goal is to refrain from any such addition, our financial duties are separated, preventing activities and encourage our stakeholders to do so as individual employees from accessing company funds for well through our example. unauthorised actions. We have not identified any cases of corruption or bribery within our sphere of influence during the reporting period. We have not identified any cases of corruption or bribery within our sphere of influence during the reporting period. SAFETY AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES Safety and quality of our products and services are of How the Mipro Group companies implement ISO and EN outmost importance for us. We deliver systems that standards is described in relevant internal documents guard the safety, efficiency, and availability of water which are part of the company-wide management supply and mass transport, hence our actions have system. All employees are required to familiarise a direct impact on the safety and well-being of the themselves with the management system documents people and environment in the communities we serve. that are relevant to their work and position and to Our greatest responsibility rests on fulfilment of this follow the procedures of the management system. Each safety commitment and promise that we have made to employee has the responsibility and right to intervene, our customers and to the communities and people who if the guidance of the management system and the are using this infrastructure in their daily lives. common procedures are not followed. Our goal is to deliver the most reliable safety systems Compliance is audited internally and by independent and services. We follow several voluntary and legally auditors and occasionally by our customers. DNV GL required standards to ensure quality of our operations audited our ISO 9001:2015 Integrated Management and reliability of the safety systems we deliver. Our System and 14001:2015 Environmental Management operations are regularly audited by external parties to System on February 2019. No major non-conformities ensure the correct application of these standards and to were found in the audit. find areas of improvement. Common mechanisms of continual improvement – The ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 standards 1 2 such as idea and risk management processes and the cover all major operative companies in Mipro Group. process for assessing and preventing non-conformities Thus, during the reporting period Group’s total revenue – are actively used to identify areas for development is generated by companies having ISO certified and to improve our products, services and quality operations. EN standards are applied to all rail traffic of operations; employees’ initiatives and active products and projects; each safety related product and participation in continual improvements are encouraged. project is assessed by an independent safety assessor. Possible deviations and non-conformities are openly and transparently assessed within the company and with our external auditors and customers as needed. 1 Certification in accordance with the new version of the standard in 2016; audited by DNV at 9-month intervals 2 ISO 14001:2015; certification in accordance with the new version of the standard in 2016. Audited by DNA at 9-month intervals IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES We recognise that continuous improvements in safety and quality management are needed and we believe that this will be critical to our success in years to come. To reach our goals and to deliver the most reliable safety systems, we need to ensure continuous efforts to develop our quality and safety management systems and culture as well as the skills and knowledge of our employees. Our operation and products are based on quality and safety standards: • Integrated Management System ISO 9001 • Environmental Management System ISO 14001 • Functional Safety Management IEC 61508 • Railway projects EN 50126, EN 50128, EN 50129 • Process industry projects IEC 61511 • System components and software DIN V VDE 19250, IEC 61508, EN 954-1 DEVELOPING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY Mipro Group participates in the development of our local communities by cooperating with educational and other institutions. We cooperate with local colleges, universities and polytechnics by offering their students summer and training jobs on a yearly basis. Our long-term goal-directed principle is to offer local young people possibilities to find permanent jobs in their own region as well. DONATIONS AND CHARITY Mipro Group supports local sport activities and especially children’s and young people’s leisure time activities by giving donations. The main principle of donations for leisure time activities is to support sport and culture clubs and societies so that they are able to provide hobbies and interests for as many children and young people as possible, and support their growth and development. For example, they can strengthen social relationships, promote health, create inspiring environments or prevent young people from becoming socially isolated. Each year the company selects a charity for its Christmas donation which this year was the HOPE ry1. HOPE is a non-profit organisation with a goal to ensure more equal everyday life to all children in Finland. The organisation donates clothing and supplies to low-income families and families with immediate need. Further, the organisation supports hobbies and leisure time experiences for children and adolescences. 1https://hopeyhdistys.fi/ At Mipro Group, we have always been concerned about doing the things we do for the community. Operating in the field of functional and environmental safety, we understand our responsibility and impact on providing safe and functional solutions for mass transportation and providing clean water. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) REPORT 2018 MIPRO GROUP LTD OY Kunnanmäki 7 FI-50600 Mikkeli, Finland Telephone: +358 15 200 11 www.miprogroup.fi All brand names and product names mentioned herein are trademarks of their respective owners. All specifications are subject to change without prior notice. ©Mipro Group Ltd. Oy 04/2019
