GRI TABLE 2018 GRI TABLE 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX INTRODUCTION The GRI reporting framework provides generally accepted guidelines for reporting on an organisation’s economic, environmental and social performance. This framework can be found on the GRI website (www.globalreporting.org). The section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ in the Report of the Managing Board was prepared in accordance with the GRI framework. NWB Bank’s 2018 Annual Report has been drawn up in line with the GRI Standards’ core option. EY has issued an assurance report on the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ for NWB Bank. An overview of the standard disclosures and specific disclosures (material issues, indicators, management approach) belonging to the ‘in accordance’ core level is provided below. This table contains the GRI Content Index with references to the 2018 Annual Report. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. (trade name: NWB Bank) 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services NWB Bank is a leading financial services provider for the Dutch public sector. The bank arranges short-term and long-term loans for Water Authorities, municipal and provincial authorities, housing associations, the healthcare sector, education, and activities in the field of water, the environment and the energy transition. As the principal bank of the Water Authorities, NWB Bank provides payment services. In addition to ensuring a strong financial position and efficient business operations, NWB Bank focuses expressly on creating social value. We seek to contribute to a stable and robust financial sector, which in turn contributes to an economy that serves mankind whilst causing the least possible harm to the environment. NWB Bank achieves this by providing finance to its clients on the most favourable terms possible to enable them to keep their financing costs as low as possible. 102-3 Location of headquarters The Hague, Rooseveltplantsoen 3 2 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-4 Location of activities NWB Bank focuses solely on the Netherlands as regards lending. Lending to the public sector relates mainly to local authorities, housing associations, healthcare institutions, education, Public-Private Partnership (PPP) and utilities. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal structure Shareholders: Water Authorities 81%, State of the Netherlands 17% and provincial authorities 2%. Legal structure: public limited liability company. 102-6 Markets served NWB Bank focuses its lending operations on the Dutch public sector and is active on the international capital markets for its funding. The bank’s customers, investors and relevant markets are discussed in further detail on pages 35 to 39 inclusive of the Annual Report. . 102-7/102-8 Scale of the reporting organisation/employees See the headline figures in the Annual Report. The table below shows the total workforce, broken down into men and women. Year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees 69 (65.2 fte) 61 (57.17 fte) 57 (53.2 fte) 54 (49.6 fte) 53 (48.5 fte) Number of men 43 (42,2 fte) 37 (36.35 fte) 34 (33.4 fte) 34 (33.3 fte) 31 (30.7 fte) Number of women 26 (23.0 fte) 24 (20.83 fte) 23 (19.8 fte) 20 (16.3 fte) 22 (17.9 fte) Of these employees, 67 persons held office positions and two held facilities positions. NWB Bank makes only limited use of the services of self-employed persons. The following table contains the total workforce and the type of contract. Number of temporary and permanent contracts % number Employees with a permanent contract 91.30 63 Employees with a temporary contract 8.70 6 Cover 100.00 69 3 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 The breakdown of men and women is provided below: Breakdown of men/women per department Men Women Total: Back office 5 7 12 Managing Board under the 3 1 4 articles of association Managing Board secretariat 0 2 2 Finance & control 5 2 7 HRM & facility 1 5 6 iad 3 1 4 ICT 9 0 9 Legal 1 4 5 Compliance 1 1 Operational risk & safety 2 1 3 management Public finance 4 1 5 Risk management 7 0 7 Treasury 3 1 4 Total: 43 26 69 Sixty-three employees are covered by the collective labour agreement for the banking industry, whereas six employees, including the Managing Board members, are not. Most of the terms and conditions of employment ensuing from the CLA are applied to the latter category. 102-9 Chain The options for reporting in the value chain are based on the Material Issues Plot (MIP). Issues are selected in terms of their MIP materiality and the reporting is adjusted accordingly. Since NWB Bank’s activities are focused on the Dutch public sector, the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ is likewise largely directed at issues relevant to that sector. Issues which do not feature in the MIP, for instance issues which are not relevant or are less relevant to the public sector, are usually excluded from the reporting. 102-10 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership None 4 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-11 Details of the application of the precautionary principle by the reporting organisation The precautionary principle means that, prior to marketing a product or starting up an activity, the potential risks for people and the public environment are assessed. This principle is frequently applied in the form of preliminary investigations. The various options are weighed up, for instance on accepting new clients, providing loans or developing products. In so doing, the bank applies the precautionary principle, which is reflected in processes such as the product approval and review process or PARP for short. Transfer pricing and the precautionary principle: clients may ask NWB Bank to provide indicative rates through the Public Finance Department. The Financial Markets Overview, which is sent to clients every week, also contains indications where a distinction is made between the swap interest rate and credit spreads. This enables clients to base their investment decisions on sound knowledge regarding the rates applicable at the time. As was the case in 2017, there were no acquisitions and/or disposals in 2018. 102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives endorsed by the bank GRI guidelines (GRI is a binding principle for publicly held enterprises); (Revised) Banking Code (binding principle); Dutch Corporate Governance Code (voluntary application); Equator Principles (PPP projects); Green Bond Principles; Social Bond Principles; UN Global Compact Principles (see Appendix 2); Dutch Banking Association (NVB) Climate Statement (see Appendix 3); ISCR Agreement (see Appendix 4); UN SDGs (see Appendix 7). NWB Bank has examined which international CSR principles could be applicable and have added value for NWB Bank. One consequence is that the Equator Principles have been applied since then in PPP financing. The bank has also signed the UN Global Compact principles. 5 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 NWB BANK: THE DE DUURZAME SUSTAINABLE WATERBANK WATER BANK With its specific …mobilises low-cost qualities, the bank capital Financial capital We are well-capitalised and raise low-cost funding based on our significant size and our high degree of creditworthiness Social and relationship capital We serve the entire public sector and act By efficiently as national promotional bank in all combining the financing relevant networks needs of our clients and Human capital due to our AAA/Aaa ratings, Our employees are committed, well-educated we attract low-cost and and motivated to use their talent for the bank and for our clients sustainable financing for the Dutch public sector Intellectual capital We are a leader in the area of product innovation and sustainable funding through Green and Social Bonds Organisational capital We are a dedicated, professional and cost-conscious organisation with high sustainability ratings Conscious Engaged Reliable 6 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 …for a sustainable …and for measurable public sector social impact Low financing costs for the € Dutch public sector Low costs for citizens: Financing solutions for sustainability low water tax and enhancement in the Netherlands affordable social housing and healthcare A responsible and social return for our shareholders Contribute to our employees' Sustainability enhancement personal and professional in the Netherlands: development facilitating climate adaptation, climate mitigation and biodiversity 7 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-13 Associations (such as sector associations) of which the bank is a member and/or other special-interest organisations in which NWB Bank participates, such as: NVB (Dutch Banking Association) DSI (Dutch Securities Institute) EAPB (European Association of Public Banks) ISDA (International Swap Dealers Association) ICMA (International Capital Markets Association) ICLC (International Centre for Local Credit) SUERF (The European Money and Finance Forum) NWP (Netherlands Water Partnership) IPFA (International Project Finance Association) Dutch Foundation for the Maintenance of Nieuwspoort (Stichting Instandhouding Nieuwspoort) Public Sector Issuers Forum (PSIF) Several times during the year, consultative meetings are held with the statutory supervisory authorities – the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the European Central Bank (ECB) – on such subjects as risk management, compliance and integrity. NWB Bank aspires to lend more structure to the dialogue with its stakeholders. The bank also participates in various regular meetings with government ministries, the Dutch Banking Association and the European Association of Public Banks. In addition, any responses to social trends affecting NWB Bank and its stakeholders may be included in the bank’s CSR policy. The responses to last year’s annual report from, among other sources, the General Meeting of Shareholders, will be considered in preparing this year’s report. 102-14 Declaration CEO NWB Bank is a national promotional bank. In other words, the bank’s activities contribute to achieving public policy objectives. While NWB Bank was formed by and for the Water Authorities, it has also started lending to the broader public sector over the years. Examples of the bank’s clients include municipal authorities, housing associations and drinking water companies. For several years now, the bank has also been actively involved in financing PPP and granting export loans (backed by the Dutch State). As a bank of and for the public sector, NWB Bank’s interests and values differ from those of strictly commercial parties. The bank does not pursue profit maximisation. In addition to ensuring a strong financial position and efficient business operations, NWB Bank focuses expressly on creating social value. It is dedicated to a stable and sustainable financial sector, which in turn contributes to an economy that serves mankind whilst causing the least possible harm to the environment. NWB Bank provides appropriate financing to its clients on the most favourable terms possible in order to keep the burden on citizens as low as possible. The need to increase sustainability and the energy transition are key challenges for society and the bank’s clients. NWB Bank feels bound to contribute to this end. The transition to a climate-neutral and circular economy will require major steps and investments worldwide in the decades ahead – also in the Netherlands. Sustainable energy projects 8 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 are generally characterised by a large capital investment and a lengthy period during which the investment must be recouped. NWB Bank is ideally placed to provide this type of long-term financing, which can be offered at relatively low costs. Its efficient business model and its excellent creditworthiness enable NWB Bank to keep the financing costs at a low level for its clients. The bulk of the bank’s lending portfolio comprises loans to local authorities or loans backed by government bodies. It is thanks to this fact that the bank has the highest credit ratings: AAA/Aaa. NWB Bank comes sixth on the list of the world’s safest banks. Its high credit ratings and financial expertise mean that NWB Bank can always respond actively to the needs of the Dutch public sector. The money that NWB Bank lends to its clients is raised on the international capital market. As far as possible, the bank tries to raise funds by issuing sustainable bonds. For instance, it finances the Dutch Water Authorities’ activities with so-called Water Bonds and issues Affordable Housing Bonds for the financing of social housing. The experience and expertise that the bank acquired with this regard in recent years, combined with the large financing volume, means that the bank is leading the way internationally in the area of Green and Social Bonds. As a significant bank, NWB Bank is supervised directly by the European Central Bank (ECB). Despite the intensity of that supervision and the high requirements set, which are no different for a promotional bank such as NWB Bank than for a strictly commercial bank, the bank has maintained its compact and efficient organisational model. The flat organisation and open culture make NWB Bank an agile and efficient bank where transparency and integrity are of paramount importance. The mission of NWB Bank is to help its clients create added value for society as a robust and sustainable bank for the public sector. The social and sustainable investment agenda is the key element of NWB Bank’s mission, vision and strategy. To a large extent, this is attributable to the bank’s origins. It could be said that sustainability is in the bank’s DNA. Climate adaptation, climate mitigation and improving biodiversity are among the core tasks of Water Authorities, which also lead the way in the production of sustainable energy and the recovery of raw materials from waste water, among other things. Another important client group, the housing associations, are also making substantial investments to enhance sustainability. Housing associations own roughly one third of the housing stock in the Netherlands and they plan to invest heavily over the years ahead in climate-neutral new-build housing, in making homes more energy-efficient and in keeping rents low. NWB Bank’s ambition is to keep the public sector’s financing costs as low as possible and to be available for its clients at all times. Ever since it was incorporated in 1954, NWB Bank has focused its strategy primarily on catering efficiently to the combined finance needs of its clients in the public arena. A cost-conscious enterprise, NWB Bank uses its AAA/Aaa ratings to raise funds in an inexpensive and sustainable way. By responding to the changing requirements of its clients and by further diversifying its lending, the bank is increasing its social commitment as an independent promotional bank. 9 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-15 Description of important consequences, risks and opportunities The description of important consequences, risks and opportunities based on the strategy is presented in the form of a SWOT analysis (analysis of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats). This SWOT analysis is one of the sources used to determine the CSR policy and its objectives for each theme. The objectives are accounted for in the annual report. Below is a description of the components of the SWOT analysis: Strength While, given its customer base and field of operations, NWB Bank’s lending is inherently beneficial to society and sustainable, efforts have been made over the past few years to set out in further detail the bank’s aspirations, policies and disclosure in the field of CSR. NWB Bank’s particular strength lies in the added value it can provide to society through its lending and financing, social engagement and, to a lesser extent, the example it sets with its own office-based organisation. Weakness/Strength The management approach to CSR and the bank’s choices in the area of sustainability are based on the fact that the bank is a relatively small office-based organisation. Overall, the organisation has a limited social and environmental impact (weakness), but in its role as a financial services provider in the public sector, and in terms of effect per employee, it can achieve a greater impact (strength). This approach provides the best match with NWB Bank’s compact organisational structure and is expected to continue to do so in the future. Analysis of environment (Opportunities and Threats) Opportunities CSR may contribute to a low risk profile for NWB Bank. The bank makes well-considered choices for certain products, clients and investments, and sets well-considered limits in its CSR policy based on its own Articles of Association. NWB Bank operates on the basis of its core values: ‘conscious, engaged and reliable’. There are opportunities for the future in terms of devoting greater attention to enhancing the sustainability and environmental and social impact of the assets on NWB Bank’s balance sheet. For specific clients, namely Water Authorities and housing associations, that impact has already been translated into NWB Bank’s funding (through the issuing, respectively, of Green Bonds and Social Bonds to finance the aforementioned client groups). In addition, governments (International Climate Agreement, National Energy Agreement and ICSR agreement) and intergovernmental organisations (UN: UNGC and SDGs) have concluded international agreements concerning sustainability (environmental and social) to which NWB Bank can contribute through its core duties. Threats (Risks) In the area of CSR, the following risks are the most relevant to NWB Bank: Reputational risk; Supply chain risk; Knowledge level; Climate risk; Integrity risk; Environmental risks; CSR covenants. 10 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 The CSR-related subjects of governance, compliance and integrity and associated policies (see the governance documents on the website: https://www.nwbbank.com/corporate-governance) are particularly important to NWB Bank’s reputational risk. The compliance role was designed to promote and supervise, or arrange for supervision of, compliance with laws and regulations and with internal procedures and rules of conduct that are relevant to the organisation’s integrity and associated reputation. The compliance role is an independent role and relates to the bank’s primary process, i.e. providing financing within the Dutch public sector. Furthermore, the assurance EY provides further limits the reputational risk in respect of CSR-related disclosure. Signing CSR covenants enhances disclosure and reputation, but could also involve compliance risks if certain components of covenants are not complied with or cannot be complied with. NWB Bank’s supply chain risk is twofold. First, NWB Bank is part of a chain of more than 120 European banks under the supervision of the ECB within the framework of the European Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM). As a result, the chain of banks is a system with its own risks over which NWB Bank, as one element, has only very little influence, unlike the institutions considered to be banks of systemic importance. Second is the value chain of which NWB Bank forms part (see the Value Chain on page 6-7). This is a clear illustration of how NWB Bank uses its organisation to influence social and environmental aspects concerning its clients, is able to limit associated risks and is transparent in how it does so through its disclosure. Climate-related risks feature indirectly in the loan portfolio, whilst housing associations, for example, enhance the sustainability of their housing stock (reducing risks) and Water Authorities contribute to the climate adaptation and mitigation activities required (reducing risks). By means of specific funding, i.e. Green Bonds issued so that loans can be granted to Water Authorities, NWB Bank is responding to such risks. Furthermore, NWB Bank and the Dutch Association of Regional Water Authorities became a client of the Climate Monitor, which is produced by research firm Arcadis and which studies the Water Authorities’ environmental impact in terms of carbon emissions. Social risks include the integrity of staff (code of conduct) and training and knowledge levels. These risks are largely controlled by holding external and in-house training sessions, as well as biannual job appraisal and career development interviews, and by sharing knowledge on an ongoing basis. In addition, integrity risks are mitigated by submitting new recruits to pre-employment screening and ensuring that employees who work in commercial or integrity-sensitive positions are listed in the public DSI register. Being a small office-based organisation, NWB Bank has only a small number of relevant environmental indicators and, accordingly, the impact can be considered to be relatively limited. NWB Bank believes, however, that it should act as a role model for its stakeholders, which is why it attaches importance to reporting on environmental factors. Digitisation and energy reduction efforts limit the environmental impact of the office-based organisation. An additional risk is the accuracy of the reports on such environmental indicators as carbon emissions. That risk is mitigated by the assurance which EY provides on the text and figures in the section on the ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ in the Report of the Managing Board accompanying the annual report. The annual report also explains the impact developments in the banking environment have on NWB Bank’s growth and its continuity. 11 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 CSR Risk Matrix Themes/targets Risks Management Monitoring results 1/2 Reputational risk Policy and Assurance Continuously Supply chain risk Transparency and dialogue Continuously Climate risk Specific funding/lending Continuously Knowledge level Education and development Continuously 3 Environmental impact Compensation, digitisation and reduction Regularly Energy wastage Reduction Regularly 4 Integrity risk Training sessions and provision of information Regularly CSR covenants Monitoring contribution and obligations Regularly The extent to which NWB Bank is prepared to accept the above-mentioned risks is reflected in the risk appetite. With regard to the labour, environmental and social risks, this is also included in the formulation of CSR policy. The CSR policy is published on the NWB Bank website. The risks referred to above are related for the most part to the themes and targets in the CSR policy. Theme 2 Sustainable and engaged financing is related to the ‘Economic’ category and is where NWB Bank’s strategic priority lies. Theme 3 Sustainable and socially relevant operations is connected with the ‘Social’ and ‘Environmental’ categories and, in a CSR context, is associated with some more risks that can both directly affect the office-based organisation and indirectly emerge in the bank’s core duties or at borrowers. Theme 4 Ethical and transparent activities can be seen as a ‘hygienic factor’, as it is a self-evident requirement in a good relationship with all stakeholders which is monitored by, among others, stakeholders through various CSR covenants, benchmarks and CSR ratings. The results are monitored continuously, especially with regard to the targets and future expectations. This can lead to shortand/or long-term actions. INTEGRITY AND ETHICS 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards and Code of Conduct NWB Bank attaches great value to its reputation as a solid and respectable bank for the public sector. For this reason, compliance and integrity play an important role in the bank’s control mechanism. The bank wishes to ensure that its clients and investors can be completely confident in using its services and secure in the knowledge that their funds are safe. Following on from the Banking Code, the members of the Managing Board have signed the declaration of moral and ethical conduct. The principles of this declaration apply to all employees and have been further elaborated in a Code of Conduct, which forms part of the employment contract. In addition, the Code of Conduct has been posted both on the Intranet and on the bank’s website. All employees (including the members of the Managing and Supervisory Boards) and all external staff who work in the banking sector for more than three months have taken the banker’s oath. Lastly, all of the bank’s new recruits are subject to Pre-Employment Screening, regardless of their position. In addition, all employees in commercial roles and management team members must be listed in one of the registers of the Dutch Securities Institute (DSI). 12 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 NWB Bank has assigned some of the compliance-based duties to the Legal & Compliance Department and the supervision of compliance with the Insider Regulations to an external party. The external supervisory authority reports to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, while the internal Compliance Officer reports directly to the Managing Board. These reporting lines confirm the value that the bank attaches to internal supervision and to the work of both compliance officers. The supervision-based rules and rules of conduct are an important element of the compliance role. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance-structuur NWB Bank is a public limited liability company. The company has a Managing Board and a Supervisory Board, the latter having all the powers granted by law to a company’s supervisory board. More information on the Managing Board and on the Supervisory Board is included in the Annual Report and on the website. The overview below provides an insight into the bank’s organisational structure (organisation chart). Further details of the business model may also be found in the corporate movie (https://www.nwbbank.com/home#corporate-movie). 102-19 Governance structure Supervisory Board Remuneratie& Audit Committee Risk Committee benoemingscommissie Managing Board Director’s Office NFR committee Credit Committee Management Team ALCO CSR Committee Finance & HRM / Facility ORM & Risk Back office Compliance ICT Internal Audit Legal Public Finance Treasury Control Management security Management Governance structure The Managing Board bears responsibility for CSR and discusses the associated policy and strategy with the Supervisory Board and other parties. Assistance is provided by the various departments and by a CSR Committee. In addition, a CSR Coordinator has been appointed within the organisation. 13 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Chair of highest governance body/independence: Where board members hold ancillary positions or carry out transactions, conflicts of interest may arise. An overview of important relevant ancillary positions and supervisory directorships held by members of the Managing Board must be submitted to the Supervisory Board for approval. The relevant Managing or Supervisory Board member will not partake in discussions about a subject or transaction in respect of which the company has a conflict of interest with that member. All transactions, i.e. including those involving conflicting interests of Managing Board members, will be conducted on terms customary in the sector. In cases in which NWB Bank has a conflict of interest with the Managing Board or one of its members, the bank will be represented by one of the Supervisory Board members designated for that purpose by the Supervisory Board. Independence of members of unitary board structure Not applicable 102-20 Responsibilities for ESG (environmental, social and governance) subjects There is a CSR Committee within the bank whose specific task is to draw up, check and amend plans and policy changes directly related to CSR. The CSR Committee consists of staff members from various relevant departments, a member of the Managing Board and the CSR Coordinator. The CSR Committee reports to the Managing Board, which is responsible for policy-making, the management approach and the evaluation of the material social aspects of business. The CSR Committee members each have joint operational responsibility for their specific area of the themes, goals and the associated reporting. The Managing Board bears final responsibility for CSR. 102-21 Stakeholder dialogue with regard to ESG subjects NWB Bank communicates with its stakeholders on a regular basis to find out what is going on in the public domain in which our clients operate, and in the banking arena relevant to the bank itself. All individuals and organisations that the bank works with, or that attach importance to the social role NWB Bank fulfils as a promotional bank, are being considered major stakeholders. In any event, the bank regards its shareholders, clients, investors, employees, the government and supervisory authorities as stakeholders. The Secretary to the Managing Board is responsible for coordinating contact with all those different groups of stakeholders. The European Commission has proposed an ‘Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive’ containing legal measures to combat the most widely used tax avoidance arrangements. In the ‘Recommendation on Tax Treaties’, European Member States are advised on how best to provide protection against tax abuse. NWB Bank adheres to these measures and does not aid tax evasion in any way whatsoever. 14 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-22 Composition of highest governance body The bank is managed by a Managing Board which, in accordance with the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, should be comprised of at least two members. Managing Board members are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders for a term of four years on nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Managing Board comprises: Lidwin van Velden (b. 1964) Joined NWB Bank in October 2008, a member of the Managing Board since January 2010. Chair of the Managing Board/CEO as from April 2018. Frenk van der Vliet RBA (b. 1967) Joined NWB Bank in January 2012 as a member of the Managing Board. Melchior de Bruijne (b. 1974) Joined the bank in December 2018 as a member of the Managing Board. Ard van Eijl (b. 1973) Joined the bank in 2009, a member of the Managing Board since 2018, previously head of Risk Management. In performing their duties, the Managing Board members take economic, social and environmental indicators into account. Given the bank’s size, it is difficult to make direct allocations. 102-23 Chair of the Managing Board Lidwin van Velden has been Chair of the Managing Board since April 2018. 102-24 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body The bank is managed by a Managing Board which, in accordance with the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, should be comprised of at least two members. Managing Board members are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders for a term of four years on nominations by the Supervisory Board. One of the Managing Board members is the Chair of the Managing Board. Shareholders are convened by the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board by written notice stating the topics to be addressed. Shareholders representing at least 1% of the issued capital may submit topics to be placed on the agenda in writing. The General Meeting of Shareholders adopts the financial statements and grants discharge to the members of the Managing Board for their management and to the members of the Supervisory Board for their supervision. A delegation of employees who have been elected to the Works Council is involved in the bank’s business operations. 102-25 Conflicts of interest The Code of Conduct sets out the principles which NWB Bank employees should apply in their daily activities. Preventing conflicts of interest is an important aspect of the Code. Non-compliance with the Code may result in measures under employment law. The Code of Conduct has been posted on the bank’s website. 15 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Where Managing Directors hold other positions or carry out transactions, conflicts of interest may arise. The Supervisory Board has been informed of all ancillary positions held by Managing Directors. As in previous years, no transactions took place during the year under review that involved a conflict of interest. STAKEHOLDERDIALOOG 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged The stakeholders identified by NWB Bank as part of its CSR efforts are shareholders, clients, investors, employees, the government and supervisory authorities. 102-41 CLA Sixty-three employees are covered by the collective labour agreement for the banking industry, whereas six employees, including the Managing Board members, are not. Most of the terms and conditions of employment ensuing from the CLA are applied to the latter category. 102-42 Selection of stakeholders As part of its CSR efforts, NWB Bank qualifies shareholders, clients, investors, employees, the government and supervisory authorities as its stakeholders. The interests of the stakeholders are evaluated regularly with the CSR Committee members. 102-43 Dialogue with stakeholders As in previous years, a materiality assessment was made in 2018 of the CSR issues that are of relevance to the bank, also assessing how our stakeholders experience them. Those issues were identified based on discussions held with these stakeholders and, where possible, on the policies they pursue with respect to both general social and sector-specific issues. This resulted in the following Material Issues Plot (MIP), which was extensively debated with the CSR Committee members. Governance, supervision, compliance/integrity and transparency, in particular, are highly relevant issues affecting both the stakeholders and NWB Bank. Their relevance is apparent from such aspects as supervisory policies, discussions with shareholders, the focus on credit ratings in the financial markets and the bank’s own policies. This analysis served as input for the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ forming part of the Report of the Managing Board in the annual report and this GRI table. Throughout the year, the Managing Board visits clients and investors to explain half-year and annual figures and other trends. The Managing Board convenes a General Meeting of Shareholders once a year. During that meeting, the Managing Board renders account of the objectives, corporate strategy, policies and financial results. Several times during the year, consultative meetings are held with the supervisory authority (De Nederlandsche Bank) and the European Central Bank on such subjects as risk management, compliance and integrity. The response to last year’s annual report was considered in preparing this year’s report. The bank’s CSR policy was also a discussion item at the General Meeting of Shareholders. The bank’s shareholders are also its clients. Employees are represented by the Works Council as of 1 January 2016. 16 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-44 Key subjects and findings from the stakeholder dialogue Information and suggestions from stakeholders are used to complete and perfect the CSR policy. As in previous years, in 2018 NWB Bank again issued a Green Bond, the Water Bond. With this Water Bond issue, NWB Bank has attracted new investors and enlarged the market for Green Bonds. In addition, the bank again issued Social Bonds, or Affordable Housing Bonds, in 2018. By the end of 2018, NWB Bank had raised a total of more than €9 billion in socially responsible investments. The proceeds from the Affordable Housing Bonds are specifically intended for the financing of social housing in the Netherlands. The principal relevant and current issues and NWB Bank’s response to them are discussed primarily in the context of the Material Issues Plot. REPORT 102-45 Entities involved in the reporting NWB Bank has no subsidiaries; the data in the annual report concern all the divisions of NWB Bank. 102-46 Content of reports and demarcation of the subjects Report content NWB Bank’s core values have formed the starting point for setting the bank’s themes. The themes selected were derived from, and are consistent with, the bank’s overall objectives. NWB Bank has identified the following themes: 1. Financing partner for sustainability improvements 2. Sustainable, robust, efficient and socially responsible bank 3. Essential player in the financing of the Dutch public sector 4. Bank of and for the public water sector 5. Responsible return The themes are the result of a dialogue with the stakeholders. In so doing, NWB Bank seeks to account for its social performance, in addition to accounting for its financial performance. Specific issues are addressed in the Material Issues Plot, which is updated annually. Target group The report is intended for all our stakeholders, including clients, investors, employees, shareholders, the government and supervisory authorities. 17 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Assessment The information for the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ was provided by several organisational divisions. The content of the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ was assessed by the internal audit department. EY provided external assurance with respect to this section. Demarcation The annual report covers the period from 1 January 2018 up to and including 31 December 2018. NWB Bank’s base currency is the euro and it therefore reports in euros. Its core activities are lending to or guaranteed by the Dutch public sector and funding in the national and international capital markets. The reporting in the annual report and the GRI table, as well as in publications on the website, is aligned with the scope of those activities. NWB Bank has no subsidiaries. At the end of 2006, NWB Bank, in close collaboration with its shareholders and in consultation with the Dutch Association of Regional Water Authorities, founded Stichting NWB Fonds. NWB Fonds (http://www.nwbfonds.nl) is an independent foundation to which initial capital is provided (see also Supply chain responsibility). The materiality assessment forms the basis for the demarcation of the annual report and the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ specifically. In the latter section and this GRI table, NWB Bank reports mainly on the material topics, for which purpose the decisions in terms of the depth and demarcation of this sustainability report have been discussed in the CSR Committee and in the Managing Board meetings. In its lending operations, NWB Bank focuses primarily on the Dutch public sector, and therefore topics and social themes outside that sector automatically receive less attention and/or may be less material (demarcation). NWB Bank’s impact (through financing) is most evident in two sub-areas: Making the Netherlands more sustainable: Facilitation of climate adaptation, climate mitigation and biodiversity: 1. The proceeds from Water Bonds are earmarked for the financing of projects of the Dutch Water Authorities (see page 63 for further details). These authorities ensure that, despite rising sea levels and river discharge volumes, the Netherlands remains a place where we can live, work and relax in safety. Water Authorities adopt innovative solutions in order to perform their work more effectively, intelligently, sustainably and affordably. The utilisation of solar panels, wind turbines, self-generated energy and the useful application of residual heat and recovered raw materials have become integral to the work of the Water Authorities. 2. Sustainable housing: housing associations own roughly one third of the total housing stock in the Netherlands. The ‘zero-energy’ concept is being applied more and more frequently to new developments, and materials from demolished houses are reused. The objectives for the migration of energy labels are also being monitored. 3. Circular economy: NWB Bank fulfils approximately 90% of the external financing needs of the Water Authorities, which have made strenuous efforts to limit their own energy consumption, to recycle materials and to generate their own sustainable energy. Their ambition is for this share to rise to 40% by 2020 and to become 100% energyneutral by 2025. 18 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Lower costs for citizens, including affordable social housing and healthcare: 1. Affordable social housing: the social housing guarantee system, whereby the government provides surety (through the Social Housing Guarantee Fund) for loans to housing associations, provides an interest rate advantage (see page 62). NWB Bank is a major provider of guaranteed loans and thereby contributes to this interest rate advantage, which ultimately benefits the social housing tenant. 2. Reduce healthcare costs: the social added value of the Healthcare Sector Guarantee Fund (and the lenders involved) is estimated to amount to approximately 1.5% in interest rate advantage. Historically, NWB Bank has a market share of approximately 25% in guaranteed lending to the healthcare sector. 3. Low costs for government and citizens: NWB Bank’s goal as a promotional bank is to provide financing to its clients on the most favourable terms possible and to take full advantage of its innovative capability to keep the socio-economic costs of public facilities in the Netherlands as low as possible. This includes the costs of the energy transition envisaged by the central government. 19 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-47 List of material issues GRIMaterial topics Strategic themes Key performance indicator Ranking indicator Facilitation of innovation in Partnership of the Water Innovation Prize 7 own the public water sector indicator Facilitation of water safety, Green Bonds volume Bank of and for Volume of lending to water authorities/market share in 1 own climate mitigation and indicator biodiversity among water the public water the financing of water authorities authorities sector: the sustainable water bank Providing financing at the own lowest possible cost Triple A rating (identical to the Dutch State) 5 indicator Financially stable bank Achievement of benchmark return. Financial ratios 3 201-1 € Total lending volume/market share in the financing own Availability of financing of the public sector 5 indicator Key player in Comprehensible and appropriate financing of the Implementation of an internal product approval own products Dutch public sector process for new products/markets 7 indicator Facilitating affordable social Social Bonds volume Volume of lending to housing associations/market 2 own housing indicator share in the financing of housing associations Sustainable funding Volume of Green and Social Bonds as percentage 13 201-2 of total funding Identification of the climate Identification of the climate impact and other impact of loans granted 10 201-2 impact of financing Role as contracting authority of the Climate Monitor Financing partner for sustainability Volume of lending to housing associations/market Facilitating sustainable housing enhancement in 3 own share in the financing of housing associations indicator the Netherlands The policy is in line with national and international rules and regulations Responsible remuneration policy Ratio between Managing Board’s and employees’ 13 407-1 remuneration Zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption Integrity and transparency Number of complaints 12 205-3 Number of reports on bribery and corruption Sustainable, Male-female ratio Diversity of employees Age structure of workforce 20 401-1 efficient and Complementarity of new employees socially committed organisation Internships filled Social involvement 19 own Continuity of the NWB Fund indicator Commitment and sustainable Training budget spending employability of employees Sickness absence 13 404-3 Internal advancement Cybersecurity and data protection Cybersecurity training 9 404-1 Digitisation of services and Introduction of the client portal 13 own business operations indicator Sustainable business practices CO2-emissions generated by business operations 21 305-1 Healthy operating profit Profitability 10 201-1 Appropriate risk profile Triple A rating (identical to the Dutch State). CSR ratings 17 own indicator Responsible and Shareholder return social return Return on equity Dividend payments 18 201-1 While some KPIs in this report are of a quantitative nature, others are qualitative. Where possible, these KPIs will be further elaborated in the coming year. 20 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-48 Restatement of information provided in previous reports Not applicable 102-49 Change in scope The introduction of the GRI Standards has resulted in more extensive and detailed reporting on material issues. 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 inclusive 102-51 Date of most recent report The report’s publication date is 19 April 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for report mvo@nwbbank.com 102-54 Reporting in accordance with GRI standards This report has been drawn up in line with the GRI Standards’ core option. 102-55 GRI Content index In its CSR policy reports, NWB bBank applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines (GRI: www.globalreporting.org). The report in the 2018 Annual Report is based on the GRI standards. According to NWB Bank, the GRI reporting level is ‘core’. EY has provided external assurance on the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ in the Report of the Managing Board. This Content Index includes references to the relevant pages in the 2018 Annual Report for the GRI Disclosures and GRI Performance Indicators. 21 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARDS FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Ref. no Description Page Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 12 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 35-40, 128 102-3 Location of headquarters 79 102-4 Location of operations 79 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12, 128 102-6 Markets served 35-40 102-7/102-8 Scale of the organisation/employees 67 102-9 Supply chain 31 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 12 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach GRI table 102-12 External initiatives GRI table 102-13 Memberships of associations and other advocacy organisations GRI table Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 27-30 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 27-30 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 111 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 110-116 102-19 Delegating authority 110-116 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, social and governmental topics 50 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, social and governmental topics 51 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 94-95 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 13 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 94-95 102-25 Conflicts of interests 97-98 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 106-107 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 51-53 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement 106 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 51-53 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 51-53 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 53-55 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the financial statements 12 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 50 102-47 List of material topics 54-55 22 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Ref. no Description Page 102-48 Restatements of information GRI table 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI table 102-50 Reporting periode 1, 6 102-51 Date of the most recent report GRI table 102-52 Reporting cycle 1, 6 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 51 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 77 102-55 GRI index GRI table 102-56 External assurance 79-81 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 53-54 103-2 Management approach and its components 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 Economic performance indicators 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8-9 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 64 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 103 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 12 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 8-9 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 66-68, 112 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 68 Environmental performance indicators 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI table 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation GRI table 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI table 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI table 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI table Social performance indicators 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 67-68 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation 67 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 66 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 65 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 67-68 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI table Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 407-1 106 and collective bargaining may be at risk Human rights 412 Human rights assessment 77 23 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 102-56 externally assured EY has provided external assurance on the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ included in the Report of the Managing Board in the 2018 Annual Report. EY has provided reasonable assurance as to whether the information in the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ is presented in all material respects in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and supplementary internal guidelines. EY is NWB Bank’s present external auditor and is appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. EY’s reports are also provided to the Supervisory Board. 103 MANAGEMENT-APPROACH 103-1 Details on material issues and demarcation Every year, NWB Bank identifies the material themes on which it will report in its annual report.1 HThe assessment of these themes forms the foundation of the contents of the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’. To determine whether a topic is sufficiently relevant and material to merit reporting, both the perspective of the bank’s MATERIAL TOPICS PLOT Facilitation of water safety, climate mitigation high and biodiversity among water authorities Facilitation of Availability of sustainable Facilitation of financing housing affordable social housing Providing financing Support for innovaat the lowest tion in the public possible cost Cybersecurity and water sector Financially stable Responsible data protection Comprehensible bank remuneration and appropriate policy above products Digitisation of services and business operaaverage tions Commitment Healthy Impact on stakeholders and sustaioperating nable emprofit ployability of employees Identification of the Appropriate climate impact of Integrity and financing risk profile transparency Sustainable funding Shareholder return average Diversity of Social involvement employees Sustainable business practices average above high average Impact of NWB Bank on society (social, environmental and economic) 1] The use of material themes results from NWB Bank’s application of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. NWB Bank uses the Universal Standards when reporting information in its annual reports, while it also mentions specific standards related to the topics categorised as material. As part of the Universal Standards, the bank is consequently required to identify the themes that it deems material. 24 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 stakeholders and that of the bank itself are taken into account. Consideration is also given to the potential or actual economic, environmental and social impacts of each of NWB Bank’s material topics. In 2018, as in previous years, a so-called materiality analysis was again carried out on the topics that are important to the bank. The topics emerged from discussions with stakeholders, desk-based research and comparisons with similar banks. The long list of topics initially composed was then reduced to a short list based on an assessment of their relevance to stakeholders. The importance of a topic to NWB Bank is determined in the CSR Committee. Using the short list, the CSR Committee draws up a Material Topics Plot (MTP). The potential or actual impact of NWB Bank on these topics is plotted on the x axis. The y axis plots the assessment of the importance that stakeholders attach to the topics. A version of the MTP was agreed with clients and shareholder Water Authorities at a client event. This event produced several amendments to and additions of topics, after which the MTP was finalised. 103-2 Management approach NWB Bank has a CSR Committee comprising members of several of the bank’s departments, members of the Managing Board and the CSR Coordinator. The CSR Committee is accountable to the Managing Board. Its aim is to: • design the policy/strategy; • monitor social and environmental risks; • structure input from stakeholders and specific target groups; • discuss topical CSR themes in relation to the bank’s CSR policy; • monitor CSR policy action items; • formulate targets and objectives; • debate challenges (obstacles) that the bank faces; • report on CSR. The subject is periodically addressed during Supervisory Board meetings. On those occasions, the Supervisory Board discusses a number of material aspects with regard to the current strategy and the future. In addition, the exclusion criteria for lending are discussed with the Supervisory Board. The exclusion criteria are elaborated on in the CSR policy. Among other things, this fact means that NWB Bank does not grant loans to any institution connected with ‘the use of child labour’, ‘infringement of collective rights’ and land grabbing. The CSR Committee meets every month. The members concerned have been given the opportunity to spend some of their time working for the CSR Committee in addition to performing the duties inherent to their respective positions. The CSR Committee’s budget comprises, at a minimum, the Water Innovation Award, sponsoring, any environmental measures, assurance costs and allocated hours of employees. Major KPIs have been defined for the next three to five years, broken down by theme. The performance objectives are measurable and can be influenced, and are therefore a challenge for the bank. The minimum preconditions are based on factors such as laws and regulations, governance codes, and internal codes of conduct and regulations. 25 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Reporting process Each individual member of the CSR Committee bears operational responsibility for their share in reporting. The reporting process has been integrated into the internal control structure, which includes social and environmental risk monitoring. Risk management includes CSR aspects and forms an integral part of NWB Bank’s internal processes. The internal audit department monitors reporting quality, testing all the bank’s key processes at least once every two years and the sustainability report every year. The carbon matrix, for example, is subject to both an internal audit and an external assurance review for the methods used to measure (consumption), estimate (measure in the event of uncertainty) and calculate (Defra conversion factors). The involvement of the Risk Management Department and the internal audit department safeguards the quality of the CSR data. In addition, it is verified whether processes other departments use in providing information are in accordance with the formalised internal control structure. In this context, it is established whether the input from stakeholders and specific target groups is included in the report. No changes were implemented in 2018 in the definitions and measurement methods for the reported data compared with prior reporting periods. In the annual report, NWB Bank has included an explicit disclosure concerning any changes in the corporate social responsibility policies and targets compared with the prior reporting period. The targets have remained the same in terms of their content (interest calculator has been discontinued, a target per employee has been included for CO2. The bank now reports more extensively on the impact of the organisation, which was one of the elements that was highlighted in the materiality assessment (MIP). The Managing Board bears final responsibility for CSR Shareholders may respond to the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ during the General Meeting of Shareholders. Minutes are drawn up of those meetings and, to the extent possible, recommendations made by shareholders are followed up. In addition, clients are asked for input during client meetings, which input is discussed periodically in a consultative body. The strategy and strategic priorities of NWB Bank, and the resulting annual plans and policy amendments, are discussed at Managing Board meetings and subsequently within the management team. Implementation of the annual plans is monitored internally by the Managing Board based on periodic reports, which are also placed on the management team and departmental meeting agendas. Plans, policy changes and results directly related to CSR are also discussed by the CSR Committee, which gives rise to CSR targets that are discussed in the CSR Committee every six months. The CSR objectives are included in the objectives of the various departments and staff members involved. The extent to which NWB Bank is prepared to accept the above-mentioned risks is reflected, with regard to the economic risks, in the bank’s risk appetite. With regard to the labour, environmental and social risks, this is also included in the formulation of CSR policy. The short-term and long-term actions arising from the CSR policy and associated targets are primarily discussed in the CSR Committee and are included in the half-yearly monitoring of the CSR targets. This approach provides the best match with NWB Bank’s compact organisational structure and is expected to continue to do so in the future. 26 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 The aforementioned management approach applies to all material issues. No distinction in terms of approach is made within the material issues. The environmental impact of the bank’s office organisation is accounted for in the GRI table rather than the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’. Other observations regarding stakeholders: • NWB Bank invites its stakeholders to submit any suggestions they may have with respect to the bank’s CSR policy and the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’, which can be sent to a dedicated email address mvo@nwbbank.com. 103-3 Development of the management approach Further details are provided in the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ for each material issue. See ‘102-47 List of material issues’ on page # for further information. The CSR policy is evaluated annually in an exercise that covers all material issues. Despite being limited, the environmental impact of the bank’s office organisation is also included in the evaluation. NWB Bank seeks to set an example for its stakeholders. Median for Chair of Managing Board / other employees Based on principles in the annual report, the ratio between the remuneration of the Chair of the Managing Board and the median of the other employees of NWB Bank for 2018 is 4.38. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC/FINANCIAL 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments See the financial statements in the annual report. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities resulting from climate change The energy transition is a fascinating challenge and one to which NWB Bank is keen to contribute by providing finance. By signing the Paris Climate Agreement at the end of 2015, nearly every country in the world, including the Netherlands, agreed to limit further global warming as far as possible, in any event to halt it below two degrees Celsius. This is essential if we are to succeed in bequeathing an inhabitable world to future generations. An increasing number of parties have realised that ‘doing nothing’ is not an option and will ultimately even prove more costly for those future generations. The transition to a climate-neutral and circular economy will require major steps and investments worldwide in the decades ahead also in the Netherlands. 201-3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations All NWB Bank employees participate in the bank’s pension plan (which is an average earnings pension plan) administered by AEGON. Employees make personal contributions of a maximum of 3% of their pensionable salaries. 27 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 201-4 Financial relationships with government bodies All of NWB Bank’s clients are part of or operate in the Dutch public sector. The shareholders are also government bodies. NWB Bank finances about one third of all local authorities and institutions with guarantees from those authorities. Following on from the collaboration with the European Investment Bank in earlier years, NWB Bank also entered into a partnership with the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) in 2018. The two banks signed an agreement for a loan facility of € 300 million in October. The CEB made these funds available to NWB Bank for the financing of social housing, sustainable energy projects and local infrastructure, among other things. Since NWB Bank is committed to providing at least the same amount, €600 million in additional investments have been mobilised. The benefits from the attractive conditions under which NWB Bank borrows from the CEB are passed on to its clients. As a result, this collaboration contributes to NWB Bank’s objective of keeping the financing costs for the public sector as low as possible. Of the available €300 million, €150 million was drawn in 2018. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities NWB Bank extended its dialogue with borrowers in 2018. One of the topics addressed in these discussions is sustainability. Furthermore, institutional investors are interested in the sustainability aspect of NWB Bank’s own funding. They engage research agencies specialising in sustainability that use questionnaires and assessments concerning the bank’s CSR policy and its transparency. For example, NWB Bank’s sustainability profile was charted by the research agencies Sustainalytics, imug, Oekom and Cicero. These agencies’ findings related to the bank are published on the NWB Bank website. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit NWB Bank ensures that housing associations have access to the capital market at the lowest financing costs. In this way, the bank helps create affordable rented accommodation for the social sector. The government facilitates this by acting as a backup for WSW-guaranteed loans to housing associations. The WSW guarantee is embedded in a security structure which is aimed to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available to solve potential financial problems at one or several WSW participants without jeopardising the guarantee system itself. The bank is always available for its clients and continually responds to their changing requirements. For instance, since 2017 housing associations have been able to convert their derivative contracts with commercial banks into new long-term, fixed-rate loans with NWB Bank, secured by the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. As a result of this, more liquidity becomes available for investments in social housing. NWB Bank entered the Social Bond market in 2017. Affordable Housing Bonds (AHB) were again issued in 2018, amounting to €2.1 billion. As the proceeds from the AHBs specifically benefit the financing of social housing, this also helps to improve the sustainability of the existing social housing stock. 28 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit NWB Bank again issued Green Bonds (Water Bonds) in 2018 amounting to approximately €0.9 billion. The proceeds from those bonds are being used to finance Water Authorities’ projects which contribute to climate mitigation, climate adaptation, biodiversity and other objectives. The Water Bond issue underpins the role of NWB Bank as a robust and sustainable finance partner for the funding of the Water Authorities’ climate adaptation and mitigation projects. 205-2 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures Two bank-wide training sessions addressing on cybercrime and privacy legislation were held in 2018. Such training sessions are intended for all members of staff (including the Managing Board). The anti-corruption policy is discussed within the management team (including the Managing Board). 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption relating to NWB Bank have been reported or identified. NWB Bank has taken various preventive actions to combat corruption, the most important of which are as follows: pre-employment screening, the Insider Regulation, the Code of Conduct and the Whistleblower Procedure. Social results benchmarks: The World Justice Project (WJP) Rule of Law Index® provides original, impartial information on how the public experience the rule of law in everyday life in 102 countries around the globe. The Netherlands is one of those countries and features in the top 10. (http://worldjusticeproject.org/rule-law-around-world). ENVIRONMENT 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume With its reporting, NWB Bank seeks to provide an insight into its results in relation to the environmental aspects of its corporate responsibility in terms of emissions, in particular as regards greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting gases. At NWB Bank’s office organisation, paper is the material most used in day-to-day operations. We used an estimated 1,444 kg of paper in 2018 (2017: 1,575 kg). Carbon emissions from paper use have been offset. 302-1 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source The ambition to use green energy (gas and electricity) has been achieved since 1 January 2010 (see EN 16). Consumption levels are included in Appendix 1. 305-1 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight NWB Bank started monitoring its carbon footprint in 2010. The appendix shows carbon emissions totalling approximately 251 tonnes for 2018 (2017: 241 tonnes). In 2018, electricity was from renewable sources without direct carbon emissions. Gas was supplied by the utility company including carbon offset. CO2 emissions caused by trips abroad were offset for the whole of 2018, as were those caused by company cars. The calculation of the carbon footprint is included in Appendix 1. In 2018, the total emissions from the bank’s company cars amounted to 86 tonnes of CO2 (2017: 76 tonnes of CO2). The amount of petrol used rose in 2018. The amount of diesel used fell further still. All these carbon emissions are offset. 29 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Gas consumption was 47 tonnes in 2018 (2017: 53 tonnes). Gas is supplied by the gas supplier including carbon offset. In 2018, carbon emissions associated with overseas air travel amounted to 114 tonnes (2017: 104 tonnes). These emissions are offset. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions NWB Bank aspires to operate in a carbon-neutral manner as regards accommodation and air travel, by offsetting carbon emissions where needed. As regards company cars, it seeks to achieve a positive effect by encouraging employees to drive energy-efficient cars. The car scheme for the Managing Board was changed in 2018 to one that is 100% electric. A similar scheme will enter into force for employees in 2019. For 2018, carbon emissions caused by company cars were offset. 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method As early as 2009, new arrangements were made with the bank’s waste processor, which issued a certificate showing that a certain amount of carbon is offset annually through the Climate Neutral Group. The bank has a 750-litre container which is exchanged weekly. However, no insight into the quantity of waste can be given. The waste processor’s information does not allow a distinction to be made by type of waste. All waste is processed by the same waste processor, which means that no waste is dumped, not even in exceptional cases. Waste water is disposed of via the sewage system. NWB Bank is negotiating with suppliers in order to further improve sustainability arrangements. Given its core activities, NWB Bank does not produce any hazardous waste. Management approach in respect of Eenvironmental indicators: Management approach in respect of Eenvironmental indicators: 1. Mobility: The maximum permitted CO2 emissions per company car are 150 grams per kilometre. In 2019, the car scheme will be changed to one that is 100% electric. That change was made to the Managing Board’s car scheme in 2018. The travel policy recommends travel by public transport. Train travel is preferred over air travel within Europe. Arrangements have been made about this with the bank’s business travel agency. To encourage the use of public transport by all staff rather than cars, they have been given the opportunity to use NS-Business Cards for business travel. 2. When buying items for everyday use, sustainability aspects are taken into account based on the PIANOo procurement criteria of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management (formerly the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment). Any breaches of these criteria are discussed with the supplier concerned and may result in termination of the relationship. 3. New arrangements have been made with the bank’s suppliers of gas, electricity and business travel. At the end of 2009, a different gas supplier (Greenchoice) was selected, which supplies gas in a carbon-neutral manner by means of carbon offsetting. Since 1 January 2012 Greenchoice has also supplied the bank’s electricity. The contract with Greenchoice has been checked against the conditions for sustainable procurement of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. There are also arrangements regarding foreign travel and carbon emissions associated with overseas air travel are offset. In addition, an agreement has been made with the waste processor that carbon emissions will be offset. 30 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 4. The environmental management system is shown in Appendix 6. On the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management’s request, NWB Bank has reviewed how the organisation’s CO2 emissions can be reduced further. Energy label C will apply as a minimum for utility buildings in 2023. NWB Bank has set itself the target of achieving energy label A by 2023. LABOUR 401-1 Total number of new employee hires and employee turnover 2018 2018% 2017 2017 % 2016 number 2016 % Year Number of employees Aantal of employees Aantal of employees Employees aged 60 to 70 1 1.4 1 1,6 0 0 Employees aged 50 to 60 18 26.1 15 24,6 13 22.8 Employees aged 40 to 50 29 42.0 27 44,3 25 43.9 Employees aged 30 to 40 12 17.4 10 16,4 13 22.8 Employees aged 20 to 30 9 13.0 8 13,1 6 10.5 At the end of 2018 the management team comprised eleven persons, three of whom were women. At the end of 2018 the Managing Board comprised four persons, one of whom was a woman. NWB Bank’s workforce is reasonably constant, with a limited turnover. No employees left the bank in 2018 (2017: four). 403-2 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism The bank discussed the absenteeism figures during the management team meeting and with the CSR Committee. Year 2018 2017 2016 Total sickness absence 2,94 2,92 1,8% Short absence of up to 7 days 1,09 0,75 1,1% Medium-length absence of up to 42 days 0,35 0,49 0,47% Long-term absence of up to 365 days 0 0,21 0,24% Prolonged absence of up to 730 days 1,50 1,48 The NWB Bank has a target absenteeism rate of 2.0%. Since prolonged absence rose in 2018, the total rate amounted to 2.94%. No physical accidents or injuries occurred in the workplace. 31 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category NWB Bank attaches great importance to training and development. Department managers monitor employee development at an individual level, giving due consideration to the bank’s objectives and making no distinction in terms of gender. Employees also have their own responsibility where their employability is concerned. In 2018, an average amount of €4,938 per employee was spent on training (including in-company training sessions). It is estimated that a total of 3,340 hours were devoted to training, which works out at an average of 48 hours per employee. ‎Year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Average costs of training € 4,938 € 3,096 € 3,666 € 4,158 € 3,672 € 4,147 NWB Bank organised a number of in-company training sessions last year on the subjects of cybercrime, privacy legislation, SQL, cybercrime security, bank capital adequacy under Basel III, the ADM price server and English. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews All employees of the bank take part in the annual cycle of personal development, assessment and review interviews. 405-1 Breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity No distinction is made on the basis of minority group membership or ethnic origin. A breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender and age group is included. 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination, and corrective action taken Discrimination is a type of undesirable behaviour, as laid down in NWB Bank’s regulation on unwanted behaviour in the workplace. No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2018. 407-1 CLA Sixty-three employees are covered by the collective labour agreement for the banking industry, whereas six employees, including the Managing Board members, are not. Most of the terms and conditions of employment ensuing from the CLA are applied to the latter category. 412 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening NWB Bank offers its lending services solely in the Dutch public sector. The Netherlands has legislation and constitutional provisions on human rights, which is why the agreements NWB Bank enters into do not contain specific paragraphs on human rights. NWB Bank is a signatory to the ISCR agreement (see Appendix 4). In analysing clients and transactions, NWB Bank is bound by the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft) and the Dutch Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (Prevention) Act (Wet ter voorkoming van witwassen en financieren van terrorisme, Wwft). 32 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS (SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT) NWB Bank recognises that human rights are universal values and as a business has a responsibility to respect them. Human rights are defined as the rights that are inherent to all human beings and are deemed to constitute the basis for all rights set out in legislation and guidelines. Human rights apply to everyone, everywhere and at any time. If and when relevant, the bank pledges to mitigate or – ideally – prevent any adverse human rights impacts on its clients and/or staff. The bank takes this into account in both its own office organisation and its lending activities. The core of established international human rights legislation is formed by the following: • UN treaties and covenants (the International Bill of Human Rights: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compact); • guidelines/declarations of international organisations (OECD guidelines for human rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work); • EU regulations; • ational legislation. NWB Bank is a bank of and for the Dutch public sector. The bank conducts lending activities solely in the Netherlands and its clientele consists mainly of local and regional authorities (Water Authorities, municipalities and provinces), and institutions guaranteed by local and regional authorities, such as housing associations and healthcare institutions. The potential impacts of the bank’s and its clients’ activities on human rights are therefore not labelled as material, but this does not imply that the bank does not recognise its responsibility in this area. Pursuant to the Dutch Banking Sector IRBC Agreement and the OECD Guidelines, adhering banks must have a procedure in place to identify, prevent and mitigate the actual and potential impacts of their activities. In addition, they must also communicate in what way they have addressed these impacts. This process is referred to as ‘due diligence’ and NWB Bank has made human rights a standard component of its generic Customer Due Diligence policy (CDD policy). In view of the limited impact of the bank’s and its clients’ activities on human rights as stated earlier, and partly for practical reasons, the bank has not drawn up a separate CDD policy on human rights. The bank’s generic CDD policy concerns both lending to its regular clients, such as the local and regional authorities, housing associations, schools, drinking water companies and healthcare institutions, as well as the financing of Dutch Public-Private Partnership. Pursuant to the Dutch Banking Sector IRBC Agreement, banks that provide project financing will require these clients to establish or participate in a complaints mechanism. This will give victims of human rights violations a platform for focusing attention on their situation. This measure is specifically stated in the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Specifically, NWB Bank requires both new and existing clients to supply sufficient information about a project so that it can assess any social risks, including human rights. If there are social risks, the bank will assess these risks as well as consider the results of the stakeholder dialogue that the client must conduct with those potentially affected by the project. This assessment is based on IFC Performance Standard 7 and includes a Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) analysis. Potential injured parties are informed individually of the measures taken and their results. NWB Bank will always cooperate in remedying the consequences of misconduct in its own business activities or that of supply chain partners. Redress will be determined in consultation with potential injured parties. 33 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 NWB Bank’s lending activities focus solely on the Dutch public sector. The bank primarily serves local and regional authorities, and institutions guaranteed by local and regional government bodies, such as housing associations and healthcare institutions. The bank’s clients all fulfil a public task and logically have a very low human rights risk profile. Therefore they do not form part of the ‘high-risk sectors’. The socially responsible playing field of Dutch public sector clients is safeguarded because there is a democratic decision-making process in the Netherlands, because the central government and its ministries conduct supervision, and because there are specific supervisory authorities that conduct supervision of the public sector such as the housing associations (supervisory authority: the Netherlands Authority for Housing Associations – AW), and the healthcare institutions (supervisory authorities: the Dutch Health and Youth Care Inspectorate – IGJ and the Dutch Healthcare Authority – NZa). In the unlikely event that NWB Bank should nevertheless commence the provision of services for a client group associated with a high human rights risk, the bank will conduct a Product Approval and Review Process. During this process, the bank will form an opinion on any human rights risks and will draw up an additional policy if necessary. As a signatory to the Dutch Banking Sector Agreement on International Responsible Business Conduct regarding Human Rights (IRBC), NWB Bank has made a commitment to report on its human rights policy each year. NWB Bank reports within the scope of the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, which is the authoritative worldwide standard for companies to report on how they respect human rights. The framework comprises several questions which NWB Bank answers in Appendix 4 of this document. The relevant GRI indicators are set out below. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Treating each other with respect constitutes the basis of a healthy working climate. There is no place for discrimination. NWB Bank has Regulations on inappropriate behaviour in the workplace, aimed at offering employees who have personally been a victim of inappropriate behaviour in whatever form the opportunity to submit a complaint. No reports of discrimination within the organisation were made in 2018. 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples NWB Bank conducts lending activities solely in the Netherlands and therefore does not come into contact, either directly or indirectly, with indigenous peoples. 412-1 Activities subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments As a project financier, NWB Bank is active in Dutch Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects. The bank applies the Equator Principles in performing customer due diligence (CDD) on the special purpose vehicle, which includes a human rights impact assessment. NWB Bank requires both new and existing clients to supply sufficient information about a project so that NWB can assess any social risks, including human rights. If there are social risks, the bank will assess these risks as well as consider the results of the stakeholder dialogue that the client must conduct with those potentially affected by the project. This assessment is based on IFC Performance Standard 7 and includes a Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) analysis. There were no cases of misconduct in 2018. 34 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 412-3 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Human rights are enshrined in the Constitution for the Kingdom of the Netherlands and always apply to everyone in the Netherlands. NWB Bank conducts lending activities solely within the Netherlands and therefore a specific passage on human rights need not be included in NWB Bank agreements and contracts. PPP financing forms an exception. In the assessment of Dutch PPP infrastructure projects financed by NWB Bank, clients or their advisers are required to apply the Equator Principles to social risks, including human rights risks, and to environmental risks. Dutch PPP accommodation projects only assess environmental risks. 413-1 Activities that involve local communities, impact assessments and development programmes NWB Bank explicitly takes the direct or impact impacts of its lending activities on local communities into account. Similarly, this also applies to the bank’s own funding. By issuing Water Bonds and Social Bonds, the bank reaches investors with a particular interest in communal and social impacts. These specific bonds are in high demand and their benefits accrue to the bank’s clients and hence to local communities. The impact of NWB Bank therefore is positive rather than negative in terms of this human rights aspect. 413-2 Activities with considerable actual and potential negative consequences for local communities As a bank of and for the public sector, NWB Bank helps its clients create added value for society. The bank solely finances institutions with a public task and therefore the risk of actual and potential negative impacts on local communities is unlikely to emanate from its activities. 35 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 1 CALCULATION OF CARBON FOOTPRINT To report the emission of greenhouse gases connected with an organisation’s activities, ‘activity data’, such as the distance travelled, litres of fuel used or tonnes of waste and the carbon emitted are gathered from users. The Defra factors provide the values that should be used for conversion into carbon emissions. Defra provides step-by-step instructions on how to use the factors and enables users to calculate the volume and nature of greenhouse gases they use for their reports. Overview of NWB Bank’s Carbon Footprint Paper, office Unit Amount Factor Unit CO2 emissions Total amount of paper kg 144 3.08 kg CO2/tonne kg 4 Data collection method details (measurement, calculation, estimate) Based on supplier’s invoices and assumptions used Natural gas, office Unit Amount Factor Unit CO2 emissions Total amount of natural gas Nm3 24,721 1.78 kg CO2 /nm3 47 Data collection method details (measurement, calculation, estimate) Based on Greenchoice gas bill and assumptions used Electricity Unit Amount Factor Unit CO2 emissions Amount of 'green' electricity (solar, kWh 0 kg CO2 /kWh 0 hydro, wind, geothermal heat, biomass) Amount of ‘grey’ electricity kWh 0 0.463 kg CO2 /kWh 0 (other, including nuclear energy) Total 0 Data collection method details Based on Greenchoice electricity bill (measurement, calculation, estimate) Company cars Unit Amount Factor Unit CO2 emissions Total amount of petrol Litre 24,215 2.78 kg CO2e/l 67.80 Total amount of diesel Litre 5,839 3.135 kg CO2e/l 18.68 Total amount of LPG Litre 0 1.86 kg CO2e/l 0 Total based on litres Total for cars 86 €28,445 in petrol up to and including August based on the records; In 2018, the average petrol price was €1.618 (www.statline.cbs.nl); This brings the number of litres consumed up to and including August to 17,581. Data collection method details 6,634 litres between September and December inclusive according to Travelcard records; (measurement, calculation, estimate) €6,048 in diesel up to and including August based on the records; The average diesel price in 2018 was €1.335 (www.statline.cbs.nl); This brings the number of litres consumed up to and including August to 4,531. 1,308 litres between September and December inclusive according to Travelcard records. 36 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Air travel Unit Amount Factor Unit CO2 emissions Short (zone 1) Number 76 kg CO2e/km Medium (zone 2) Number 9 kg CO2e/km Long (zone 3) Number 6 kg CO2e/km Total 114 Data collection method details Flight data based on list of settled AirPlus transactions. These flight data are then offset via the (measurement, calculation, estimate) Climate Neutral Group (per zone). Total CO2 footprint 251 The monetary value of the carbon footprint can be calculated using the CO2 price, which at €10 per tonne at the end of 2018 amounts to €2,510, based on the Trees for All calculation of CO2 emission setoff. 37 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 2: ANALYSIS OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Category Risks Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection Human rights non-compliant to covenant of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Human rights non-compliant to covenant abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Labour and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour labour. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour. Labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of Labour lack of transparency employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Environment to environmental challenges. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of Environment no differentiation in lending terms environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anti-corruption no training or dated policy forms, including extortion and bribery. 38 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Impact Opportunity Goals (NWB/Country Level) Action be more transparent about relevant Future: NWB Bank will comply with NWB Bank adheres to the IMVO Low human rights aspects the IMVO covenant covenant for Dutch Banks. be more transparent about relevant Future: NWB Bank will comply with NWB Bank adheres to the IMVO Low human rights aspects the IMVO covenant covenant for Dutch Banks. be more transparent about country Current: NWB Bank adheres to the Low performance 'cao banken'. Refer to the WJP Rule of Law Index, The Netherlands ranking be more transparent about country Low Country level (http://worldjusticeproject.org) > performance Global Rank 5 (unchanged) in latest report. Refer to the WJP Rule of Law Index, The Netherlands ranking be more transparent about country Low Country level (http://worldjusticeproject.org): > performance Global Rank 5 (unchanged) in latest report. Current: As required by law and the collective bargaining agreements transparent about company and/or in place, NWB Bank approaches Medium country standards its employees respectfully and with due care, without in any way discriminating. NWB Bank is financial partner of Climate Investor One, NWB Bank Project finance and bond issuance shares knowledge with Kenya Water focus on energy transition and Medium related to energy transition and Finance Facility and NWB Bank has environmental/social impact environmental/social impact. issued Affordable Housing Bonds to support Social Housing in The Netherlands. Assess the possibility of Goals, training and implementation of Medium implementing an EMS and perform a EMS energy audit. Consider special terms earmarking lending to projects with New: 'impact lending': cooperation (discount rate) for projects with High environment friendly technologies agreement with EIB and others. environmental friendly technologies (impact lending) biannual training Current: biannual anti-corruption/ Low training and policy update customer due diligence policy has integrity training. been updated 39 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 3 NVB CLIMATE STATEMENT NVB klimaatstatement banken NVB toelichting per statement 1. D utch banks are transparent about the Dutch banks aim to continuously reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of their business impact of our operations on climate (ofﬁces and mobility). They report on this in their annual reports. A large share of Dutch banks change and we are working on the has achieved ‘climate neutralilty’ on operational level, and some other Dutch banks hope to achieve continuous improvement of energy this in the near future. Climate neutrality means that some of the emissions that cannot be avoided efficiency. are ‘compensated’ elsewhere, for example by planting additional trees to absorb the surplus greenhouse gases. Some banks have consciously decided to not (yet) compensate their emissions because they want to focus on reducing these even further. 2. D utch banks take sustainability, climate Each bank has a sustainability policy which determines how they determine and minimise the impact and environmental damage environmental and climate risks associated with their services. All Dutch banks have disclosed into consideration in our financing and their sustainability policy and are accountable for it. investment decisions. 3. D utch banks work towards transparency Banks are providing ever more insight in their activities, for example to which sectors they lend regarding the positive and negative money. In addition, it is important that a reliable estimation method be developed to facilitate a sound impact of our loans and investments on assessment of the climate impact of ﬁ nancing and investing decisions. Estimation is currently needed climate change. because there is a lack of information on the climate impact of many of the companies and institutions to which banks provide ﬁ nancing. It would be even better if reliable data on the climate impact of businesses and institutions would be made available (see proposition 10) 4. D utch banks encourage our customers Energy saving pays off and is just as much in the interest of the customer as the environment. to reduce CO2 emissions wherever For this reason, in their role as ﬁ nancial advisors, Dutch banks encourage both their corporate possible and provide products and private clients to reduce their energy use at home and at work. Banks are further trying to and services to assist them in this ﬁnd innovative ways to promote energy-efﬁciency, both separately and collectively, within the NVB. endeavour. 5. D utch banks strive to accelerate the Mortgages on houses and business premises represent a signiﬁcant part of Dutch banks’ balance sustainability of the Dutch housing sheets. CO2 emissions in many of these buildings could still be signiﬁcantly reduced. This is also stock, offices and other property. necessary for realising the targets of the Energy Agreement for Sustainable Growth, to which the NVB is a party. In recent years, the possibilities to borrow money for investment in energy saving measures have increased. And banks have taken various initiatives to inform customers and to encourage them to make their real estate more sustainable. Currently, the NVB and the Dutch government are exploring how the sector can make an even bigger contribution to increasing the sustainability of real estate. 6. D utch banks enter into dialogue and Climate change will be felt, in the Netherlands, but even more in other countries. There is a need collaboration with society on climate for adaptability and creative solutions. Dutch banks are involved in the dialogue on how these adaptation and mitigation and its solutions can be ﬁ nanced, for example by providing technical expertise within the context of the financing. Energy Agreement. The NVB intends, in consultation with the Dutch government, to look into what additional role ﬁ ts banks best. 7. D utch banks play an active role in Harmonised policies and sound criteria are essential to enable innovative tools such as Green the development of national and Bonds to do their work. Dutch banks want to prevent money leaking into ﬁ nancial tools that have international policies and criteria for no added value for the climate2). In the Netherlands, the ‘green investment/ saving’ scheme, climate and energyrelated investments, implemented by the so called Green Banks, has for years been an effective tool to channel private such as Green Bonds. funds into projects that create energy savings or sustainable energy. With this scheme, the Dutch government guarantees the positive impact of the projects. The banks will advocate this kind of green ﬁnancial tools with tough quality criteria internationally, both within the context of the NVB and beyond 8. D utch banks encourage the Dutch The contribution that banks can make to the climate issue is essential, but limited. It is essential government to implement binding, that the Dutch government and in the international context the governments, set targets that effective European climate objectives, provide sufﬁ cient guarantee that the average temperature on earth rises by no more than two including in its capacity as future holder degrees Celsius compared to the period before the industrial revolution. The targets should also of the EU Presidency. serve to safeguard the level playing ﬁ eld in the market. 9. D utch banks encourage the Dutch An effective CO2 price is an essential precondition for the transition to a sustainable economy. government to view climate change as A realistic price is needed so that investing in, for instance, sustainable energy and energy savings a top priority during its EU Presidency becomes more proﬁ table than is currently the case. Without these investments, the long term and work towards creating an effective climate goals (80-95% reduction in emissions in 2050/ temperature rise of no more than two CO2 price. degrees Celsius compared to the period before the industrial revolution) are not feasible. 10. D  utch banks encourage the Dutch Not all companies and institutions to which banks lend money are required to disclose their CO2 government to provide incentives for emissions. As a result, banks have to use estimates to calculate the indirect climate impact of companies and institutions and enable their activities. Banks are working on improving these estimates, but reliable, easily accessible them to publish their CO2 emissions information about the actual climate impact would be even better. Then it would be easier for banks so that banks can better include the to measure their indirect climate impact (see proposition 3). climate impact in their financing and investment decisions. 40 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Update 2018 NWB Bank provides an explanation of the CO2 Footprint. NWB Bank compensates for this total CO2 emission. https://www.nwbbank.com/csr-reporting-policies NWB Bank has published its sustainability policy on its website. https://www.nwbbank.com/csr-policy The issue of Green Bonds makes it clear to NWB Bank how loans to water boards contribute to positive effects on climate change. For example, in addition to leading the way in climate adaptation and mitigation, the water boards are also leaders in limiting their own energy consumption and generating their own sustainable energy. With the self-generated sustainable energy, the water boards in 2016 already provided 32.6% of their own energy needs. Their goal is that this share will be 40% in 2020 and want to be 100% energy neutral by 2025. In addition, the water boards' ambition is to strongly reduce the CO2 climate footprint. Due to the purchase of green energy and the production of biogas, the total CO2 climate footprint of the water boards fell by 15% in the period between 2013 and 2016 (source: “Climate monitor water boards 2016” dated 5 December 2017). Together with the Unie van Waterschappen, NWB Bank has ordered Arcadis to update the impact measurement in the climate monitor. https://www.nwbbank.com/green-bond The issue of Green Bonds makes it clear to NWB Bank how loans to water boards contribute to positive effects on climate change. For example, in addition to leading the way in climate adaptation and mitigation, the water boards are also leaders in limiting their own energy consumption and generating their own sustainable energy. With the self-generated sustainable energy, the water boards in 2016 already provided 32.6% of their own energy needs. Their goal is that this share will be 40% in 2020 and want to be 100% energy neutral by 2025. In addition, the water boards' ambition is to strongly reduce the CO2 climate footprint. Due to the purchase of green energy and the production of biogas, the total CO2 climate footprint of the water boards fell by 15% in the period between 2013 and 2016 (source: “Climate monitor water boards 2016” dated 5 December 2017). https://www.nwbbank.com/green-bond 1 IN 3 SOCIAL RENTAL HOUSES IN THE NETHERLANDS IS FINANCED BY NWB BANK' Corporations invest in, among other things, energy saving and a sustainable housing stock, thus contributing to a better environment and lower housing costs for their tenants. Tenants with sustainable homes are better off ; they live more comfortably and the energy costs can be considerably lower, so that there is less pressure on affordability. For new construction, the zero on the meter concept is increasingly being used and materials from demolished houses are being reused. To make the existing housing stock more sustainable, it is true that investments are not always economically viable, but nevertheless energy consumption in housing units fell again in 2017. In accordance with the Housing Agenda, the corporations aim for an average energy label B at sector level in 2021. NWB Bank will spend € 3.4 billion on Green and Social Bonds in 2017, which amounts to approximately 27% of its long-term funding. NWB Bank provides annual explanations of its Affordable Housing Bonds (Social Bonds) and Water Bonds (Green Bonds) through 'news letters'. How they contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals can be found in the Affordable Housing Bond Newsletter and the Green Bond Newsletter of NWB Bank, respectively. In addition, NWB Bank organizes reverse road shows where international SRI investors are invited to go through climate adaptation and mitigation projects in the Netherlands as well as sustainable social housing projects. https://www.nwbbank.com/news/nwb-bank-issues-second-social-bond-for-the-year https://www.nwbbank.com/social-bond-affordable-housing-bond https://www.nwbbank.com/green-bond NWB Bank follows the Dutch government NWB Bank follows the Dutch government Together with the Association of Water Boards, NWB Bank has commissioned the Arcadis research agency to map and measure the climate impact of the water boards. This follows an earlier report at the end of 2016. This results in a publicly accessible report called Climate Monitor Water Boards 2018 41 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 4 UN GUIDING PRINCIPLES REPORTING FRAMEWORK NWB Bank has implemented its human rights policy in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and reports on human rights according to the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework drawn up for this purpose. This framework is the authoritative worldwide standard for companies to report on how they respect human rights, and is based on the UN ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework. The UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework consists of three parts and contains a total of 31 questions that companies must answer in order to determine the level of compliance with the Guiding Principles. NWB Bank’s answers to those questions are shown in the table below. 42 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 43 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 5 Green Bonds: NWB Bank has issued ‘Water Bonds’, CSR GLOSSARY the proceeds of which are used to finance the Water Authorities’ ‘green’ activities. NWB Bank uses the Green Bond Principles (see the definition above), which Affordable Housing Bond: NWB Bank has issued ‘Social constitute the authoritative standard in the market for the Bonds’, the proceeds of which are used to finance social issuing of such bonds. housing. In this context, NWB Bank uses the ICMA’s Social Bond Guidance. ISCR agreement: a set of agreements made by banks in the Netherlands on addressing and preventing human Biodiversity: biodiversity or biological diversity is a degree rights violations in connection with the corporate of variation of life forms within a given ecosystem, biome financing and project financing of banks and their or an entire planet. Biodiversity is a common measure of business partners. the health of ecosystems. Complaints procedure: NWB Bank provides stakeholders Circular economy: an economic system that maximises with an opportunity to submit a complaint through a the reusability of products and raw materials, and complaints procedure. This procedure is mentioned on minimises the loss of their value. This is fundamentally the website. different from the current linear system, where raw materials are used to manufacture products that are Climate adaptation and mitigation: climate change destroyed at the end of their useful lives. can have major consequences. Ways of tackling those consequences include adapting to them and mitigating Sustainability exclusion criteria: within the CSR policy, climate change. the CSR exclusion criteria apply to NWB Bank’s lending. As a bank of and for the Dutch government, NWB Climate-neutral: all the activities of a business should Bank only provides credit to the public market in the have a net negative impact on the climate and therefore Netherlands. The bank’s lending rules are clearly defined should not contribute to climate change. in the objects clause of its Articles of Association (Article 2.1). The bank only provides loans within the framework of Management approach: a reporting item within the these Articles of Association. GRI framework and is intended to provide readers of the section on ‘The Sustainable Water Bank’ with information Equator Principles: a risk management framework for on NWB Bank’s strategy and management, and with project financing, adopted by financial institutions, which context in respect of the reported performance targets, is used to determine, assess and manage social and minimum framework conditions and trends in CSR environmental risks in projects. performance. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): an independent NWB Fonds: NWB Fonds offers Water Authorities financial international entity that helps organisations to resources so they can help solve global water-related communicate the impact of business on critical corporate issues based on their core tasks and core values. responsibility and sustainability issues such as climate change, human rights, corruption, etc. Platform Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF): The Platform Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) has developed a measuring method which can be used to illustrate the CO2 impact of investments and lending operations. 44 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Material Issues Plot (MIP): an overview of the material issues, which are assessed in terms of their importance to the organisation (NWB Bank) on the one hand and to its stakeholders on the other. Product approval and review process/PARP: a process implemented by the bank when deciding whether to provide or distribute a certain product at its own risk and expense or for the benefit of its clients. All new products undergo this process. GRI guidelines: GRI reporting guidelines which organisations use when reporting on their material issues and the accompanying environmental, social and economic effects. Stakeholder dialogue: in the context of CSR, all individuals and organisations with which the bank works, or which attach importance to the social role that the bank fulfils as a promotional bank, are being considered stakeholders. In any event, the bank regards its shareholders, clients, investors, employees, the government and supervisory authorities as stakeholders. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): a set of goals launched in 2015, formulated by the United Nations and intended as a new conceptual framework guiding sustainable development. NWB Bank and the other Dutch banks seek to play an active part in increasing the sustainability of the economy, and the SDGs will be a key frame of reference in doing so. Transparency: transparency is the degree of openness, visibility and accessibility of NWB Bank towards its stakeholders in relation to all relevant aspects of its organisation and associated business activities. UN Global Compact: a United Nations initiative of relevance to undertakings wishing to operate and report in a socially responsible manner. It comprises ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 45 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 6 ENERGY AUDIT PREFACE Since its founding in 1954, NWB Bank’s strategy has focused on efficiently bundling the financing needs of customers in the public playing field. The strategy focuses on profit, which is sufficient to guarantee the continuity of the bank and which makes the development of the bank possible in the future. The bank’s shares are wholly owned by Dutch governments. The statutory embedding of the Dutch governments as shareholders and the delimitation of lending to the public sector guarantee the solid profile of NWB Bank. Sustainability and social relevance are important spearheads in this strategy. NWB Bank is located in The Hague at Rooseveltplantsoen 3. The NWB Bank employs approximately 65 employees. NWB Bank has 1 branch. It is a challenge for a small office organization such as NWB Bank to also have an impact on the environment. NWB Bank as an organization serves as an example to it stakeholders and considers responsible and conscious dealing with the environment to be important. There is an obligation under the SER Energy Agreement and the European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) prepare an Energy Audit for companies every 4 years. The scheme is mandatory for companies that meet the following criteria: more than 250 employees or an annual turnover of more than € 50 million. NWB Bank meets the annual turnover criterion. This report from the Energy Audit was commissioned by NWB Bank by consultancy firm Diepenhorst de Vos en Partners (DVP) based on the guidelines of the Netherlands Enterprise Agency. 46 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 1. GENERAL 1.1 Scope of the study NWB Bank was assessed in this study with regard to the office building, the processes and the actions that occur energy carriers. The office is located at Rooseveltplantsoen 3 in The Hague. The office of NWB Bank is owned by the bank and has a joint parking garage with the neighbors, New Skies Satellites. The parking garage is where relevant, included in this study. For the processes, the transport flows of the employees were examined. Regarding energy consumption, we looked at all energy carriers and the total energy consumption. 1.2 Stakeholders The research was conducted by the adviser of NWB Bank, DVP, under the leadership of Mr P.V. Kauffmann. Within NWB Bank, Ms. M. Bauman, HR & Facility Management, is responsible for the Energy Audit. 1.3 Project approach For the Energy Audit in this report, the building with installations has been listed at NWB Bank. Here is (also) made use of an investigation in the context of the expected legislation that in 2023 offices mandatory energy label must have. NWB Bank is required to perform an Energy Audit based on the annual turnover. However, NWB Bank is not a large organization. The bank has around 65 employees. The office building is accordingly sized. In addition, the transport flows have been mapped. This information is provided with the NWB Bank collected every year in the context of the CSR report as part of the annual report of NWB Bank. Transport flows are limited due to the size and nature of the organization. The report has been drawn up in a more inventive way in this context. 2. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENERGY SITUATION 2.1 Technical description The office building consists of 5 floors (ground floor to 4th floor) and a roof structure (elevator machine room and boiler house). Under the ground floor there is a basement for the parking garage. There are also a few archive rooms on this level to provide. The parking garage is shared with the neighbors, New Skies Satellites. The parking garage has one joint entrance and exit. New Skies Satellites has its own entrance to its office. The NWB Bank is 40% owner of the parking garage. The office of NWB Bank was completed and opened in 1984. A major renovation took place in 2010-2011. A part of the installations has also been replaced / renewed. The gross floor area of the NWB Bank office building is for the 5 floors + the roof structure 2,000 m² in total. The basement part (parking garage + core) of NWB Bank is approximately 800 m². The building is constructed from a concrete structure. The stability of the building is taken care of by the concrete walls in the core. 47 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 2.1.1 Building envelope The facades consist of insulated masonry cavity walls and insulated aluminum windows and frames. The concrete roofs of the office building including the terraces are insulated. Depending on the application (accessible terraces, the sloping roof and the roof of the boiler house, etc.) the roof is finished with tiles, bituminous roofing material or copper. The outer walls and roofs form one closed thermal shell. To the ground floor to the parking garage is not isolated at the bottom of the office building. The choice for this is due to the fact that return air from the building is partially used around the parking garage to keep at the right temperature (efficient use of energy). The parking garage is indeed “outside space”, but through this effective technical solution means there is very little energy loss through the ground floor. The temperature of the garage does not fall below 18° C even in the cold winter months. This makes the difference between offices to a parking garage only a few degrees and therefore the energy loss is limited. For the calculation of the energy label, however, the garage is included as “outside space”. As a result, the energy loss is on paper big. In the context of the energy label, consideration should be given to whether the floor should be insulated. However, this does not yield any energy gains. In addition to insulating the ground floor, any sustainability measures are: replacing the glazing of the windows and frames of the facades in HR ++ glass. It must be determined whether replacing glass is appropriate within the existing detailing of the insulated aluminum profiles. Moreover, the glass is on the ground floor made as impactresistant glass. It must be assessed whether replacement makes economic sense. The cavities of the masonry facades (after) insulation is not possible within the existing detailing. Of course it would for large-scale renovation (demolition of the complete brickwork facades and aluminum frames and the application of another detail) the insulation can be brought to a higher level. However, this is not an economic one feasible measure. 2.1.2 Space ventilation The offices are equipped with a ventilation system, whereby the amount of fresh air is and is at least 2-fold furthermore based on the internal heat load and the occupancy. Extraction: 90% of the air supply, so that a slight overpressure is created. Meeting rooms are based on a minimum of 35 m³ / h per person. With larger occupations, the ventilation needs are controlled locally. Operating times: standard between 7:30 AM and 6:00 PM. The possibility of overtime arrangement is provided by at the central counter to activate the overtime arrangement. Given the size of the office and the practical use no individual arrangement per room is required by employees. Heat recovery: is provided in the air handling unit (twincoil). With the return air from the offices, the air circulation in the parking basement is fed, which in that way is fed up at least 15° C. 2.1.3 Space heating and cooling Boiler: 2 gas-fired central heating boilers manufactured by Remeha type 210 eco with a nominal capacity of 115 kW, that meet Gaskeur HR107. 48 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Controls: the boilers are controlled by the Priva DDC system with a weather-dependent control. In principle, space heating is done via the radiators along the facades. The heating elements are linked to the temperature sensors in the room. The boilers, dating from 2002, will have to be replaced within a few years (economic life). When the choice is then made for replacement, all technical and financial possibilities (ie energy-efficient) will be made and high-efficiency) are viewed from the way of heating. A cooling machine is used for cooling the building (installed on the roof). The cold generated from the cooling machine serves for (possibly where necessary) pre-cooling the ventilation air in the supply cabinets and for feeding of the cooled water networks of the cooling ceilings with which the various spaces can be post-cooled locally. 2.1.4 Room and outdoor lighting In 2010, the internal renovations replaced the ceilings including lighting in combination with the cooling ceilings. ETAP line luminaires with 28W T5 lamps were used for the lighting. When the renovation took place in 2010 no suitable LED lamps available yet. When replacing the fixtures (remplace) will be looked at in due course whether any available LED lamps fit into the home of the fixtures. The lighting of the offices is switched and is connected via the control installation to the presence detectors. Almost continuous staffing is available during office hours. There is no separate circuit for each room. Outdoor lighting is present around the building that is controlled by a twilight switch. There is advertising lighting in one place. 2.1.5 Tap water Water connections are provided on all sanitary appliances and the pantries. The sinks in all toilet groups are equipped with hot water connections. Hot water is generated by a central boiler and is supplied by an insulated circulation pipe. 2.1.6 Kitchen There is a (limited) kitchen on the 4th floor. The kitchen installation is limited and can best be described be like a big pantry. 2.1.7 Cooling installation The cooling installation is described in section 2.1.3. There are no cold stores. 2.1.8 Transport installations There is 1 elevator in the office building (basement up to and including the 4th floor). As a result, there is also no comprehensive lift control and regulation. 2.1.9 Server space The server room is very important for the work of NWB Bank. An uninterrupted data network is required by the regulators (such as the ECB). That is why backups and a UPS (nobreak and emergency power) are provided for power outages and power outages on the data network. The server room is equipped with local cooling. 49 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 2.1.10 ICT The following printers / copiers and desktops / screen / laptops (as of May 2018) are used. Type Number Monitor 92 Desktop 62 Laptop 15 Printer 1 Multifunctional 17 These facilities are tailored to the needs. When replacing / supplementing, the selection criterion also takes into account the energy consumption. 2.1.11 Energy registration and monitoring system (EBS) Given the size of the office building, no energy registration and energy monitoring system is provided. 2.2 Transport 2.2.1 Cars NWB Bank owns 14 cars (status 3-5-2018). 2014 2015 2016 2017 Diesel consumption (ltr) 10.066 10.266 12.088 6.944 Gasoline consumption (ltr) 22.046 19.518 19.752 19.615 Diesel factor 3.135 3.135 3.135 3.135 Gasoline factor 2.780 2.780 2.780 2.780 CO2 diesel emissions 31.557 32.184 37.896 21.769 CO2 gasoline emissions 61.288 54.260 54.911 54.530 CO2 emission fuel 92.845 86.444 92.807 76.299 Diesel and gasoline consumption is based on the diesel and gasoline costs from the administration and on the average fuel prices in the relevant year. 50 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 2.2.2 Air travel 2014 2015 2016 2017 Short (zone 1) 79 45 62 76 Middle (zone 2) 16 6 7 8 Long (zone 3) 4 3 2 4 CO2-emission total 0 0 0 0 Flight data is based on an overview of settled transactions from AirPlus. These flight dates are then compensated with the Climate Neutral Group (per zone). 2.2.3 OV 13 employees travel by public transport. 2.2.4 Bicycle scheme The bicycle scheme facilitates the purchase of a bicycle for commuting and for employees who go to it station because they travel by train. A total of 20 employees make use of the bicycle scheme (position per 2017). 2.3 Organization NWB Bank is a small office organization and has one relatively small office building at its disposal. Measures to make significant environmental steps are only possible to a limited extent. NWB Bank considers it important to take measures in the organization wherever possible from its exemplary role which are important for the environment. Telecommuting (occasionally working from home) of the employees is in view of the safety requirements of the ECB regarding the data use is often not an option. 51 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 3 ENERGY 2014 2015 2016 2017 Natural gas (Nm3) 27.997 32.261 30.843 28.298 Factor natural gas 1.825 1.825 1.825 1.825 CO2 emission natural gas 51.094 58.876 56.288 51.644 Electricity (kWh) 228.158 228.158 0 0 Factor electricity 455 455 455 455 CO2 emission electricity 0 0 0 0 3.1 Energy purchasing Electricity and gas are purchased sustainably from Greenchoice. The gas consumption is compensated by the gas supplier, including a CO2 compensation. Electricity is green and therefore gives no CO2 emissions. 3.2 Energy use The gas is supplied by the gas supplier including a CO2 compensation. Electricity is green and therefore gives no CO2 emissions. 3.3 Influence factors for energy use The influence factors on the energy consumption of the office building are limited. During the internal renovation in 2010, as many saving measures as possible were taken, based on the available options. In the event of replacement, the measures will always be tested against energy consumption / sustainability etc. 4 SAVING MEASURES Savings measures at a small organization such as NWB Bank are relatively small. Nevertheless, environmental benefits can be achieved with each individual measure. In all cases, the measures will have to be assessed against economic feasibility, technical lifespan, energy saving, etc. Possible saving measures are: 52 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 Building and installations: Replacement of glazing in the aluminum frames. The installation of PV panels on the roof. Given the size of the roof surface, this is only possible to a limited extent. Whether the installation of PV panels on the sloping copper roof is permitted must be investigated since the area has been designated as a “protected cityscape”. Installing a heat pump. Installing LED lighting throughout the entire building. Applying a CO2 control to the heat recovery. The replacement of gas-fired central heating boilers, whereby it will have to be assessed how the heating will be supplied with fuel. Organization: Slight growth of the organization is foreseen. This is based on the assumption that growth will continue is taken care of within the existing office. Of course it must be looked at that the building and the installations still meet the programmatic principles. All transport movements (commuting, scheme, car, train and air travel) are always weighted in the context of sustainability and from 2019, the fleet will be gradually replaced by electric cars. 5 PLAN OF APPROACH The savings measures will be regularly on the agenda from NWB Bank management. The energy saving, feasibility, etc. criteria are always used. Individual measures will be taken accordingly. 53 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 APPENDIX 7 SDG MAPPING TABLE SDG mapping NWB Bank SDG Specific (Sub-) Target SDG Relevant Indicator 5.1.1 Whether or not legal frameworks are in SDG5 Achieve gender equality and 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all place to promote, enforce and monitor equality ­empower all women and girls ­women and girls everywhere and non-discrimination on the basis of sex SDG 6 Ensure availability and sustainable 6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access 6.1.1 Proportion of population using safely management of water and sanitation for to safe and affordable drinking water for all managed drinking water services all 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, 7.1.2 Proportion of population with primary reliable and modern energy services ­reliance on clean fuels and technology SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, ­reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 7.2.1 Renewable energy share in the total final ­renewable energy in the global energy mix energy consumption 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased SDG 9 Build resilient infrastructure, resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of ­promote inclusive and sustainable 9.4.1 CO2 emission per unit of value added clean and environmentally sound technologies and ­industrialization and foster innovation industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities SDG 11 Make cities and human sett11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, 11.1.1 Number of people with access to safe, lements inclusive, sage, resilient and safe and affordable housing and basic services and affordable and sustainable housing sustainable upgrade slums 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat 13.1.1 Number of countries with national and climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all climate change and its impacts local disaster risk reduction strategies countries 15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland fresh15.1.2 Proportion of important sites for terwater ecosystems and their services, in particular restrial and freshwater biodiversity that are SDG 15 Protect, restore and promote forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line covered by protected areas, by ecosystem type sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, with obligations under international agreements sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 15.A Mobilize and significantly increase financial 15.A.1 Official development assistance and ­resources from all sources to conserve and ­public expenditure on conservation and ­sustainably use biodiversity and ecosystems ­sustainable use of biodiversity and ecosystems 54 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 NWB Bank's (in)direct impact Highlight in NWB reporting info op externe website Discrimination in general qualifies as undesirable behaviour, as laid down in NWB Bank’s regulation on unwanted behaviour in the workplace. Fifty-seven employees are covered by the CLA including the Diversity Charter for the https://www.caobanken.nl/nl/ banking industry. This Diversity Charter is a declaration of intent and focuses Banken cao and diversity charter nieuws/539-diversiteit-is-een-caon employers in the public and private sectors. By signing it, NWB Bank deautje declares that it wants to actively commit to more diversity and inclusiveness in the workplace. Because the South African government has been exchanging knowledge with Dutch water boards since 2004, it became clear that research was being done in both countries into the use of remote sensing for efficient water use. The countries have joined forces and shared their knowledge. As a result, South Africa now has a Dutch program for precipitation measurements from Project Hydronet http://www.hydronet.co.za/ HydroNET. The NWB Fund has co-financed, among other things, the HydroNet project. The project is still in the demonstration phase. The intention is for the South African partners of Dutch Water Authorities to gain better insight into the precipitation quantities through HydroNET, so that water can be handled more efficiently. The housing associations own roughly one third of the total housing stock in the Netherlands. The ‘zero-energy’ concept is being applied more and more https://www.aedes.nl/artikelen/ frequently to new developments, and materials from demolished houses are bouwen-en-energie/enerreused. The objectives for the migration of energy labels are also being moniProjecten nul-op-de-meter gie-en-duurzaamheid/routetored. In 2017 Aedes reported a average energy label of C and more than 1/3 kaart/aedes-hoe-verduurzamen. of the dwellings has allready an label B or better (Energieconvenant: target html 2021).The ‘zero-energy’ concept is being applied more and more frequently to new developments, and materials from demolished houses are re-used. NWB Bank fulfils approximately 90% of the external financing needs of water authorities, which have made strenuous efforts to limit their own energy Circulaire projecten waterschaphttps://www.waterschappen.nl/ consumption, to recycle materials and to generate their own sustainable pen: grondstoffenfabriek projecten/grondstoffenfabriek/ energy. Their ambition is for this share to rise to 40% by 2020 and to become 100% energy-neutral by 2025. NWB Bank is active in the field of financing and structuring of PPP projects. This concerns the financing of long-term accommodation and infrastructure projects, such as government buildings. Among the projects recently Voorbeeld PPS project PPS Post Rijksoverheid financed will realise a 10% reduction of CO2 emission through the additional investements, and within two projects a 135 ton CO2 reduction is expected to be realised during the project life [= input van Michiel]. NWB bank is a frequent issuer of Social Bonds (target: EUR 1 bln annually) and the proceeds from these bonds are dedicated for lending to the Dutch Housing associations. They own roughly one third of the total housing stock in the Netherlands. And NWB Bank has a market share of approximately Voorbeeld project binnen AHB AHB newletter one third. About 30% of householts (appr 2.3 mln) live in the social dwellings provided by a social housing association in the Netherlands and are therefore not exposed to inadequate housing. NWB bank is a frequent issuer of Green Bonds (target: EUR 500 mln annualGreen Bond newsletter + http:// ly) and the proceeds from these bonds are dedicated for lending to the Dutch www.dijkverbetering.waterwater authorities. The Water Authorities are governmental bodies responsischaprivierenland.nl/binaries/ ble for flood protection, water management and water quality Climate change content/assets/wsrl---dijkveradaption is an integrated part of their tasks. A large part of the future investVoorbeeld project waterschappen betering/common/projecten/ ments in flood control and in water management will be executed under the dijkverhoging of waterbuffers. gorinchem---waardenburg/wrumbrella of the Dutch “Delta Plan” a plan set up by the Dutch government 050-49_publieksvriendelijke-verto make the Dutch flood protection and water management schemes fit for sie-participatie--en-communicathe expected climate change in the coming decennia. Both heavier rainfall tieplan-gowa_v3web.pdf patterns as well as longer periods of drought are taken into consideration. With regard to biodiversity 162 'Natura 2000'-sites have been designated for the Netherlands. These areas are part of a network of nature reserves in the European Union. The goal of 'Natura 2000' is to prevent the decline of https://www.uvw.nl/thema/wabiodiversity.The water boards are contributing to as much biodiversity conProject uit Waterinnovatieprijs terkwaliteit/natuurbeleid/ servation as possible by applying the Flora and Fauna Act Code of Conduct. All the maintenance that water boards commit to the water systems is tested against the code of conduct. In 2018 the National Water Animal Assurance started. Pupils from primary and secondary schools from all over the country count water scorpions, dragonfly larvae, back swimmers and other aquatic animals. Data from the https://www.uvw.nl/eerste-natioProject uit Waterinnovatieprijs aquatic animal count can help water managers to determine the quality of nale-waterdiertjestelling/ our water.Biodiversity is a good indicator of quality. The organizers hope to gain more insight into the differences in biodiversity in Dutch waters. 55 G R I T A B L E 2018 | GRI TABLE 2018 56 G R I T A B L E 2018 |
