ASX Release / 14 September 2018 2018 Sustainability Report The attached Sustainability Report presents the environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance of St Barbara Ltd and its controlled entities (the ‘Group’) for the 2018 financial year. The content of this report has been determined by assessing the Group’s material sustainability issues and identifying those which could most impact the Group and its stakeholders. This announcement comprises: • a presentation of the sustainability highlights for the year, and • a detailed Sustainability Report. The Sustainability Report complements, and should be read in conjunction with, information Annual Report contained in the Group’s corresponding Annual Report and Corporate Governance Statement, both released today and available at Integrated suite of www.stbarbara.com.au . annual reporting Corporate Sustainability Governance Report Statement Investor Relations Mr David Cotterell Manager Investor Relations +61 3 8660 1959 ASX: SBM Media Relations Mr Tim Duncan Hinton & Associates +61 3 9600 1979 ADR: STBMY St Barbara Limited Level 10, 432 St Kilda Road, Melbourne VIC 3004 T +61 3 8660 1900 F +61 3 8660 1999 ACN 009 165 066 Locked Bag 9, Collins Street East, Melbourne VIC 8003 W www.stbarbara.com.au BOB VASSIE, MANAGING DIRECTOR & CEO / 14 September 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights St Barbara’s 2018 Sustainability Report Welcome to the St Barbara Sustainability Report. The Company has had a strong year in sustainability, with highlights including our second consecutive national award for gender diversity excellence, and progressing further in our projects that extend mine-life and improve our energy efficiency. This year St Barbara has responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the first time, joined the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We recognise the risk of climate change as defined in the Paris 2015 Climate Change Agreement and our disclosure is aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure. Sustainability is a founding and ongoing focus, central to our Company culture, and for that I acknowledge and thank current and former team members responsible for the results presented here. I am proud of St Barbara’s considerable financial and sustainability achievements, and I look forward to continued improvement and success in all measures. (Mr Vassie’s full statement appears on page 4 of the Sustainability Report) Bob Vassie Managing Director and CEO 2 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Disclaimer This presentation has been prepared by St Barbara Limited (“Company”). The material contained in this presentation is for information purposes only. This presentation is not an offer or invitation for subscription or purchase of, or a recommendation in relation to, securities in the Company and neither this presentation nor anything contained in it shall form the basis of any contract or commitment. This presentation may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with exploring for, developing, mining, processing and sale of gold. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as anticipate, estimates, forecasts, should, will, expects, plans or similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, and which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially from those expressed in this presentation. Actual results may vary from the information in this presentation. The Company does not make, and this presentation should not be relied upon as, any representation or warranty as to the accuracy, or reasonableness, of such statements or assumptions. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. This presentation has been prepared by the Company based on information available to it, including information from third parties, and has not been independently verified. No representation or warranty, express or implied, is made as to the fairness, accuracy or completeness of the information or opinions contained in this presentation. The Company estimates its reserves and resources in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Identified Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2012 Edition (“JORC Code”), which governs such disclosures by companies listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. Financial figures are in Australian dollars unless otherwise noted. Financial year is 1 July to 30 June. Title slide picture: Jeanette Anderson (Byrnecut Australia), June 2018 This presentation published 14 September 2018. As at 30 Jun 2018: AUD 1.00 = USD 0.74, USD 1.00 = AUD 1.35 AUD 1.00 = PGK 2.71, PGK 1.00 = AUD 0.37 www.rba.gov.au 3 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Welcome to St Barbara’s Sustainability Report Left: Amy Lowe (Mine Geologist) and Western Australian bush wallaby juvenile at Gwalia WA. Top Right: Thomas Garret 4 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights (Paramedic and ERT Co-ordinator), visiting Maragon Village clinic, Simberi Island PNG. Bottom Right: Ben Elliot, (Environmental Officer), water testing at Company owned reservoir in disused Tower Hill mining pit, Leonora WA. Contents St Barbara at a glance Values New photos Health and safety People Communities Environment Governance & economic performance Above: Melissa Walker (Loader Operator), Gwalia, WA. Photo by Sharee Briggs 5 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights St Barbara at a Glance Simberi Leonora • Gwalia underground mine Simberi • FY18 production • Open pit mine 268 koz • FY18 production Australia • Mine plan to FY31 135 koz • Prospective Leonora • Mine plan to FY21 tenements • Potential for life extension • Nearby exploration 6 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights St Barbara at a Glance 2018 Geographic Segments Production 268 135 403 Koz Underlying profit 1 219 78 A$ 297 M from operations Ore Reserves2 2.2 1.7 3.9 Moz Employees and 565 1,245 61 1,871 People Contractors 0% 100% Leonora, WA Simberi, PNG Australian offices 1. Non IFRS measure, defined on page 4 of the 2018 Annual Report, equivalent to segment profit before income tax. 7 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights 2. Refer ‘Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Statements 30 June 2018’ released 27 August 2018 St Barbara’s Values We act with honesty and integrity We treat people with respect We value working together We deliver to promise We strive to do better Above: Melissa Walker (Loader Operator) and Alex Manco (Process Technician), Gwalia WA 8 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Health and Safety New photos Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck Top left: Leonora (Gwalia) Emergency Response Team Trainees, photo by Troy Davison. Top right, traffic control at the Gwalia extension project yard. Bottom left, geochemical testing at Pigiput waste dump, photo by Alphonse Kulam. Bottom right, survey team members Ivan Andrew and Joe Bunip at Simberi PNG walking a waste dump checking for 9 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights instability indicators, photo by Rachael Kulame. Safety Record Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate1 9.0 6.0 5.0 4.1 2.1 2.1 1.2 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 FY 18 1. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (12 month average) injuries per million hours worked Simberi Safety poster 10 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Above – isolation tag in an MCC room at Gwalia, WA. Below – the ‘tag board’ at 865 metres below surface, Gwalia, WA. Safety Metrics – Results versus Benchmarks St Barbara LTIFR in comparison with Western Australian Mining benchmarks 2.9 2.2 2.1 0.5 St Barbara WA Gold WA Metal, Surface WA Metal, 2018 Underground 2016-2017 benchmarks, from: http://www.dmp.wa.gov.au/Safety/Safety-statistics-16198.aspx 11 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights LTIFR = Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, the number of lost time injuries per million hours worked. People L: Bob Love (Manager Geology), Gwalia WA. Top R: Kylie Okely (Principal Land Management) 12 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights at Pinjin WA. Bottom R: Admin, Camp, IT and Safety staff at Safety Week 2017, Simberi PNG. People Strategy The ‘5 Pillars’ of A comprehensive framework St Barbara’s People Strategy with award winning components Talent • Leadership training and development for A successful, leading and all levels of management • Annual employee engagement survey Diversity • Comprehensive anti bullying and harassment program and training Leadership growing gold company • Free counselling service for all employees • Mental health awareness training for all supervisors Engagement • Incentive system for all employees Performance 13 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Gender Diversity – We’re No. 1 in Australian Mining Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck Top L: Shauna Finlay (Field Assistant), photo by Daniel McDwyer, Pinjin WA. Top R: Jane Graham (Health, Safety and ER advisor), Gwalia WA, photo by Troy Davison. Bottom L: Josephine Lakngnen (Truck Driver), Simberi PNG. Bottom R: Ashleigh Smyth (Graduate Mine Geologist): Gwalia WA. 14 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Gender Diversity – Repeat Winner of National Mining Diversity Excellence Award • WGEA1 Employer Of Choice For Gender Equality in 2014-15, 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18 and the only mining company to be certified in 2017-18. • 2017 Winner Excellence in Diversity Programs and Performance, Women in Resources National Awards • 2018 Winner of AMMA2 ‘Australian Women in Resources Alliance’ National Award • Bob Vassie, MD & CEO: o 2014-18 Pay Equity Ambassador for the WGEA o 2018 member of AusIMM ‘Council for Diversity and Inclusion’ 1. Workplace Gender Equality Agency – Australian Federal Government https://www.wgea.gov.au/sites/default/files/WGEA-Employer-of-Choice-citation-holders-by-industry-2017-18.pdf 15 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights 2.Australian Mines and Metals Association http://www.amma.org.au/news-media/media-center/resources-energyawards-highlight-industrys-bright-future/ Gender Diversity – Achievements and Targets Women as % of workforce Overall Gender Pay Gap (Australia) (Australia) 30% St Barbara (Australia) 24% 23% Average (Australia)2 21% 18% 17% 17% 16% 16% 15% 14% 14% Average (Australia Mining)1 St Barbara (Australia) 8% ‘Like for like’ pay gap (=0%) FY16 FY17 FY18 FY22 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY22 Target Target New targets in 2018: • Maintain percentage of women • Increase proportion of women in returning to work after parental Papua New Guinea Operations to leave: target 80%, last 4 years 15%, currently 14% performance: 100% ‘Overall Gender Pay Gap’ calculated according to WGEA guidelines (www.wgea.gov.au). ‘Like for like’ gender pay gap measures the difference in base salary over the year between male and female employees in comparable roles. 1. Average for Australian Mining, Aon Hewitt’s ‘Gold and General Mining Industries Remuneration Report’ 16 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights (April 2018). 2. WGEA’s gender pay gap statistics August 2018 for Australian Mining www.wgea.gov.au/sites/default/files/gender-pay-gap-statistic.pdf Case Study: Meryl Jones – Women in Mining Meryl Jones, Principal Business Development . Finalist Outstanding Women in Resources 20171 Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia – UndergroundWinner mining Truck Council of Australia Minerals AICD Scholarship Award2 Earth Science WA Director3 1. http://www.cmewa.com/news-and-events/upcoming-events/women-in-resources-awards 17 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights 2. http://www.minerals.org.au/news/scholarships_for_board_ready_women_in_mining 3. http://www.earthsciencewa.com.au/mod/resource/view.php?id=1733 Addressing Domestic Violence and Gender Safety Domestic and Family Violence Gender safety • In 2018 St Barbara developed a Domestic • In 2015 Simberi mine participated with and Family Violence Policy and 3 other employers in research on PNG implemented measures to support affected undertaken by ‘Business Coalition for employees (building on previous Domestic Women’: Violence Strategy) o 12% of women working in remote areas do not have secure transportation to and from work o 10% of workplaces offer antiharassment training to employees o 56% of employed women believe their career has been affected because of a real or perceived safety concern. 18 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Case Study: Gender Safety 2015-2018: Gender Safety at Simberi PNG • Implementation of Safety improvements identified by audits, including: o Women camp workers, o travel to work, Gwalia Processing plant of ‘contact provisionmining Gwalia –oUnderground Truck officers’ • Year-on-year results show 18% increase in women feeling happy about their safety “I have been researching and training on gender and FY19: First gender safety audit Leonora WA safety in workplaces for almost a decade. The program in place in PNG is truly world class. It is practical, • Resulting recommendations to be educational, transformative, and aligned with international safety standards. Simberi has been a leader reviewed by management in introducing this program to the country and practicing Gender Smart Safety on its worksite.” • Reversal of normal ‘northsouth’ Dean Laplonge, Principal Consultant, Factive knowledge flow. Above: Women from the Simberi Finance and Administration team 19 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Simberi – Local Employment Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck L: Steven Rangrnag. Centre top: John Abraham Rupa. Centre bottom L: Eric Casper Dako, R: Gerard Gulung. L: Cathy Andrew. All Simberi, PNG 2018 20 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Local Employment and Minimisation of Expat Labour Simberi employees diversity 100% 100% 100% 55% 56% 56% Simberi and Tabar Islanders Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck 41% 41% PNG Nationals 42% (Other parts of PNG) 4% 3% 2% Expats FY16 FY17 FY18 21 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Employee Development 22 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Upskilling our Workforce at Simberi Commitment to upskilling our workforce 1.6 million kina spent on training in 2018 • 19 employees enrolled in nationally Apprenticeships recognised apprenticeships. • In addition, 3 completed their apprenticeships and were appointed as Traineeships qualified tradespeople Gwalia Processing • 13 students were plantoffered Work Gwalia –– Underground Gwalia Underground Scholarships mining Truck mining Truck Experience opportunities • 3 scholarships granted to university Adult High degree level students School • 5 graduated from Office Administration trainee program, 3 employed Internal development programs Flexible Open & Distance Education (FODE, e-learning) Internal training • Free to employees & locals courses Truck drivers at the ‘Go-line’ at change of shift, Simberi PNG. • 29 completed 1 or more subjects at year 10-12 23 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Leadership Development Framework Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck Supervisor Superintendent Manager Senior Leaders 360 degree leadership 360 degree leadership Leadership circle, 4 x 1 day workshops survey, 4 x 1 day survey, 2 day workshops executive coaching workshops Coaching for high Navigating organisational Coaching sessions, performance, leading relationships, ‘Leadership Blueprint’ ‘Supervisor toolkit’ change, managing stakeholder unconscious bias management Above: Supervisor training at Simberi PNG 24 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Employee Retention Annual employee turnover 11.2% Australian benchmark 9.6% 9.8% 7.7% 7.0% 7.0% St Barbara average1 St Barbara target: remain below Australian benchmark FY16 FY17 FY18 Benchmark: Mackie Employer Solutions Resources Industry Turnover Analysis Reports. Top: Emily Mort (Plant Metallurgist), Bottom L to R, Sarah Bramham (Senior Mining Engineer), Mariette Nagel (Geotechnical Engineer), Bob Love (Manager Geology), Andrew Shepherd (Manager Technical Services) 25 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights 1. Total St Barbara Employee Satisfaction Metrics % of employees who responded 82% 83% 78% Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia – Underground mining Truck % favourable responses 83% 79% 73% FY16 FY17 FY18 Top: Procurement Superintendent Carmen Potito 26 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Below: L: Andrew Scott (Contract Gold Room Operator), R: Mark Kirkby (Goldroom supervisor) Community Top L & R: Front of shop and admin staff at the Simberi Mine Services shop, within the mine administration area. 27 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Bottom left: local women's group at Simberi, PNG, during mine tour. Right: Gwalia mine staff at Cultural Awareness Training with Leonora aboriginal community members. Commitment to Landowner Businesses at Simberi A$7 million spent with Landowner businesses in FY18 Spending in the Community • Mine services: A$M 7.6 • Bakery, market garden, wet 7.2 mess management 6.3 • Boats (exploration & logistics) Expenditure via Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground Landowner mining mining Truck companies Truck • Earthmoving & trucking • Community support: • Relocation of houses • Roads & water maintenance Community Support • Implementing plantation and 1.5 1.7 1.4 mariculture partnership development initiatives Contracts range between A$1,000 to A$200,000 per month FY16 FY17 FY18 Expenditure converted from US$ and PGK to A$ per Sustainability Report, p12 & 13. 28 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Simberi’s Contribution to the Community Top: Local Elders at the ceremonial opening of ‘safety week’ 2017. Bottom L: Clinic team with patient. In 2019: R: Simberi Ring Road, construction of new culverts 29 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Supporting the Community with Infrastructure and Services Road and water infrastructure, education, medical services • Maintaining roads, bridges, water supply, school and clinics, including new community clinic staff housing in 2018 • Logistical support to school and police including housing,plant Gwalia Processing travel and vehicles Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck • Simberi clinic conducts approx. 900 consultations per month, 40-50 people community medivacs p.a. • Various visits from Australian Doctors International (ADI) in 2016-17 • Ongoing efforts to eradicate malaria • Planned for 2019 – considering full vaccination campaign, first visit by Fred Hollows Foundation, further visit from ADI, expansion of clinic facilities Top: Construction of housing for teachers, Maragon village, Simberi PNG. Bottom – Delivery of books to Maragon Primary school – over 600 second hand children's books sourced for the primary school via Company initiative in 2017. 30 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Supporting the Simberi Community Simberi Ring Road Maintenance • Resurfacing utilizing local landowner contractors • Re-sheeting of washouts / potholes • Culvert and bridge maintenance School Support • Maintenance Gwalia Processing classrooms, provision ofplant Gwalia –– Underground Gwalia Underground mining mining Truck Truck of books and stationery on ad hoc basis • Joint venture with landowners to construct two teachers’ houses Community Policing Support • Provision of vehicle for police operations • Accommodation and meals onsite • Travel to and from Simberi Island Top: Selection of traditional spiritual icons at Simberi. Bottom: Staff at the Simberi Mine Services Fish Shop. 31 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Supporting Simberi’s Post-Mining Future Sustainable business development • Landowners business umbrella company ‘SMS’ (Simberi Mine Services) established as vehicle for sustainable business opportunities post mining e.g. bakery, rehabilitation, agriculture, tourism, fishing • Training in business acumen & accounting • In 2018 fisheries business advisor engaged. Gwalia – Underground mining Truck Hatchery established on mining lease to grow clams, sea cucumbers before transplanting to reef areas Business Development Initiatives • Market Garden Complete FY16 • Chicken Farm Complete FY16 • Mariculture Expanding FY19 • Coffee and Cocoa In progress plantations Top: Sign to SMS (Simberi Mine Services) market garden on mining lease. 32 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Bottom: Mariculture (Claims and sea-cucumbers) aquarium Case study: Simberi Mine Services (SMS) Cocoa Plantations Co-operative Cocoa plantation project Company provided: • Initial 5,000 seedlings, nursey for ongoing seedling production (now self sustaining) • Initial plantation within the mining lease, labour provided by SMS with company assistance, demonstrates successful mixed cropping based on Gwalia – Underground mining Truck traditional organic farming method – subsistence tree crops to provide shade for cocoa plants • Drainage ditches to prevent water-logging, key problem to overcome in high rainfall area Planned for 2019: • Seeking further plantation land on Simberi island • Providing seedlings and advice to further community groups in adjacent island group, assist with export via SMS co-operative Cocoa plantation: Top: Cocoa plant nursery. Below: Company /SMS plantation, showing drainage ditch and food 33 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights tree crops providing shade to cocoa as well as drainage ditch. Sharing our Success through Royalties Simberi Royalties 25.7 20.8 18.7 16.3 13.8 12.4 9.8 9.4 8.5 A$M 6.9 5.2 5.5 3.5 2.9 1.9 4.5 4.9 1.6 3.9 0.8 2.6 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.4 FY08 0.8 1.1 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Cumulative SBM Royalties AG Royalties SBM Cumulative AG Cumulative Project Cumulative A$/Kina conversion per corresponding Annual Reports 34 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights AG = Allied Gold, previous owner of Simberi, SBM = St Barbara Supporting the Leonora Community Sponsorships • Golden Gift (athletic carnival) • Kambalda/Leonora Football Club • Goldfields Girl (personal development program for young indigenous women) • St Barbara Cup (horse race) Gwalia Processing plant Gwalia Gwalia –– Underground Underground mining mining Truck Truck • Shooting Stars (netball sport program for indigenous girls) • Exercise, school, addiction programs Above: Golden Gift Athletic Carnival, live performance. Bottom L: Shooting Stars – from material provided to Sponsors, 35 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Bottom L: Running of the St Barbara Cup Horse Race, 2017 Environment Gwalia Processing plant Top L: Ocean water testing at Simberi. Top R: ‘Hi-Vis’ Insect, covered with pollen at Gwalia, WA, photo by Alex Fincher. Bottom L: 36 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Jonathan Mountford (Environmental Advisor), Gwalia WA. Bottom R: Amanda Rukuwai (former Senior Environment and Community Advisor) and Lisa McCreery from Chatfield’s nursery in seed storage container collected locally for future rehabilitation, Gwalia WA Environment Greenhouse Gas emissions1 100.0 GHG Emissions CO2 kt 90.0 79 Simberi, 74 Papua New 80.0 Guinea 65 70.0 66 Leonora, 60.0 62 61 Western 50.0 Australia 40.0 30.0 Combined Emissions intensity 20.0 CO2 t per $ revenue and oz production Revenue 10.0 0.34 0.37 0.34 intensity Above: Aerial Rope Conveyor or ‘Ropecon’, at Simberi, PNG, manufactured by Doppelmayr CO2 t /$ FY15 FY16 FY17 Simberi ‘Ropecon’ Production 0.22 intensity • Gravity powered, moves ore 3.7km 0.21 0.20 CO2 t /oz from mining pits to processing plant • 2.5 million tons of ore moved p.a. in FY17 & FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 • Saves ~7,000 tons of CO2 per year Intensity = CO2 kt / koz (thousands of gold ounces). This measures GHG output on a per unit of production basis. compared to conventional trucking 1. Scope 1 only. Scope 2 emissions for group are minor, relating to office locations. Other gases included as 37 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights CO2 equivalents. PNG emissions estimated based on fuel amounts using Australian NGERS conversion rates. Gwalia Western Australia Current and future emission intensity improvements • First adsorption chilling plant (using waste heat to cool underground mine) installed in 2015, saves 5,000 CO2 t p.a., second due for installation as part of Gwalia Extension Project. • Paste Aggregate Fill (PAF) due for completion in late 2018, underground crushing of waste to fill mine voids will eliminate trucking of waste to surface • Gwalia Mass Extraction (GMX) prefeasibility study proposes to eliminate trucking of ore to surface via ‘slurry pumping’ • Elimination of trucking to surface will allow more efficient use of ventilation and heavy vehicles, improving revenue and production emission intensity Left: Installation of first Adsorption chiller in 2015, second scheduled for 2019. 38 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Right: PAF equipment being unloaded. Both at Gwalia WA. Environment – Water at Leonora (Western Australia) Non-potable water use at Gwalia mine, Leonora, WA Leonora (Ml) •5000Water usage is 97% non-potable, unsuitable Entitlement 4500 4,500 4,500 4,500 for domestic or agricultural use 4000 •3500Net producer of non-potable saline water •3000Award winner 2012-2013 for water use 2500 reductions 2000 Actual 1,107 1,140 1,032 •1500Ongoing voluntary participant with water Use 1000regulator in WEMP (Water Efficiency 500 Management Plan) 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 L to R: Australian Water dragon. Environment Advisor Ben Elliot carrying out water testing. Jonathan Mountford 39 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights (Environmental Advisor), Lake Rishworth after heavy rain. All at Leonora, Western Australia. Case Study – Leonora WA Cultural Awareness Training • 57 senior employees from Leonora Operations, Gwalia (WA) completed Bush Day immersion in Aboriginal culture overseen by local aboriginal community elder and community members during NAIDOC week July 2018. 40 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Environment Significant environmental incidents1 0 0 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 Environmental incidents2 39 32 31 FY16 FY17 FY18 Juvenile white bellied Sea Eagle at Simberi Island. A community of birds subsist off insects attracted to the mining pit night-shift floodlights. Photo by George Danga Jnr. 1. ‘Major’ and Critical’ incidents defined by use of a risk matrix. See page 24 of Sustainability Report. 41 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights 2. ‘Minor’ and ‘Moderate’ incidents defined by use of a risk matrix. See page 24 of Sustainability Report. Governance and Economic Performance Update View from Mt Leonora, adjacent to Gwalia, Western Australia. Photo by Scott Thomas 42 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Income Tax and other Taxes and Duties Income tax, other taxes, royalties and duties1 paid A$M 40 Income tax2 (Aust) 28 24 24 Australia (other1) 12 12 10 Papua New Guinea (other1) FY16 FY17 FY18 1. Other taxes includes salary taxes paid by Group on behalf of employees. Excludes corporate royalties 2. Income tax paid. Commenced paying income tax in Australia in 2018. PNG in net tax loss position, no income tax paid FY16-FY18. Top: The Hoover Decline, the main entrance to the Gwalia underground mine, WA, 2018 Bottom: Jumbo operations, Gwalia, WA, 2018 43 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights The St Barbara ‘Code of Conduct’ St Barbara’s Code of Conduct: the framework of policies that puts our values into practice Code of Conduct Our People Community & Business Integrity Safeguarding Environment St Barbara • Diversity Policy • Donations, • Anti-Bribery and • Continuous • Equal Employment Sponsorships and Anti-Corruption Disclosure and Opportunity Policy Community Policy (incl. Gifts, External Statement Programs Policy Entertainment and Communication • Environmental Hospitality) Policy • Health & Safety Policy Statement Policy Statement • Conflict of Interest • Privacy Policy • Community and Related Party • Risk Management • Whistleblower Relations Policy Transactions Policy Policy Statement Policy Statement • Securities Dealing • Social Media Policy Policy Values 44 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement highlights • Corporate Governance Statement published annually at stbarbara.com.au/about-us/governance • 100% compliance with ASX CGC Principles & Recommendations1 Key features: • Board comprises a majority of non-executive directors and a non-executive chairman • Appropriately structured Board committees: Director Tenure & Experience 50 • Audit and Risk Professional experience (years) 45 Chair • Health, Safety, Environment and Community 40 • Remuneration and Nomination 35 MD Director • Board skills and experience matrices 30 25 Director • Comprehensive remuneration disclosure 20 • Annual Board performance review 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 St Barbara Board Tenure (years) 1. Compliance, or satisfactory disclosure of alternative governance practices adopted in lieu of a recommendation, 45 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights as prescribed under the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and Recommendations 3rd edition Economic Performance Underlying EBITDA Underlying NPAT A$M A$M 346 321 202 284 160 127 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 EBITDA NPAT A$M 346 A$M 227 169 158 298 293 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 Financial Presentation – 22 August 2018 EBITDA, Underlying EBITDA and Underlying NPAT are non IFRS measures, 46 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights see corresponding slide in Appendix St Barbara’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption program St Barbara has developed a comprehensive framework of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption measures to prevent and detect bribery and corruption, comprising an integrated set of policies, training, audits, procedures and registers. Online Online registers Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions Registers Donations, Sponsorships and Community Programs Training at induction and annually for all staff Training Training Specific induction and ongoing training for supplier facing staff Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (inc. Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality) ABAC Policies Policies Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions Donations, Sponsorships and Community Programs Whistleblower 39 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Joining the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) • Not for profit international organisation founded by UK government in 2002, now based in Norway • Created a global standard for the good governance of oil, gas and mineral resources by companies and governments • EITI standard requires information along the value chain from the point of extraction, revenue to government, contribution to the economy. St Barbara endorses the aims and methodology of the EITI and is a financial supporter of the EITI international secretariat. https://eiti.org/ 49 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Joining the UN Global Compact United Nations initiative founded in 2004 to build direct commitment by corporations to goals aligned with UN principles. Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 50 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Appendices Near shore sampling at Simberi 50 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Non-IFRS Measures We supplement our financial information reporting determined under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) with certain non-IFRS financial measures, including cash operating costs. We believe that these measures provide meaningful information to assist management, investors and analysts in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. All-In Sustaining All-In Sustaining Cost is based on Cash Operating Costs, and adds items relevant to Cost sustaining production. It includes some, but not all, of the components identified in World Gold Council’s Guidance Note on Non-GAAP Metrics All-In Sustaining Costs and All-In Costs (June 2013). Refer most recent quarterly report available at www.stbarbara.com.au for example EBITDA EBIT before depreciation and amortisation. Significant Items Items whose nature or amount is considered material to the financial report. Refer Note 3 of 2018 Financial Report (p48) for details Underlying EBITDA or NPAT after excluding identified significant items. EBITDA / NPAT Refer 2018 Annual Report (p3) for details, available at www.stbarbara.com.au 51 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Investor Relations Enquiries Rowan Cole David Cotterell Company Secretary Manager Investor Relations T: +61 3 8660 1900 E: info@stbarbara.com.au Update Above: Gwalia processing Plant, Leonora WA, Bulk air cooler to left, Gwalia open pit in foreground. 52 / 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights Sustainability Report For the year ended 30 June 2018 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report St Barbara at a glance Leonora Simberi • Gwalia underground mine PNG • FY18 production Simberi 268 koz • Mine plan to FY31 • Open pit mine • Prospective • FY18 production tenements 135 koz Australia • Mine plan to FY21 • Potential for life Leonora extension • Exploration on neighboring islands 2018 2015 2014 2018 Total Recordable Injury FY18 Geographic Segments Frequency Rate Production 268 135 403 koz FY18 2.1 FY17 1.2 Underlying profit from operations 219 78 $297 M FY16 2.1 Ore Reserves 2.9 1.7 4.6 Moz FY15 5.0 Employees and Contractors 565 1,245 61 1,871 FY14 4.1 0% 100% Leonora, WA Simberi, PNG Australian offices Notes: ‘Underlying profit from operations’ is a Non-IFRS measure, defined on page 4 of the 2018 Annual Report, and equivalent to segment profit before income tax. Ore Reserves as at 30 June 2018 per ‘Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Statements 30 June 2018’ released 27 August 2018. Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate measured for each million hours worked on a 12-month rolling basis. Page 2 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Contents This report presents the environmental, social and governance St Barbara at a glance 2 (ESG) performance St Barbara Limited and its controlled Sustainability Report 3 entities (the ’Company’ or ‘Group’), or provides the reference About these disclosures 3 to where this information is presented in the Group’s corresponding: Message from Managing Director & CEO 4 Key developments in Sustainability Activities and • Annual Report, Reporting 5 • Corporate Governance Statement, or • www.stbarbara.com.au. Material Issues and Boundaries 6 Our Sustainability Approach 7 The content of this report has been determined by assessing the Group’s material sustainability issues and identifying those Governance and Economic Performance 8 that could most impact the business and its stakeholders. The Health, Safety and Risk Management 9 2018 report contains increased disclosure including, where People 11 applicable, the Group’s targets and commitments. Social & Communities 11 The Sustainability Report is for the financial year ended Environment 15 30 June 2018. Financial figures are in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Performance Data 20 GRI Content Index 25 About these disclosures GRI Materiality Commentary 29 St Barbara has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to guide its sustainability disclosures. This report is UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 34 in accordance with the GRI Core option. The content of the Glossary 35 disclosures is based on St Barbara’s assessment of its material sustainability topic areas. St Barbara’s material sustainability Contributors 36 topic areas reflect its significant economic, environmental and social impacts, and those areas that substantively influence the assessments and decisions of its stakeholders. St Barbara’s sustainability disclosures comprise: • this Sustainability Report, • identified sections of the Annual Report, • the Corporate Governance Statement, and • the website, www.stbarbara.com.au. The Sustainability Report has been authorised for release by a resolution of the Board of Directors. 14 September 2018 Rowan Cole Company Secretary St Barbara is committed to achieving its sustainability objectives through its core values: We act with honesty and integrity We treat people with respect We value working together We deliver to promise We strive to do better Page 3 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Message from Managing Director & CEO Welcome to the 2018 St Barbara Limited Sustainability sustainability, winning a variety of industry awards, including Report. ‘Water Wise’ awards in 2013 and 2014, and following the construction in 2015 of an industry-first power-saving The activities and metrics described in the Sustainability adsorption chiller plant, powered by waste heat from our Report are representative of the values that guide everything power plant, acknowledgement with a ‘Golden Gecko’ we do: we act with honesty and integrity, we treat people environmental certificate of merit. The Company received with respect, we value working together, we deliver to national recognition in 2014 and 2017, winning the ‘Women promise, and we strive to do better. in Resources National Award’ and in 2018 from the AMMA ‘Australian Women in Resources Alliance’ as an industry Our values are enacted through a framework of policies, leader in gender diversity, plus certification as a WGEA standards and procedures, and appropriately resourced ‘Employer of Choice for Gender Equality’ consistently since sustainability professionals that work in our operations to 2014, and is currently the only mining company to hold the help facilitate agreed sustainability action plans. certification. This report presents the sustainability activities undertaken This year St Barbara has responded to the Carbon Disclosure by St Barbara in the financial year to 30 June 2018, with Project (CDP) 2 for the first time, became a supporter of the comparative data for the preceding two years. This year we Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 3, and have increased disclosure to include employee satisfaction, became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact employee development spending, risk management, mining (UNGC) 4. This Sustainability Report contains our first waste, water licences and a variety of disclosures of our Communications on Progress (CoP) on furthering the goals sustainability related targets. contained in the UNGC principles. In this report we recognise the risk of climate change as defined in the Paris 2015 Climate We recognise that a safe workplace, and the wellbeing of Change Agreement 5 and our disclosure is aligned with the employees, contractors, consultants and visitors, are Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure 6. fundamental to the success of the Company. Our injury frequency rate has disappointingly increased this year, St Barbara’s sustainability approach aligns with the although the injuries suffered have all thankfully been underlying principles of these international sustainability relatively minor. Our lost time injury frequency rate is less organisations. than half the Western Australian underground mine average 1. St Barbara welcomes the challenge and opportunity of providing sustainability related transparency to our We place great importance on responsible environmental stakeholders. Sustainability is a founding and ongoing focus, management and we are committed to continued central to our Company culture, and for that I acknowledge improvement in the identification, assessment, mitigation and thank current and former team members responsible for and monitoring of the environmental effects of our the results presented here. I am proud of St Barbara’s operations. considerable financial and sustainability achievements, and I look forward to continued improvement and success in all We believe that mining is a positive force for social and measures. economic development for local communities and work closely with them to nurture a mutually beneficial social Bob Vassie licence to operate. Managing Director & CEO The Company that I joined in 2014 was proud of its strong safety, environment and community focus, winning numerous awards in environment and gender diversity. Since then the Company has progressed on all aspects of 1 St Barbara 12 month average LTIFR (per million hours worked) = 4 www.unglobalcompact.org/ 0.5, WA underground average = 2.9, per Western Australian 5 https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-parismining regulator 2016-17 report agreement/the-paris-agreement 2 www.cdp.net/en 6 https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/ 3 https://eiti.org/ Page 4 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Key developments in Sustainability Activities and Reporting The key developments in sustainability activities since the previous Sustainability Report are: • the Group has responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 1 • the Group has become a financial supporter of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 2 • the Group has become a signatory of the UN Global Compact 3. The key developments in sustainability reporting since the previous Sustainability Report include increased disclosure on: • employee engagement and training • mining waste • water usage • targets. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact The Company has become a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and subscribes to its Ten Principles. Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Framework for Sustainable Development As part of its membership of the Minerals Council of Australia (MCA), St Barbara is committed to meeting the obligations of the MCA ‘Enduring Value’ framework for sustainable development. The Enduring Value framework incorporates the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Principles, summarised as: 1. Implement and maintain ethical business practices and sound systems of corporate governance. 2. Integrate sustainable development considerations within the corporate decision-making process. 3. Uphold fundamental human rights and respect cultures, customs and values in dealings with employees and others who are affected by our activities. 4. Implement risk management strategies based on valid data and sound science. 5. Seek continual improvement of our health and safety performance. 6. Seek continual improvement of our environmental performance. 7. Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and integrated approaches to land use planning. 8. Facilitate and encourage responsible product design, use, re-use, recycling and disposal of our products. 9. Contribute to the social, economic and institutional development of the communities in which we operate. 10. Implement effective and transparent engagement, communication and independently verified reporting arrangements with our stakeholders. 1 www.cdp.net/en 2 https://eiti.org/ 3 www.unglobalcompact.org/ Page 5 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Material Issues and Boundaries The Group assesses materiality of issues disclosed in this report according to: • Our values • Laws, licences and regulations • Engagement with stakeholders, issues we discuss with them frequently • Engagement with experts, industry organisations & international initiatives focused on sustainability issues • Issues identified as critical in our risk management system. This Sustainability Report prioritises reported issues according to assessed materiality, as summarised in the table below: Boundaries & Stakeholders Reported Issues External Internal Governance & Economic Performance • Board and management alignment with • Local communities long term shareholder and stakeholder • Government & Regulators interest • Investors & Analysts • Ethical business conduct, including Anti• Suppliers bribery and Anti-corruption • NGO (non-governmental • Fines and penalties organisation) • Risk management • Taxes, duties and royalties Health and Safety • Safe work environment and workplace • Regulators practices for employees and contractors • Visitors • Incident analysis and trends People • Attract, retain, engage and develop • Local communities All the reported issues are workforce • Government & Regulators identified and managed according • Diversity, non-discrimination, Equal • Existing and potential to the impact upon our employees Opportunity employees and contractors Social & Communities • Engage, respect, enhance • Local communities • Minimise adverse impact • Government • Resolve grievances fairly • NGO • Local suppliers Environment • Closure – planning and provisions • Local communities • Climate Change – vulnerability, our impact, • Government & Regulators risk management, GHG emissions, energy • Investors & Analysts efficiency • NGO • Incidents • Mine waste management – tailings, waste rock • Water usage and management Boundaries are defined by our impacts. We define our impacts to include direct and indirect, intended and unintended, short and long term consequences. We do not consider our impacts to include: • Product safety and product recycling • The role of gold in international political and economic relations • Engagement with communities beyond those geographically proximate to our operations • Commercial activity of individuals and entities connected with our operations but not relating to us (for example, other business activities of contractors and royalty recipients) • Issues relating to minority equity interests and previously divested assets. Page 6 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Committee advises the Board on the Group’s overall Our Sustainability Approach remuneration and diversity strategies and policies. We recognise that a safe workplace, and the wellbeing of The Managing Director and CEO has overall responsibility for employees, contractors, consultants and visitors, are Sustainability at the executive level. fundamental to the success of the Group. We place great importance on responsible environmental management and we are committed to continued Applying our sustainability approach improvement in the identification, assessment, mitigation In applying our sustainability approach, the daily activities and monitoring of the environmental effects of our and decisions of the Group are supported by the applicable operations. Board policies. These are the foundation for developing and We believe that mining is a positive force for social and implementing management systems at our operations. These economic development for local communities and work policies align with environmental, social and governance closely with them to nurture a mutually beneficial social management as set out in the table below. licence to operate. Managing risk Governance of sustainability The Group maintains an enterprise wide risk management We believe high standards of governance are critical to framework to support the responsible achievement of its delivering on our strategy, creating long-term value and strategic objectives by identifying and addressing risk in an maintaining diversity and our social licence to operate. organised and transparent manner. The Board oversees the Group’s values, culture, governance The risk management framework delivers enhanced risk framework and sustainability approach. The Audit and Risk reporting and control mechanisms designed to ensure that Committee monitors the Group’s systems of financial and strategic, operational, environmental, legal, social, operational risk management. The Health, Safety reputational, financial and other risks are identified, assessed Environment and Community (HSEC) Committee monitors and managed. The framework is consistent with International the Group’s HSEC responsibilities and compliance across and Australian risk management standards. those activities. The Remuneration and Nomination ESG area Policies Board / Board Executive / General of focus Committee 1 Manager responsible Environmental Environmental Policy HSEC GM Tech Services Social Community Relations Policy HSEC GM Tech Services Health and Safety Policy Diversity and Inclusion Policy Remuneration GM Human Resources Equal Employment Opportunity Policy & Nomination Donations Sponsorships Community Programs Policy Board Company Secretary Governance Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Code of Conduct Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions Policy Continuous Disclosure and External Communication Policy Board Company Secretary Privacy Policy Securities Dealing Policy Social Media Policy Company Secretary & Whistleblower Policy Board GM Human Resources Delegation of Authority Audit & Risk Chief Financial Officer Risk Management Policy Audit & Risk Company Secretary 1 HSEC: Health Safety Environment & Community Committee Page 7 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report The Group’s direct economic contribution to government is Governance and Economic Performance published in the Performance Data section of this report. The Board and Management of St Barbara are committed to Follow a period of where no income tax was payable due to maintaining high standards of ethics, integrity and statutory accumulated income tax losses, the Group resumed paying compliance in all Group dealings. company income tax in 2018. The Group has implemented a formal set of behavioural values Other taxes, royalties and duties have broadly increased over designed to uphold high standards of integrity and work the last several years associated with the increase in gold performance for the Board, Management, employees, and other production and related activity. members of the work force. The Group is committed to achieving its sustainability objectives through its core values: The Group’s governance performance is published in the Corporate Governance Statement, with a key indicator set out • We act with honesty and integrity in the Performance Data section of this report. The Group has • We treat people with respect maintained, and will seek to maintain, 100% compliance with • We value working together the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and • We deliver to promise Recommendations. • We strive to do better. The Group reports annually to the Papua New Guinea The Group’s internal and corporate governance is explained in Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and is a depth in the annual Corporate Governance Statement. The financial supporter of the EITI PNG and EITI International Corporate Governance Statement describes the Corporate Secretariat. PNG is a candidate country to the EITI. The Group Governance framework that underpins the Group’s conformance supports the efforts of the EITI to improve transparency in the with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and area of the financial dealings between mining companies and Recommendations (3rd Edition) (“the ASX Principles and governments. Recommendations”), by reference to each of the stated During 2018, the Group was a financial member of selected principles. The eight central principles are: mining industry bodies, including: 1. Lay solid foundations for management and oversight • Australian Mines and Metals Association 2. Structure the Board to add value • Chamber of Minerals and Energy of Western Australia 3. Act ethically and responsibly • Gold Industry Group (Australia) 4. Safeguard integrity in corporate reporting • Minerals Council of Australia 5. Make timely and balanced disclosure • PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum. 6. Respect the rights of security holders 7. Recognise and manage risk 8. Remunerate fairly and responsibly. The Group has an integrated suite of governance policies that together form our Code of Conduct. The individual policies are available on our website under ‘Governance’, and include policies addressing: • Bribery and corruption • Equal opportunity • Community relations • Health and safety • Conflicts of interest • Privacy • Continuous disclosure • Risk management • Diversity and inclusion • Securities dealing • Donation & sponsorships • Social media • Environment • Whistleblower. The Group reviews and updates the policies on a regular basis, and has comprehensive employee training, updated on a cyclical basis. The Group’s economic performance is published in the Annual Report, with earnings per share as a key indicator set out in the Performance Data section of this report. Commentary on the Group’s economic performance commences on page 3 of the Annual Report. Page 8 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Health, Safety and Risk Management • Marine operations • Mobile and lifting equipment The health and safety of our employees, contractors, • Underground ground control. suppliers, visitors and surrounding community is fundamental to the success of the Group. The Group’s health and safety Health and safety meetings occur at the start of every shift at policy is available at: www.stbarbara.com.au/aboutall operational sites. Specialist health and safety staff, and all us/governance/. The Group’s Health, Safety and Environment levels of operational management rigorously identify, Management System is aligned with AS/NZS 4801:2001 prioritise and control risk through active communication and (Health and Safety Management Standard). consultation with the workforce. The Group’s primary safety performance measure is ‘Total Working safely in compliance with safety standards and Recordable Injury Frequency Rate’ (TRIFR) per million hours procedures is mandatory. Safety is a personal accountability worked on a rolling 12-month basis, which is not widely held by everyone, with all personnel empowered to initiate a available for comparison with peer companies. The Group’s “cease work authority” when exposed to, or witnessing, an corresponding Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per unsafe activity. Incidents and near-misses are investigated and million hours worked of 0.5 for the year to 30 June 2018 is well analysed. below relevant available industry benchmarks 1. The Group has a zero tolerance approach where key critical The Group’s management of safety is comprehensive, well risk non-compliances with procedures are observed. resourced, strict and proactive. The Group has a proactive regime of training linked to The Group has a comprehensive Health, Safety and workplace safety observations. Various ‘lead’ and ‘lag’ safety Environment Management System (HSEMS) in use across the targets are included in the at-risk remuneration component of Group, which is supported by significant numbers of specialist all operational managers. health and safety staff at both mines, as well as in corporate leadership and support. The HSEMS encompasses the Health and Safety is audited at the mine sites regularly, following components: including: 1. Leadership and Accountability • Annual regulatory audits by the relevant government 2. Risk and Management of Change authorities 3. Contractor Management • External audits of compliance with the Group’s Critical 4. Incident Reporting and Investigation Risk Control Standards, part of the Group’s Health Safety 5. Communication, Consultation and Participation and Environment Management System (also itself 6. Critical Risk Control Standards regularly audited) 7. Environmental Management • Regular internal audits performed by the Group’s own 8. Training, Competency and Behaviour health and safety specialist staff. 9. Health and Hygiene 10. Legal Requirements, Commitments and Document Health and safety performance is measured using ‘Total Control Recordable Injury Frequency Rate’ which expresses the 11. Crisis and Emergency Management number of injuries per million hours worked on a rolling 1212. Design, Construct, Commissioning and Decommissioning month basis. This measure is a widely recognised benchmark, 13. Monitoring, Audits and Review allowing measurement and comparison of safety performance 14. Planning, Goals and Targets. across industries. The Group has developed and maintains a set of ‘Critical Risk Health and safety targets are included in the at-risk Control Standards’, each containing various systems, remuneration of all employees and most contractors. standards and guidelines. These Critical Risk Control Standards All standards apply equally to employees and contractors. address specific work activities, including: During the year the following new health and safety related • Explosives initiatives commenced: • Hazardous material management • Isolation, working at heights, and confined spaces • Focused training on hand safety at Gwalia, WA. • Light vehicles 1 Industry Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for WA gold companies of 2.1 per Department of Mines, Industry Regulation and Safety report titled ‘Safety Performance in the Western Australian Mineral Industry’ for 2016-2017. Page 9 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report • A gender safety initiative at Leonora, based on the Analysis and commentary on 2018 Recordable Injuries Simberi program which has been in place for the last The number of injuries for contractors was higher than for three years. This program of surveys, focus group employees in 2018. This is consistent with the greater number meetings, interviews, risk assessments originated in of specialist contractors at the Gwalia mine in Western partnership with the ‘PNG Business Coalition for Women’. Australia, where the majority of recordable injuries occurred. The program acknowledges the different safety concerns Outsourcing of mining and exploration drilling services is a and issues of women working on a mine site. These typical feature of the Western Australian mining environment. programs build upon previous initiatives in domestic violence programs at Simberi. The Group’s underground mining contractor, Byrnecut • Behavioural safety reviews were completed at Gwalia in Australia, has a robust, comprehensive, standardised 2018. The resulting action plans have been incorporated ‘occupational health and safety’ (OH&S) approach, and is certified for ISO 9001: 2008 (Quality Management Standard), into the safety management plan and program. ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management Standard), External audits of health and safety practices are conducted at OHSAS 18001:2007 (Health and Safety Management Standard) and AS/NZS 4801:2001 (Health and Safety Management both operations. Audit result improvements are a component Standard). of individual at-risk remuneration for employees with middle and senior site management responsibilities. Certification to Risk Management & Emergency Preparedness the new ISO 45001 Safety standard is being considered for possible future implementation. The Group identifies, assesses and manages risks through an established enterprise-wide risk management framework, The Group’s health and safety performance is published in the which conforms to Australian and international standards and Performance Data section of this report. guidance. The Group’s risk reporting and control mechanisms are designed to ensure strategic, safety, environmental, The Group’s lead indicator for safety performance, ‘Total operational, legal, financial, reputational and other risks are Recordable Injury Frequency Rate’ (TRIFR) has unfortunately identified, assessed and appropriately managed. increased from 1.2 last year to 2.1 as at 30 June 2018. All the impacted colleagues had, at the time of this report’s release, Senior management and the Board regularly review the risk returned to their pre-injury duties. portfolio of the business and the effectiveness of the Group’s management of those risks. Details regarding all nine ‘recordable’ injuries in 2018 (2017: five) are shown below. The Group’s Audit and Risk Committee oversees risk management. The Group’s material business risks are Details and analysis of safety incidents in 2018 reported in the Annual Report. Number Location and type of Employee/Contractor/ Emergency Preparedness injury location 4 Hand & forearm 2 employees The Group has a Crisis Management System and prepares 2 contractors (4 Australia) Business Continuity Plans (BCP) for key risks with a business interruption element. 2 Foot & lower leg 2 contractors (1 Australia, 1 PNG) Both mine sites have highly trained ‘emergency response teams’ (ERT). The teams are equipped and trained 3 Other: 2 employees appropriately to perform the functions of first aid, rescue and • 2 head 1 contractor fire-fighting, specific to their location and mining activities. • 1 shoulder (1 Australia, 2 PNG) The St Barbara Gwalia mine underground ERT won both of the most recent Chamber of Minerals and Energy of Western Total Recordable injuries 4 employees Australia (CMEWA) Underground Mine Emergency Response 9 5 contractors (6 Australia, 3 PNG) Competition consecutively in 2015 and 2016 1. The Simberi team competed strongly at the most recent PNG Extractive includes Lost time injuries 2 employees Industries Emergency Response Challenge (EIERC) event in 2 (injuries requiring (2 PNG) 2017 and at the previous 2015 competition, winning four time off work) categories in 2015. 1 There was no competition in 2017 Page 10 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report People Choice for Gender Equality since 2014, currently the only mining company so awarded. The Group has a centralised Human Resources (HR) function with representation at every Group location. The HR Function The Group was awarded the ‘Women in Resources’ state is charged with ensuring there are capable people in the right (Victorian) and the national award for ‘Excellence in Diversity roles, doing the right work, all the time. Programs and Performance’ in 2017 and in 2018, the Group received the AMMA ‘Australian Women in Resources Alliance 1 The Group’s HR strategy of ‘talented people who deliver’ has National award. five pillars: Other diversity initiatives include actively managing the Talent ensuring the Group has the talent needed to gender pay gap, gender advocacy, gender safety programs, the reliably deliver its business strategy Women’s Internal Network, a commitment to developing the Diversity ensuring a diverse and inclusive workforce to National workforce in PNG, Indigenous engagement targets, support a high performance culture support for victims of domestic violence, and employee Leadership building capable leadership at all levels in the wellbeing programs. Group Engagement maintaining productive direct relations with At its Simberi PNG mine, the Group has pioneered a new our people gender safety program, recognising the different safety Performance maintaining an integrated suite of effective concerns of women, in partnership with the PNG ‘Business people systems Coalition for Women’. This program is now being implemented at the Group’s Gwalia mine in Western Australia. Talent This program followed a research project into women working There are a number of HR frameworks, systems and activities in remote locations in PNG and incorporates an annual audit to ensure the Group attracts, recruits and retains talent process including employee surveys, focus group meetings, including: interviews, risk assessments and benchmarking. The annual audit report includes recommended actions based on the • Talent management framework findings of the audit. • Recruitment system • Career development system In August 2018, the Group presented on its gender safety • Training and development system program at the Minerals and Energy for Development Alliance • Graduate development system. Women in Resources conference in in Lae PNG. All employees have a role description and an annual The proportion of women employed in Australian operations development plan. Each year the Group conducts talent increased in 2018 to 24%, with a target to reach 30% in 2022. identification and succession planning. The Group conducts regular gender pay audits and has a nil Training and development average hours per employee have gender pay gap for like-for-like roles. The Group has a target been published for the first time in this year’s report. The to reduce the ‘overall gender pay gap’ 2 to 8% by 2022 3. emphasis on training of the Simberi PNG workforce is evident, especially in the early part of the three year reported period. The Group’s Leonora Operation in Western Australia is progressing towards its target for indigenous employment of Diversity 5% by 2020, more than trebling this metric since 2016 to achieve 3.6% at June 2018. To support this initiative, 57 senior The Group’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy sets the tone for employees attended Cultural Awareness training during diversity activities, with progress against Board approved NAIDOC 4 week in July 2018 (a program of activities to objectives reported annually in the Corporate Governance recognise indigenous Australians’ contribution to society). The Statement. training was hosted by local elders near significant indigenous sites in the mine locality. The Group’s commitment to diversity is recognised with its citation as a Workplace Gender Equality Agency Employer of 1 Australian Minerals and Mining Association (AMMA) 3 ‘Like for like’ gender pay gap measures the difference in base 2 ‘Overall Gender Pay Gap’ is calculated according to the WGEA salary over the year between male and female employees in guidelines (www.wgea.gov.au), and represents the difference comparable roles between the average pay for all male employees and the average 4 National Aborigines and Islanders Day Observance Committee, pay for all female employees across the whole organisation. https://www.naidoc.org.au/ Page 11 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Leadership • Professional membership support • Study assistance The Group has developed and delivers annual leadership • Annual CEO innovation awards. development programs for leaders of all levels including: Group HR policies are available here, and include: • Frontline supervisor program • Superintendent program • Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Manager program • Equal Employment Opportunity Policy • Senior leaders program • Whistleblower Policy • Leadership essentials workshops These policies are supported by a range of internal guidelines, • Project management such as: • Mental health awareness • eLearning modules on a range of leadership topics. • Grievance Resolution Framework • Fair Treatment System Engagement • Flexible Working Guideline • Mental Health and Wellbeing Guideline Employee engagement is cover through a number of systems, • Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Guideline. and activities, including: Mental health and wellbeing activities conducted during the • Remuneration and benefits system year included: • Annual employee engagement survey • Onboarding system and induction program for new • ‘R U OK? Day’ campaign employees and contractors • Mental Health Awareness workshops for employees and • Mentoring program supervisors • Employee benefits • Mental Health Week campaign. • Mental health policy and mental health and wellbeing guideline Mental Health and Wellbeing resources available to • Domestic Violence Policy employees include: • Employee photography competition. • Free professional and confidential counselling services for An independent provider conducts the annual engagement employees and their immediate family survey for the Group. The various measures indicating • Free ergonomic assessments. employee engagement has increased steadily, with the overall favourability score in the last three years increasing from 73% Australian employees who are members of the Group’s in 2016 to 79% in 2017 to 83% this year. preferred superannuation fund also have access to: Group employee turnover of 7.0% remains below our industry • Free at home medical information service benchmark 1 of 9.8%. Employee turnover may increase in • Free salary continuance, death and disability insurance 2019, due to an improving mining employment market in • Free financial advice. Australia, with most mining subsectors enjoying historically The Group’s performance on ‘people’ metrics is published in the strong commodity prices and increased competition between Performance Data section of this report. employers for specialist roles (such as mining engineers, geologists, drillers). Performance There are a number of HR systems and processes to ensure that employees perform to their full potential including: • Recognition and reward • Employee bonus plans • Short and long term incentive plans • Training and development • Performance improvement 1 The Mackie ‘RITA’ Report – July figures. RITA report has 25 is voluntary employment moves only. Only direct employees Australian Resource industry companies participating. ‘Turnover’ measured. Page 12 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Awards Simberi The Group recently won multiple awards for its achievements in The Simberi Community Relationship Office (CRO) comprises gender equality and mental health and wellbeing. 22 employees, including a project team constantly engaged in Financial Authority Award community and environment orientated civil works. The Year Group performs many civil-type functions, providing infrastructure and otherwise supporting health, law and order FY18 Workplace Gender Employer of Choice for and education in the community. Equality Agency Gender Equality (since 2014) Recent community initiatives at Simberi include: Australian Women In Excellence in Diversity • Ongoing road construction and maintenance Resources Alliance • Construction and maintenance of water infrastructure National Awards 2018 such as pipelines, tanks and rainwater collection Women In Resources Excellence in Diversity catchments to ensure potable water supply to remote National Awards 2017 Programs and villages Performance • Construction and maintenance of classrooms and teachers’ housing, purchase of books for students, FY17 Victorian Women in Gender Diversity provision of school truck Resources Awards Programs • Assistance in the construction of the community churches Australian HR Awards Finalist for 'Best Health • Long term provision of a fully equipped and staffed & Wellbeing Program’ medical centre, servicing the community • Provision of qualified trauma and community health nurse (‘HEO’ Health Emergency Officer), medical supplies Social & Communities and building maintenance of the community clinic in the We strive to conduct our activities in a socially responsible neighbouring island. manner and demonstrate respect for St Barbara’s host • Purchase and distribution of 1,500 mosquito nets communities. • Immunisation of entire island population against measles • Sponsorship of NGO initiatives to prevent malaria (PIMI) The Group’s community relations policy is available here . and provide medical services (Australian Doctors International) Australian employees are entitled to up to five days per annum • Logistical support to Royal PNG Constabulary (the police) paid leave for charitable volunteering. on Simberi Island • Medical evacuations to regional or national hospital The Group has a mature stakeholder management program, (between 40 and 50 people including carers in each of the based on the AA1000SES Stakeholder Engagement Standard, three years covered in this report). resourced with dedicated teams in both Australia and PNG as well as a corporate support and strategy function. The Group is committed to empowering local businesses towards effective business practice and sustainability following the conclusion of mining. Recent community business development initiatives at Simberi include establishing: • Mariculture 1 business (clams and sea cucumbers) • Market garden and plantation • Poultry farm • Bakery and pizzeria • Simberi Mine Services (‘SMS’), a community business umbrella and governance company, established in FY16. The Group provided training in governance and Planning tool for stakeholder engagement activities from AA1000SES commerce practices, as well as seed funding in FY17. Stakeholder Engagement Standard. • Handover of the site store and wet-mess function to a subsidiary of SMS 1 the cultivation of marine plants and animals in their natural environment Page 13 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report • Successful negotiation of business support to the Bank of • The Group sponsors the Leonora Cup, a horse-racing the South Pacific (BSP) for the opening of a branch on the fixture each October. Island. • Other sponsorship and in-kind support of Leonora community events in 2017-18 included: the ‘Leonora Bike Facilitating the creation of the SMS oversight and management Challenge’ 10 week training program for children, organisation has been a particular success. The organisation Leonora District High School (includes primary school), serves as a centralised voice for the community and Volatile Substance Use Community Workshop, Leonora landowner-owned businesses. Facilitating the training of SMS Women’s Company, Gwalia Christmas Appeal and staff and partnering in its developing commercial ventures is Leonora Community Fitness Company, Clean-up Australia an ongoing focus for the community relations team. Day and Back to Country Day. 5,000 cocoa seedlings have been purchased by the Group and St Barbara is a platinum sponsor of Get Into Resources, an are being planted progressively by the Group and SMS in initiative to showcase the resources sector to secondary partnership, using traditional organic farming methods of school students in WA. mixed cropping where subsistence food crops provide shade for the lower growing cocoa plants. The Group also sponsored the International Women in Resources Mentoring Program Dinner in August 2018 in Lae, In 2019 further plantation land will be cleared and the scheme PNG. is expanding as nearby communities see the benefit and seek to join and invest their land and labour in the project. The Commentary project moves forward on an influence basis, always seeking to promote ownership by the communities involved. The The Group acknowledges its community responsibilities and Group and SMS will jointly maintain the nursery which is seeks to be a good corporate citizen across its operations. The already self-sustaining. Potentially the scheme will spread Group has a program of charitable giving and continues to beyond the immediate Tabar island Group. support charitable causes and events associated with our local communities and consistent with our governance obligations. PNG Earthquake Appeal The Group’s performance on social and community metrics is In May 2018 the Group Donated US$100,000 to the CARE published in the Performance Data section of this report. Appeal for emergency relief (relating to the February 2018 7.5 magnitude earthquake in central Papua New Guinea). See here Leonora The Group has announced a three-year commitment to the Leonora netball ‘Shooting Stars’ program of A$100,000 1 p.a, in partnership with neighbouring Leonora-region gold miner Saracen Mineral Holdings Ltd. Other recent community sponsorship and development initiatives supported by the Group at Leonora include: • Goldfields Girl: a series of workshops, scholarships and public events aimed at empowering young indigenous women. Modelled on other successful programs in WA ‘Pilbara Girl’ and ‘Kimberley Girl’. • Leonora Golden Gift: An historic and world famous elite mile running event. The associated community carnival incudes fun runs, horse races, fashions on the field, an elite cycling event and live music festival. • Kambalda Football Club: The Group facilitates Leonora players participation in the Kambalda Football Club, (team bus and catering for the often 500 km round trip to play football). An immediate decrease in anti-social youth behaviours was noted when this initiative began in 2017. 1 Funding for this initiative commenced after 30 June 2018, outside this report. Page 14 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Environment ‘Water Corporation’. The report comprises water efficiency and water usage reduction activities. St Barbara places great importance on responsible environmental management and is committed to continued The Annual Groundwater Monitoring Review – This report improvement in the identification, assessment, mitigation and provides information on water ‘abstraction’, including monitoring of the environmental impact of its operations. This monitoring, compliance and impact assessment. section includes commentary on waste management, climate change and water management. Federal Government (Commonwealth of Australia) The Group’s environment policy is available at National Pollution Inventory – This is a report to the www.stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance/. Australian federal government and provides data on use of classified ‘priority’ substances (26 identified in the 2017 The Group has a well-resourced environment function with a report) as well as control measures and any improvements. A program of compliance and proactive protection and summary is publicly available 3. mitigation activities, as part of its comprehensive Health, Safety and Environment Management System (HSEMS) National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting This is report to mentioned previously. The HSEMS includes the following the Australian federal government on company information about greenhouse gas emissions, energy production, energy environmental components: consumption and related information. 4 • Incident Reporting and Investigation • Communication, Consultation and Participation Environment events and achievements • Environmental Management • Legal Requirements, Commitments and Document St Barbara’s Leonora operations won Gold and Platinum Control ‘Waterwise Business’ awards in 2013 and 2014 for water • Crisis and Emergency Management conservation from the Western Australian ‘Water • Monitoring, Audits and Review Corporation’, as well as ‘Golden Gecko’ certificates of merit in • Planning, Goals and Targets. 2009 and 2015, see: St Barbara Sustainability Awards. At Gwalia (WA) the environment team has four full-time At Simberi (PNG) the environment team has four full time qualified professionals, supported by contractors as required. qualified staff, an extensive nursery to support revegetation of finished mining areas, supported by landowner companies and Mining in Australia is intensely regulated with numerous casuals from the local community as required. Key recent reports and audits required by federal and state government initiatives include: regulation. The Group completes a number of externally audited environment related reports pursuant to legislation • Ongoing investment in site rehabilitation and closure and licences regarding Gwalia. These reports and audits preparation, including disposal of site scrap metal and include: tree planting of waste dumps and disused mining areas. • An ongoing investment in hydrology monitoring and State Government (Western Australia) management program. This included construction of permanent water monitoring infrastructure at key stream The Annual Environmental Report to Department of Water and catchment locations, automatic weather monitoring and Environment (DMER) 1 – This report provides data on stations and also includes daily monitoring schedules and monitoring, compliance, complaints, tailings storage, waste awareness programs with Island communities. water, dust, incidents, hazardous chemicals, land disturbance • The environment team manages a long established and and other environmental type metrics. This report is publicly effective grievance resolution process, in conjunction available and on our website 2. with the Community Relations office. • The exploration team manages a similar grievance The Annual Environmental Report to Department of Mining, resolution function to support communities impacted by Industry Regulation and Safety (DMIRS) – This report provides exploration activities in the Tabar Island Group. data on major activities, environmental management and rehabilitation activities, proposed developments, compliance, The Group’s performance on environmental metrics is incidents, monitoring and disturbance. published in the Performance Data section of this report. The Water Extraction Management Plan – This report is to the state government water regulator, the Western Australian 1 Available on our website here, from 2008 to 2016, and on the 3 A summary is available at the regulator’s website here. regulator’s website here from 2013 to present. 4 The Company 2017 report and summary of previous years is 2 Available on our website here, from 2008 to 2016, and on the available here regulator’s website here from 2013 to present. Page 15 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Waste: Tailings and waste rock extremely deep water makes tailings management of this type uniquely low impact and low risk to the environment and local Gold mining generates two bulk waste products: process communities. tailings and waste rock. Targets and Progress Tailings The Group does not have (and does not propose to have) The Group manages tailings according to strict regulatory tailings volume reduction targets beyond organic economic requirements with engineered and audited solutions at both incentives, however, the Group seeks to avoid or minimise all environmental impacts, as well as to comply with the related mines. strict regulations and licence obligations in place at both Gwalia mines. Tailings Storage Facility Waste Rock The Gwalia tailings storage facility (TSF) was designed by a The Group manages waste rock according to strict regulatory leading specialist engineering firm to comply with Western conditions at both mines. Australian regulatory requirements. It is inspected annually by an external firm. Other engineered risk-prevention methods Gwalia include telemetry, piezometers, freeboard monitoring and chemical testing, all reported q to the regulator in compliance Waste rock is presently deposited in the historic Gwalia openwith legal requirements. pit, excavated by mining in the 1980s. This assists with rehabilitation obligations, reducing future closure costs. Since The TSF is an isolated and elevated shallow pond, entirely 2015, where possible the Group has deposited waste rock separate to natural water catchments. The wide, arid, desert directly in underground voids, generally in conjunction with environment makes a permanent storage structure of this paste-fill. style extremely reliable. Underground Tailings Storage Gwalia’s tailings are themselves mined to provide suitable aggregate material for use in cement (paste-fill) to fill underground mining voids. In 2018, approximately 70% of Gwalia’s tailings were deposited permanently underground by this method. This also prolongs the life of the existing TSF, by creating space for the deposit of new tailings. Simberi ‘Paste Aggregate Fill’ Underground waste rock crushing Tailings at Simberi are disposed by deep-sea tailings deposition The Group is building underground infrastructure to allow (DSTP). The discharge point is 135 metres below sea level and permanent underground storage of 100% of waste rock. This 300 metres offshore. The discharged heavier-than-water involves underground crushing (equipment circuit pictured ‘thickened’ tailings deposit over a continental shelf to rest above) and mixing with paste-fill piped down from surface. approximately three kilometres deep on the ocean floor. The This is due for completion in the December 2018 quarter. tailings themselves are benign. The system was designed and built by a leading specialist engineering firm to what is Simberi generally recognised to be a leading risk standard. Simberi waste rock is deposited into licenced ‘dumps’ in valleys The Group conducts monthly testing of the marine on the mining lease adjacent to the mining pits. environment at multiple locations around the island. Results All dumps have been built to civil engineered designs, are reported to the regulators and the Simberi Island reviewed and approved by PNG government environment communities. The tailings pipeline is regularly inspected by department auditors. divers, and periodically by deep sea robotic submersibles. All the water catchments in the Simberi mining area are fully The Simberi mine has no other safe tailings disposal/ within the mining lease with engineered drainage, ensuring treatment option. Pond type tailings storage facilities (such as any erosion does not impact neighbouring communities. at Gwalia) are inappropriate due to tropical rainfall and the high potential for earthquakes in the area. The proximity to Page 16 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Targets and progress excellence in water usage reduction, including a 35% reduction in total water usage. The Group targets 100% of waste rock to be disposed of via licenced and controlled solutions. The Group does not have Simberi (and does not propose to have) waste rock volume reduction Potable water at Simberi is abundant due to the high rainfall targets, as waste rock in open pit mines is determined by typical of tropical maritime regions, greater than 4 metres per safety requirements of in-pit wall angles and access roads. year. For commercial reasons, the Simberi mine utilises various water efficiency techniques, recycling almost all process Other categories of waste water. Data and commentary on several other categories of waste Targets and progress relating to the Gwalia mine is available in publicly available The business essential water usage at Gwalia is from saline ‘Annual Environment Reports’ 1. non-potable groundwater sources and is not in competition with any other user. Less than 25% of the permitted water entitlement is used by the mine. The Group works closely with regulators and local government on an ongoing basis regarding Water potable ‘town’ water usage (less than 2.5% of total mine usage). The Group has low risk with regard to water at its mines. The Simberi mine is currently expected to close in 2021. The Gwalia mine’s use of water does not impact the community or the environment due to the very high rainfall associated with the Gwalia has negligible water security risk as it is not in tropical climate. competition with domestic or agricultural water users. Gwalia is located in a desert region with no natural potable water sources. There is an abundance of non-potable saline water sources, which are not suitable for domestic or agricultural use. The mine participates in two types of water regulation. ‘Town’ or ‘scheme’ potable water (water extracted from nonpotable saline sources by the municipal authorities and treated by them to a potable standard) is used in the mining accommodation camp and other domestic type situations and makes up less than 2.5% of overall mine water usage. The mine works closely with the relevant water regulator and local government on ‘town’ water usage. This has included voluntarily participating in a second five year ‘WEMP’ (water efficiency management plan 2). The plan involves minimising water usage and early detection of leaks and a self-selected target based on projected usage and planned efficiencies. The Group itself extracts non-potable ground water from saline ‘bore’ sources, as well as from deep parts of the mine. The Gwalia mine is a net producer of saline water and uses less than a quarter of its regulated ‘non-potable’ saline water allocations 3. Much of this water is treated to a near potable standard by the Group’s own treatment plants for use in processing applications. The Group won two WaterWise Business Awards from the Water Corporation, Western Australian in 2012 and 2013 for 1 Available on our website here, from 2008 to 2016, and on the 2 Western Australian Water Regulator website concerning its regulator’s website here from 2013 to present. WEMP program for major water users 3 Refer Performance Data section of this report Page 17 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Climate Change GMX – Gwalia Mass Extraction St Barbara acknowledges the Paris 2015 UNFCCC agreement The Group is currently engaged in a program of linked studies and seeks to make it relevant to the Group as detailed in this to extend the life of the Gwalia mine to 2031 entitled ‘GMX’. section. The central innovation of this study involves installation of underground crushing and grinding of mined ore, mixing this St Barbara seeks to: with hyper-saline water (already present via leakage from the water table), then pumping it to surface as a slurry (‘slurry • limit absolute emissions, pumping’ or ‘hydraulic hoisting’). • use carbon based fuels more efficiently, and • protect the business from the effects of already occurring climate change and future climate change impacts. Gwalia: greenhouse gas emissions – current performance and future trends Greenhouse gas emissions intensity on a production and revenue basis at the Gwalia mine have trended downwards in recent years. This is due to ongoing improvement in operational performance as well as key efficiency innovations. In 2015 an ‘adsorption chiller plant’ was built and commissioned at Gwalia, a world-first application for a mine. The chiller plant uses waste heat from the power plant, and replaced a traditional ammonia refrigeration plant, saving an Gwalia Mass Extraction, illustration of possible pumping system, estimated 4,000 to 5,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. The $5.5 reproduced from FY18 Financial Results Presentation. million purchase and construction price of the chiller plant was Approximately 25% of Gwalia’s greenhouse gas emissions in repaid in power savings within 2 years. FY16 to FY18 come directly from diesel emissions related to A further adsorption chiller plant is planned for construction in haulage of ore and waste to surface. A further 40% of 2019 as part of the Gwalia extension project (GEP, see below), emissions are related to the operation of ventilation and with plans and procurement already well advanced. cooling required to maintain safe operating conditions underground, with high powered trucks and mining Emissions are likely to increase over time at Gwalia. The depth equipment contributing to this via emitting heat and exhaust. of mining increases by approximately 40 metres each year. In general, this increases the demands on ventilation and the The ‘PAF’ initiative and the ‘GMX’ slurry pumping solution, distance trucks must travel. together, are anticipated to eliminate the need for truck haulage to surface (which is accomplished via an 11 km In addition, it is anticipated that the mined grade will gradually winding tunnel or ‘decline’). This will reduce emission intensity reduce as the mine gets deeper. via allowing more productive use of ventilation and cooling. The Group is seeking to manage costs of production and Simberi greenhouse gas emissions – current performance and contain the increase in emissions intensity by continuing to future trends implement innovative projects as well as by incremental efficiencies. Greenhouse gas emission intensity at Simberi has improved over the last five years due to the improvements in production GEP – Gwalia Extension Project at that site. The Group is currently engaged in building various items of An important contributor to emission efficiency at Simberi is infrastructure that will reduce costs and increase mine-life. the Aerial Rope Conveyor (or ‘Ropecon’). This conveyor ‘GEP’ includes additional power generation, ventilation and stretches nearly 4 kilometres from the mining areas to the cooling, as well as the ‘paste-aggregate-fill’ (PAF) underground processing plant over rugged terrain and utilises gravity as a crushing and mixing infrastructure. power source. When fully loaded the Ropecon contributes power to the Simberi grid and is a net contributor overall. Maximising usage of the Ropecon has a strong impact therefore on greenhouse gas emissions at Simberi. The Ropecon saved approximately 7,000 tonnes of CO2 in each of FY17 and in FY18 compared to conventional trucking. Page 18 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Climate Change Risk Management Targets The Group’s climate change risk management is incorporated The Group is considering greenhouse gas reduction targets for into its ‘enterprise wide risk management framework’ and is future adoption, including consideration of guidance provided informed by the relevant guidelines provided by the Taskforce by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) 3. for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) 1. An important enabler for consideration of targets is a study Three general areas of climate change risk have been currently underway to model emissions at the Leonora identified and have associated management plans, operations after new infrastructure (comprising the current summarised below: ‘Gwalia Extension Project’ and the planned ‘Gwalia Mass Extraction project’) are completed. • The vulnerability of our operations to physical risks such as changes in sea level (‘chronic’) and changed or increased weather events (‘acute’) • The risk of increased energy costs through the implementation of a carbon trading scheme, carbon tax or similar regulatory instrument • The long term vulnerability of our margins to climate change related macro-economic ‘market’ factors. The risk associated with extreme weather events, such as might occur in a two degree Celsius warming scenario 2 is considered significant but manageable. The Group’s main source of revenue, the Gwalia mine in Leonora, Western Australia, experienced three ‘high rainfall events’ (associated with tropical depressions) in the three years of this report (March 2015, January and March 2017), with minimal economic impact. Extreme heat experienced in summer months is normal in Western Australia and its impact is included in operational forecasts and budgets. The Simberi mine processing and logistics infrastructure is situated adjacent to the ocean and could prove vulnerable to future changes in sea level or changes to weather patterns. Simberi has not been impacted by extreme weather events during St Barbara’s ownership. The Group’s management strategy for market and regulatory risk focuses on maintaining strong margins able to absorb cost increases, through: • Controlling key carbon costs to the extent practicable through long-term agreements for natural gas supply (for Gwalia) and fuel hedging (for Simberi) • A program of investment in mining infrastructure projects and related studies that reduce costs and emissions. 1 Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on 2 The upper temperature-increase threshold identified in the UN Climate-related Financial Disclosures Paris Agreement 2015 3 https://sciencebasedtargets.org/ Page 19 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Performance Data Notes FY16 FY17 FY18 Target Governance & Economic Performance Governance Governance performance reported in Annual Report Annual Annual Annual and Corporate Governance Statement (CGS). Report Report Report Selected key indicator of Governance Performance: CGS CGS CGS Compliance with ASX Corporate Governance Council 1 100% 100% 100% 100% Principles and Recommendations Political Donations (A$) $0 $0 $0 $0 Payments to Peak Bodies (A$M) 2 $0.2 M $0.2 M $0.3 M n/a Economic Performance Economic performance reported in Annual Report. Annual Annual Annual Report Report Report Selected key indicator of Economic Performance: Earnings per share (basic, underlying) $0.34 $0.32 $0.39 n/a People Diversity –reported in Corporate Governance Statement Diversity performance reported in Corporate CGS CGS CGS Governance Statement. Selected key indicator of Diversity Performance: Proportion of women employed (Australia) 23% 21% 24% 30% by 2022 Indigenous Employees at Leonora Operations 1.1% 3.1% 3.6% 5% by 2020 Overall Gender Pay Gap 3 16% 14% 14% 8% by 2022 Nil gender pay gap for ‘like-for-like’ roles 4 nil nil nil maintain nil Employee and Contractor numbers Australia Employees 198 219 229 n/a Contractors 327 326 397 Total 525 545 626 Papua New Employees 724 747 762 Guinea Contractors 383 391 483 Total 1,107 1,138 1,245 Total Employees 922 966 991 Contractors 710 717 880 Total 1,632 1,683 1,871 PNG employment participation Nationality PNG Simberi and local islanders 56% 55% 56% PNG Other 41% 41% 42% Non PNG (expatriates) 3% 4% 2% Remain under 5% 1 Compliance, or satisfactory disclosure of alternative governance practices adopted in lieu of a recommendation, as prescribed under the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and Recommendations (3rd edition). 2 Comprises Minerals Council Australia, Chamber of Minerals and Energy Western Australia and (from FY18) Gold Industry Group. Excludes where company pays professional service fees and employee memberships (for CME WA). 3 The ‘Overall Gender Pay Gap’ is calculated according to the WGEA guidelines (www.wgea.gov.au), and represents the difference between the average pay for all male employees and the average pay for all female employees across the whole organisation. 4 The ‘like for like’ gender pay gap measures the difference in base salary over the year between male and female employees in comparable roles. Page 20 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Notes FY16 FY17 FY18 Target People (continued) Employee turnover Australia 8.1% 8.8% 7.2% Remain under Australia Mining average for comparison 1 11.2% 9.6% 9.8% benchmark Papua New Guinea 5.5% 7.4% 7.0% Total turnover 7.0% 7.7% 7.0% Maternity/Paternity leave, return to work, last 3 years total Total 3 years FY16 to FY18 # took % % retained Target % returned parental returned 12 months to work by 2022 leave to work after returning Australia %, # maternity leave 9 100% 80% 80% Australia %, # paternity leave 23 100% 91% 80% PNG %, # maternity leave 25 96% 78% 80% PNG %, # paternity leave, No data No target Overall 57 98% 84% Employee Training & Development hours p.a. 2 FY16 FY17 FY18 Australia overall 21 34 25 Target under Australia: Women 15 31 24 consideration Australia: Men 22 35 25 Papua New Guinea overall 47 26 30 PNG: Women 67 34 38 PNG: Men 44 25 29 Overall 41 28 29 Overall women 50 33 33 Overall men 40 27 28 Employee engagement survey % of employees who responded 3 82% 78% 83% 70% % favourable responses 4 73% 79% 83% 80% Performance and development reviews, % of employees receiving Australia % 100% 100% 100% 100% PNG% management and supervisory staff 100% 100% 100% 100% PNG% overall 5 Insufficient data 16% No target Overall% Insufficient data 35% No target Economic contribution Taxes/Duties paid A$M (excluding company income tax & employee salary taxes) Australia 2.0 2.2 4.4 n/a Papua New Guinea 0.4 0.5 0.5 Total taxes / duties paid 2.4 2.6 4.9 1 The Mackie ‘RITA’ Report – July figures. RITA report has 25 Australian Resource industry companies participating. ‘Turnover’ is voluntary employment moves only. Only direct employees measured. 2 Does not include Study Assistance, Study leave hours and contains an approximate consideration for annual hours spent in online compliance training. 3 Target = top quartile of participation observed by external survey provider 4 Target = top quartile of participation observed by external survey provider 5 FY18 figures represents number involved in the performance management system Page 21 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Notes FY16 FY17 FY18 Target Income tax paid A$M Australia 1 0 0 40 n/a Papua New Guinea 2 0 0 0 Total Group income tax paid 0 0 40 Wage/Salary taxes A$M (paid by Group on behalf of direct employees) Australia 11 11 13 n/a Papua New Guinea 5 7 7 Total 16 18 20 Royalties paid to gov’t and communities A$M (excluding corporate royalties) Australia 11 11 11 n/a Papua New Guinea 4 4 5 Total royalties paid 15 15 16 Total taxation and royalties (excluding corporate royalties) A$M Australia 24 24 68 n/a Papua New Guinea 10 12 12 Total 34 36 81 Total as % of Net Profit After Tax 20% 23% 36% Community Expenditure A$M PNG community expenditure 3 1.5 1.4 1.7 n/a PNG expenditure with Landowner associated companies 4 6.3 7.6 7.2 Australian sponsorships, in kind support 0.1 0.1 0.1 Health and Safety Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) 5 Target Australia 3.9 1.8 4.8 2.6 Papua New Guinea 1.3 0.8 1.2 1.4 Total 2.1 1.0 2.1 1.8 Recordable injuries Australia 4 2 6 3 Papua New Guinea 4 2 3 4 Total 8 4 9 7 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR, ‘serious injury rate’, 6 not used in Group targets, provided for information) Australia 1.0 0 0 N/A Papua New Guinea 0.8 0.8 0.8 Total (includes exploration) 0.8 0.5 0.5 Benchmark (Underground mines, Western Australia) 7 2.1 2.6 2.9 Fatalities Australia 0 0 0 0 Papua New Guinea 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 0 1 The Group applied previous tax losses to reduce tax payable until 2017. The Group commenced paying income tax in 2018. 2 The Company has accumulated tax losses in PNG, which have been applied to reduce tax paid during the reporting period. 3 Cost of Community Clinic and support functions. Converted from US$ at exchange rates shown at the end of the Performance Data table. 4 Converted from PGK to A$ at exchange rates shown at the end of the Performance Data table. 5 Historical rolling 12 months recordable injuries per million hours worked. 6 Historical rolling 12 months lost time injuries per million hours worked. 7 http://www.dmp.wa.gov.au/Safety/Safety-statistics-16198.aspx Page 22 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Notes FY16 FY17 FY18 Target Health and Safety Fines & Penalties Australia 0 0 0 0 Papua New Guinea 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 0 Environment 1 Total Incidents 2 Australia 10 10 10 No target Papua New Guinea 21 22 29 Reportable Incidents 3 Australia 3 2 2 No target Papua New Guinea 1 5 8 Significant Incidents 4 Australia 0 0 0 0 Papua New Guinea 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines & Penalties Australia 0 0 0 0 Papua New Guinea 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 0 Water use (Leonora Western Australia) mega litres (Ml) Potable 5 19 20 20 20 Non-potable 6 1,107 1,140 1,032 Below allocation Allocation % Utilised 25% 25% 23% Absolute GHG Emissions Australia kilo tonnes (kt) CO2 Scope 1 emissions 7 66 62 61 Target under consideration Scope 2 emissions 8 1 1 1 Absolute GHG Emissions PNG 9 kilo tonnes (kt) CO2 Scope 1 emissions 65 79 74 Scope 2 emissions 0 0 0 1 2018 GHG, water and energy usage data is based on management reports. Final external reporting for NPI and NGERS (National Pollutant Inventory & National Greenhouse Emissions Reporting Standard – Federal Australian government reporting obligations) had not been finalised as at the date of this report and may vary. 2 Incidents are categorised via St Barbara Environment Incident Categorisation risk matrix as to their potential and actual environmental impact. The consequence component of this matrix is shown below. ‘Total’ incidents include all types of incident except ‘insignificant’, i.e. Minor, Moderate, Major, Critical. Insignificant Minor Moderate Major Critical Reversible environmental Widespread Very low environmental Reversible harm extending beyond environmental impact, Widespread irreversible impact environmental impact, site boundary, not immediately environmental harm. (e.g.: localised spill) immediately contained immediately contained. contained. 3 A reportable incident is where a licence or regulatory condition requires certain events to be reported. Typically, any environmental incident that impacts beyond the mine lease borders must be reported. Some events within the mine boundary must also be reported, for instance, discovery of certain hazardous materials in landfill. Relatively low impact environmental events can therefore sometimes be reportable. 4 Incidents are categorised via a risk matrix as to their potential and actual environmental impact. The consequence component of this matrix is shown in note 2 above. ‘Significant’ incidents include ‘Major’ and ‘Critical’ incidents. 5 Leonora only, potable water usage is measured versus an annual self-selected then approved target. Simberi is in a high rainfall environment with normal rain activity (>4m p.a.) typically in excess of community requirements. The operation nevertheless has a strong commercial focus on process water recycling and potable water usage minimisation. 6 Non-potable water at Leonora is usually saline, unfit for domestic or agricultural use and comes from bore holes or is pumped from the underground mine. The mine has an allocation associated with earlier operations. 7 2018 is estimate only pending formal NGERS report subsequent to this report 8 Australian office locations 9 Estimates from fuel & lubricants purchases Page 23 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Notes FY16 FY17 FY18 Target Absolute Energy Usage, tera joules (TJ) Australia, all sources 1 1,447 1,430 1,348 PNG, all sources 2 1,037 1,263 1,189 Production GHG Emissions Intensity – tons of CO2 per ounce Gwalia, Australia, scope 1 0.24 0.24 0.23 Simberi, PNG, scope 1 0.59 0.68 0.55 Revenue GHG Emissions tons of CO2 per $000 revenue Gwalia, Australia, all sources 0.15 0.14 0.13 Simberi, PNG, all sources 0.38 0.39 0.33 Consolidated GHG Emissions results Absolute GHG emissions (kt) CO2 131 142 136 CO2 tons per A$ revenue 0.22 0.22 0.20 CO2 tons per ounce 0.34 0.37 0.34 Gwalia Tailings Absolute tons (dry, kt) 951 828 679 No target # Leakage/spills to environment 0 0 0 0 % of tailings disposed according to licenced responsible 100% 100% 100% 100% methodologies Simberi Tailings Absolute tons (dry, kt) 3,315 3,690 3,586 No target # Leaks/spills to environment 0 0 0 0 % of tailings disposed according to licenced responsible 100% 100% 100% 100% methodologies Gwalia waste rock – absolute and target Absolute tons (Mt) 0.2 0.3 0.3 No target % stored furthering rehab obligations or underground 100% 100% 100% 100% Simberi waste rock– absolute and target Absolute tons (Mt) 6.5 10.3 9.4 No target % of tailings disposed according to licenced responsible 100% 100% 100% 100% methodologies Foreign exchange rates The Group uses Australian dollar presentation currency for reporting purposes. Financial figures are in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. The following exchange rates (as used in previously published financial statements ) have been applied where appropriate: A$ / US$ average for year 0.7281 0.7539 0.7751 PGK / A$ average for year 2.1167 2.3345 2.4995 1 2018 is estimate only pending formal NGERS report subsequent to this report 2 Estimate factor applied to generate total energy used from net energy used. Page 24 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index This table indicates how St Barbara has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting standards to guide its sustainability disclosures. St Barbara’s sustainability disclosures comprise relevant sections of its: • 2018 Annual Report (AR in table below), • Corporate Governance Statement (GCS in table below) and • website (www.stbarbara.com.au). Sustainability reporting, as promoted by the GRI Standards, is an organisation’s practice of reporting publicly on its economic, environmental, and/or social impacts, and its contributions – positive or negative – towards the goal of sustainable development. St Barbara is a member of the UN Global Compact. The column to the furthest right provides additional guidance as to where to find CoP (Commentary on Progress) relevant discussion for the UNGC 10 principles. General Disclosures GRI GRI Disclosure UNGC 3 Ref 1 Core 2 Item  Organisational profile 102-1  Name of the organisation St Barbara Limited 102-2  Activities, brands, products, Annual Report, Principal activities (p2) and services 102-3  Location of headquarters Annual Report, Registered Office (back cover) 102-4  Location of operations Annual Report, St Barbara at a glance (pii) 102-5  Ownership Annual Report, Shareholder information (p81-82) 102-5  Legal form St Barbara Limited is a public company incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:SBM). 102-6  Markets served All gold bullion is sold to Australian registered financial institutions. 102-7  Scale of the organisation Annual Report, Directors’ Report (p3) 102-8  Information on employees and Sustainability Report, Performance Data other workers 102-9  Supply chain Annual Report, Directors’ Report (p3) 102-10  Significant changes to the Annual Report, Directors’ Report (p3) organisation and its supply chain 102-11  Precautionary Principle or Environmental Policy 7 approach 102-12  External initiatives stbarbara.com.au/profile/recognition/ 102-13  Membership of associations The Group maintains membership involvement in relevant business associations, resource sector specific associations, commodity specific associations, at local and national levels, including: Chamber of Minerals and Energy of Western Australia (CME WA) Minerals Council of Australia (MCA) Gold Industry Group (GIG) PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum 2. Strategy 102-14  Statement from senior Sustainability Report, Message from MD & CEO decision maker 1 GRI disclosure standard, www.globalreporting.org 2 Disclosure required to comply with GRI Standards core reporting option, www.globalreporting.org 3 UN Global Compact Principle Page 25 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Disclosure UNGC 3 Ref 1 Core 2 Item 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and The Group’s activities have various impacts upon the environment, 8, 9 opportunities neighbours and local communities. See for example regarding Leonora (annual emissions and environmental impact report): https://stbarbara.com.au/sustainability/our-environment/ Risks: Annual Report, Material business risks (p10) Opportunities: Annual Report, Business strategy and future prospects (p9) 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16  Values, principles, standards, Corporate Governance Statement, Principle 3: Act ethically and and norms of behaviour responsibly Code of Conduct, stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Board Charter, 6. Independent Advice, 10 concerns about ethics stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance Whistleblower Policy, stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance 4. Governance 102-18  Governance structure Corporate Governance Statement, 10 stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance 102-19 Delegating authority High level delegation set out in Board Charter. Detailed delegation not published externally. 102-20 Executive level responsibility Board and Committee Charters for economic, environmental, stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Relationships and topics in general covered by licences and economic, environmental and regulation. Participation with AMMA, CME, MCA other peak bodies social topics on a variety of topics including economic, environmental, and social issues. 102-22 Composition of the highest Corporate Governance Statement, Principle 2: Structure the Board governance body and its to add value committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Annual Report, Directors’ Report (p2 and 13) governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Constitution, https://stbarbara.com.au/about-us/governance/ highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Conflict of Interest and Related Parties Policy, stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance 102-26 Role of highest governance Board charter stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of Annual Report, Directors’ Report (p13) highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement, Principle 2: Structure the Board to add value 102-28 Evaluating the highest Board performance review, reported in Corporate Governance governance body’s Statement, Principle 2: Structure the Board to add value performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Board and Committee Charters, Board Policies inc. Code of Conduct, economic, environmental, and Community Relations Policy, Diversity Policy, Environmental Policy, social impacts Health and Safety Policy, Risk Management Policy, all available at stbarbara.com.au/about_us/governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Corporate Governance Statement, Principle 7: Recognise and management processes manage risk Page 26 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Disclosure UNGC 3 Ref 1 Core 2 Item 102-31 Review of economic, Economic topics are reviewed annually as part of the strategic environmental, and social planning process. Environmental and Social topics are reviewed topics regularly in the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee (HSEC) with broader reviews annually at Board level as part of strategic planning. 102-32 Highest governance body’s As per 102-31 above role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical Group has clear hierarchy, role responsibility for communicating concerns critical concerns and escalating where needed. 102-34 Nature and total number of None in this or former reporting periods critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report, Remuneration report (p16-37) 102-36 Process for determining Annual Report, Remuneration report (p16-37) remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Annual Report, Remuneration report (p16-37) remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation Disclosure not required for GRI Core option ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual Disclosure not required for GRI Core option total compensation ratio 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40  List of stakeholder groups See page 6 of this report. 102-41  Collective bargaining The Group respects employee rights to freedom of association and 3 agreements collective bargaining. The majority of Group employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. There have been no examples of significant industrial action in the reporting period. 102-42  Identifying and selecting The Group utilises in-house qualified and experienced (and where stakeholders needed external) advisors and managers to manage government and community relations. The relevant departments have agreed mechanisms with executive management and the Board for managing and reporting on stakeholder engagement. 102-43  Approach to stakeholder As per 102-42 above. engagement 102-44  Key topics and concerns raised No general or significant concerns were noted in the reporting period. 6. Reporting practice 102-45  Entities included in the Annual Report, Note 17 Controlled Entities (p64) consolidated financial statements 102-46  Defining report content and In general, matters relating to Health and Safety, Environment and topic Boundaries Community. 102-47  List of material topics Sustainability Report, Material Topics and Boundaries 102-48  Restatements of information GHG emissions at Leonora & Simberi have been re-stated. At Leonora measurement process for GHG emissions each year concludes in October so an estimate is used in the Sustainability report. At Simberi, for this report, improved estimation methodology has been used. 102-49  Changes in reporting A number of changes have been made, in general increasing disclosure. See page 5. 102-50  Reporting period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. 102-51  Date of most recent report 20 October 2017. 102-52  Reporting cycle Annual, released in conjunction with Annual Report Page 27 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Disclosure UNGC 3 Ref 1 Core 2 Item 102-53  Contact point for questions Company Secretary, company.secretary@stbarbara.com.au regarding the report stbarbara.com.au/contact-us/contact-details/ 102-54  Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Standards 102-55  GRI content index Sustainability Report, GRI content index. 102-56  External assurance This report has been reviewed by the Board. This report has been prepared in accordance with ASX Corporate Governance Council ‘Corporate Governance Principle 5’ to be ‘factual, complete, balanced (disclosing both positive and negative information) and expressed in a clear and objective manner’. The Remuneration Report and Financial Report in the Annual Report is subject to independent external audit, the report on which appears in the Annual Report as the ‘independent auditor’s report’ (p71-75). Certain other information is assured by external providers, as noted in this report. Page 28 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Materiality Commentary The Group has reported its identified material issues under the following headings: • Governance & Economic Performance • Health and Safety • People • Social and Communities • Environment. Detail is provided as to which topics are included. Coverage of reported issues in the Sustainability Report is prioritised according to materiality. Not all standards, areas and topics are considered material, and have been excluded from this report because they have less impact on the Group and /or less impact by the Group than the issues that are included in the Report. GRI GRI Ref 1 Core Item Discussion UNGC 3 met 2 201 Yes Economic Performance The Group discloses the following material issues: 10 1. Direct Economic value generated 7,8,9 2. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change The following issues are not considered material to the Group and are not disclosed: 3. The Group does not have exposure to defined benefit plans 4. The Group does not receive any financial assistance from government 10 (other than generally available tax deductions) Mining &Metals • Report countries of operation that are either candidate to or compliant Supplement area G4EC1 with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). – disclosed • Payments to local communities as part of land use agreements, not including land purchases. – disclosed, royalties, spending with local community companies. 202 No Market Presence, Mining In significant locations of operation, report proportion of the facility’s total 1, 6 & Metals Supplement workforce from the local community. – disclosed. This is a key requirement area G4EC6 of PNG Government reporting so is considered material. 205 No Anti-corruption The Group became a financial supporter of the PNG and International EITI 10 and has provided information for the PNG EITI since the acquisition of the PNG operations in 2012. The Group has invested in anti-corruption efforts at all sites, including training, policies and procedures as well as related areas such as insider trading and conflict of interest. The Group has a whistleblower service and investigation system. Detail regarding this is disclosed. This system has been evaluated via external audit but not within the reporting (3 year) period. 302 Yes Energy 1. Energy Consumption within the organisation, disclosed 7,8,9 2. Energy consumption outside the organisation – not disclosed 3. Energy Intensity, disclosed 4. Reduction of Energy Consumption. – disclosed 5. Energy requirements of products and services – not disclosed Energy consumption outside the organisation (2) and Reductions in energy requirements of products and services (5) have not been reported on as they are inappropriate for a gold mining company. 303 Yes Water All topics are disclosed to the extent of topic relevance. 7,8,9 1 GRI disclosure standard, www.globalreporting.org 2 Disclosure required to comply with GRI Standards core reporting option, www.globalreporting.org 3 UN Global Compact Ten Principles, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles Page 29 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Ref 1 Core Item Discussion UNGC 3 met 2 305 Yes Emissions All topics 1-7 except 6 ‘Ozone depleting substances’ are disclosed 7,8,9 Mining &Metals Dust, Noise, Seismic. Dust and noise are covered at Leonora by the Supplement area G4DMA Regulatory ‘Annual Environment Report’ which is disclosed here: https://stbarbara.com.au/sustainability/our-environment/ Neither Leonora Western Australia nor Simberi PNG have had stakeholder complaints on these issues in the period. For this and other reasons the area is considered of low materiality. G4EN21 NOX, SOX, Ambient air quality. Broadly the Group considers this related to health and safety. Neither Leonora nor Simberi have had a stakeholder complaint on these issues in the period. For these and other reasons the area is considered of low materiality. 306 Yes Effluents and Waste 1. Water discharge – disclosed 7,8,9 2. Waste by type and disposal method – not disclosed here. Leonora Western Australia – several types of waste are covered in the Annual Environment Reports here: https://stbarbara.com.au/sustainability/our-environment/ 3. Significant spills – disclosed 4. Transport of Hazardous waste – not disclosed as this is not considered material due to the lack of significant transported hazardous waste. 5. Water bodies affected – disclosed Mining &Metals Waste rock and mine tailings These topics are material and are disclosed. Supplement area G4DMA, MM3 G4EN23 Waste oil and various othersdisclosed for Leonora Western Australia as per above separately in The Annual Environment Report here: https://stbarbara.com.au/sustainability/our-environment/ 307 Yes Environmental Disclosed 7,8,9 Compliance 401 No Employment Disclosed: 6 1. Turnover is provided. Not disclosed: 2 & 3. Benefit Full time vs Part time/ temporary employees is not considered material. Parental leave is disclosed. Mining &Metals Application of policies to contractors. Supplement area G4DMA Group OH&S policies apply equally to contractors. Group HR policies do not apply to contractors, however, the ‘Code of Conduct’ and all related policies (including Workplace Discrimination and Harassment Guideline) apply to contractors. 403 Yes Occupational Health and Disclosed: 1,2 Safety (OH&S) 2. Data concerning injuries 3. High risk of occupational disease Not disclosed: 1. Worker representation in formal HS committees and 4. HS topics in formal agreements with trade unions. Health and Safety in Australia & PNG is the subject of detailed government regulation put in place by democratic representative governments. Page 30 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Ref 1 Core Item Discussion UNGC 3 met 2 404 Yes Training and Education Average hours per year, and percentage of employees getting a performance 1,2 and development review are disclosed. 405 Yes Diversity and Equal All topics are disclosed. The focus in Australia is Gender and Indigenous 6 Opportunity diversity. In PNG the focus is on minimisation of expat labour, which is disclosed as a component of 413 and the Mining and Metals Supplement G4 DMA and MM5 413 No Local Communities, ‘Impact on local communities’ in the Mining and Metals supplement G4 DMA 7,8,9 Mining and Metals is excluded as a heading, but is disclosed under ‘waste’. Benefits to the supplement G4 DMA community in terms of initiatives is disclosed. MM6, MM7 MM6 ‘Disputes’ and MM7 ‘Grievance Mechanisms’ are disclosed . 1,2 G4DMA Emergency preparedness: Community aspects are disclosed in the ‘Waste’ 1,2 section. Mining and Metals Number of sites with Closure plans. This is disclosed. 100% of Group sites 7 supplement MM10 have fully funded closure plans. 415 Yes Public Policy Political contributions are disclosed 10 Commentary on selected standards, areas and topics considered not to be material and excluded from this report: 202 Market Presence The Group does not have a sufficient size and market power to have a material impact in this area. Mining &Metals Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 1, 6 Supplement area G4EC6: significant locations of operation the Group holds that this area is not a material impact for the Group. 203 Indirect Economic The Group does not have a sufficient size and market power to have a 10 Impacts material impact in this area. 204 Procurement Practices The Group performs due diligence related to the sustainability performance 10 of suppliers. The Group has an appropriate policy and detailed training for procurement specialists. However, given the Group’s small size, with the large majority of its spend with large multinational conglomerates, this area is considered to be immaterial. 206 Anti-competitive The Group does not have a sufficient size and market power to have a 10 behaviour material impact in this area. Gold mining globally is not vulnerable to this type of market manipulation. 301 Materials The Group’s material environment impacts are not related to recyclable 7 impacts. The Group pays third parties to recycle some waste products, notably waste oil, tyres and scrap metal. Mining &Metals Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials not Supplement area G4EN2: disclosed. Tailings are used as an ingredient for underground void-filling concrete at Leonora, but in general this area is not material. 304 Bio-diversity The Group’s mining operations are located in areas of low biodiversity 7 characterised by pervasive long term human habitation. Mining &Metals Disturbed land and other impacts Not disclosed as per above. Disturbed Supplement area land area is tracked and reported to government in both Australia and PNG G4DMA, G4EN12, MM1 in regulatory annual environmental reports, see here: & 2: https://stbarbara.com.au/sustainability/our-environment/ 308 Supplier Environmental The Group performs due diligence related to the sustainability performance 7 Assessment of suppliers. The Group has an appropriate policy and detailed training for procurement specialists. However, given the Group’s small size, with the large majority of its spend with large multinational conglomerates, this area is considered to be immaterial. Page 31 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Ref 1 Core Item Discussion UNGC 3 met 2 402 Labour management Though important, the Group holds that this area is not a material impact for 3 relations the Group. Employees at both our Australian and PNG mines have wages and conditions far exceeding the norm in those countries because of market factors (such as possession of in-demand skills and difficulties in attracting labour to remote locations). Mining and Metals Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration – Though also supplement MM4 important, the Group holds this area to be of low materiality. No strikes or lock outs of this duration have occurred at any location in the Group’s ownership in the period covered by this report. 406 Non-Discrimination The Group has appropriate anti-discrimination policies, annual training for 1,2 managers and staff, a whistle-blower service, and in Australia, is a national award winner and recognised industry leader in gender diversity. Notwithstanding this, the Group holds that this area is not a material impact for the Group. 407 Freedom of association Though important, the Group holds that this area is not a material impact for 3 and collective bargaining the Group. Employees at both our Australian and PNG mines have wages and conditions far exceeding the norm in those countries because of market factors (in-demand skills and difficulties in attracting labour to remote locations). In PNG Labour relations with local employees are also regulated via mining licence type regulation where certain levels of local employment are mandated. Mining and Metals The Freedom of Association areas in the Mining and Metals supplement supplement under ‘Human Rights’ are also excluded for the same reasons. 408 Child Labour Children are forbidden from entering (as well as working in) the Group’s 5 operations. The Group holds that this area is immaterial because the assessed risk of incidence is low. 409 Forced or Compulsory The Group holds that this area is immaterial, as the assessed risk of related 4 Labour issues is low. 410 Security Practices The Group holds that this area is immaterial, as the assessed risk of related 2 issues is low. 411 Rights of Indigenous This area is considered immaterial. The Group has extensive procedures in 2 Peoples place to ensure the rights of Indigenous peoples are not violated and has had no significant incidents during the reporting period and is therefore considered immaterial. The area is not considered material due to the established nature of the Groups operations, with mining activities confined to areas where mining has occurred for more than a 100 years at Gwalia Leonora WA and for 10 years at Simberi PNG. Mining and Metals MM5 Operations adjacent to indigenous people’s territories. This area is 2 supplement considered immaterial for the same reasons. In Simberi PNG the local community is a party to a ‘Memorandum of Agreement’ along with different layers of government and the Group, in line with mining regulation. 412 Human Rights The long term history of democratic liberal constitutional government in 1,2 Assessment Australia and Papua New Guinea make these important issues of low materiality to the Group, in the sense that the assessed risk of related issues is low. Mining and Metals The Human Rights areas in the Mining and Metals supplement G4 DMA and 1,2 supplement MM5 are excluded also for the same reasons. 413 Local Communities In Leonora, Western Australia, ‘fly-in, fly-out’ and centralised procurement 1,2,3, functions, have reduced the economic relevance of the local community to 6 the mine. In Papua New Guinea mining regulation mandates a high level of involvement. As a result, 1-2% of total costs of the Simberi mine are related to Community support functions, ~45% of the workforce lives locally, and 6% of total costs are spent with local suppliers and contractors. The Group reports on its employment of local community members, it’s contracting with local community companies and its grievance/complaint function in this report. Page 32 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report GRI GRI Ref 1 Core Item Discussion UNGC 3 met 2 Mining and Metals ‘Impact on local communities’ in the Mining and Metals supplement G4 DMA 7,8,9 supplement G4 DMA is excluded as a heading, but is disclosed under ‘Waste’. Benefits to the community in terms of initiatives is disclosed. Mining and Metals Artisanal and Small-scale Mining: The Group has no mine sites that feature 1,2 supplement MM8 artisanal mining. The Leonora Western Australia mine is underground. The gold in Simberi ore can typically only be liberated by modern processing methods. Mining and Metals Resettlements – The Group has no mine sites with significant resettlements. 1,2 supplement – MM9 414 Supplier social The Group has invested considerably in due diligence related to the All assessment Sustainability performance of suppliers, with design of an appropriate policy and detailed training for procurement specialists. However, given the Group’s small size, with the vast majority of its spend with large multinational conglomerates (or in the case of Simberi with known local community firms), this area is considered to be immaterial. 416 Customer Health and This area is considered to be immaterial. 1,2 Safety 417 Marketing and Labelling This area is considered to be immaterial. 1,2 418 Customer Privacy This area is considered to be immaterial. 1,2 419 Socio-economic All environmental and safety related penalties are disclosed (inclusive of G4 1,2,7 Compliance SO8 in the Mining and Metals supplement). Page 33 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report UN Global Compact Communication on Progress In this section, we describe our integration of Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Issue Area Global Compact Principle Implementation and measurement Human Rights Principle 1 Company policies and charters, especially: Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Code of Conduct internationally proclaimed human rights • Community Relations Policy Principle 2 • Health and Safety Policy Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 2018 Sustainability Report [this document] ‘Health and in human rights abuses Safety’, ‘Social and Communities’ sections and related data table components Labour Principle 3 Company policies and charters, especially: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association • Code of Conduct and the effective recognition of the right to collective • Diversity and Inclusion Policy bargaining • Equal Opportunity Policy Principle 4 • Health and Safety Policy Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 2018 Sustainability Report [this document] ‘People’ and forced and compulsory labour related data table components. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environmental Principle 7 Company policies and charters, especially: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to • Environment Policy environmental challenges 2018 Sustainability Report [this document] Principle 8 ‘Environment’ section (sub-sections, ‘Waste’, ‘Climate Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Change’ and ‘Water’. greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Company policies and charters, especially: Businesses should work against corruption in all its • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy forms, including extortion and bribery • Audit and Risk committee charter • Code of Conduct • Conflict of Interest and Related Parties Policy • Donations, Sponsorships, Community Programs Policy • Whistleblower Policy 2018 Sustainability Report [this document] ‘Governance’ section and related ‘Governance and Economic results’ data table component Page 34 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Glossary ref Annual Report / St Barbara Limited Annual Report 2018 AR CDP Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdp.net/en Climate Change 1 “a change of climate which is attributed directly or indirectly to human activity that alters the composition of the global atmosphere and which is in addition to natural climate variability observed over comparable time periods.” CGS / St Barbara Limited ASX Appendix 4G and Corporate Governance Statement 2018 Corporate Governance Statement EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, https://eiti.org/ ESG Environmental, social, governance GHG Green-house gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative, www.globalreporting.org material topic 2 “topic that reflects a reporting organisation’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that substantively influences the assessments and decisions of stakeholders” MCA Minerals Council of Australia, www.minerals.org.au/ NGO non-governmental organisation stakeholder 2 “entity or individual that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s activities, products and services, or whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organisation to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objectives “ Note 1: Stakeholders include entities or individuals whose rights under law or international conventions provide them with legitimate claims vis-à-vis the organisation. Note 2: Stakeholders can include those who are invested in the organisation (such as employees and shareholders), as well as those who have other relationships to the organisation (such as other workers who are not employees, suppliers, vulnerable groups, local communities, and NGOs or other civil society organisations, among others). sustainability / 2 “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future sustainable generations to meet their own needs” development Note 1: Sustainable development encompasses three dimensions: economic, environmental and social. Note 2: Sustainable development refers to broader environmental and societal interests, rather than to the interests of specific organisations. Note 3: In the GRI Standards, the terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably. Sustainability This report. Report TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/ UNGC United Nations Global Compact, www.unglobalcompact.org/ 1 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, 1992 https://unfccc.int/files/essential_background/background_publications_htmlpdf/application/pdf/conveng.pdf 2 Definitions from GRI Standards Glossary 2016, www.globalreporting.org Page 35 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report Contributors This Sustainability Report encompasses all aspects of the Group. Its preparation involves a diverse range of people whose contribution is acknowledged below (in alphabetical order). Alex Violaris Supply Superintendent Lytton Andrew Shepherd Manager Technical Services Gwalia Andy Tran Manager Finance Melbourne Basil Bulkua Manager Environment Simberi Belinda O’Brien Senior Communications Specialist Melbourne Bob Love Manager Geology Gwalia Bob Vassie Managing Director & CEO Melbourne Daan Van Pletzen Manager Health, Safety and Security Simberi Dan Pintea Environment Superintendent Gwalia Daniel Gibbons Senior Environmental Advisor Gwalia David Cullen Principal Legal Counsel Procurement Melbourne David Debono Financial Accountant Melbourne David Moroney Non-Executive Director Perth Debbie Hall Administration Superintendent Gwalia Dot Crimp Manager Finance and Administration Simberi Ganesh Pillai Senior Health and Safety Advisor Perth Gillian Wong Manager Legal and Deputy Company Secretary Melbourne Jack Grotter Senior Tax Advisor Melbourne Janelle Anderson Senior Communications Specialist Melbourne Jeff Waddington General Manager Health, Safety, Environment and Community Perth Jodie Nankervis Logistics Superintendent Lytton Joss Ruel Superintendent Finance and Administration Simberi Julie Whatmore Human Resources Superintendent Melbourne Kerry Gleeson Non-Executive Director Melbourne Kous Kirsten General Manager Leonora Operations Gwalia Kylie Okely Principal Land Management Perth Linc Downward Manager Health, Safety and Environment Gwalia Lucas Welsh General Manager Finance & Procurement Melbourne Niuvia Ainui Accounting Superintendent Simberi Robert Hanna Senior Metallurgist Gwalia Roger Boston Processing Manager Simberi Rowan Cole Company Secretary Melbourne Roy Hewitt Manager Processing Gwalia Stean Barrie General Manager Technical Services Melbourne Stuart Coles Systems and Business Improvement Superintendent Gwalia Stuart Kempin Electrical Engineer Gwalia Susan Scheepers Manager Human Resources Simberi Symakus Suglo Community Relations Superintendent Simberi Tim Hunt Senior Corporate Services Advisor Melbourne Tim Netscher Non-Executive Chairman Perth Tim Richards General Manager Simberi Operations Simberi Val Madsen General Manager Human Resources Melbourne Yasmin Corkill Manager Procurement Melbourne Page 36 ST BARBARA LIMITED 2018 Sustainability Report CORPORATE DIRECTORY BOARD OF DIRECTORS STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING T C Netscher Non-Executive Chairman Shares in St Barbara Limited are quoted on the Australian R S Vassie Managing Director & CEO Securities Exchange K J Gleeson Non-Executive Director Ticker Symbol: SBM D E J Moroney Non-Executive Director SHARE REGISTRY COMPANY SECRETARY Computershare Investment Services Pty Ltd R Cole GPO Box 2975 Melbourne Victoria 3001 Australia REGISTERED OFFICE Level 10, 432 St Kilda Road Telephone (within Australia): 1300 653 935 Melbourne Victoria 3004 Australia Telephone (international): +61 3 9415 4356 Facsimile: +61 3 9473 2500 Telephone: +61 3 8660 1900 Facsimile: +61 3 8660 1999 AUDITOR Email: melbourne@stbarbara.com.au PricewaterhouseCoopers Website: www.stbarbara.com.au 2 Riverside Quay South Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia AMERICAN DEPOSITORY RECEIPTS (ADR) American Depositary Receipts (ADR OTC code “STBMY”) through BNY Mellon, www.adrbnymellon.com/dr_profile.jsp?cusip=852278100 Page 37
