Communication on Progress | 1 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 knowledge intensive business servicies Communication on Progress | 2 This is the LATTANZIO KIBS Communication on Progress in implementing the Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact and supporting broader UN Sustainable Development Goals. Communication on Progress | 3 Contents Introduction 6 Overview of LATTANZIO KIBS 7 Human Rights 10 Labour 14 Environment 18 Anti-Corruption 22 Appendix 26 Communication on Progress | 4 Communication on Progress | 5 Our Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to present LATTANZIO KIBS’ first Communication on Progress, which confirms our highest support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, Anti-Corruption. The LATTANZIO KIBS is committed to making those principles, which are already at the base of our Code of Ethics since 2016, part of our strategy, culture, dedicated services and daily activities. We constantly commit to engage widely in collaborative projects, integrating the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations into our activities, with the aim of advancing sustainability both within the LATTANZIO KIBS and in all our external stakeholders. Our support in shaping a more sustainable future is therefore put into practice both internally for key operations and processes and externally in our services and projects. In this Communication on Progress, we describe the actions we performed to include the Global Compact and its principles into our business from November 2017 to December 2018. We also intend to share this information with our stakeholders using our main communication channels. Ezio LATTANZIO Founding Partner and CEO of LATTANZIO KIBS Communication on Progress | 6 Introduction The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) started in i. LATTANZIO KIBS supports and 2000 with the intention to lead the power of companies respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights (Principle 1) and stakeholder taking collective actions in support of responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact is ii. LATTANZIO KIBS regularly monitors that it is not complicit in human rights a framework for businesses committed to supporting, with abuses (Principle 2) their operations and strategies, the Ten Principles of the iii. LATTANZIO KIBS upholds the freedom UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, of association and the effective environment and anti-corruption. When they incorporate recognition of the right to collective bargaining (Principle 3) the Ten Principles of the UNGC into their strategies, policies and procedures, and establish a culture of integrity, iv. LATTANZIO KIBS supports the elimination of all forms of forced and companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities compulsory labour (Principle 4) to people and planet, but also setting the stage for longv. LATTANZIO KIBS supports the effective term success. As the world’s largest global corporate abolition of child labour (Principle 5) citizenship initiative, it is concerned with demonstrating and vi. LATTANZIO KIBS supports the developing the social legitimacy of business and markets. elimination of discrimination in respect LATTANZIO Group decided in November 2017 to become of employment and occupation (Principle 6) a signatory of the UNGC to prove its commitment to the UNGC Principles1 vii. LATTANZIO KIBS supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges (Principle 7) viii. LATTANZIO KIBS undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities (Principle 8) ix. LATTANZIO KIBS encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (Principle 9) x. LATTANZIO KIBS strongly works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (Principle 10) 1 On 12/17/2018 LATTANZIO KIBS S.p.A became sole shareholder of all LATTANZIO Companies. Communication on Progress | 7 Overview The LATTANZIO KIBS is an Italy-based strategic consulting hub that operates worldwide. LATTANZIO Knowledge Intensive Business Services covers Advisory, Monitoring & Evaluation, Learning, Communication, Safety Quality Environment. ICT, Audit & Risk management. Our multidisciplinary contribution to value creation is the answer to the new demand for strategic consulting with strong accountability. Indeed, organizations are facing challenges in relation to multi-dimensional goals that require more and more integrated services. Strategy & Evaluation of Innovative learning EU-funded Integrated Quality EU-Funds Management public policies models integrated programs advisory and management consulting and international communication project system Risk management, cooperation Outsourcing for management international control and Technical training and Institutional Health and safety internal audit assistance Performance expertise communication Design of workers assessment and development & Implementation Cyber Security Management of analysis for the Visibility Organizational development private sector Digital content campaigns Innovation management and funds development control models Outsourcing for e-learning infrastructures tt Our sectors of expertise include PUBBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM RURAL DEVELOPMENT & AGRIBUSINESS GOVERNANCE & PUBLIC MANAGEMENT | JUSTICE STRENGHTENING VALUE CHAINS DIGITAL AGENDA & E-GOVERNMENT FOOD SECURITY & FOOD SAFETY ACCOUNTABILITY & QUALITY OF SERVICE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY LOCAL DEVELOPMENT HUMAN RIGHTS MARKETING PLACES DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONALIZATION GENDER POLICIES EVALUATION PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SMEs DEVELOPMENT ENERGY & NUCLEAR SAFETY START-UP & BUSINESS INCUBATION ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH & WORKPLACES CREATIVE INDUSTRIES SAFETY MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND SOCIAL POLICIES EMPLOYMENT | VOCATIONALTRAINING DIGITAL LEARNING Communication on Progress | 8 2.000 in Italy more than Projects 3.500 implemented 500+ assignments in130 clients Countries 1.500 abroad 235 CENTRAL 121 & EAST PROJECTS EUROPE PROJECTS ASIA 32 in the last 5Y 109 in the last 5Y MENA 64 PROJECTS 24 in the last 5Y 68 LATIN PROJECTS AMERICA 15 in the last 5Y 162 SUBSAHARIAN PROJECTS 7 AFRICA 24 in the last 5Y OCEANIA PROJECTS 1 in the last 5Y +75 Global projects Next to the European Commission, United Nations, the World Bank and some of the most relevant international organizations’ funding cooperation programs. Communication on Progress | 9 Implementing the Ten Principles 2018 Communication on Progress | 10 Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Actions to promote Human Rights outlines the ethical principles and conduct that should The LATTANZIO KIBS has a deep commitment to be followed by Company employees and other safeguarding people and making sure that each recipients, helping to create a control environment person is treated as with equal consideration and that can ensure the Group’s activities are always respect. For this reason, we promote and support based on the principles of fairness and transparency, the human rights of every employees, external and reducing the risk of the crimes mentioned in consultants, stakeholder and beneficiary we work, Legislative Decree 231/2001. or come into contact with. Protecting and enhancing human rights, whether through direct interventions Internally, the Company makes sure not to damage or through the work we do to advise and support the physical, psychological and moral integrity of its the recipients of our services, are a central aim of human resources by: our work. In delivering our work, we make sure, to • Protecting the privacy according to the law all extents reasonable, that we do not inadvertently and to the General Data Protection Regulation, allow the rights or wellbeing of anyone, whether it be expressly delimiting the information that can be our staff, our partners’ personnel, our beneficiaries, collected from employees (any investigation of or indeed any other member of the public, and ideas, habits and in general on the private life of particularly vulnerable members of the community, to employees is prohibited). be harmed in the process. • Protection against any mobbing action or LATTANZIO KIBS has its own Code of Ethics (CoE), behavior that can cause psychological suffering which covers respect for human rights and applies to in employees, ensuring a positive environment all our employees as well as to external consultants within the Company. to ensure the LATTANZIO KIBS respects fundamental • Protection against any form of sexual human rights in every country it operates. The CoE harassment. Communication on Progress | 11 Permanent Team 39% Men 61% 122 Women Permanent employees Equity Partners Manager Senior Junior Interns 29 36 9 15 48 27 3 under 30 30-39 3 3 5 7 2 40 17 80 102 PROFESSIONALS 40-49 50+ s fair tion offi ce ent er fice r al af lity is tra r c Of inato e r ne ua Ge R, Q Ad min Ten d e rvic coo rd Mean age 38 19 STAFF ) 20 STAFF H Se Our Services to promote Human Rights Externally, the LATTANZIO KIBS provides supporting • LATTANZIO Monitoring & Evaluation carried out services to public entities to improve their institutional the final evaluation of the five-year National Child capacity to reduce poverty, support more vulnerable Protection Strategy (NCPS) 2012-2016 extended populations, fight gender imbalance, guarantee to 2018 for Malawi Government and UNICEF. access to education, and improve the justice sector. • LATTANZIO KIBS has supported UN Women in These activities are taken within the framework of its Strategic Partnerships for Gender Equality and short-term or multi-annual projects funded by the Women’s Empowerment, providing an overall European Commission, UN Agencies, the World Bank, evaluation that among other aspects: some of the most relevant international organizations’ analyzed to what extent UN Women’s funding cooperation programs, etc. approaches to strategic partnerships are During the course of the period in consideration, aligned with Human Rights approach these have been some of the most relevant projects and gender equality principles; our Company has implemented in the field of Human assessed the effectiveness of UN Rights: Women’s approaches to strategic • As member of the consortia retained by the partnerships in contributing to gender European Commission Framework Contract SIEA equality and women’s empowerment 2018-2022 (Services for the Implementation of results at global, regional and national the External Aid), LATTANZIO Advisory is involved level. in Lot 3 “Human Rights, Democracy and Peace”. Communication on Progress | 12 Policies & Procedures to promote Human Rights These are the LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to human rights. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of Fundamental Human Rights LATTANZIO KIBS has its own Code of Ethics (CoE), which covers respect for human rights and applies to all our employees as well as to external consultants to ensure the LATTANZIO KIBS respects fundamental human rights in every country it operates. Data Protection – Privacy Art 7 of the CoE ensures protection of privacy according to the law and to the General Data Protection Regulation, expressly delimiting the information that can be collected from our employees and from individuals we come into contact with. Counter Terrorism Policy Art 22 of the CoE sets our Counter Terrorism Policy, prohibiting any engagement of the Company with activities related to terrorism or subversion of the democratic order. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ex Italian Legislative ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. This organisational, management 231/2001 and control model promotes prevention of a large number (174 as of Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001. This includes the respect of Human Rights principles, among which: Whisteblowing The organizational model L.231 sets our Whistleblowing policy which provides an appropriate mechanism to report via anonymous emails, to an independent Supervisory Board, concerns relating to ethical behavior, procedures or illegality, in compliance with relevant legislation. Health and Safety This covers manslaughter – and personal injury through negligence. Counter Terrorism Policy This covers various crimes committed for the purposes of terrorism and subversion of democracy. Female genital mutilation practices Crimes against individual This covers, inter alia, child pornography and child prostitution – trafficking in persons – trade in organs from a living person. Communication on Progress | 13 Measurements of the outcomes • Over the period considered, there have been no • All of LATTANZIO employees receive equal pay for reportable HR issues, no complaints of any kind equal work regardless of race, caste, national origin, from employees nor violations of the Code of Ethics religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual nor in relation to the application of Organizational orientation, union membership or political affiliation Model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 • The LATTANZIO KIBS not been involved in any trial for Human Rights violations Targets • We aim at making sure that all of our independent consultants, sub-contractors, partners and other suppliers are aware of our policies and commit to the respect of the UNGC Human Rights principles. Therefore, we are working towards making commitment to our standards a compliance requirement at contract signature for every individual or company we engage with • An update of the Organizational Model ex Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 is planned for 2019, to incorporate most recent regulations Communication on Progress | 14 Labour UN Global Compact Principles Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forces and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Actions to promote the Labour Principles At LATTANZIO, we recognize that human resources able to prevail over colleagues but those who are a key factor for the development of our Company. foster collaboration and team spirit in order to solve For this reason, the management of our human problems and create value for the company and for resources is based on the respect for the personality its stakeholders. Furthermore, we make sure that all and professionalism of each of our employees employees are given equal opportunities to contribute in compliance with the general framework of the to the growth of the company as well as to apply current legislation. In fact, the Group complies with and develop their personal skills to their full potential, minimum wage standards and national collective labor without any form of favoritism or nepotism. agreements in each of the countries where our staff is The Group strongly believes in the importance of employed. supporting youth employment and each year activates The Group takes safety on the workplace very a considerable number of internships for students and seriously and makes sure that all of the employees newly graduates. In 2017, the company activated 21 are properly trained on the subject by distributing a internships distributed among: LATTANZIO KIBS spa, Handbook on Health & Safety and by demanding the LATTANZIO Advisory spa, LATTANZIO Communication mandatory participation to an e-Learning class and srl, LATTANZIO Ict Lab srl, Abylia srl-LATTANZIO test. Learning spa and LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment srl. The interns received a compensation The remuneration policy of our employees is based higher than the minimum requirement set by the on the recognition of merit for the contribution regional law and 61% of them was hired at the end of made, calculated in terms of effort and results. The the internship. LATTANZIO KIBS adopts assessments, incentives and remuneration systems that favor not the most Understanding the importance of creating new job Communication on Progress | 15 opportunities in less developed areas, the LATTANZIO who is an internal staff in the case of LATTANZIO KIBS regularly hires staff in disadvantaged regions in KIBS. A regular meeting of the RSPP with the Southern Italy, i.e. our administrative office is based in companies’ and workers’ representative for H&S Bari (Puglia) and we have recently established a project takes place annually to examine the risks plan and office with over 20 staff members in Naples (Campania). identify improvements actions. H&S regulations require also LATTANZIO KIBS to provide training CONTRACTS TYPES on H&S procedures to all employees. Basic training is provided online and is compulsory for all staff. Specific training in provided via frontal training to a targeted number of staff. In addition to law requirements, LATTANZIO KIBS has decided to provide regular medical check-ups are to all employees. All our staff receive a H&S procedures handbook when they join the company and can make use a of whistleblowing facility for to highlight any issues related to H&S. The company Regarding Health and Safety (H&S) in workplace, has a dedicated organization within, LATTANZIO LATTANZIO KIBS abides fully to the principles set Safety Quality Environment, which ensures both in Italian Legislative Decree 81/2008 on prevention compliance and awareness about health and safety and surveillance of a healthy and safe workplace to at work matters within the Group. Moreover, the all workers. Within this framework, each company of team provides support to other private companies the LATTANZIO KIBS has its own Risks Assessment in this field via qualified personnel. LATTANZIO itself document, one company representative for H&S plus is compliant with the rules on health and safety in one workers representative for H&S. At Group level, workplaces being certified according to the ISO we are also required to nominate a person in charge 9001:2015 -Quality Management System. A person for the implementation of H&S Procedures (RSPP), responsible for the correct application of safety rules Our Services to promote the Labour Principles Externally, LATTANZIO Advisory and LATTANZIO skills and knowledge increasingly integrated with Learning are regularly engaged in providing technical communities. support to various public and private sector entities As far as LATTANZIO business activity during the to improve their performance and compliance with period of consideration, the number of projects national and international standards. This includes, for implemented by the Group aimed at promoting example, tailoring the training offer to the needs of the safety on the workplace has been of 20 in 2017 and labor market and ensuring a system of transmission of 22 in 2018, for a total of 42 projects. Communication on Progress | 16 Policies & Procedures to promote Labour Principles These are the LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to labour. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of Labour Principles art. 9 identifies human resources as a key factor for the development of our companies. artt. 10 &11 set procedures for fair human resources selections, avoidance of discriminatory practices, etc. art. 12 protects the professional and personal enhancement of our staff. art. 13 provides for healthy and safe working conditions. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ex Italian Legislative ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. This organizational, management 231/2001 and control model promotes prevention of a large number (174 as of Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001. This includes the respect of Labour principles, among which: • Purchase and sale of slaves • Illicit intermediation and exploitation of labour and grooming of minors • Employment of illegally staying third country nationals ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE LATTANZIO KIBS abides to the norms set out in Legislative Decree 81/2008 ON HEALTH AND 81/2008 on Health and Safety in workplaces. SAFETY IN WORKPLACES IQUALITY MANAGEMENT LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted an integrated Quality Management SYSTEM EX ISO ISO 9001:2015 System (IQMS) which cover ISO standard 9001:2015 This IQMI provides a framework, a set of procedures, standard documents and a monitoring system for a proper and effective management of work processes in full respect of all applicable laws and international standards. Communication on Progress | 17 Measurements of the outcomes • Valid Certification: ISO 9001:2015 Quality • Percentage of employees trained on Italian Management System (2018 – 2021) Legislative Decree 231/2001: 100% • N. of internal audit carried out in the framework of • Number of medical check-ups provided to Quality Management System: 2 employees: 26 of which 10 for staff working in Milan office 15 for staff working in Genova office and 1 • During the period considered, there have been for staff working in the Rome office no complaint from employees not professionals regarding violations of Labour Rights and there have • Number of ergonomic equipment purchased to been no violations of the Code of Ethics regarding facilitate the work with laptops: 28 kits including Labour Rights mousesergonomic keyboards and laptops supports • LATTANZIO KIBS has not been involved in any trial regarding violations of Labour Rights • All full-time employees are provided with an medical insurance, as per the national employment • Percentage of employees’ contracts that respect contract to which LATTANZIO KIBS abides national law on work safety: 100% • All external consultants employed in projects • Percentage of employees’ contracts that comply outside their country of residence are provided with with minimum wage standards and national an accident and repatriation insurance collective labor agreements in each of the countries where our staff is employed: 100% • Percentage of employees trained on Health & Safety on the workplace: 100% Targets • One of our main target for 2019 will be to relocate our Milan office spaces to a new building, in order to improve lighting, comfort and the general work conditions of our employees, which are currently affected by refurbishing ongoing works in the building where the offices are currently located • We are working towards increasing our spaces dedicated to smart work places and adopt practices of smart working. Our Rome office is already being organized in this new way and we intend to extend the same system to our other offices • We aim at shortening of payment procedures for employed staff as of January 2019 Communication on Progress | 18 Environment UN Global Compact Principles Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environ-mental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Actions to promote the Environmental Principles The LATTANZIO KIBS understands the importance of PAPER | The LATTANZIO KIBS is a paperless company. the environmental challenge and takes accountability All the company data is stored centrally in a highly for its environmental impact. We are committed to secure data center. Users can access the file system be environmentally conscious and to monitor and from a digital work environment. reduce our energy consumption as well as our Project leaders have a responsibility to control and carbon footprint in order to minimize the negative ensure that professionals use paper sparingly, avoiding environmental impact of our day-to-day operations. any kind of waste. In particular, we make sure that Although we are always striving to improve, at the sheets are always used in a complete manner, both current stage we have identified 4 targets that help us front and back and/or printing four sheets per page. reduce our environmental impacts. These are: Furthermore, the Information Systems Manager and TRANSPORT | To promote CO2 reduction, our policy Office Automation must ensure that all computers are demands that no employee is provided with a set to print by default duplex and in black and white. company car. The Group encourages all employees to As for our paper supplies, the office manager, choose the most effective means of transport taking responsible for managing all office supplies is into account costs, itinerary, distance, time and safety. supported by the Office coordinator (OffCo) in verifying It is strongly advised to use public transportation. that all our paper supplies come from certified In fact, most of our employees come to work every companies according to the ISO 14001 environmental day by bike or by public transport. When it comes to meetings, the Group encourages the use of every form standard and that paper comes from forests managed in a correct and responsible manner, according to of communication that is less environmentally harmful, strict environmental, social and economic standard (as such as Skype calls or emails instead of physical assured by the FSC brand). meetings. Communication on Progress | 19 WASTE | The disposal of waste takes place through collection of paper and the head of the site has the the use of differentiated containers, which allow the task of ensuring that the disposal of the same takes separation of the same from other types of waste. All place properly, using the appropriate bins for the offices are equipped with special bins for the separate collection of paper. Our Actions to promote the Environmental Principles: LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment The LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment department ensures both compliance and awareness about environmental related matters and performance within the Group. In addition, this organization provides technical consulting for the Carbon Footprint and Sustainability plans to external entities, with the objective of improving the environmental performance of both the entity and its supply chain, using a methodology in line with ISO / TS 14067 and defining a Sustainability Plan for the production processes. The LATTANZIO KIBS itself is certified according to the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System. LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted an integrated Quality Management System (IQMS) which cover ISO standard 14001:2015. This IQMI provides a framework, a set of procedures, standard documents and a monitoring system and includes a handbook. As far as LATTANZIO business activity during the period of consideration, the number of projects implemented by the Group aimed at promoting safety on the workplace has been of 20 in 2017 and 22 in 2018, for a total of 42 projects. In 2018 the European Commission confirmed LATTANZIO Advisory for technical assistance with regards to the definition, development, and execution of projects, evaluation, and monitoring for nuclear safety cooperation. Communication on Progress | 20 Policies & Prodecures to promote Environment Principles These are the LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to environment. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of Fundamental Environment Principles art. 24 provides for the protection of environment, considers the environment as fundamental economic growth value and engages our companies to use more and more renewable energies to improve also the environmental quality of the territories where we operate. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ex Italian ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE LegislativeDecree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. This organisational, management and control model promotes prevention of a large number 231/2001 (174 as of Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001. This includes the respect of Environment principles, among which: • Environmental pollution • Environmental disaster • Intentional crimes against the environment • Trafficking and abandonment of high level radioactive material • Killing, destruction, capture, taking and possession of specimen on protected wild fauna and flora species ENVIRONMENTAL LATTANZIO KIBS has adopted an integrated Quality Management System MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (IQMS) which cover ISO standard 14001:2015. This IQMI provides a framework, a set of procedures, standard documents and a monitoring EX ISO 14001:2015 system for a proper and effective management of work processes in full respect of all applicable laws and international standards for the protection of the environment. Communication on Progress | 21 Measurements of the outcomes • Valid Certification: ISO 14001:2015 Environmental GRI Indicator EN 4: Indirect Energy Consumption Management System (2018-2021) 2017 2018 • N. of internal audit carried out in the framework of kWh 15.761 14.146 Environment Management System: 2 • Amounts of paper supplies that come from companies certified ISO 14000 environmental GRI Indicator EN 1: Materials used standard: 100% 2017 2018 • Amounts of paper supplies that come from forests Reams 200 290 managed in a correct and responsible manner, of paper according to strict environmental, social and economic standard assured by the FSC brand: 100% • Energy Performance of our Milan Headquarters: Targets • Going onward we aim to improve and extend to all of our offices our performance reporting system. • We aim at making sure that all of our independent consultants, subcontractors, partners and other suppliers are aware of our policies and commit to the respect of the UNGC Environmental principles. Therefore, we are working towards making commitment to our standards a compliance requirement at contract signature for every individual or company we engage with. Communication on Progress | 22 Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Actions to promote the Anti-Corruption Principles According to the Code of Ethics (art.4, art.14), the the function or the task, or, where appropriate, by LATTANZIO KIBS expressively prohibits practices each Collaborator, in compliance with the current of corruption and collusive behaviors towards any legislation and on the basis of the general principles of subject. fairness and loyalty, adapting his conduct to respect impartiality and good performance held the Public As a requirement for participation in public tenders Administration. all over the world, the Group can attest that no professional has criminal trials against any subject. Illicit payments in relations with Institutions or with The company can provide certification of criminal Public Officials are indeed prohibited. records to prove that there are no criminal convictions All Recipients are required to refrain from making ongoing nor any provision in civil and administrative payments to any entity in order to obtain unlawful matters passed in judgment and charged to benefits in representing the interests of the company LATTANZIO professionals. before the Public Administration. The relationships of the Company and of the The Company expressly prohibits practices of Recipients towards national, EU and international corruption, favoritism, collusive behavior, direct and/or public institutions as well as towards public officials indirect solicitations also through promises of personal or persons in charge of public exercise, or bodies, advantages, towards any subject belonging to the representatives, representatives, representatives, Public Administration. The Company also prohibits members, employees, consultants, in charge of public functions or services, public institutions, public corruption practices, favoritism, collusive behavior, direct and / or indirect solicitations also through administrations, public bodies, even economic bodies, promises of personal advantages. public or local public bodies, national or international, are entertained by each Employee, whatever is The organizational model L.231 sets our Communication on Progress | 23 Whistleblowing policy which provides an appropriate All of the employees are required to attend mandatory mechanism to report via anonymous emails, to an e-learning trainings on the Group’s organisational, independent Supervisory Board, concerns relating to management and control model formulated according ethical behavior, procedures or illegality, in compliance to the specific requirements determined by the with relevant legislation. Legislative Decree 231/2001. Our Actions to promote the Anti-Corruption Principles: LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management LATTANZIO KIBS has established a dedicated organization, LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management, operating specifically in the anti-corruption field. This organization is increasingly staffed with specialized people. The Managing Director of the LATTANZIO Audit, Ms. Nadia Gallo, is a qualified Lead Auditor for ISO 37001:2016 Anti Bribery. This organization provides services to improve the performance of the Public Administration in Italy and in Europe. In 2018 LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management has promoted a study and a related awarenessraising event on “The role of the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Responsible” within public entities, showing how the institutions responded to the introduction of the Responsible for Anti-Corruption and Transparency, as mandatorily requested by Law. It should be noted that Italy’s regulatory framework to prevent corruption, both in the private (since 2001) and public sector (since 2012) is well established and articulated and is considered a best practice by several other countries. In addition to the Code of ethics, under the guidance of LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management and LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment, the company has started an internal organizational process aimed at the Group being certified ISO 370011:2016 within 2019. Communication on Progress | 24 Policies & Prodecures to promote Anti-Corruption Principles These are the LATTANZIO KIBS policies & procedures that cover aspects related to anti-corruption. Policy & Procedures How is it effective? CODE OF ETHICS Respect of Fundamental Anti-corruption Principles LATTANZIO KIBS’ Code of Ethics (art.4, art.14) expressively prohibits practices of corruption and collusive behaviors towards any subject. ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL EX LATTANZIO KIBS adopted an organizational model ex Italian Legislative ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE Decree 231/2001 on a voluntary basis. This organisational, management and control model promotes prevention of a large number (174 as of 231/2001 Dec. 2018) of offences and principles envisaged by Italian law. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its subsequent updates and amendments also set out sanctions. Thanks to its model LATTANZIO KIBS ensures that all of its activities are conducted correctly and transparently, formulated according to the specific requirements determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001. Legislative Decree 231/2001 is a flagship piece of anti-corruption legislation, recognized as such worldwide. The Decree 231 establishes the responsibility of corporations, in addition to individual responsibility, for corruptive action or attempts and related crimes. This includes the fundamental facility of: Whisteblowing The organizational model L.231 sets our Whistleblowing policy which provides an appropriate mechanism to report via anonymous emails, to an independent Supervisory Board, concerns relating to ethical behavior, corruption related procedures or illegality, in compliance with relevant legislation. And fundamental anti-corruption principle such as: • Crimes against the Public Administration • Corporate crimes • Forgery of money, public credit instruments, revenue stamps • Money Laundering • Use of false documents, etc Communication on Progress | 25 Measurements of the outcomes • Number of complaints from employees regarding • Number of senior management staff who hold an Corruption or in relation to the application of ISO 37001:2016 Anti Bribery qualifications: 1 Organizational Model ex Italian Legislative Decree • Percentage of employees trained on the Group’s 231/2001: 0 organisational, management and control model • Number of penalties due to violations of the code formulated according to the specific requirements of LATTANZIO KIBS Code of Ethics regarding determined by the Legislative Decree 231/2001: Corruption: 0 100% • Number of Certifications of pending loads and criminal records: 0 Targets • In addition to the Code of ethics, under the guidance of LATTANZIO Audit & Risk Management and LATTANZIO Safety Quality Environment, the company has started an internal organizational process aimed at preparing LATTANZIO KIBS to get the certification ISO 37001:2016 Communication on Progress | 26 Appendix Examples of Projects LATTANZIO KIBS has undertaken during the Reporting Period addressing the SDGs LATTANZIO KIBS is engaging in some of the UN goals of sustainable development, aware that the realization of the projects it is implementing will have an impact in reaching the goals set for 2030. The work of knowledge-intensive business services can certainly increase the ability to innovate, develop better processes, optimize resources and create new employment opportunities. With its strong set of expertise and innovation, the LATTANZIO KIBS holds an important role as facilitator in promoting development throughout the institutions it constantly collaborates with. LATTANZIO KIBS has analyzed the projects of its Group, starting from January 2016. Communication on Progress | 27 LATTANZIO COMMITMENT Distribution of LATTANZIO KIBS’ effort per SDGs (number of projects) LATTANZIO KIBS’ SDGs support by territorial distribution Communication on Progress | 28 LATTANZIO KIBS Milan (Italy) Via Cimarosa, 4 20144 T. +39 02 29061165 Milan | Rome | Bari Bucharest Brussels Washington DC Astana info@LATTANZIOKIBS.com www.LATTANZIOKIBS.com
