2018/19 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report September 1, 2018 – August 31, 2019 Greetings Dustin’s Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report provides a summary of the financial results and the corporate responsibility work we have undertaken during the 2018/19 financial year. The audited annual accounts, consolidated financial statements and the Corporate Responsibility Report Dustin Group AB can be found on pages 52-87 and 102-153. The Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish publication is the original version. Introduction Governance and development Greetings 2 Financial overview 68 Dustin as an investment 4 Risks and Risk Management 76 The year in brief 7 Corporate Governance Report 88 Dustin in brief 8 Board of Directors 98 Our history 9 Group Management 100 CEO comment Financial information CEO comment 12 Consolidated financial statements 102 Our strategic direction Parent Company financial statements 106 Our market and operating Notes 110 environment 14 Corporate responsibility Our market position 16 information 147 Our strategy 20 Accounting policies for Acquisitions for continued corporate responsibility 150 growth 26 The Board’s signatures 153 Operational targets 28 Auditor’s report 154 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Our business model Report 160 Complete partner for successful businesses 30 Other information Our customer offering 32 2018/19 Annual General Efficient and responsible Meeting 161 purchasing and logistics model 35 GRI Index 162 Our business segments 40 Multi-year overview 164 Source of alternative Our values performance measures 165 Our culture 44 Definitions 166 Win as a team 46 Glossary 168 Financial calendar 169 The share and shareholders Our share and shareholders 50 Our corporate responsibility efforts Statement from the Head of Corporate Responsibility 54 Responsible use of resources 56 Reduced climate impact 57 Responsible manufacturing 61 Diversity and equality 65 Business ethics and anticorruption 67 Director's report and accounts INTRODUCTION | DUSTIN AS AN INVESTMENT Dustin as an investment Dustin endeavours to create a good return and long-term value for its shareholders. Historically, the company has proven stable across business cycles. Since the listing in 2015, the market capitalisation has risen by 88 per cent and the company has paid out a total of nearly SEK 800 million to its shareholders. Attractive market position in ongoing Transformation towards increased service online shift offerings enables margin expansion Dustin is a leading IT partner and a one-stop shop for We have clear initiatives to improve both gross and the B2B market in general, and for small and mediumoperating margins over time. We are convinced that, sized businesses in particular. The combination of a through continued growth in the online channel, the strong online presence, a well-known brand, a high acquisition of attractive niche players, an increased level of IT expertise and an increasingly broad service offering of private label products and further expansion offering gives us an attractive position on a market of our offering with a higher service content focusing characterised by a rapidly growing share of sales online primarily on the SMB segment, over time we can and increasing demand for mobility and subscription achieve our target of an adjusted EBITA margin of services. between 5 and 6 per cent. Low capital requirements and strong cash flow Our investment needs and working capital tied up are Through add-on low owing to an efficient purchasing function with an effective collaboration with suppliers and a central acquisitions, we are warehouse and regional consolidation warehouses with efficient stockholding. Our operations generate continuously widening strong cash flows, which allows for continued expansion in combination with an attractive dividend our range of advanced to our shareholders. Our aim is to complete three to products and services. five acquisitions a year and to pay dividends of more than 70 per cent of net profit. Driving forces for responsible business We strive for integrity, transparency and responsible Clear strategy for profitable growth behaviour in everything we do. At present, Dustin – organic and via acquisitions commands a position that provides us with the With our attractive customer offering, a broad and possibility of setting requirements that make a difference diversified customer base and a multi channel sales throughout the value chain. We are active in the circular model, we see significant potential for continued and economy through end-of-life returns and reuse. This profitable organic growth combined with continuous makes us an attractive supplier for businesses, and in efficiency improvements. Through add-on acquisitions, conjunction with public procurements. Our corporate we are continuously widening our range of advanced responsibility focus has resulted in increased interest products and services, which promotes continued among investors with a corporate responsibility profile growth, strengthens customer loyalty and increases and a high ranking in external corporate responsibility shareholder value. studies. 4 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 INTRODUCTION | DUSTIN AS AN INVESTMENT Net sales Gross margin 2018/19 13 12 16.7% 12.5 11 10 9 8 7 Adjusted EBITA 560 6 5 4 3 SEK million 2 SEK billion 0 1 3 /1 4 5 /1 6 7 /1 8 9 Adjusted EBITA margin 12 13/1 14 /1 15 16 17/1 18 /1 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Cash flow from operating activities 4.5% SEK 264 million EBIT SEK 489 million Proposed dividend per share Earnings per share SEK 3.00 SEK 4.12 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 5 ” In line with our strategy, we acquired Danish Inventio.IT, Dutch Norisk and Finnish Chilit in 2018/19. INTRODUCTION | THE YEAR IN BRIEF The year in brief Q1 Q2 • Dustin strengthened its organisation to facilitate continued profitable growth by creating greater clarity within the segments and further increasing • Alexandra Fürst was appointed new EVP IT & Digitalisation (CIO) and Jenny Ring was appointed new EVP Supply Chain and included in Dustin’s Group the scalability of support functions. The organisation Management. was also adapted for expansion in the Netherlands. • During the quarter, the integration of the Swedish • Dustin resolved on a rights issue of approximately subsidiary Idenet into Dustin Sweden was completed. SEK 695 million to continue the company’s acquisition ambitions, thereby widening its customer offering with an increased element of advanced products, services and recurring revenues. Q3 Q4 • Dustin acquired the Danish company Inventio. IT, which specialises in hosting, infrastructure and business systems as a service. • Dustin initiated optimisation of the structure of the company’s small data centres and sites that accompanied earlier acquisitions, to gradually enhance their operational efficiency. • Dustin acquired the Dutch company Norisk, which has a broad portfolio of managed IT services, ranging from • Dustin decided to invest in increased automation of infrastructure to client management. the central warehouse in Rosersberg. • Dustin acquired the Finnish company Chilit, which specialises in IT products, services and solutions, primarily for the SMB segment. • The 18th Dustin Expo, the largest IT exhibition in the Nordic region, was arranged in collaboration with about 70 other exhibitors. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 7 INTRODUCTION | DUSTIN IN BRIEF Dustin in brief Leading online IT partner supported by scalable and shared central functions, Dustin is a leading online IT partner serving the Nordic including purchasing, warehousing and logistics, pricing, region and the Netherlands. Its offering consists of a marketing, IT and HR. wide range of hardware, software and related services and solutions. With our centralised warehouse and an Increase in service sales efficient logistics and online platform, we ensure fast and We see increasing demand for more advanced and reliable delivery to our customers. By adding high-level managed services as requests for increased mobility IT expertise we act as a strategic IT partner primarily for and accessibility grow. We are continuously expanding small and medium-sized businesses, but also for large our customer offering and our addressable market, companies, the public sector and consumers. by combining products and services into integrated solutions, and by adding more advanced services through Sales focusing on business customers acquisitions. This means we are able to solve more and Dustin employs a multichannel model where the majority more of our customers’ IT needs. of sales take place online, supplemented by relationshipbased and consultative selling over the telephone or Clear focus on corporate responsibility through customer visits. We conduct our operations Responsible business is a prerequisite for sound and through three business segments: SMB (Small and successful operations. For us, responsible business Medium-sized Businesses) with a sales share of about encompasses the Group’s aggregate long-term 44 per cent, LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) with impact on society and the environment, where our a sales share of about 51 per cent and B2C (Business to responsibility extends throughout the value chain. The Consumer) with a sales share of about 5 per cent. size of our operations provides us with a key role and an opportunity to influence both suppliers and customers. Efficient online platform Our clear ambition is to make sustainable IT more We have created a strong market position through our accessible to our customers. efficient online platform, since more and more sales of both products and core services are now taking place Dustin Group AB is a Swedish public limited liability online. At present, Dustin is the Nordic region’s largest company with its head office in Nacka Strand outside e-retailer for the B2B segment and recently launched Stockholm, Sweden. The share has been listed on Nasdaq online shopping in the Netherlands. The operations are Stockholm’s Mid Cap Index since 2015. Financial key ratios All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 2018/19 2017/18 Net sales 12,536 10,300 Organic sales growth (%) 9.9 2.0 Gross margin (%) 16.7 15.9 Adjusted EBITA 560 501 Adjusted EBITA margin (%) 4.5 4.9 EBIT 489 444 Net profit for the year 356 305 Earnings per share, including discontinued operations, after dilution, SEK 4.12 3.91 Cash flow from operating activities 264 748 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (multiple) 2.9 3.3 Return on equity (%) 14.5 18.5 Dividend per share, SEK 3.00* 2.71 * The Board's proposal for the AGM. 8 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 INTRODUCTION | OUR HISTORY Our history Founded in 1984 IPO in 2015 Dustin was founded in 1984 by two entrepreneurs, Dustin was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm on February 13, Bo and Ulla Lundevall, as an ancillary business to the 2015 and received a new principal owner, Axel Johnson couple’s pet shop in Farsta, a suburb of Stockholm. The AB, through the subsidiary Axmedia AB. After the business concept was to sell computer accessories via listing, Altor has gradually reduced its holding and sold mail order using a catalogue as their main marketing tool. its last shares in the company in spring 2017. The best-selling product was multi-coloured floppy disks. Entering the Dutch market in 2018 Online sales since 1995 In the summer of 2018, Dustin expanded its geographic Ten years later, the range was extended from footprint through the acquisition of Vincere in the products only to also include software licenses. Dustin Netherlands. Vincere is specialised in managed services introduced online sales as early as 1995. For the first 20 primarily for small and medium-sized businesses. years, the offering was directed exclusively to the B2B The acquisition substantially increased Dustin’s market, but with the launch of Dustin Home in 2004 addressable market and provided the company with a the offering was extended to the B2C market as well. strong foundation for continued consolidation in the region. At the end of October in 2019, Dustin launched Nordic expansion commenced in 2007 e-commerce in the Netherlands, which is an important Altor became the new principal owner in 2006 and step in the Group´s continued expansion. the operations were then expanded in the Nordic region. The Danish operations were established in 2007 A stronger and broader offering through the acquisition of Computerstore, followed by A number of add-on acquisitions have been conducted a new e-commerce venture in Norway. The Norwegian in recent years to strengthen and broaden our offering business was supplemented in 2012 through the of more advanced products and services. During the acquisition of Norsk Data Senter. In 2013, operations 2018/19 financial year, in line with our strategy, we were established in Finland through the acquisition acquired the Danish company Inventio.IT, the Dutch of Businessforum, which was supplemented with the company Norisk and the Finnish company Chilit, which acquisition of Resolute in 2015. E-commerce was also altogether have enabled us to widen our offering and launched in the Finnish market the following year. further strengthen our position. 14 13 12 11 10 Net sales, SEK billion 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 @ 1 0 -84 -85 -86 -87 -88 -89 -90 -91 -92 -93 -94 -95 -96 -97 -98 -99 -00 -01 -02 -03 -04 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 9 INTRODUCTION | OUR HISTORY 2017 2018 2019 Acquisition of Idenet in  Acquisition of Saldab Acquisition of ITaito in Acquisition of Inventio.IT Sweden and IKT Gruppen and JML-System in Sweden, Finland and DAV Partner in in Denmark, Norisk in 2016 in Norway. Launch of Norriq ICS in Denmark, Sweden. Enters Dutch market the Netherlands and private label products Purity and Core Services with acquisition of Vincere. Chilit in Finland. and dustin.fi. in Norway. Sale of IT-Hantverkarna. 2015 2014 Dustin Group listed on Nasdaq Dustin celebrates its 30th Stockholm. Acquisition of Commsec anniversary with about Enters Finnish in Sweden and Resolute in Finland. 900 employees and a market through Concept store in Stockholm opens. range of approximately the acquisition 2013 200,000 products. of Businessforum. 2009 2012 Enters Norwegian Acquisition of IT-Hantverkarna market with the and Best Office in Sweden and New 20,000 m2 launch of dustin.no. Norsk Data Senter in Norway. 2008 logistics centre in Rosersberg. 2007 2006 Enters the Danish Altor Equity Partners market. Launch of becomes new dustin.dk. Acquisition principal owner. Launch of of TCM in Sweden. Dustin 2004 home. 1984 1995 Dustin founded by Bo and Ulla Dustin launches Lundevall. Multi-coloured floppy e-commerce disks is best-selling product. services. 10 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 ” Our role is to help customers to ensure they have the right tools and solutions to run their operations as efficiently as possible. CEO COMMENT | CEO COMMENT CEO comment I feel proud to summarise a year during which we have continued our transformation from supplying only hardware toward providing a combination of hardware together with services and solutions. The needs of our customers are changing as IT becomes increasingly complex, and is changing from being used as a tool to becoming a critical part of their businesses. The IT environment must work without outages and disruptions, which is making increasing demands on us as partner. Our role is to help customers to ensure they have the right tools and solutions to run their operations as efficiently as possible. We have a long-term positive view of our future. Thomas Ekman During the year, we have continued to strengthen integration to achieve our full potential and realise our service offering through the acquisition of Chilit economies of scale from the acquisitions we have (Finland), Inventio (Denmark) and Norisk (Netherlands). already completed. In spring 2019, Swedish Idenet The three acquisitions will help us to broaden our was integrated and after the end of the financial year offering and our customer base. The rights issue Swedish Saldab. Work with the next integrations is in completed in autumn 2018 will provide us with the progress and our target is to conclude two during the ability to strengthen our offering further through first half of the year and five in total during the 2019/20 selective acquisitions. We have also accelerated financial year. 12 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 CEO COMMENT | CEO COMMENT Investments for efficiency and growth employees through our acquisitions. At the same time, We are investing in our service organisation to enable the we have noted a greater positive impact on society as continued transformation toward a greater share of sales a whole by successively introducing new processes and for services and solutions. In parallel, we are continuing routines throughout the Dustin family. to focus on streamlining our processes and during the year we decided to invest in increased automation of Sales growth our central warehouse, to increase efficiency further. Sales for the year amounted to SEK 12.5 billion, which We also began consolidating our smaller data centres resulted in sales growth of 21.7 per cent. Organic that we have obtained through our acquisitions, to make growth, excluding acquisitions and exchange-rate operations more efficient and to reduce costs. differences, was 9.9 per cent. Our overall growth is driven by the SMB and LCP segments, while organic Last year, we entered the Dutch market with the growth stems mainly from LCP through major public acquisition of Vincere Group. This year, we have been sector framework agreements. SMB posted slightly active in preparing to launch our online offering in the weaker organic growth, due to the more cautious Netherlands. The launch took place in October 2019 and market during the latter part of the year. In the early we now have a full-service offering in the Netherlands. stages of a slowing market, the main impact is noted in We deliver hardware and software via dustin.com and the SMB segment, while SMB has historically recovered services and solutions via Vincere. relatively quickly to more normal purchasing levels as the market can only postpone purchasing for a shorter Focus on sustainability period. The LCP segment is usually impacted in the We welcome the growing importance of sustainability longer term in a long-term weak market. issues in society as a whole. Rising expec­tations from the macro environment provide extra impetus to the work Sales mix and profitability we are already performing. During the year, our return The gross margin rose to 16.7 per cent compared with 15.9 scheme for used and end-of-life products has been highly per cent in the preceding year. Adjusted EBITA increased successful. The service enables our customers to give to SEK 560 million from SEK 501 million one year earlier. their old products new life by allowing them to be used Profitability was positively impacted by acquisitions by schools or organisations, and when this is not possible and a more advantageous sales mix with a higher through recycling. We have already exceeded our target share of advanced services and solutions Investments of taking back 140,000 products by 2020. in the sales and delivery organisation for services and solutions, together with a large number of new public sector framework agreements, had a negative impact on We have made profitability. Public sector framework agreements always have lower margins at the start of the contract period, investments in our but then gradually improve as the contract progresses. service organisation to Strong position enable a continued To summarise, Dustin performed well during the 2018/19 financial year and our long-term outlook is transformation positive, despite a slightly cautious market in the near term. The strong performance during the year, our We are making progress in all of our five focus areas investments to grow service sales moving forward, but due to our high growth rate and continuous changing customer needs and our strong and efficient acquisitions, we can also see that we will not fully organisation make us well-equipped for our continued reach our targets for reducing climate impact, and for transformation. Our financial position remains diversity and equality by 2020. The rising number of favourable and we are well positioned for continued premises and data centres has meant the reduction in profitable growth, both organically and through our climate impact is not progressing as quickly as we acquisitions. I would like to thank all of our employees had hoped. We have already reached our equality target who have enabled Dustin’s constant development and for the Board of Directors and Group Management, who help our customers stay in the forefront! and also expect to achieve our target at senior level by 2020. For the company as a whole, the transition is Thomas Ekman taking longer given the rapid growth in the number of President and CEO DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 13 Our market and operating environment In terms of geography, Dustin has operated in the Nordic region for many years and since the summer of 2018 in the Netherlands as well. We have a clear focus on the customer segment for small and medium-sized businesses and in the Nordic region we are positioned as a complete IT partner, with the majority of sales carried out online. We have a clear position in the market, and are benefiting from several strong market trends. The IT market The geographic section of the IT market where we operate is highly fragmented, with few major players and a large number of minor, local IT resellers. These players can be described from two dimensions: cost efficiency and value content. IT service companies and system integrators generally provide a high level of value content and varying degrees of customised solutions, but with a low level of cost efficiency. These types of solutions mainly target large companies and the public sector. Online players have a relatively high degree of cost efficiency due to their efficient logistics resources, but generally have lower value content without specific product know-how or IT expertise. These players mainly target consumers and in many cases also offer other types of products in widely differing categories. ” Dustin is a leading online IT partner serving the Nordic region and the Netherlands. OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR MARKET POSITION Our market position In the Nordic region, Dustin is positioned at the centre than in our Nordic operations. With the launch of the of these dimensions. We offer a combination of online platform in the Netherlands and continued standardised and centrally produced cloud solutions, growth in the service business, we will improve our with a relatively high and over time increasing value cost efficiency over time. We have a clear focus on content, as well as cost-efficient online sales of the customer segment for small and medium-sized hardware and software. Our market position in the businesses in all our markets, and we mainly compete Netherlands is characterised by a relatively higher with minor, local IT resellers, which are finding it value content through an extensive offering of services increasingly difficult to compete as the range of, and and solutions, while cost efficiency to date is lower interest in, cloud-based services and solutions grows. Atea High Infotheek Crayon Accenture Advania Degree of value added service Small IT Small and infrastructure and IT service medium-sized companies businesses Komplett Elkjøp Media Markt Low Verkkokauppa Low Cost efficiency High We are a strategic IT partner primarily for small and medium-sized businesses, but can also efficiently manage larger order volumes for the large corporate and public sector. 16 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR MARKET POSITION Total IT market for B2B in the Nordic region and the Netherlands 2017: SEK ~616 billion Addressable B2B market: SEK ~262 billion +4% +4% SEK SEK SEK 242 billion 262 billion 309 billion ~4% ~6% Average annual sales growth Advanced products and services ~4% ~2% Core products and services Offline Online ~8% ~5% 2015 2017 2021 The B2B market region, our addressable market is estimated at about The total IT market for the private and public sector SEK 162 billion in the Nordic region and at about SEK 100 in the B2B segment in the Nordic region and the billion in the Netherlands. The size of our addressable Netherlands comprises hardware, software and services. market is increasing as we expand the range of services In 2017, its total value was estimated at approximately organically and through acquisitions and via geographic SEK 616 billion. Broken down by region, the market expansion into new markets. is estimated at about SEK 369 billion in the Nordic countries and at about SEK 247 billion in the Netherlands. Market trends in the B2B market We see three predominant trends that are expected Our addressable B2B market to drive the underlying growth in our addressable Dustin’s addressable B2B market in the Nordic region B2B market and to create the conditions for more in 2017 was estimated at approximately SEK 262 sustainable business: billion. The market comprised core products and standardised services amounting to approximately 1. Increased share of sales online SEK 121 billion, and advanced products and services 2. Increased interest in mobility and subscription services amounting to about SEK 141 billion. Broken down by 3. Rising demand for sustainable IT 262 Our addressable B2B market is estimated at about SEK billion DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 17 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR MARKET POSITION 1 Increased share of sales online The share of online sales remains relatively small. For 2018, the share of online sales in the Nordic countries and the Netherlands was estimated at approximately Online sales of IT products and services have increased 20–25 per cent. As a comparison, the equivalent share in recent years and more B2B customers are now of sales in the US was closer to 40 per cent. The online making an increasing share of their IT purchases on the shift in the B2B market has not progressed as far as the Internet. This trend is mainly due to customer benefits B2C market. This is partly because the digital maturity offered by online retail, for example, a high degree process is not as fast for companies as for consumers of accessibility and convenience range and depth, and partly because many business customers maintain detailed and comparable information, rapid deliveries, close relationships with minor local resellers that do and competitive and comparable prices. not have an online presence. 2 Increased interest in mobility and subscription services to receive IT as a service, and thus a fixed monthly cost for IT. An increasing share of these subscription services will, in turn, accelerate and simplify investments in new Mobility via cloud solutions promotes a more flexible technology and new solutions. and sustainable IT environment, in terms of both cost and utilisation, and is expected to drive growth for We believe these trends will influence the purchasing several years to come. Today, there are cloud services decisions of small and medium-sized businesses in for most types of operations, everything from basic particular. For large corporations, the transition from Software as a Service (SaaS) configurations to services existing older and complex systems is often a major for storage and backup and the opportunity to transfer challenge while small and medium-sized businesses the entire business IT environment into the cloud. generally find it easier to transition and are more Moreover, we are seeing a strong trend and requests flexible in their IT purchasing. 3 Rising demand for sustainable IT Moreover, circular thinking – which includes endof-life returns of old products through re-use and recycling – has become increasingly widespread and is Demand for, and awareness about, sustainable IT has in demand to an ever greater extent among both small increased in recent years. Environmental, social and and medium-sized businesses, and large companies ethical aspects and requirements are often taken into and the public sector. In combination with the UN’s account. These issues, for example, are an important Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, these are component in nearly all public-sector procurements. strong driving forces. The B2C market purchases with a lower average order value. The larger The B2C market consists of IT products and other number of purchases is mainly a result of the market consumer electronics, excluding white goods, that are having a high pace of innovation and relatively short offered to consumers and was estimated in the Nordic product life cycles. region at about SEK 54 billion in 2017. Sales in the B2C market mainly take place through B2C market trends physical retail chains and online resellers, with the The B2C market is more competitive and generally majority of retail chains also offering online sales. has a higher degree of price transparency and price Traditional physical stores still account for the highest pressure than the B2B market. Behaviour in the share of total sales, but online sales are rapidly increasing B2C market is characterised by a large number of and taking market shares from other sales channels. 18 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 ” Demand for, and awareness about, sustainable IT has increased in recent years. OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR STRATEGY Our strategy Our strong position online and increasingly broad portfolio of products, services and solutions, in combination with favourable market trends, provide us with good conditions for continued profitable growth. Our strategy is built on two pillars – growth and margin expansion – and is permeated by proactive corporate responsibility efforts with regard to our own and our customers’ impact on society and the environment. Growth Dustin currently has a strong position in the market for services and solutions, combined with customers’ IT products and related services. Through our flexible increased interest in mobility and subscription services, sales model – primary sales online combined with a provides us with good possibilities to grow faster consultative and relationship selling organisation – we than the market. Moreover, an increased share of can benefit from the prevailing market trends. Our subscription services provides us with stable income increasingly broad portfolio of advanced products, streams and stronger customer loyalty. Our strategy is built on two pillars – growth and margin expansion – and is permeated by proactive corporate responsibility efforts. 1 A leading online position The online platform has proved successful as a first point of contact with new customers. This is based on high brand awareness, digital marketing, and attractive With our efficient online platform, we are well-positioned offers and campaigns. Through continued development to benefit from the ongoing shift in to an online market. of the platform, we can attract new customers and This shift means customers are choosing to allocate offer customers a comprehensive, integrated online more of their IT purchases to online channels, and also experience. Altogether, this provides us with good concentrate their purchases on fewer suppliers. possibilities to grow faster than the market. 20 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR STRATEGY 2 Broader customer offering through increased service offering We are continuously expanding and strengthening our basis of their potential to consolidate our position in offering, both organically and through acquisitions. existing markets, expand the customer base, achieve Organically, we achieve this by combining products cost synergies and, above all, to broaden our existing and services into complete solutions mainly tailored to offerings, thereby enabling us to capture a larger share the needs of small and medium-sized businesses. Our of our customers’ total purchases of IT products and add-on acquisitions focus on specialised niche players, related services and solutions. which gives us the opportunity to further broaden our service offering. We are a one-stop shop and a natural These acquisitions also allow us to increase our address­ IT partner, primarily for small and medium-sized able market, along with a progressively broader offering. businesses. Since the company was listed, we have increased our addressable market from approximately SEK 100 billion We continuously evaluate potential acquisition to just over SEK 260 billion through a combination of candidates to support continued growth and increase supplementary product offerings and expansion into the shareholder value. Acquisitions are evaluated on the Netherlands as a new geographic market. 3 Increased sales to existing customers In the B2B segment, there is a strong link between The growth of, and increased interest in, centrally the duration of the customer relationship and sales produced cloud services provides us with an per customer. Through our broad range of products, opportunity to offer services and solutions, which was services and solutions combined with a high level of not previously possible without a local presence. We see IT expertise, Dustin has built a large and diversified significant possibilities for additional sales in pace with customer base with a high degree of customer loyalty. our increasingly broad offering of advanced products, Using relationship selling to selected parts of our large services and solutions. Services and solutions are being customer base of small and medium-sized businesses, sold as subscription services to an increasing extent, we can grow the share of sales to each customer and which also increases the share of recurring revenues thereby further strengthen loyalty. and strengthens customers’ loyalty towards us. 4 Introduction of the offering in all markets Our acquisitions add expertise and strengthen our makes further growth possible. For example, we see local presence in our existing markets. By spreading the major potential in the introduction of an organisation entire product and service portfolio to all of our markets that performs relationship selling to SMB in Finland, and and customers, we can realise sales synergies, which in online sales in the Netherlands. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 21 We have an expressed focus on small and mediumsized businesses, which purchase online to a greater extent. OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR STRATEGY Margin expansion We have identified a number of areas to improve our growth in existing markets creates the conditions for profitability over time. With a focus on the SMB segment, favourable profitability in the form of economies of scale an increased share of private label products, value-creating in several areas. We have concentrated scalable units acquisitions and an increased offering of managed as central functions in order to serve the entire Group services, we can strengthen our margins in combination as efficiently as possible and work steadily to improve with continuous improvements. Moreover, sustained efficiency through continuous improvements. 1 Increased share of sales in SMB 2 Larger share of private label products We have an expressed focus on small and mediumAt the start of the 2016/17 financial year, we sized businesses, which purchase online to a greater launched private label products in some core extent. We therefore particularly target our offerings product categories, such as cables, USB flash drives to this customer group. Small and medium-sized and accessories for mobile phones and tablets. businesses generally have limited or no personnel New products, including headphones, speakers and resources in IT and are therefore more often monitors, have also gradually been launched in price interested in our range of services and solutions. By segments where brands are not a deciding factor increasing this customer group’s share of our total in purchasing decisions. By replacing products from sales we can improve our profitability, since this external suppliers with private label products, we customer group has a higher margin compared with can strengthen our customer offering with qualitysales to the large corporate and public sector. assured products at attractive prices and enhance our profitability. Over the past few years, we have increased the share of sales in SMB from approximately 36 per cent in the The aim at the time of launch was for private label 2014/15 financial year to approximately 44 per cent in products to add an annual earnings contribution the 2018/19 financial year. of approximately SEK 40 million within three years. We achieved the target we set during the 2018/19 financial year, and we see potential for further margin expansion in this area. Five-year vision to improve profitability, presented in November 2017 0.3 – 0.5% ~ 6% 0.6 – 0.8% 0.2 – 0.4% 0.1 – 0.3% 4.6% Adjusted EBITA margin Increased Private Value-creating Managed Adjusted EBITA margin 2016/17 share of SMB label products acquisitions services 2021/22 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 23 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OUR STRATEGY 3 Value-creating acquisitions 4 Managed services We can increase our profitability over time by Our online platform for cloud-based services provides continuously expanding, through acquisitions and opportunities for further margin expansion, as these organically, our range of advanced products, services services replace conventional hardware and software and solutions. These ordinarily have higher margins with lower margins. The platform is scalable and compared with core products. Acquired operations covers a broad portfolio of SaaS configurations and therefore generally have higher profitability than applications available to the B2B market. We can see Dustin’s core business and make a positive contribution major opportunities to capture a considerable share of from the date of acquisition. When, in conjunction with this market over time. integrating our acquired operations, we make products, services or solutions available to our entire customer Our total customer base for SaaS configurations base, we can create positive synergies in terms of both increased to 76,417 users during the financial year, growth and profitability. compared with 53,988 users at the end of the 2017/18 financial year. Three acquisitions were completed in the 2018/19 financial year: the Danish company Inventio.IT, the Dutch company Norisk and the Finnish company Chilit. We increased our focus and accelerated the tempo of our integration work, integrating three acquired companies during the financial year. Acquired operations have higher profitability than our core business and make a positive contribution from the date of acquisition. Corporate responsibility pervades our strategy also create strong business opportunities in the near The implementation of our strategy is characterised future – a positive development for our shareholders. by proactive corporate responsibility efforts, which includes business ethics, human rights, labour Based on our strategy, we have in consultation with conditions, work environment, well-being, environmental a selection of our key stakeholders identified and considerations, diversity and equality. For us, responsible established long-term 2020 targets for five focus business involves our long-term impact on society areas within corporate responsibility. and the environment, where our responsibility These focus areas are: extends throughout the entire value chain. The size of our operations provides us with a key role and an 1. responsible manufacturing opportunity to influence both suppliers and customers. 2. reduced climate impact 3. responsible use of resources We are convinced that leading-edge corporate 4. business ethics and anti-corruption responsibility efforts will not only be a necessity, but will 5. diversity and equality 24 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | ACQUISITIONS FOR CONTINUED GROWTH Acquisitions for continued growth Add-on acquisitions are an important element in our strategy for both growth and margin expansion and also increase our addressable market. In recent years, we have broadened our expertise and our offering through selective acquisitions of service companies, which has provided us with strong possibilities to continue to grow faster than the market and improve our margins. these acquisitions, we are broadening our service portfolio and can continue to drive the trend of making it easier for small and medium-sized businesses to buy products and services online. What acquisitions have you carried out? We have conducted a total of 15 add-on acquisitions since we were listed in the spring of 2015, in such segments as networks, hosting, security and disaster recovery. We now have a broad offering of standardised services and solutions, targeted primarily at small and medium-sized businesses. What kind of companies are you looking for? We are interested in companies that excel at managed services, and companies that have an offering or a service we can export to all our markets. Quite simply, we’re acquiring expertise targeted at services and solutions so that we can be a complete IT partner for small and medium-size companies. How important are the people behind the companies? Alexandra Drevenlid For us, it is fundamental that the employees in the EVP Services & Solutions, Nordic region companies we acquire have the same values we do, and that the corporate culture fits in with Dustin. We work to ensure that the employees in the acquired companies What is your position and strategy? will have roles they can develop in and create value for Dustin is in an exciting phase, in which we are building Dustin. further on our origins in online hardware sales by strengthening our offering of services and solutions, Integration – how important is it? both organically and through acquisitions. It’s a very important part that we are focusing on, both to incorporate the expertise into Dustin and to Why are you so active when it comes achieve economies of scale and synergies in the sales to acquiring new companies? and delivery organisation for services. Using increased One of the growing trends in the IT market is more internal expertise, we can continue to develop our and more things being purchased as services. Through offering. 26 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | ACQUISITIONS FOR CONTINUED GROWTH Three acquisitions were carried out in the 2018/19 Since our listing on Nasdaq Stockholm, we have carried financial year: the Danish company Inventio.IT, the out a total of 15 acquisitions in the Nordic countries and Dutch company Norisk and the Finnish company Chilit. the Netherlands. INVENTIO.IT “We see significant potential in offering standardised services; to continue growing, we need to be part of a larger context. Dustin, which aims to be an IT partner focused on both products and services, provides us with the right conditions,” says Thomas Klavsen, CEO of Inventio.IT. Specialisation: Hosting, infrastructure and business systems as a service Founded: 2001 Country: Denmark No. of employees: Around 80 Sales in 2018: Approximately DKK 106 million NORISK “Our offering fits well with Dustin’s offering. For us, the acquisition means we can continue to grow and reach new customers,” says Lammert Brouwer, CEO of Norisk. Specialisation: Broad portfolio of managed IT services, ranging from infrastructure to client management Founded: 2005 Country: The Netherlands No. of employees: Around 40 Sales in 2018: Approximately EUR 9.5 million CHILIT “As a part of Dustin, we have the right conditions to continue developing as a total supplier to SMBs, while benefiting from Dustin’s experience in developing service offerings,” says Markku Larkio, CEO of Chilit. Specialisation: A strong sales staff and a broad IT offering, primarily to the SMB segment Founded: 2010 Country: Finland No. of employees: Around 60 Sales in 2018: Approximately EUR 33.7 million Integration of acquired companies To enable us to make full use of acquired skills, continue Dustin’s structured three-stage process for its integration to develop our offering and generate economies of scale activities ensures and facilitates a positive result. in our service business, the operations acquired are being integrated. This is an important, and demanding, part of 1. Core integration (for example, financial reporting the transaction process owing to the diversity of solutions and policies) that are to be harmonised among the organisations. 2. Analysis and preparations (for example, review of systems and processes) During the year, we increased our focus on and 3. Full integration (for example, systems integration resources for our integration activities. and legal consolidation) DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 27 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OPERATIONAL TARGETS Operational targets Dustin's Board of Directors has established financial targets, corporate responsibility targets and a dividend policy for the Company’s operations. Our operational targets aim to maintain and strengthen the Group’s leading position as well as to create shareholder value through high total returns for Dustin’s shareholders. FINANCIAL TARGETS Outcome EBITA margin 2018/19 Growth Dustin’s target is to achieve average annual organic % 6 growth of 8 per cent over a business cycle. In addition to this, Dustin intends to expand through acquisitions. 5 Outcome 2018/19: 9.9 per cent and CAGR (5 years) 4 6.1 per cent, respectivel 3 Margin 2 Dustin’s target is to increase the adjusted EBITA margin over time, and to achieve an adjusted EBITA margin of 1 between 5 and 6 per cent in the medium term. 0 Outcome 2018/19: 4.5 per cent 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Outcome capital structure: 2.9 Capital structure Dustin’s capital structure should enable a high degree of financial flexibility and provide scope for acquisitions. The Company’s net debt target is a 2.0–3.0 multiple of adjusted EBITDA for the past 12-month period. Outcome 2018/19: 2.9 multiple Dividend policy Dustin’s dividend payout target is 70 per cent of net profit. However, the Company’s financial position, cash flow, acquisition opportunities and future prospects will be taken into consideration. Proposal by the Board 2018/19: 75 per cent of the net times adjusted EBITDA profit for the year, corresponding to SEK 266 million. 28 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION | OPERATIONAL TARGETS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS Responsible use of resources Responsible manufacturing Target: Starting in 2014/15, to recover 140,000 sold products Target: Starting in 2015/16, to conduct 80 factory audits by the end of 2020, of which 70,000 by the end of 2018/19. by the end of 2020, of which 57 inspections by the end Outcome 2018/19: During the year, we recovered a total of 2018/19. of 83,540 products, of which 79,084 products for reuse Outcome 2018/19: We conducted 20 factory audits and the remaining 4,456 were recycled. Since this target during the year and a total of 51 audits since the start of was adopted, we have taken back a total of 147,828 end2015/16. of-life units, representing 106 per cent of the 2020 target. End-of-life returns 14/15 18/19 Target 70,000 Diversity and equality Target: By 2020, each gender is to make up at least 40 per cent of the entire organisation. At the end of 147,828 2018/19, our interim target was to achieve a gender balance (women/men) of 36/64 at senior level and 37/63 Outcome within the entire organisation. Outcome 2018/19: At the end of the financial year, our gender balance (women/men) at the senior level was 38/62 (36/64) and within the entire organisation 31/69 (30/70). Reduced climate impact Business ethics and anti-corruption Target: To reduce our climate impact, in the form of Target: 100 per cent of our business areas will undergo greenhouse gas emissions, by 40 per cent by the end of a risk assessment concerning business ethics and anti2020, compared with 2014/15. corruption and 100 per cent of reported incidents will be followed up. Outcome 2018/19: The total amount of greenhouse gases we release has increased with 15.2 per cent since Outcome 2018/19: 100 per cent of our business areas 2017/18, while our organic growth totalled 9.9 per cent. underwent a business ethics and anti-corruption If we include emissions savings relating to the reuse risk assessment. One incident were reported in the of end-of-life returns, the recycling of waste together whistle-blower function and investigated in 2018/19. with carbon offset from one of our logistics partners, No material shortcomings relating to business ethics or the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions has been corruption were noted. completely eliminated since 2014/15. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 29 Complete partner for successful businesses Dustin provides customers with the possibility of being on the leading edge through a broad selection of IT products with related services and solutions, comprising approximately 255,000 hardware and software products from approximately 2,800 manufacturers. With our high level of IT expertise, we provide support for both individual products and services as well as packaged solutions. In combination with attractive prices and fast and reliable delivery, we meet the majority of customer needs. We are perceived as an agile strategic partner for small and mediumsized businesses, addressing their IT challenges. ” For us, Dustin is at the same time a sounding board, an extra resource and specialist expertise in one. To have access to this great palette of knowledge means a lot to us. Ulf Andersson, IT Manager, Climat80-Gruppen OUR BUSINESS MODEL | OUR CUSTOMER OFFERING Our customer offering 1 A broad product and service offering Dustin has adopted a role as aggregator and offers a lease IT equipment rather than buy. Financing solutions wide range of hardware and software products, and are based on a circular business model that may related services and solutions at competitive prices. We include both repairs and end-of-life returns. The service help our customers through the entire process, from offering is often designed as subscription services, needs analysis to delivery and support for products which provide the customer with greater flexibility and and services. For most customers, using IT equipment cost control while strengthening loyalty to Dustin as a generates more value than owning it, so we also offer supplier. a range of financing solutions so that customers can DWARE HAR LCP 5 000 RIBUTOR D IST S SMB TWARE SOF 100 000 B2C VATE LABE P RI L 350 000 Brands Aggregator Customers 32 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR BUSINESS MODEL | OUR CUSTOMER OFFERING 2 Hardware Hardware is the core of our offering. Dustin’s strengthen our customer offering with quality-assured comprehensive range of hardware products has products at an attractive price. This also enables us mainly been selected to meet the needs of small to increase our control throughout the value chain, and medium-sized businesses, but also caters to and working conditions in manufacturing plants can large corporates and the public sector. We work be inspected by corporate responsibility managers at continuously to develop our offering, and follow Dustin together with a team of local experts trained in product launches carefully to ensure that new our Code of Conduct. products are offered to our customers as quickly as possible. We can offer our customers an attractive It’s simpler to choose the eco-label flow of campaigns, due to close and frequent As part of our corporate responsibility efforts, we want dialogues with manufacturers and distributors. to make it easier for customers to choose products that are better for the climate. Around 23 per cent Private label products of sales are eco-labelled IT products we have as part Around three years ago, Dustin launched private of our range (TCO Certified, EPEAT, Svanen, Energy label products in some core product categories, Star, EU Ecolabel and Blå Ängeln). The various ecosuch as cables, USB flash drives and accessories labels show that the product meets predetermined for mobile phones and tablets. New products such requirements linked to such factors as energy savings, as headphones, speakers and monitors have been chemicals, recycling, recycled materials and working successively launched. In this way, we can further conditions. 23% of sales pertain to eco-labelled IT products END-OF-LIFE RETURNS – TAKEBACK AS A SERVICE We endeavour to extend product lifetimes by encouraging our customers to return them to us when they no longer need them. Firstly, we ensure that functional products are reused and sold as second hand and are thereby offered a new life as part of the circular economy. Takeback as a Service is an end-of-life returns service for reusing old IT products, which makes it easy for customers to help reduce the climate impact. Products that cannot be reused are recycled in a responsible manner. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 33 OUR BUSINESS MODEL | OUR CUSTOMER OFFERING 3 Software, services and integrated solutions Dustin offers a comprehensive portfolio of software, security, support and end-of-life returns to reduce services and solutions for primarily small and mediumenvironmental impact. As a complete IT partner, we sized business, but also for large companies and the offer data storage, network and security solutions that public sector. By combining several items of hardware, make it easy for small businesses to create a costsoftware and service into an integrated solution, we efficient, functional and flexible IT environment focused can offer a simple and effective solution to a customer’s on performance and reliability. total IT needs in a single purchase. Our mobility services and solutions provide users with Today, a growing share of software is being sold the flexibility to work wherever and whenever they packaged as a service, or SaaS. We have a broad offering want to, and from any device. We also offer a range of software and associated services, such as license of cloud-based storage, backup and disaster recovery management, to optimise license models and lower services, in both public and private clouds. In addition, costs. Our service offering includes client management, we offer product-related services such as inventory ranging from product selection and configuration to management, unpacking, marking and configuration. Today, a growing share of software is being sold packaged as a service, or SaaS. 4 High level of IT expertise Since the company’s foundation more than 30 years ago customer service, either online or with the consultative in Sweden, Dustin has gathered a broad and deep level or relationship selling organisation’s guidance. Today, of IT expertise. Now we are adding further expertise focus is on ensuring that the customer’s IT is working in services and solutions through our acquisitions. effectively, and not only providing the right products. We design our offering so that customers can easily This is particularly the case for small and medium-sized find the information and support they need both businesses, which generally lack their own IT personnel. before and after purchasing. It is a matter of providing By using our IT expertise, we become a strategic support when choosing a product or solution and partner that solves the customer’s IT challenges and the ensuring everything works. Contact occurs through our problems that could arise. 34 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR BUSINESS MODEL | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL Efficient and responsible purchasing and logistics model Purchasing from both manufacturers and distributors increases our ability to offer competitive prices and efficient stockholding. It is important for us to ensure that the suppliers we collaborate with act responsibly. Our Supplier Code of Conduct provides a basis for where we conduct our purchasing. DWARE HAR LCP 5 000 RIBUTOR D IST S SMB TWARE SOF 100 000 B2C VATE LABE P RI L 350 000 Brands Aggregator Customers Optimised model with sourcing comes to volume discounts, terms for product returns, from multiple suppliers price protection policies, marketing contributions and By sourcing from a large number of different responsibility. At the same time, we are an important suppliers, both from distributors and directly from sales channel and partner in conjunction with manufacturers, we can offer our customers a broad campaigns and product launches. range at competitive prices. Our flow-of-goods model allows us to have a low level of tied-up working capital In the 2018/19 financial year, about 77 per cent of and a strong cash flow, which creates the conditions hardware and software products were purchased from for both growth and a dividend to our shareholders. distributors. The largest distributor represented 22 per cent of our total purchases and together the three Our market position and high sales volumes offer us largest distributors accounted for 49 per cent. an advantageous position with our suppliers when it DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 35 Our ambition is to work systematically based on the entire life cycle and to integrate corporate responsibility aspects at each stage, both up and down the chain. OUR BUSINESS MODEL | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL Follow-up and transparency in purchasing During the year, we expanded the requirement and manufacturing operations regarding our Supplier Code of Conduct to also include Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct is built on the next level in the value chain. This level includes internationally recognised conventions on human all manufacturers where our annual purchase volume rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and is exceeds SEK 2 million. At the end of the 2018/19 a part of the purchase agreement for direct sourcing. financial year, 88.8 per cent of these manufacturers had For annual direct purchases exceeding SEK 200,000, we either adopted our Code of Conduct or had their own ensure that the supplier adopts the Code of Conduct. code of conduct that corresponds to our requirements. At the end of the 2018/19 financial year, 99.6 per cent This means that our responsibility now covers a larger of our hardware suppliers, from whom our total annual portion of the value chain, and that we reach a growing direct purchasing volume exceeds SEK 200,000 or number of suppliers in our efforts to promote change. equivalent, had adopted our Code of Conduct or had their own code of conduct that corresponds to our Today, we carry out regular risk analyses and factory requirements (99.8 per cent in 2017/18). audits to ensure that manufacturing is conducted in accordance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. By being Our ambition is to work systematically based on the physically in place and leading factory audits, we can entire life cycle and to integrate corporate responsibility link the result to our purchasing operations and work aspects at each stage, both up and down the chain. in an integrated manner with corrective actions. At This encompasses everything from how they are the end of the 2018/19 financial year, 95.7 per cent of manufactured, the choice of products we purchase and our suppliers for direct purchases of hardware, from the suppliers we choose to work with to how we work whom our total annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK with existing suppliers and how we conclude business 200,000, had been subject to a risk assessment (96.0 relations as well as how we recycle or reuse products per cent in 2017/18). During the financial year, 20 factory through end-of-life returns. audits were conducted (19 in 2017/18). Non-conformance management and follow-up Major non-conformance – Significant violation of the We have identified four levels of non-conformance that requirement. The finding indicates a systematic failure we use when we follow up how well a supplier lives in the management system and a lack of control. The up to the requirements of Dustin’s Supplier Code of impact on employee safety, employee rights or the Conduct. Depending on the type of non-conformance surrounding community is moderate. Non-conformance and the severity level, the manufacturer has a certain must be corrected within 60 days. number of days to correct the non-conformance. A root cause analysis is then carried out and preventive actions Minor non-conformance – A partial violation of the are prepared. requirement. The finding can be regarded as an isolated case or a random incident. The impact on employee Zero-tolerance non-conformance – Unacceptable safety, employee rights or the surrounding community is finding, with a significant impact that requires low. Non-conformance must be corrected within 90 days. immediate corrective actions. This type of nonconformance applies to child or slave labour, immediate In 2018/19, we identified a total of 708 cases of danger of injury, bribes and forgery. The nonnon-conformance (285), which were systematically conformance must be reported to Dustin’s CEO within corrected and followed up. The number of cases of non24 hours and corrected within 48 hours. conformance was higher than in the previous year, which is explained by a larger number of new manufacturers Critical non-conformance – Full violation of the and a low level of maturity among them regarding requirement, putting employee health, safety or corporate responsibility topics and requirements. Most of rights, or the surrounding community at risk. Nonthe non-conformance was minor, and no “zero-tolerance” conformance must be corrected within 30 days. discrepancies were revealed as part of the audits. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 37 OUR BUSINESS MODEL | EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS MODEL Efficient and sustainable logistics model warehouse. About 96 per cent of all orders available Our logistics model is based on a central warehouse for direct delivery were picked, packaged and delivered in Rosersberg, north of Stockholm, together with on the same day the order was placed. At the end of smaller consolidation warehouses in Denmark, Finland the fiscal year 2018/19, Dustin decided to invest in and Norway as well as a regional warehouse in the increased automation of the central warehouse. Netherlands. These are supplemented with direct deliveries from suppliers to end customers, which We stock just under 10 per cent of products in our own enables both fast and reliable delivery to our customers. warehouse and had a stock turnover ratio of about 24 The warehouse capacity of approximately 20,000 during the 2018/19 financial year. Rapid stock turnover square metres is not yet being fully utilised, and can combined with price protection and the right of return handle several more years of growth. with several of our suppliers produces a very low level of obsolescence. We have created an efficient warehousing process at the central warehouse, where we handle on average Direct deliveries from selected manufacturers and 18,000 products every day. During the 2018/19 financial distributors to end customers also contribute to the year, 1.3 million orders were sent from the central low level of obsolescence. Our logistics work focuses on continuously optimising stock levels and transportation to enhance efficiency and reduce our environmental impact. Our logistics work focuses on continuously Our logistics flow also creates various types of waste. optimising stock levels and transportation to enhance We sort the waste into multiple categories in order efficiency and reduce our environmental impact. to maximise opportunities for recycling. We strive to Customer deliveries currently constitute most of our reduce the total amount of waste we create, while at environmental impact, measured as greenhouse gas the same time increasing the quantity of products we emissions. It is therefore important for us to stock the can recover and that can be reused. right products in the right quantities and to choose the right mode of transportation, to reduce transport distances and to maximise filling factor by co-loading. 38 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR OPERATIONS | OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our business segments We have divided our operations into three business segments, based on customer category: Small and Medium-sized Businesses (SMB), Large Corporate and Public Sector (LCP) and Business to Consumer (B2C). In the SMB and LCP segments, customers are served both through the online platform and through relationship and consultative selling. In the B2C segment, customers are only served through the online platform. In turn, the business segments are supported by scalable and shared central functions. DWARE HAR LCP 5 000 RIBUTOR D IST S SMB TWARE SOF 100 000 B2C VATE LABE P RI L 350 000 Brands Aggregator Customers Growth in the SMB segment in 2018/19 totalled 26.5% 40 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR OPERATIONS | OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Over the next few years, we look forward to increased efficiency in service sales and to consolidating our leading position in Sweden as well as further strengthening our SMB business in other markets. SMB Small and mediumSMB – Net sales and segment margin sized businesses SEK million 6,000 20% 5,000 We define the SMB segment as small and medium-sized 16% businesses with up to 500 employees. This is our main 4,000 12% target group and the focus of our customer offering. 3,000 Customers are served through the online platform and 8% 2,000 through relationship and consultative selling. We are 4% 1,000 a one-stop shop with a complete offering of products, services and solutions with related support. 0 0% 2017/18 2018/19 The past year and the future The segment performed well in all markets in the 2018/19 2018/19 • Percentage of total sales: 44 per cent (43) financial year. Together with this year’s acquisition • Percentage of segment results: 60 per cent (58) of Inventio.IT, Norisk and Chilit, the previous year’s • Sales growth: 26.5 per cent (23.9), of which acquisition of Vincere has been an important step in 4.0 per cent (9.6) organic continuing to strengthen our financial position. The • Segment margin: 10.6 per cent (11.6) segment margin was negatively impacted by higher • Number of customers: approx. 100,000 costs in conjunction with the transformation towards • Average order value: approx. SEK 8.000 increased service sales. Over the next few years, we • Typical customer: 1–49 employees • Purchasing behaviour: Minor orders, replacement look forward to increased efficiency in service sales and purchases, new employees to consolidating our leading position in Sweden as well • Geographical presence: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, as further strengthening our SMB business in other Finland and the Netherlands markets. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 41 OUR OPERATIONS | OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS LCP Large corporate and LCP – Net sales and segment margin public sector SEK million 7,000 24% We define the LCP segment as larger companies and 6,000 20% organisations with more than 500 employees and the 5,000 16% public sector. Procurements and larger orders are mainly 4,000 managed by the sales organisation, while repetitive and 12% 3,000 minor orders are handled using the online platform. We 8% primarily offer these customers hardware and software 2,000 as well as product-related services. 1,000 4% 0 0% The past year and the future 2017/18 2018/19 The 2018/19 financial year was marked by a strong volume trend in the Public Sector customer group, 2018/19 primarily as a result of the Danish framework agreement • Percentage of total sales: 51 per cent (51) signed in the autumn of 2018. The segment margin • Percentage of segment results: 37 per cent (38) was negatively impacted by a higher proportion of new • Sales growth: 20.7 per cent (1.9), of which 16.5 per cent (-3.8) organic agreements with lower margins, and a higher share of • Segment margin: 5.6 per cent (6.3) sales to the Public Sector customer group. More mature • Number of customers: approx. 5,000 agreements and an increasing share of sales to the • Average order value: approx. SEK 12,000 Large Corporate customer group over time will have a • Typical customer: 500–1,000 employees favourable impact on the margin trend. • Purchasing behaviour: Larger orders, supplementary, procurements, rollouts • Geographical presence: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands B2C Business to Consumer B2C – Net sales and segment margin SEK million 700 24% The B2C segment represents the B2C market and is 600 20% served by the online platform only. We consider the 500 16% B2C market as a complementary segment. 400 12% The past year and the future 300 8% The consumer segment has reported relatively stable 200 sales over time, but is affected by temporary offers 4% 100 and campaigns conducted by our competitors. In the 0 0% 2018/19 financial year, sales weakened somewhat while 2017/18 2018/19 profitability was strengthened. This was primarily as a result of our focus on margins over growth in the 2018/19 segment. We expect continued stable growth in the • Percentage of total sales: 5 per cent (6) segment and see substantial potential in Finland, • Percentage of segment results: 4 per cent (4) Norway and above all the Netherlands in conjunction • Sales growth: -2.4 per cent (8.5), of which -3.9 per cent (7.9) organic with the launch of online shopping at the end of October • Segment margin: 5.9 per cent (4.9) 2019. • Number of customers: approx. 350,000 • Average order value: approx. SEK 2,000 • Typical customer: Consumers • Purchasing behaviour: Minor orders • Geographical presence: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 43 Our culture The development of our corporate culture comes from developing the people who in turn shape our culture. Together, we build and maintain confidence among customers, employees, suppliers, the general public, shareholders and other stakeholders. Dustin’s values lay the foundation for how we work and act as a company. We believe in an inclusive corporate culture with respect for each other based on attributes, experience and values. We are a company in which our employees jointly contribute to developing our business, our culture and our targets. Our ambition is to help our customers be on the leading edge and to focus on their core operations. Our task is to define and standardise the offering for our customers based on their needs, and to reduce complexity. But it is not only about our customers; everyone who works at Dustin should have the opportunity to be on the leading edge through the tools we use. Together, we will build a culture full of ideas, talent and drive – a place where we work together to create new solutions and business. ” Dustin’s values lay the foundation for how we work and act as a company. OUR VALUES | WIN AS A TEAM Win as a team Our values Diversity and equality Continuing our success while acting in an ethical and As one of the leading companies in the Nordic market, responsible manner throughout the entire value chain we have a responsibility and opportunity to promote requires both commitment and cooperation, among our greater diversity and equality in the IT industry. One employees and suppliers, customers, and other stakeof our focus areas since the 2014/15 financial year has holders. We always work together to achieve success. been diversity and equality, with the aim of increasing We let our employees be a part of forming Dustin’s the number of women in senior positions. In the past future. When we grow, our employees grow. “Win as year, we further broadened our focus and worked a team” is our core value, which is supplemented by actively with inclusion and diversity. One initiative as four support values: live up to promises, strive to impart of these efforts is the collaboration with Mitt Liv, prove, challenge all costs, and keep it simple. Our work which was initiated in spring 2018. Our active work approach is characterised by our values. For us, this is with diversity gives us new perspectives and we can about keeping our promises and trusting each other, challenge ourselves and drive the business forward. We remaining proactive and acting before problems arise view diversity as a success factor and are convinced that at the same time as we use our resources efficiently and employees who reflect society as a whole also help us constantly strive to simplify and improve both processrespond better towards our customers. es and our customer offering. WE WIN AS A TEAM 46 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR VALUES | WIN AS A TEAM FOUR FOCUS AREAS FOR GREATER DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY We have chosen to work within four specific areas to increase diversity and equality within the company: recruitment, inclusion, governance and mentorship. RECRUITMENT When we recruit, we always try to put together the best and most dedicated team. We endeavour to make all job advertisements available in both English and the local language and to have at least one man and one woman with equal competence among the final candidates as part of an executive recruitment. GOVERNANCE It is important that our commitment to diversity is reflected at all levels in the organisation, from the Board of Directors and Group Management to our employees in all coun tries. We currently have an equality target for each gender to make up at least 40 per cent of the organisation. The current gender-balance between women and men on the Board is 43/57 and in Group Management 44/56. INCLUSION An open and inclusive corporate culture is supported by both sound values and good examples within the company, by clear guidelines and by long-term targets. We believe an organisation that represents diversity is better at allowing employees to use their personal strengths and to express their needs. We disassociate ourselves from all forms of discrimination. MENTORSHIP Since 2018, Dustin has been actively involved in “Mitt Livs Chans,” which is a Mitt Livs mentorship programme. This has meant all Dustin employees are offered an opportunity to mentor an academic with a foreign background. These mentorships help us to expand our network when recruiting and we can help job seeking academics with a foreign background to enter the labour market. They also increase awareness and knowledge about inclusion and diversity in the organisation. Occupational health and safety Our operations in Sweden are governed by work Our objective is to create a working environment environment management systems as per the where employees are motivated and thrive – physically, requirements of the OHSAS 18001 standard, and moving psychologically and socially. We wish to encourage forward pursuant to the ISO 45001 standard, as well as leadership that promotes safety and creates an the AFS 2001:1 provisions. The line organisation bears the insight that accidents can be prevented with the right responsibility. Managers coordinate and drive ongoing behaviour. Since 2016/17, occupational health and safety health and safety efforts, through participation and has been a part of Dustin’s Code of Conduct and we responsible involvement on the part of employees. All also have a separate health and safety policy that covers Dustin employees must have at least one professional the company at a Nordic level. development meeting with their manager every year. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 47 The share and shareholders Dustin’s share has been listed in the Mid Cap segment on Nasdaq Stockholm since February 13, 2015. At the end of the financial year, the market capitalisation was approximately SEK 7.2 billion (7.0), corresponding to an increase of 3.1 per cent. The share price at the end of August amounted to SEK 80.90 (90.10) per share and was affected by the rights issue we conducted during the first quarter. THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS | OUR SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Our share and shareholders Market value and share price performance Incentive programmes Dustin's market capitalisation increased by 3.1 percent The incentive programme for senior executives during the fiscal year to SEK 7,172 (6,958) million. As of introduced at the Annual General Meeting on January August 31, 2019, the share price was SEK 80.90 (90.10) 19, 2016 entitles participants, through the use of per share and has been affected by the rights issue warrants, to subscribe for new shares in the company the company performed during the first quarter. The during the first half of 2019. The programme was change in share price during the financial year repfully subscribed, and the number of shares increased resents a decrease of 10.2 per cent compared with the 388,480 in total to 88,647,339 shares. year-earlier date. The OMX Sweden Mid Cap PI index increased 1.3 per cent during the same period. Dividends In accordance with the dividend policy adopted by the Turnover Board of Directors, Dustin’s target is to pay dividends of Total turnover during the financial year was more than 70 per cent of net profit for the year. For the approximately 44.2 million shares (41.4) with a total 2018/19 financial year, the Board of Directors proposes value of nearly SEK 3.6 billion (3.3). The average daily a dividend of SEK 3.00 (2.71) per share, corresponding to turnover amounted to about 177,000 shares (164,000), SEK 266 million (239) or 75 per cent (78) of net profit for corresponding to a daily value of approximately SEK 14.4 the year. million (13.0). Ownership structure Rights issue At the end of the period, the company had a total of The number of shares and votes in Dustin Group 7,191 (6,534) shareholders, equivalent to an increase of AB has increased as a result of. Through the rights 657. The table below shows the ten largest shareholders issue resolved at an Extraordinary General Meeting and their holdings at August 31, 2019. In October 2019, on October 10, 2018, the number of shares and votes Axmedia AB (Axel Johnson AB) increased its holding to increased by 11,032,357 in November 2018. At November 29.8 percent. 30, 2018, the total number of shares and votes in the Company amounted to 88,258,859. Shareholders Shareholders Shares % Axmedia AB (Axel Johnson AB) 22,940,565 25.9 AMF Försäkring & Fonder 8,705,064 9.8 Swedbank Robur Funds 8,028,442 9.1 Franklin Templeton 5,456,571 6.2 Capital Group 4,885,280 5.5 Allianz SE 4,661,728 5.3 ODIN Funds 2,931,417 3.3 Fidelity Investments (FMR) 2,519,137 2.8 Crux Asset Management 2,381,151 2.7 Highclere International Investors 1,942,283 2.2 Total ten largest owners 64,451,638 72.7 Other 24,195,701 27.3 Total 88,647,339 100.0 50 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS | OUR SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Analyst coverage The following analysts cover Dustin: ABG Sundal Collier Daniel Thorsson Carnegie Investment Bank AB Mikael Laséen Danske Bank Carolina Elvind Handelsbanken Capital Markets Erik Elander Kepler Cheuvreux Emil Johannessen Nordea Bank Erik Lindholm-Röjestål SEB Ramil Koria Owner per geography 18.9 Sweden 7.6 USA 59.5 France 6.6 UK Norway 5.4 Other 2.0 Owner per category 1.6 5.0 27.5 F oreign institutional owners Swedish institutional owners Swedish other 39.3 Swedish private individuals Foreign other 26.9 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 51 Director's report The Board of Directors and the CEO of Dustin Group AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 556703-3062, hereby present the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report that also includes the statutory Corporate Responsibility Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year September 1, 2018 to August 31, 2019. Our corporate responsibility efforts Statement from the Head of Corporate Responsibility 54 Responsible use of resources 56 Reduced climate impact 57 Responsible manufacturing 61 Diversity and equality 65 Business ethics and anti-corruption 67 Governance and development Financial overview 68 Risks and Risk Management 76 Corporate Governance Report 88 Board of Directors 98 Group Management 100 Financial information Consolidated financial statements 102 Parent Company financial statements 106 Notes 110 Corporate responsibility information 147 Accounting policies for corporate responsibility 150 The Board’s signatures 153 Auditor’s report 154 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 160 Statement from the Head of Corporate Responsibility We can state with pride, that it has been an eventful year as regards corporate responsibility, both for society as a whole and for Dustin in particular. Awareness of climate issues, and the desire for change, have never been greater. The debate is being broadened, and being raised by new players and in new contexts. This increases expectations that decision makers and companies will act stronger. For us, seeing the tangible effects of the debate – which has contributed to increasing reuse and recycling, as well as growing sales of sustainably labelled products – is inspiring. The circular economy entails tremendous possibilities as well as new challenges, and we are ready to meet both. Responsible use of resources For us, the 2018/19 financial year was synonymous with a year in which the demand for our end-of-life returns service of used products picked up in earnest. We can state, with some pride, that this year we took back more used IT products than we did in the previous three years combined, and we have already reached our target for 2020. The positive effect that end-of-life returns have on the climate gives us a taste of the power in a circular economy. One indication of the potential in the responsible use of resources is that it requires approximately 1.8 tonnes* of raw materials in their unprocessed form to manufacture a computer. But increased circularity also brings new challenges to address. A rapid and robust increase in end-of-life returns could create a situation in which the offering of used products in the Nordic market is greater than demand over the short term. This could entail a risk that the products end up in developing countries instead, either immediately or in the next step. That is why this year, we entered a partnership with universities and businesses to increase the traceability of old electronics, thus finding solutions together to ensure that the products continue to be handled responsibly. Our climate impact We can confirm that our underlying climate impact increased somewhat during the year as a result of strong organic growth combined with the acquisitions we carried out. Dustin’s target is to reduce its climate impact by 40 per cent compared with 2014/15. Over the last few years, we have dedicated ourselves to reducing emissions for the areas we can directly impact, such as the transition to renewable energy use. As a next step, we have to establish cross-industry partnerships to further reduce emissions, especially in relation to transportation. This will mean we will face challenges in achieving our climate targets up through 2020, but we are convinced that establishing cross-industry partnerships will benefit society as a whole over the long term. * Source: Kick the habit UNEP 2008 Responsible manufacturing For us, increased awareness in society as a whole, and demands for companies to assume greater responsibility mean a continued focus on transparency and systematic work along the entire value chain. During the year, we conducted additional factory audits to ensure responsible working conditions in manufacturing, and expanded the requirements regarding our Supplier Code of Conduct. Now it also includes all hardware manufacturers where our annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK 2 million. We can point out, with some satisfaction, that our responsibility extends to the next level in the value chain and that we are working with a growing number of supplier levels, we are transparent as regards the shortcomings we discover and we are pursuing improvement efforts together with our partners. Diversity and equality We have actively been working further on diversity and equality at Dustin – for example, our partnership with “Mitt livs chans” and their mentoring program. Together, we are promoting increased diversity in the job market for non-native Swedes with academic training. As regards equality, we note a positive trend among Group Management. Looking at the company as a whole, we are impacted by a rapid pace of acquisitions while pursuing positive change for the industry by acquiring more companies and integrating them into our equality initiatives. And finally, we can point out that we take a positive view of more and more customers putting stricter corporate responsibility requirements on their IT partner. They want a responsible partner who is clearly pushing corporate responsibility efforts forward. It is highly gratifying to see that our work is appreciated among customers as well as both current and potential owners. Henrik Lampa Head of Corporate Responsibility OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES Responsible use of resources As an aggregator, Dustin has an important role in the value chain, which gives us both a responsibility and the potential to reuse and recycle end-of-life products. In our focus area regarding responsible use of resources, the demand for our end-of-life returns service of used products increased sharply during the year. We can conclude that we have already reached our target for 2020 of taking back a total of 140,000 products. Progress during the year In 2018/19, 83,540 sold products were collected as endpassed our target for 2020. One of the leading causes of of-life returns, which is more than double the amount this positive result is that today, we offer our end-of-life compared with the preceding year (35,342). Of these returns service in all the Nordic countries. products, 79,084 could be re-used (33,291) and the remainder – 4,456 products – were recycled (2,051). We The products reused or recycled include the categories have collected a total of 147,828 products as end-ofdesktop computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, life returns since 2014/15, which means we have now monitors, servers, networking equipment and printers. Total number of end-of-life returns 160,000 147,828 Interim target 140,000 Outcome 140,000 120,000 100,000 80,000 70,000 64,288 60,000 40,000 35,000 28,946 20,000 9,127 10,000 4,370 5,000 2,500 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 56 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT Reduced climate impact Dustin’s aim is to reduce its climate impact by 40 per cent in 2020 compared with the 2014/15 financial year. As a result of strong organic growth and several acquisitions, our emissions increased somewhat during the 2018/19 financial year. Progress during the year At the end of the financial year, greenhouse gas emissions the target for 2020 of a 40 per cent reduction. Over the from operations amounted to 2,293 tonnes (1,991) of CO₂ last few years, we have dedicated ourselves to reducing equivalents (CO₂e). The total includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and emissions for the areas we can directly impact, such as Scope 3 emissions. The largest amount of greenhouse conversions to renewable energy use. A next step requires gas emissions, 69 per cent (72), relates to transportation, cross-industry partnerships to further reduce emissions, followed by business travel and lease vehicles. The total especially in transportation. We see a need in the trans­ amount of greenhouse gases we release has increased 15.2 portation industry for a more rapid conversion of its vehicle per cent since 2017/18, while our organic growth totalled fleets to fossil-free fuels. We also believe that our new 9.9 per cent. Since the base year 2014/15, we have reduced service vehicle policy – replacing fossil-fuel vehicles with our greenhouse gas emissions by 13.5 per cent, excluding chargeable hybrids to an ever greater extent – will have emissions reductions in the value chain, and are behind a positive effect on our emissions in the next few years. Greenhouse gas emissions, Dustin 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 GHG Scope 1 direct emissions from company-owned vehicles (kg CO2e) 23,390 19,889 10,709 18,805 14,216 GHG Scope 2 indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling (kg CO2e) GHG Scope 2 – ’market-based’ 40,452 41,913 304,698 470,897 511,711 GHG Scope 2 – ’location-based’ 1,208,403 1 610,894 1,401,262 1,253,799 1,236,881 GHG Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) Emissions from outbound transport activities (kg CO2e) 1,574,236 1 443,196 1,434,518 1,632,937 1,790,398 Emissions from business travel (kg CO2e) 352,252 265,887 276,558 211,074 123,410 Emissions from off-premises data centres (kg CO2e) 27,811 1,142 Emissions from lease vehicles (kg CO2e) 275,194 219,214 277,439 273,783 212,418 Total (Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3) 2,293,335 1,991,241 2,303,922 2,607,496 2,652,153 If we include the climate impact from the acquisitions number of offices, data centres and service vehicles has we carried out but have not yet integrated into our increased. Over time, we are confident of a reduction organisation, the total amount of greenhouse gas in the amount of emissions in the companies we have emissions is 2,897 tonnes of CO₂ equivalents (CO₂e). acquired through conversion to renewable energy In general, these companies have not come as far in and fossil-free lease vehicles, as well as data centre their corporate responsibility efforts, while our total consolidation. Greenhouse gas emissions, acquired companies 2018/19 GHG Scope 1 direct emissions from company-owned vehicles (kg CO2e) 115,640 GHG Scope 2 indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling (kg CO2e) GHG Scope 2 – ’market-based’ 153,423 GHG Scope 3 other indirect emissions such as data centers and lease vehicles (kg CO2e) 334,545 Totalt (Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3) 603,608 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 57 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT We can state that as a result, it will be difficult for us to 2014/15, excluding non-integrated acquired companies, reach our target for 2020 without including the effects and by 75.9 per cent if non-integrated companies are from end-of-life returns and re-use as well as climate included. This is despite the conservative method of compensation. If we include these, the total amount of calculation we used for re-use. greenhouse gases has been eliminated completely since Emissions reductions in the value chain 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 GHG Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) Emissions offset from transport activities (kg CO2e) -47,823 -51,416 -32,734 -43,620 -40,996 Prevented emissions by recycling old units (kg CO2e) -2,038,516 -894,125 -368,815 -217,025 -112,899 Prevented emissions by recycling waste (kg CO2e) -216,466 -201,221 -96,181 -42,260 -36,660 Total prevented emissions (kg CO2e) -2,302,805 -1,146,762 -497,730 -302,905 -190,555 Over the last few years, we have dedicated ourselves to reducing emissions for the areas we can directly impact. Energy Our energy consumption for the 2018/19 financial year Despite efficiency enhancements, the consumption of was 4,819 MWh (4,894); the central warehouse was energy has increased over the past few years. The cause the single largest source. At the start of the 2019/20 of the increase is primarily acquisitions of companies, financial year, work was initiated on optimising our data which result in an increased number of properties and centre structure, which will result in fewer data centres data centres. Including acquired companies, the total in the Nordic region and thus a lower total energy use. energy consumption amounted to 6,790 MWh. Energy 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Electricity consumption, total (kWh) 3,143 340 3,462,896 2,710,809 2,513,687 2,431,460 Heating, total (kWh) 1,511 781 1,335,080 1,481,056 1,212,204 1,234,280 Cooling, total (kWh) 164 115 95,532 64,831 82,850 91,608 Total energy (kWh) 4,819,236 4,893,507 4,256,696 3,808,741 3,757,348 58 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT Waste Dustin’s business creates waste of various types. We warehouse and head office. The amount increased sort the waste into several different categories in order slightly compared with the preceding financial year, to maximise opportunities for recycling. In 2018/19, we primarily as a result of a higher business volume. generated 589 tons of waste (580) at our central Waste 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycling (kg) 167,471 145,884 108,129 104,163 121,344 Energy recovery (kg) 421,911 434,383 400,936 359,980 373,650 Landfill (kg) 0 0 70 0 1,000 Total amount of waste (kg) 589,382 580,267 509,129 464,143 495,994 For 2018/19, the volume of hazardous waste thus Everything is reused, recycled, diverted towards energy represents only the hazardous waste we have generated recovery or handled in some other form. The “Other ourselves at our central warehouse and office – such as treatment method” in the table below related to the fluorescent lamps, batteries and end-of-life electronics final disposal of hazardous waste in accordance with equipment. No hazardous waste is sent to landfill. applicable laws and regulations, which differ depending on the type of waste. Hazardous waste 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycling (kg) 159,312 10,801 204,893 273,893 79,283 Energy recovery (kg) 16,712 105 31,966 65,617 17,054 Landfill (kg) 0 0 0 0 0 Other treatment method 9,374 75 6,784 5,924 2,146 Total amount of hazardous waste (kg) 185,398 10,981 243,643 345,434 98,483 • Waste – The total amount of non-hazardous waste • Hazardous waste – The total amount of hazardous generated. This includes wood, cardboard, waste paper, waste generated. This waste includes batteries and plastic, combustible household waste, coloured and fluorescent lamps, as well as electronics. Hazardous non-coloured glass, metal and aluminium cans. waste could, for example, be flammable or toxic to humans and the environment. Hazardous waste is sorted in accordance with local legislation. We recover waste consisting of electrical and electronic products as part of our producer responsibility, but this is not included in the reported figures for 2018/19. We strive to reduce the total amount of waste we create, while at the same time increasing the quantity of products we can recover. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 59 ” During the year, we continued to carry out factory audits to ensure responsible working conditions in manufacturing. OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Responsible manufacturing As a reseller, we have a responsibility for how the products we sell are manufactured. For us, it’s a matter of being transparent in relation to our customers and working together with our suppliers for positive working conditions in manufacturing. By visiting sites ourselves and leading factory audits, we can link the results to our purchasing operations and work together with the factories on taking the measures required to correct any shortcomings. Our aim is to audit 80 selected factories by 2020. Progress during the year During the year, Dustin took the next step regarding our in line with previous years. As regards the next stage, responsibility in the supplier chain. We expanded our 88.8 per cent of our hardware manufacturers where requirements regarding our Supplier Code of Conduct our annual purchase volume exceeds SEK 2 million have to also include the next stage in the supplier chain and adopted the Code. By working with several stages in the thus all hardware manufacturers where our annual value chain, we can gain insight early on into suppliers’ purchase volume exceeds SEK 2 million. ongoing activities, involvement and competence in Among our hardware suppliers for direct purchasing order to ensure and improve working conditions in both where our total annual purchase volume exceeds SEK warehouses and factories as well as earlier in the value 200,000 in value, 99.6 per cent have adopted Dustin’s chain. This provides us with an indication of which Code of Conduct or have introduced their own code of suppliers we need to work more actively with in order conduct that corresponds to our requirements; this is to reduce the risk of non-compliances. Target: 100 per cent of Dustin’s hardware suppliers, from whom our annual direct purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will have adopted the commit­ments described in Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 99.6% 99.8% 99.8% 97.0% 85.0% Target: All of Dustin’s new hardware suppliers, from whom our annual direct purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will have adopted the commitments described in Dustin’s Code of Conduct. 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 72.8% 92.9% – – – Target: 100 per cent of Dustin’s hardware suppliers, from whom our annual direct purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will carry out a risk assessment regarding their ability to check and comply with Dustin’s Code of Conduct. 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 95.7% 96.0% 77.1% – – Target: All of Dustin’s new hardware suppliers, from whom our annual direct purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000, will carry out a risk assessment regarding their ability to check and comply with Dustin’s Code of Conduct. 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Outcome: 18.0% 26.6% – – – DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 61 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Results from this year’s factory audits During the 2018/19 financial year, we performed a We see a high level of involvement at the factories in total of 20 factory audits (19), zero of which were pursuing improvements together with Dustin. Over 70 unannounced (0). This was also the first year we per cent of the cases of non-conformance identified conducted follow-up inspections in factories we had in the first and second quarters of the financial year visited previously. It is gratifying to be able to state that have been corrected, while correction of the nonthe factories have improved their results since our first conformance discovered in the third and fourth inspections were conducted. At the end of the financial quarters is still ongoing. The main reason that rectifying year, we had conducted a total of 51 factory audits since the non-conformance has taken a long time is largely 2014/15, which is completely in line with our 2020 target due to external factors, such as a lack of permits or of 80 factory audits in total. certificates. None of the factory audits for this financial year led to our terminating our partnership with any of The majority of the inspections were led by Dustin’s the factories. Corporate Responsibility Team together with local experts trained in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct also covers Some 180 sub-demands from our Supplier Code requirements concerning conflict minerals. In 2018/19, of Conduct are reviewed during the inspection, we performed risk assessments in the supply chain for including age, working hours, wages, freedom our private label regarding minerals and their origins. of speech, discrimination, machinery safety, Some of the products contain tin, tantalum, tungsten chemicals management, living conditions and waste and/or gold – four minerals extracted in conflict zones management. Talks are also held with employees, both and used in nearly all electronic products. At the end of in groups and individually. The inspection group also the financial year, 99 per cent of our own-brand products visits employee housing and eats in the staff canteen. (96) were free of conflict minerals. The minerals come Factory audits are conducted every quarter and from certified conflict-free smelters that have passed a measures are implemented continuously at factories review under the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). A where Dustin is actively involved. total of 102 smelters were reviewed (133), corresponding to 99 per cent of our suppliers; as for the remaining 1 During the inspections, 708 cases of non-conformance per cent, we are awaiting certificates or are working (285) were identified. The number of cases of nonon replacing the smelter. The ambition is for all of our conformance was higher than in the previous year, private labels to be free from conflict materials. which is explained by a low level of maturity among several of the new factories regarding corporate responsibility topics and requirements. Most cases of non-conformance were minor, but serious and critical cases of non-conformance were observed at several factories. We were not made aware of any “zerotolerance” non-conformances. Around 70 per cent of the Share of cases of non-conformance non-conformance cases were corrected in the first and second related to shortcomings in quarter of 2018/19 human rights and occupational health and safety, such as 70% corrected social insurance, working 30% ongoing hours, chemicals handling and the lack of a well-functioning management system for the work environment. 62 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Total non-conformances, 2018/19 Area Requirement Number Examples of non-conformance of nonconformances Right to Freedom of Association and Shortcomings in dialogue with factory management 19 Collective Bargaining and employees Non-discrimination 15 Discovery of discrimination regarding age and gender Grievance Systems 2 Lack of complaint mechanism Lack of social insurance or correct Fair Compensation 54 remuneration for overtime work Overly long working days and poor control of Human rights Decent Working Hours 43 ensuring at least one day of rest per week and labour No child labor has been detected. Examples of Child Labour Avoidance 11 non-conformances have been regarding lack of action plan if a child is found in the workplace Poor control in preventing overtime for young Juvenile and Student Worker Protection 17 employees Freely Chosen Employment 21 Lack of employment contract Shortcomings in training around Inhumane Treatment 9 humiliation Shortcomings in management system for occupational Health and Safety Management System 41 health and safety Health And Safety Permits 8 Lack of occupational health and safety permits Emergency Preparedness 8 Lack of emergency preparedness plan Deficient documentation and follow-up of Injury and Incident Management 18 work-related injuries and accidents Health and Physically Demanding Work 0 safety Machine Safety 29 Insufficient safety devices Chemical Safety 89 Deficiencies in knowledge and handling of chemicals Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 41 Lack of, or incorrect, protective equipment in use The workplace has not ensured that all employees Fire Protection 46 have taken part in fire drills First Aid 22 Deficient knowledge of first aid Environmental Management System 45 Shortcomings in environmental management system Environmental Permits and Reporting 7 Lack of environmental permits Resource Reduction and Continuous 14 Lack of improvement targets Improvement Hazardous and Non-hazardous Waste Deficiencies in control over amount of waste Environmental 19 Management and hazardous waste generated protection Wastewater Management 3 Storm Water Management 0 Air Emissions 10 Materials Restrictions 10 Discovery of prohibited process chemicals Housing condiFood and Water 25 Shortcomings in hygiene related to food handling tions Worker Dormitories 24 Shortcomings in fire safety for employee housing Shortcomings in monitoring routines regarding legal Legal and Regulatory Compliance 43 requirements Lack of training for employees exposed to risks related Legal compliAnti-corruption 0 to corruption and bribes ance and ethWhistleblower Protection and Anonymous Lack of opportunities for managing anonymous ical business 4 Complaints complaints practice Information Protection 0 Lack of policy concerning risk assessment and Conflict Minerals 11 use of conflict minerals DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 63 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Diversity and equality Dustin strives continually for an even gender balance at all levels in the organisation. Our aim is to achieve a 40/60 per cent gender balance (women/men) by 2020. We have minor progress to report for the 2018/19 financial year, but counting acquired and nonintegrated companies we have not actually reached out interim target. Progress during the year In 2018/19, we did not fully reach the target we set financial year has improved slightly to 31/69 (30/70), for our equality efforts. This is due primarily to the excluding acquired and non-integrated companies. We companies we acquired not having come as far in their have come a long way in our work, but we realise that equality initiatives. At the end of the financial year, our given our rate of acquisition it will probably take longer gender balance (women/men) at the senior level has than 2020 to convert our entire workforce and achieve improved to 38/62 (36/64) year-on-year. It is gratifying our target of a 40/60 gender balance. We are taking to state that we have made some progress in Group lessons and inspiration from the successful work on Management, having achieved a gender balance of the composition of the Board of Directors and Group 44/56 (40/60), while the gender balance in the Board of Management, and among managers, in our efforts Directors remained unchanged at 43/57 (43/57). Gender to achieve a more equitable gender balance in the balance in the company as a whole at the end of the company as a whole. At Board and Group Management level, we have already reached our 2020 target, at the senior level the gender distribution is 38/62 (women/men). DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 65 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Gender balance at Dustin 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Dustin total target 37/63 33/67 29/71 26/74 22/78 Dustin total outcome 31/69 30/70 29/71 27/73 22/78 Senior level target 36/64 32/68 28/72 24/76 20/80 Senior level outcome 38/62 36/64 31/69 31/69 20/80 Group Management target 36/64 28/72 21/79 15/85 9/91 Group Management outcome 44/56 40/60 30/70 11/89 9/91 Board target 36/64 31/69 26/74 22/78 17/83 Board outcome 43/57 43/57 50/50 29/71 17/83 Gender balance at Dustin Gender balance at senior level 7 Totalt 2016/2017 Outcome 2017/18: Outcome 2017/18: 1% 31 % 31% 38% Kvinnor Women Women 9% förvärv Men 69% 69 % Män Totalt inklusive förvärv Men 62% Kvinnor 28 % Män 72 % Sverige Norge Danmark Finland Sverige Norge Danmark Finland 34 % | 66 % 29 % | 71 % Employment 13 % | 87 % 22 % | 78 % Total34 % | 66Women % 29 % | 71 % % | 87 % 13Men % | 78 % 22Other* Total 1,079 (865) 330 (250) 747 (615) 2 New employment 306 (219) 105 (67) 200 (152) 1 Employment terminated 193 (171) 55 (34) 138 (134) Dustin’s workforce, incl. acquisitions Total Women Men Other* Dustin’s workforce, incl. acquisitions 1,831 (1,144) 422 (273) 1 407 (871) 2 Full-time employees 1,727 (1,119) 389 (256) 1 336 (863) 2 Part-time employees 38 (25) 20 (17) 18 (8) * Refers to employees who classify themselves as non-binary, ie they are either between the sexes or beyond. We have come a long way in our work, but we realise that given our rate of acquisition it will probably take longer than 2020 to convert our entire workforce and achieve our goal of a 40/60 gender balance. 66 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS | BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Business ethics and anti-corruption We strive for integrity and compliance with the principles of business ethics throughout our entire business. Our work is intended to create an open and responsible business culture. We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribes. Continuous training, interactive discussions and risk assessments help us increase awareness and act responsibly. Business ethics are one important aspect of responsible secure web-based reporting system. The function is business for both Dustin and its stakeholders. We never managed by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. accept bribes or other violations of our principles of business ethics. We make clear that violations of these Progress during the year principles may lead to the end of a partnership, and may During the year, we launched a new web-based training also have consequences in labour law and criminal law initiative on our Code of Conduct, which all employees for the individual. The purpose is to create a responsible – including those in acquired companies – will undergo. corporate culture and awareness of risks, thus The web-based training course is available in all the strengthening trust on the part of our stakeholders. languages of the Nordic region, as well as Dutch and English. At the end of the financial year, 85.6 per cent Guidance and compliance (87.7) of our employees had undergone the web-based Our business ethics guidelines contain a clear training in, and adopted, our Code of Conduct. We framework for all employees to comply with. The are also working continually on recurrent training in guidelines are available in local languages and all business ethics dilemmas for our workforce. During the employees are obligated to read and sign our business year, we conducted training for Chillit in Finland and ethics guidelines. We apply the following principles in Saldab in Sweden concerning our corporate culture and order to avoid the risk of bribery: how we handle anti-corruption work, representation, • Our employees may not offer or accept any types gifts and conflicts of interest. of gifts or benefits, directly or indirectly, to or from a third party if it is not considered to be within the Using open dialogue and training for our suppliers boundaries of generally accepted business practices concerning Dustin’s business ethics requirements, and applicable laws. we intend to build good and responsible business relationships and work to prevent risks. During the year, • In case of any doubt, our employees are expected to we had an ongoing dialogue concerning business ethics seek the advice of their immediate supervisor, Group with our seven largest suppliers in the Nordic region. The Management or the company’s chief corporation suppliers confirm their commitment to comply with our counsel. business ethics through our Supplier Code of Conduct. All employees are encouraged and expected to report During 2018/19, as with previous years, 100 per cent of our suspected violations to their immediate supervisor, business areas underwent a risk assessment concerning Group Management or the company’s chief corporation business ethics and anti-corruption. One inci­dent was counsel. There is also a whistle-blower system that reported in the whistle-blower function and investigated allows employees to anonymously report suspected in 2018/19. The investigation in the case in question violations. The whistle-blower function is based on a showed no gross improprieties and has been closed. Total share of employees undergoing online training in our Code of Conduct 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2014/15 Outcome: 85.6% 87.7% 94.1% – Share of business areas that underwent an annual business ethics and anti-corruption risk assessment 2018/19 2017/16 2016/15 2015/14 Outcome: 100% 100% 100% 100% DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 67 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Financial overview Operations Dustin Group AB (“Dustin”) is a leading online IT partner relationship-based and consultative selling over the serving the Nordic region and the Netherlands. The telephone or through customer visits. Dustin conducts company offers IT products with related services operations in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway and solutions to companies, the public sector and and the Netherlands through the business segments: private individuals, with a primary focus on small and SMB (Small and Medium-sized Businesses), LCP (Large medium-sized businesses. Dustin is a Swedish public Corporate and Public sector) and B2C (Business to limited company with its headquarters in Nacka Strand Consumer). These are supported in turn by a number outside Stockholm. The share was listed in the Mid Cap of scalable and shared central functions, including the segment on Nasdaq Stockholm on February 13, 2015. online platform, purchasing, warehousing and logistics, pricing, marketing, IT and HR. Sales to the SMB and LCP Dustin employs a multichannel model where the segments amount to approximately 95 per cent of total majority of sales take place online, supplemented by sales. Net sales SEK 12,536 million Gross margin Proposed 16.7 % dividend per share SEK 3.00 Adjusted Organic 9.9 % EBITA margin sales 4.5 % growth EBIT SEK 489 million 68 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Significant events during the year • Dustin began working to optimise the structure • A rights issue of approximately SEK 695 million was of the company’s small data centres and sites that carried out during the first quarter in order to increase accompanied earlier acquisitions, to gradually our financial flexibility so that we can pursue our growth enhance their operational efficiency. strategy in existing markets in the Nordic region and in the Netherlands. • Dustin decided to invest in increased automation of the central warehouse in Rosersberg. The • Dustin strengthened the organization for continued automation is expected to be implemented profitable growth by creating greater clarity during the 2019/20 financial year. within the segments and further increasing Q4 Q1 the scalability of the support functions. The organisation is also adapted to the expansion in the Netherlands. • Dustin signed an agreement about the acquisition of Inventio.IT, which Q3 Q2 • The Swedish subsidiary Idenet AB was merged into Dustin Sverige AB. The specialises in hosting, infrastructure and merger is a step in further integration of business systems. Inventio.IT was founded the businesses into the shared IT platform. in 2001 and had revenues of approximately DKK • Alexandra Fürst was appointed new EVP IT & 106 million in 2018. Digitalisation (CIO) and Jenny Ring was appointed • In March, Dustin acquired the Dutch company new EVP Supply Chain. Both are included in Norisk, which has a broad portfolio of managed Dustin’s Group Management. IT services, ranging from infrastructure to client • Dustin alotted management and other key management. Norisk was founded in 2005 and had individuals warrants in a new long-term incentive revenues of approximately EUR 9.5 million in 2018. program, LTI 2019. • An agreement was signed to acquire the Finnish company Chilit. The company combines products with services for delivering intelligent IT solutions to small and medium-sized businesses. Chilit was founded in 2010 and had revenues of approximately EUR 33.7 million in 2018. Sales to the SMB and LCP segments amount to approximately 95 per cent of total sales. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 69 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Net sales and earnings Operating profit amounted to SEK 489 million (444). Operating profit included items affecting comparability Condensed income statement of SEK 4 million (1), which mainly comprised a positive effect of SEK 48 million (24) from a change in acquisitionSEK million 18/19 17/18 Change, % related liabilities, acquisition-related expenses of SEK Net sales 12,535.7 10,300.5 21.7 26 million (20) and costs for the development of the IT platform to support online retail in the Netherlands of EBIT 489.1 443.8 10.2 SEK 18 million (–). For more information, refer to Note 5 Profit after net financial 444.9 384.6 15.7 Items affecting comparability. items Net profit for the year 356.2 305.1 16.7 During the year, adjusted EBITA rose 11.8 per cent to SEK 560 million (501). The adjusted EBITA margin was Net sales for the year increased 21.7 per cent to SEK 4.5 per cent (4.9). The weaker margin was attributable 12,536 million (10,300). Organic growth amounted to to the changed sales mix and a higher cost level due to 9.9 per cent (2.0), of which SMB accounted for 4.0 per investments in the sales and delivery organisation for cent (9.6), LCP for 16.5 per cent (neg: 3.8) and B2C for a services and solutions during the year. Adjusted negative 3.9 per cent (pos: 7.9). Acquired growth was 9.9 EBITA excluded items affecting comparability of SEK percentage points (7.3) and exchange-rate differences 4 million (1), which are specified in Note 5 Items had a positive impact of 1.9 percentage points (1.4). affecting comparability. Net sales are distributed between the segments as Financial items follows: Financial expenses for the year amounted to SEK 45 million (60), and mainly pertained to borrowing costs SEK million 18/19 17/18 Change, % of SEK 38 million (54) for external financing. Other SMB 5,532.9 4,375.1 26.5 financial expenses primarily related to the discounting of acquisition-related liabilities of SEK 4 million (4). Financial LCP 6,376.8 5,284.2 20.7 income amounted to SEK 1 million (1). The change B2C 625.9 641.2 -2.4 compared with the previous year was due to borrowing Total 12,535.7 10,300.5 21.7 expenses of SEK 14 million in the preceding year in connection with conclusion of a new bank agreement. Gross profit for the year rose SEK 452 million, corresponding to 27.6 per cent, to SEK 2,089 million Tax and net profit for the year (1,637) in relation to the preceding year. The gross The tax expense for the year was SEK 89 million (79), margin rose to 16.7 per cent (15.9), mainly due to a corresponding to an effective tax rate of 19.9 per cent more favourable sales mix with a higher proportion (20.7). The low effective tax rate was mainly due to nonof services and solutions, primarily attributable to taxable profit effects from earn-out adjustments during completed acquisitions and a positive sales trend for the period. private label goods. A changed sales mix with a higher share of sales with lower profitability to the public Net profit for the year totalled SEK 356 million (305). sector slightly dampened the margin trend. Earnings per share amounted to SEK 4.12 (3.91) before dilution and SEK 4.11 (3.89) after dilution. Net sales Adjusted EBITA & margin, rolling 12 months SEK million SEK million 14,000 575 6.0% 550 12,000 525 10,000 500 5.5% 475 8,000 450 5.0% 6,000 425 400 4,000 375 4.5% 2,000 350 325 0 300 4.0% 20 04 2 0 /0 5 05 20 0 6 06 / 14 /1 14 5 Q /1 1 20 07 07 20 0 8 08 20 0 9 09 / // 14 5 Q /1 2 14 5 Q /1 3 15 5 Q /1 4 15 6 Q /1 1 20 0 10 20 1 1 11 20 2 /1 / /1 15 6 Q /1 2 15 6 Q /1 3 16 6 Q / 4 16 17 Q /1 1 12 2 0 13 13 20 4 14 20 15 / /1 / 16 7 Q /1 2 16 7 Q /1 3 17 7 Q /1 4 17 8 Q /1 1 15 20 6 16 20 1 7 17 /1 / /1 17 8 Q /1 2 17 8 Q /1 3 18 8 Q /1 4 18 9 Q /1 1 20 8 18 /1 9 18 9 Q /1 2 18 9 Q /1 3 9 Q 4 70 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Net sales and SMB segment earnings Net sales and LCP segment earnings SEK million 18/19 17/18 Change, % SEK million 18/19 17/18 Change, % Net sales 5,532.9 4,375.1 26.5 Net sales 6,376.8 5,284.2 20.7 Segment result 584.4 508.2 15.0 Segment result 359.4 330.5 8.7 Segment margin (%) 10.6 11.6 – Segment margin (%) 5.6 6.3 – Net sales Net sales Net sales rose 26.5 per cent in total during the year to Net sales increased 20.7 per cent during the year to SEK SEK 5,533 million (4,375), with 21.1 percentage points of 6,377 million (5,284), positively impacted by acquisitions the increase compared with the year earlier attributable corresponding to 1.8 percentage points and exchangeto acquisitions and divestments and 1.3 percentage rate differences corresponding to 2.3 percentage points. points to exchange-rate differences. Organic growth Organic growth amounted to 16.5 per cent (neg: 3.8), was slightly dampened at the end of the financial year and was mainly the result of high activity and large by a cautious market climate and amounted to 4.0 per volumes under framework agreements in the Public cent (9.6) during the year. Data from market intelligence Sector customer group, primarily in Denmark. The Large firm IDC shows that the hardware market in the Nordic Corporate customer group posted continued positive region contracted between 2 and 3 per cent in the growth, but at a slightly slower pace due to the slightly second quarter of the 2019 calendar year. cautious market climate in the Nordic region, and a considerably weaker PC market in Finland in the latter Segment results half of the financial year. Profit for the segment rose 15.0 per cent, corresponding to slightly more than SEK 76 million, to SEK 584 million Segment results (508). The improved earnings were the result of Profit for the segment was SEK 359 million (330), which higher sales and a better product mix, largely due to was an increase compared with the year-earlier period. acquisitions and increased sales of own-branded goods. The segment margin declined to 5.6 per cent (6.3). The decrease was mainly attributable to a higher share of The segment margin declined to 10.6 per cent (11.6). The recently signed contracts with a lower average margin change was largely due to higher costs in the form of and a higher share of clients with low margins. investments in the sales and delivery organisation for services and solutions, as well as a somewhat weaker market at the end of the financial year. Investments in advanced products and services have continued, and the proportion of software and services as a share of sales increased to 24 per cent (15) in the segment, of which half pertains to contractual recurring revenues. At the end of the financial year, the customer base for SaaS configurations in integrated operations had increased to a total of 76,417 users (53,988) in the Nordic region. SMB – Net sales and segment margin LCP – Net sales and segment margin SEK million SEK million 1,600 14% 2,000 9.0% 1,400 13% 8.0% 1,200 1,500 12% 1,000 7.0% 800 11% 1,000 600 6.0% 10% 400 500 5.0% 9% 200 0 8% 0 4.0% 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 Q 1 2 3 4 7Q 7Q 7Q 7Q Q Q Q Q 9 Q Q Q Q 7Q 7Q 7Q 7Q Q 8 Q Q Q 9 9 Q 9 Q 9 Q /1 8 8 8 8 9 9 9 /1 /1 /1 /1 8 8 8 /1 16 /1 /1 /1 17/1 17/1 17/1 17/1 /1 /1 /1 /1 16 16 16 16 17/1 17/1 17/1 17/1 18 /1 /1 /1 16 16 16 18 18 18 18 18 18 18 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 71 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Net sales and B2C segment earnings Net working capital At year-end, net working capital amounted to a negative SEK million 18/19 17/18 Change, % SEK 68 million (neg: 192). The change in net working capital Net sales 625.9 641.2 -2.4 compared with the preceding year is mainly the result Segment result 36.7 31.5 16.6 of higher accounts receivable due to increased business Segment margin (%) 5.9 4.9 – volumes and completed acquisitions. In addition, the inventory increased slightly, mainly attributable to a higher During the year, net sales declined 2.4 per cent, proportion of private label goods, while accounts payable amounting to SEK 626 million (641). Organic growth was increased due to higher business volumes. negative 3.9 per cent (pos: 7.9). The segment continued Net working capital to focus on margin over growth. Aug 31, Aug 31, Segment results SEK million 2019 2018 The segment result increased 16.6 per cent to SEK 37 Inventories 465.7 395.8 million (32), while the segment margin grew to 5.9 per Accounts receivable 1,460.4 1,272.6 cent (4.9). Tax assets, other current 313.9 191.8 Central functions receivables, as well as prepaid Dustin’s central functions hold the key to efficient expenses and accrued income delivery of the Group’s offerings in all markets, the generation of economies of scale and the simplification Accounts payable -1,712.3 -1,568.5 of the integration of acquired operations. Costs in the financial year for central functions amounted to 3.4 per Tax liabilities, other current -595.3 -483.6 cent (3.6) of sales. Costs for central functions amounted liabilities, accrued expenses and to SEK 421 million (369), with the increase attributable in deferred income absolute terms to continued investments in the product Net working capital -67.6 -192.0 and service offering and the integration of acquired businesses. Net debt and cash and cash equivalents At the end of the period, net debt amounted to SEK Central functions 1,736 million (1,731). In total, cash and cash equivalents SEK million 18/19 17/18 Change, % amounted to SEK 281 million (278). At the end of the period, there was also an unutilised overdraft facility of Cost for central -420.7 -369.5 13.9 SEK 270 million (270) and an unutilised credit facility of functions EUR 5 million (5) in the Dutch operations. Costs in relation to -3.4 -3.6 – net sales (%) Net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA was 2.9 (3.3) at the end of the financial year. Financial position Net debt and cash and cash equivalents Condensed consolidated balance sheet Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, SEK million 2019 2018 SEK million 2019 2018 Liabilities to credit institutions 2,006.1 1,984.8 Non-current assets 4,745.6 4,034.1 Current liabilities to credit Current assets 2,522.7 2,143.0 institutions – 12.6 Total assets 7,268.3 6,177.1 Financial leasing liabilities 11.5 10.9 Equity 2,460.3 1,646.6 Cash and cash equivalents -281.3 -277.6 Net debt 1,736.4 1,730.6 Non-current liabilities 2,265.8 2,381.1 Current liabilities 2,542.3 2,149.5 Total equity and 7,268.3 6,177.1 Investments in tangible and intangible assets liabilities Investments made during the year mainly refer to capitalised costs for the integrated IT platform totalling SEK 87 million (56) and other investments in computer equipment and cars. 72 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Investments SEK million 18/19 17/18 Capitalised expenditure for IT development (integrated IT platform and other long-term 32.3 22.9 strategic IT systems) Other investments in tangible and intangible assets 47.2 29.2 Investments in tangible assets through financial leasing 7.5 4.0 Total 87.0 56.1 Acquisitions of businesses during the year working capital. During the period, the effect of changes During the year, Dustin completed three acquisitions, all in working capital was a negative SEK 126 million (pos: concluded during the third quarter of the financial year. 386), with the negative year-on-year change primarily due to a major effect from an increase in accounts payable In March, Dustin acquired the Dutch company Norisk, at the end of the preceding year. The cash flow was also which has a broad portfolio of managed IT services, adversely impacted by changes in working capital from a ranging from infrastructure to client management. high proportion of accounts receivable at the end of the Norisk is part of Vincere Group, which was acquired in period, which was subsequently attributable to high sales July 2018. Norisk was founded in 2005 and had revenues in LCP at the end of the period. of approximately EUR 9.5 million in 2018 and about 38 employees at its office in Groningen. Cash flow from investing activities was a negative SEK 642 million (neg: 1,127). Purchase considerations In April, Danish company Inventio.IT was acquired, of SEK 536 million (1,023) attributable to completed which specialises in hosting, infrastructure and acquisitions were paid during the period, of which business systems as a service. Inventio.IT was founded SEK 55 million was attributable to Norisk B.V., SEK 250 in 2001 and had revenues of approximately DKK 106 million to Inventio.IT A/S and SEK 231 million to the million in 2018 and about 80 employees. acquisition of Chilit Oy. During the period, contingent earn-outs were paid relating to JML-System AB (SEK Finnish company Chilit was acquired in May. The 20 million), Core Services AS (SEK 6 million) and IKT company combines products with services for Gruppen AS (SEK 5 million). Investments in tangible delivering intelligent IT solutions to small and mediumand intangible assets amounted to a negative SEK 80 sized businesses. Chilit was founded in 2010 and had million (neg: 52), of which a negative SEK 32 million (neg: revenues of approximately EUR 33.7 million in 2018 and 23) pertained to investments in the IT platform and a about 60 employees at its offices in Helsinki and Turku. negative SEK 47 million (neg: 29) was primarily related to investments in hardware for data centres, purchases of computers for internal use and vehicles. Cash flow Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK Cash flow, condensed 393 million (611) and was mainly due to effects from the completed rights issue of net SEK 681 million (-) after Aug 31, Aug 31, issue costs of SEK 14 million. and the distribution of SEK million 2019 2018 shareholder dividends of SEK 239 million (213). Cash flow from operating 264.0 747.9 During the period, a liability to a credit institution of activities SEK 59 million in the acquired company Chilit Oy was Cash flow from investing -641.8 -1,127.4 repaid, as well as a drawn credit facility of SEK 12 million. activities The period was also positively impacted in an amount Cash flow for the period 393.2 610.8 of SEK 29 million (55) by cash flow effects from the longfrom financing activities term incentive programme (LTI). Cash flow for the period 15.5 231.3 Key ratios Dustin applies financial measures that are not defined Cash flow for the year was SEK 16 million (231). Cash flow under IFRS. Dustin believes that these financial measures from operating activities was SEK 264 million (748), with provide the reader of the financial statements with the year-on-year decline mainly attributable to changes in valuable information, and constitute a complement when DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 73 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW assessing Dustin’s performance. The performance mea­ Dustin benefits from an increased share of online sures that Dustin has chosen to present are relevant in spending, where trends in mobility and cloud solutions relation to its operations and the company’s financial have grown. Dustin’s business model, with a shared and targets for growth, margins and capital structure and in efficient IT platform, is expected to create scalability terms of Dustin’s dividend policy. The alternative per­ in future development. Furthermore, Dustin’s strong formance measures are not always comparable with those financial position is expected to provide opportunities applied by other companies since these companies may to further strengthen its position in the current IT have used different calculation methods. Definitions on market and to expand its range of more advanced page 166 present how Dustin defines its performance products and services, both organically and through measures and the purpose of each performance measure. additional acquisitions. The data presented on page 165 is supplementary informa­ tion from which all performance measures can be derived. Seasonal variations Dustin is impacted by seasonal variations. Each quarter Market overview and outlook is comparable between years. Sales volumes are In 2018/19, Dustin reported organic growth of normally higher in November and December, and lower 9.9 per cent (2.0), in which SMB totalled 4.0 per cent during the summer months when sales and marketing (9.6), LCP 16.5 per cent (neg: 3.8) and B2C negative activities are less intense. Similar seasonal variations 3.9 per cent (pos: 7.9). Growth for the SMB segment occur in all geographical markets. fell below our financial target, and is attributable to some extent to a hesitant market climate at the end The share of the financial year, while growth in the LCP segment The Parent Company’s share has been listed on Nasdaq exceeded the financial targets and was marked by a Stockholm since February 13, 2015, and is included in high level of activity and large volumes in framework the Mid Cap index. At August 31, 2019, the price was agreements for the public sector. SEK 80.90 per share (90.10), representing a total market capitalisation of SEK 7,172 million (6,958). At August 31, During the year, Dustin continued to increase the share the company had a total of 7,191 shareholders (6,534). The of advanced products and services, largely through company’s three largest shareholders were Axel Johnson acquisitions, which is one step in further strengthening the Gruppen with 25.9 per cent, AMF Försäkring & Fonder company’s position in the addressable market. The Danish with 9.8 per cent and Swedbank Robur Fonder with 9.1 company Inventio.IT, the Finnish company Chilit and per cent. Dustin’s shareholder register with the largest the Dutch company Norisk were all acquired in the third shareholders is presented on the company’s website. quarter. In order to reach its full potential, the company built up an increased cost base during the year in the form During the period, a rights issue was conducted and of investments in the sales and supply organisation for the long-term incentive programme LTI 2016 was services and solutions. Integration of acquired companies exercised. As a result, the number of shares increased is an instrumental part of the transformation towards an from 77,226,502 to 88,647,339, while the share capital expanded service offering. The company has therefore increased by SEK 55 million and the share premium increased its focus on the integration work, to faster reach reserve by SEK 626 million. LTI 2016 represents an economies of scale and synergies in the sales and delivery increase of SEK 2 million in the share capital, and organisation for services and solutions. SEK 23 million in the share premium reserve. Multi-year overview All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 Net sales 12,535.7 10,300.5 9,306.2 8,300.8 Organic sales growth (%) 9.9 2.0 8.6 4.4 Gross margin (%) 16.7 15.9 14.8 15.0 Adjusted EBITA 559.7 500.6 426.1 389.6 Adjusted EBITA margin (%) 4.5 4.9 4.6 4.7 EBIT 489.1 443.8 349.5 323.5 Net profit for the year 356.2 305.1 239.1 224.9 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 4.12 3.91 3.08 2.89 Cash flow from operating activities 264.0 747.9 213.6 447.2 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (multiple) 2.9 3.3 2.3 2.1 Return on equity (%) 14.5 18.5 16.1 15.8 74 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Employees Annual General Meeting The average number of full-time employees was 1,644, Information about this year’s Annual General Meeting compared with 1,152 in the year-earlier period. The can be found on page 161. increase was primarily attributable to acquisitions. Dividends Guidelines for remuneration of senior Dustin’s target is to distribute not less than 70 per executives cent of the profit for the year. However, the Company’s The most recently resolved guidelines for remuneration financial position, cash flow, acquisition opportunities of senior executives are described in Note 7 Number and future prospects will be taken into consideration. of employees, employee benefits expense and The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.00 remuneration of senior executives. (2.71) per share, totalling SEK 266 million (239). The Board of Directors’ proposal for guidelines for Proposed appropriation of earnings remuneration of the CEO and other senior executives, The Board of Directors proposes that available earnings to be applied for the period from the next Annual totalling SEK 1,061,085,412 be distributed at SEK 3.00 per General Meeting, is unchanged compared with last year. share as an ordinary dividend. The proposal states that For more information regarding the guidelines, refer this amount be appropriated as follows: to Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives. Appropriation of earnings SEK Guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives Dividends 265,942,017 are resolved by the shareholders at the Annual General To be carried forward 795,143,395 Meeting. The Annual General Meeting, which is to be held on December 11, 2019, will make a decision about Total 1,061,085,412 the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. Proposals ahead of the Annual General Meeting are In its proposed appropriation of earnings, the Group available at www.dustingroup.com. has taken into consideration the company’s operations, financial position and cash flow, as well as its financial Significant events after the targets and future prospects. The Board of Director’s balance-sheet date complete statement regarding the proposed dividend is available on the company’s website, Merger with Saldab IT AB www.dustingroup.com. In September, the Swedish subsidiary Saldab IT AB was merged with Dustin Sverige AB. The merger is a step in further integration of the businesses into the shared IT platform. After the merger, the company will operate under the Dustin brand. Parent Company Dustin Group AB (Corp. Reg. No. 556703-3062), which is domiciled in Nacka, Sweden, only conducts holding operations. Furthermore, external financing is gathered in the Parent Company. Net sales for the period amounted to SEK 0.4 million (0.4) and profit for the period totalled SEK 166 million (366). The change was mainly attributable to the net currency position due to external financing, which amounted to negative SEK 21 million (neg: 133) during the period. The Group applies hedge accounting, whereby the net currency position is recognised against equity. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 75 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risks and Risk Management Risks are a natural part of all business operations and risk-taking is a prerequisite for financial growth. Appropriate risk management is therefore fundamental to running and developing sustainable, profitable business operations. The aim of Dustin’s risk management is to ensure proper control of the Group’s collective risk exposure and to ensure cost-efficient, systematic management of risks and opportunities in the operations that will create value. This way, the Company will improve its decision-making processes and increase its opportunities to achieve its strategic, financial and operational targets while complying with laws and regulations. Dustin’s Group-wide risk management process is Identification integrated into the operations and is based on coopIn the 2018/19 financial year, risk meetings were held eration between Dustin’s Risk Committee, Executive with all Executive Management Teams in the Group Management Teams and other individuals who work with the aim of identifying the most significant risks for on different parts of the risk management process. The each area. The results of these meetings have since been process consists of four main activities: (i) Identification, coordinated, supplemented and analysed by the Risk (ii) Assessment and Prioritisation, (iii) Response and Committee, which subsequently decided which risks Mitigation and (iv) Reporting and Monitoring. and measures are to be monitored at the Group level. Risk is defined as a future uncertain event that could All risks are classified into one of the following three have an adverse impact on Dustin’s ability to achieve categories: strategic risks, operational risks and external the company’s strategic, financial and operational tarrisks. This allocation provides support in choosing gets and comply with laws and regulations. suitable methods to identify current, new and emerging risks, the link between them and how to manage them. Risk Management Process • Strategic risks are associated with the development of operations, and are normally identified during discussions linked to strategic plans or strategic initiatives. These risks are managed by measures that 1. ID restrict the impact and probability of the risk occurring. EN TIF NGRING ICA 4 O • Operational risks are associated with operational AND . REP N TIO activities, and identified primarily in procedural MO OR NI TI reviews and follow-ups on business. Management T of operational risks focuses primarily on limiting the probability of the risk occurring, for example, through internal controls as well as guidelines and instructions S for internal procedures. R I SM TI EN S A T AN • External risks are associated with uncertainties TI O D N outside the direct control of the Group, for example, 3. M IT SE IG AT . AS R I O changes to regulations or changed market conditions. IO 2 P N These risks are managed through such measures as routine monitoring of changes in regulations and trends in the market. 76 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Assessment and Prioritisation Reporting and Monitoring The extent of the identified risks is evaluated using Each risk owner monitors the current risk and reports a risk tool that takes into account both the potential their findings back to the Risk Committee. The Risk impact of the risk on the operations and the likelihood Committee compiles, coordinates and develops the of the risk occurring over a defined period of time. This Group’s risk management, after which reports are provides support when deciding upon the significance submitted to Group Management and the Board of and prioritisation of the risk and what response it Directors. should be given. The Group’s largest risks and the measures for Response and Mitigation managing them are reported at least twice per year to The choice of response and mitigation is determined the Audit Committee. by using a risk assessment and existing controls. This could include, for example, monitoring methods, Below is a summary of the largest risks and how these implementing extra controls to reduce the risk, or are managed. amending procedures and processes. An important part of Dustin’s risk management is the appointment of a risk owner for all prioritised risks. The risk owner is responsible for pursuing measures to manage each risk within a reasonable time frame and with a high level of quality. Risk areas Risks Market risks related to acquisitions and integration Risks related to regulations Reputational risk Risks Financial related to the risks EXTERNAL STRATEGIC customer RISKS RISKS offering IT-related OPERATIONAL Risks related to risks RISKS customer satisfaction Risks related to The risk of improper Dustin’s strategic benefits in connection climate impact with purchases Risks related to Risks related to information security and attracting, engaging customer privacy and developing employees DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 77 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Strategic risks RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS AND INTEGRATION Description An important part of Dustin’s strategy is to support growth and margin trends through acquisitions. Acquisitions, for example, to expand the customer base or customer offering will remain part of the growth strategy moving forward. There is a risk that Dustin may not find suitable acquisition targets. In addition, the efficient integration of acquisitions (including synergy effects on costs and revenue) and positive performance in the units acquired are expected to improve Dustin’s short-and long-term results, but there is a risk this will not happen. Mitigation Dustin continuously evaluates a number of companies to identify operations that could strengthen the Group’s offering. Prior to a potential acquisition, the operations are evaluated in accordance with a structured procedure before decisions are made in order to assess possibilities and risks in the investment. A structured integration programme is implemented in order to expand the possibilities into a positive earnings effect. The purpose of this is to secure the acquired company’s relationships with customers and suppliers, as well as to attract and retain key personnel. Read more about Dustin’s integration programme on page 27. REPUTATIONAL RISK Description A good reputation is of great significance to Dustin’s success, since one of Dustin’s success factors is a strong brand. It is important for Dustin to continue being operated in accordance with the Company’s values, which are characterised by a responsible entrepreneurial attitude. If Dustin or any of the Group’s suppliers, distributors, other partners or employees do not comply with Dustin’s strong values, business principles, policies and guidelines, there is a risk that the Group’s reputation and brand could be damaged. Mitigation Dustin undertakes thorough work with a responsible entrepreneurial attitude in our areas of focus, as well as by providing continuous information and training concerning its values and business principles. Read more about Dustin’s values on pages 44–47 and areas of focus on pages 54–67. Moreover, correct, transparent and reliable communication can prevent the emergence of reputational risk and alleviate the consequences of any incidents. 78 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS RELATED TO THE CUSTOMER OFFERING Description Dustin operates in a dynamic market, and this could have an impact on its role in the market and the value chain. Changes could include new market strategies from manufacturers (for example, manufacturers’ acquisitions of companies that supply advanced products and services), new customer behaviour patterns (for example, heightened demand for packaged services, or greater focus on new sustainable offerings) and the development of new technology (including new storage technology where hardware-based storage systems move to cloud-based storage services). An inability to create attractive and profitable customer offerings could have a negative impact on Dustin’s earnings and market position. Mitigation To adapt Dustin’s strategy to this changeable market, Dustin’s management closely monitors any changes in the market, customer expectations and technological developments. Dustin works intensively to develop new and attractive offerings for its customers. To meet the heightened demand for more advanced products and services, Dustin has created a special function that focuses on developing and enhancing the Group’s service offerings, chiefly within managed IT services. This work is carried out in close collaboration with our suppliers and other business partners. During the year Dustin also added new expertise to the Group and strengthened our offering by acquiring companies in Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands. The work on further developing our business system in order to improve the management of our service offering for our customers also continued during the year. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 79 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Operational risks IT-RELATED RISKS Description The Group’s operations are highly dependent on an efficiently performing IT platform. Increasing digitisation has raised the threat from cyber attacks, and these attacks pose a constant and increasing risk for Dustin. Inadequate protection and incident management could lead to considerable disruptions to the company’s IT platform. The inability to ensure a modern, secure and operationally adapted IT infrastructure and IT platform could have a considerable adverse effect on the Group’s operations and earnings. Mitigation Dustin works continuously to restrict the number of disruptions in the system and their consequences. Furthermore, regular follow-ups of customers’ views of the availability and response of the IT platform are conducted to ensure a high level of customer satisfaction. Regular assessments are carried out to identify improvement measures and the source of potential errors. To protect Dustin from cyber attacks, the Group’s security system and software are updated continuously. The company conducts regular penetration tests and ensures strong incident and escalation procedures. RISKS RELATED TO ATTRACTING, ENGAGING AND DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES Description Dustin has enjoyed strong growth and business development over the past few years, which places great demands on our employees and executives. Dustin’s ability to attract, recruit, engage and develop the right employees is entirely crucial to achieving the targets we have set as well as to driving and developing our operations in accordance with the strategic plan. If the operations do not have access to the right skills at the right place at the right time, Dustin’s operations and earnings could be negatively impacted. Mitigation Dustin works continuously on skills development with the aim of developing operations and achieving set targets. The Company has a talent development process that aims to identify the employees’ performance and potential, help managers focus on the future development of their staff and enable managers to obtain qualitative input about their staff. To identify focus areas expected to increase employee satisfaction, the company regularly carries out employee surveys. 80 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS RELATED TO CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Description Dustin’s ability to retain customers could decline if Dustin cannot provide satisfactory customer service, or if there are deficiencies in its ability to respond to competitors’ offerings in the market. The inability to retain and attract new customers could have a significantly adverse impact on the Group’s operations and earnings. Mitigation Dustin works continuously to follow up and improve its customers’ experience by using the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is used to measure customer satisfaction and customer loyalty. These factors are evaluated and updated continuously in order to pinpoint new factors that have an impact on the overall experience. Wherever the results of the surveys fail to achieve the expected level, measures are taken to increase customer satisfaction and customer loyalty. THE RISK OF IMPROPER BENEFITS IN CONNECTION WITH PURCHASES Description One of the largest business ethics risks for Dustin is in the purchasing process and is related to the risk that employees receive improper benefits in connection with purchases. Mitigation During the year, we worked continuously to reduce the risk of bribes and other improper benefits by increasing awareness internally about how responsible collaboration with suppliers, customers and other partners should be conducted. The purchasing organisation has been given in-depth training in how they can work together with our partners on activities, within the framework of our business ethics guidelines. Moreover, we were in continual dialogue with strategically important suppliers during the year regarding our requirements and expectations for ethically correct behaviour. During the year, new employees in the Dustin Group were given induction training in our Code of Conduct, and separate sessions on ethics were held with the units in which risks had been identified. Dilemma discussions were also held at recently acquired companies. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 81 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS RELATED TO INFORMATION SECURITY AND CUSTOMER PRIVACY Description Dustin processes large amounts of data, and strives to ensure privacy and data security as well as to protect its customers’ personal data. As a result of increased digitalisation, cloud-based services, data transfer across borders, heightened expectations and tightened legislation, the mitigation of risks associated with customer privacy has become increasingly important. In addition, there are stringent requirements for security and privacy in the IT products and services Dustin sells. The inability to comply with legal requirements and customers’ requirements for security could result in a high level of financial penalties, loss of consumer confidence in Dustin and significant negative impact on Dustin’s brand. Mitigation Our work is governed by established guidelines for handling of personal data, which specify prin­ ciples for collecting, processing and storing personal data as well as security and consumer rights. Dustin’s data protection programme is managed by an inter-function steering group that is responsible for safeguarding risk management, making strategic decisions and ensuring that our actions comply with laws and internal requirements. The administrative organisation works actively to improve systems and procedures, update security and ensure thorough incident management in order to guarantee that our customers’ personal data is processed and protected responsibly. We have also designated an external data protection officer whose duties include monitoring Dustin’s compliance with GDPR. Using such documents as the framework for internal controls in their data protection efforts, our data protection officer regularly submits reports to the steering group and the Board of Directors. RISKS RELATED TO DUSTIN’S STRATEGIC CLIMATE IMPACT Description As the result of an increased number of business purchases in 2017/18 that were integrated into Dustin’s environmental reporting for 2018/19, our climate impact has increased compared to the preceding year. The acquisition of the Vincere Group in the Dutch market added six new companies in 2017/18 in addition to the five acquisitions we completed in the Nordic market during the same financial year. In general, these companies have not come as far in their corporate responsibility efforts, while the total number of offices, data centres and service vehicles has increased. Despite the positive effects these acquisitions have on operations as a whole, especially through an increase in the service offering, we are seeing a short-term risk that we will not fully achieve our environmental target for 2020, with a total reduction in emissions of 40 per cent since 2014/15. Mitigation Over the next few years, we will be working on reducing our climate impact in the companies acquired through a switch to renewable energy and fossil fuel-free lease vehicles, as well as the consolidation of data centres. Over time, we are confident in a reduction in the amount of emissions once the companies are fully integrated and have been adapted to the Group’s environmental guidelines and routines. 82 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT External risks MARKET RISKS Description Dustin’s operations are impacted by the general economic climate, structural changes, as well as procurement and distribution costs, primarily in the Nordic region. The market has experience continual growth over the last few years, but there is a risk that the market will not continue to grow, which will lead to reduced demands for Dustin’s products and services. Mitigation By continuously monitoring market trends, Dustin strives to adapt its prices, range, quality and service to match customers’ demands, the pace of investment and cost base. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATIONS Description Dustin’s possibilities for efficiently adapting its operations to new or amended laws, regulations or decisions by public authorities (e.g. GDPR) could have a significant impact on its operations and competitive situation in the market. Mitigation Dustin continually monitors trends regarding regulations in the markets where it conducts its operations in order to proactively manage changes. FINANCIAL RISKS Description Financial concerns and major changes in, among other things, exchange rates and interest rates can have negative effects. The ability to secure the Group’s financing and ensure that the financial exposure is in line with policies and guidelines is essential to fulfilling Dustin’s objectives. Mitigation Financial risks such as foreign exchange risk, credit and counterparty risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk are managed by Dustin’s central finance function in accordance with the policy that is adopted annually by the Board of Directors. For a more detailed description of financial risks and their management, see below. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 83 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks Dustin’s operations are linked to various financial risks, between the Board of Directors, the CFO and the such as foreign exchange risk, credit risk, liquidity risk Head of Financial Reporting and Internal Control. The and interest rate risk. The financial risks are managed in management of the company’s main financial risks is accordance with the established financial management described below. policy that regulates the distribution of responsibility FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK Description Foreign exchange risk is divided into transaction exposure and translation exposure. Transaction exposure refers to risks associated with purchases and sales in foreign currencies. Translation exposure refers to the exposure of the net assets of the foreign subsidiaries in Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. Mitigation In accordance with the adopted financial policy, transactions with a net exposure exceeding SEK 50 million must be hedged. The CFO has the right to hedge transactions with suppliers based on assessed risk under the financial policy. However, transaction exposure is limited since the Group primarily operates in the Nordic and Dutch markets, where purchases and sales are chiefly conducted in the local currency. Outstanding currency hedging on the balance-sheet date is presented in Note 16, Derivative instruments and hedge accounting. The financial policy states that currency hedging must be conducted in foreign subsidiaries and is mainly offset by raising external bank loans corresponding to the currency and primarily at the same level as the net investment. The Group CFO has the right to deviate from this hedge level for up to SEK 100 million in net exposure per currency. Loans raised in the respective currency (DDK, NOK and EUR) are specified in the supplementary disclosures. The current hedge level is on par with the level stipulated above. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 85 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Description Credit and counterparty risk refers to the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may fail to meet its obligations, thereby resulting in a loss for the Group. Mitigation The Group has established procedures to ensure that sales are only made with customers with a good payment history. The Group’s credit instruction includes credit limits, depending on the size and risk category of the company. The creditworthiness of corporate customers is verified before any supply of goods takes place. When private customers utilise credit, an external party acts as a guarantor for the entire credit risk. The maximum credit risk exposure is the carrying amount recognised in the balance sheet for each financial asset. Counterparty risk is specified in the Group’s financial policy and manages risk levels for the counterparty, maturities and amounts. Counterparties mainly refer to Scandinavian banks, authorities and municipalities. During the financial year, counterparty risks were very limited and the financial policy was complied with. LIQUIDITY RISK Description The Group’s liquidity risk pertains to the risk of not being able to reach agreements on external credit facilities and external bank loans. This also includes the ability to finance short-term payment obligations. Mitigation The financial management policy includes short and long-term cash flow planning. The current financing for the Group is based on external bank loans, which are subject to covenants that are reported to the banks. All conditions were fulfilled during the year. The short and long-term borrowing is specified in the supplementary disclosures under Note 22 Borrowing. 86 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT INTEREST RATE RISK Description The Group’s interest rate risk pertains to the risk that material changes in market interest rates will affect the variable interest rate of external bank loans. Mitigation In accordance with the Group’s financial policy, interest rate risk must be minimised by structuring the maturities of financial instruments to hedge the variable interest rate against the fixed interest rate. Maturities for financial instruments must not mean that more than 50 per cent of the total interest period falls due within 12 months and that the maturities must be between one and four years. Fixed-income futures are permitted as hedging instruments for interest rates. At the end of the financial year, the Group had partly hedged the variable interest rates using fixed-income futures. The Group applies hedge accounting, which is described in the accounting policies. The Group’s external loans in each currency are specified in the supplementary disclosures. If market interest rates increase one percentage point, profit before tax would be reduced by about SEK 4.5 million based on the balance-sheet date’s loan structure, fixed-income futures and the distribution of currencies. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 87 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance is about ensuring that Dustin is managed in a sustainable, responsible and efficient manner. Governance supports the company’s long-term strategies and objectives and forms the foundation for continued profitable and sustainable growth. The overall aim is to increase the value for shareholders, while at the same time maintaining confidence among shareholders and other key stakeholders. Dustin Group AB (“Dustin”) is a Swedish public limited liability company that was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Deviation in February 2015. The Corporate Governance Report is According to Rule 2.4 of the Code, a Board member submitted in accordance with the Swedish Corporate may not act as Chairman of the Nomination Governance Code and the Swedish Annual Accounts Committee. Act. The Corporate Governance Report forms part of Explanation the Directors’ Report and has been reviewed by the The deviation, i.e. that Board member Caroline Berg company’s auditor, Ernst & Young AB, whose report is is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee, is available as part of the Auditor’s Report. natural in view of the ownership structure. Swedish Corporate Governance Code Dustin applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code Applicable regulations for stock trading (the “Code”). In the 2018/19 financial year, Dustin Dustin has violated neither Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule deviated from the Code on one item: Book for Issuers nor good stock market practice. Model for Corporate Governance Shareholders Nomination Auditors General Meeting Committee Audit Committee Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Internalcontrol Internal controlover over President and CEO financial financial reporting reporting and corporate responsibility reporting Group Management Significant external rules and regulations Significant internal steering policies • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers • Instructions to the CEO, Board Committees, etc. • Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Vision, mission and business plan • Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) • Dustin’s policies, instructions and procedures • International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) • Dustin’s values • Applicable EU regulations 88 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Shareholders and General Meeting The following key resolutions were taken at the Annual The General Meeting is Dustin’s highest decision-making General Meeting: body, with all shareholders entitled to attend, raise issues for • Re-election of Caroline Berg, Mia Brunell Livfors, discussion and exercise voting rights. The Annual General Gunnel Duveblad, Johan Fant, Tomas Franzén, Mattias Meeting appoints the company’s Board of Directors and Miksche and Morten Strand as Board members. external auditors and adopts the Annual Report. The Mia Brunell Livfors was re-elected as Chairman of the Annual General Meeting also resolves on the principles for Board. the appointment of the Nomination Committee and the • Re-election of the audit firm Ernst & Young AB as audi­ remuneration of Board members, approves policies for tor, with Jennifer Rock-Baley as the Auditor in Charge. remuneration of senior executives and makes decisions • Adoption of 2017/18 Annual Report and resolution to regarding dividends and any discharge from liability. distribute a dividend of SEK 2.71 per share. The record date for the dividend was set for December 13, 2018. Shareholders The dividend was distributed to shareholders on Dustin’s share was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in December 18, 2018. 2015. All shares carry equal voting rights and equal • Granting of discharge from liability for the Board entitlement to the company’s profits and equity. The members and CEO. number of shareholders was 7,191 (6,534) at the end of • Approval of fees to Board members and the auditor. the financial year. The company’s largest shareholder, • Approval of guidelines for remuneration of senior representing at least 10 per cent of the share capital, executives. was Axmedia AB (Axel Johnson AB) with 25.9 per cent • Resolution on Dustin’s share-related long-term as of August 31, 2019. incentive programme for 2019, encompassing up to 1,323,882 warrants and at most 25 people. Ownership in percentage terms (voting rights and capital) The minutes of the Annual General Meeting can be found at www.dustingroup.com. Extraordinary General Meeting 2018 Dustin Group AB held an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on October 10, 2018, when a resolution was passed to approve the rights issue previously adopted by the Board of Directors. The terms and conditions of the rights issue meant that every seven (7) subscription rights entitled the holder to subscribe for one (1) new share at a price of SEK 63 per new share. Following the rights issue, the number of shares amounted to 88,258,859 and the total equity increased to SEK 695,038,518, of which SEK 55,161,786 pertained to share capital. The rights issue provided the company with greater flexibility and the ability to continue to broaden its customer offering through the acquisition Swedish legal entities: 51.8% of companies with a high level of advanced products, Swedish natural persons: 3.5% services and recurring revenues. Foreign shareholders: 44.7% Source: Euroclear The minutes of the EGM can be found at www. dustingroup.com. 2017/18 Annual General Meeting Dustin’s Annual General Meeting for the 2017/18 2018/19 Annual General Meeting financial year was held on December 11, 2018. 119 Dustin’s Annual General Meeting for the 2018/19 shareholders were represented at the meeting, financial year will be held in Stockholm on December corresponding to 60.7 per cent of the share capital 11, 2019. For more information about the next Annual and voting rights. All Board members and the Group’s General Meeting, see page 161 and Dustin’s website, Auditor in Charge were present at the meeting. www.dustingroup.com. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 89 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee though the Nomination Committee is entitled to The Nomination Committee is tasked with submitting, remuneration for certain expenses. prior to the Annual General Meeting, proposals for the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting, Board The Nomination Committee’s proposal and motivation members, as well as the Chairman of the Board, for the proposal to the Board of Directors can be found remuneration for Board work and Committee work, the at www.dustingroup.com. election and remuneration of auditors and proposals for the Nomination Committee for the next Annual General Board of Directors Meeting. The Nomination Committee also evaluates the The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for Board’s work and assesses its competence. the company’s organisation and management by continuously following up the operations, ensuring an The Annual General Meeting resolved that, ahead of the appropriate organisation, management, guidelines 2018/19 Annual General Meeting and in accordance with and internal control. The Board of Directors establishes the Nomination Committee’s proposal, the Nomination strategies and targets, and makes decisions concerning Committee is to comprise representatives of the four major investments and operational changes. The largest shareholders in the company in accordance Chairman has a leading role and is responsible for with the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear ensuring that the Board’s work is well organised and Sweden at March 31, 2019 as well as the Chairman of the performed efficiently. Board. Ahead of the 2018/19 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee comprises three members Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Dustin’s Board and the Chairman of the Board, in view of the restrictions of Directors is to comprise a minimum of three and a in the instruction. The instruction entails that no more maximum of ten members with no deputy members. than the eight largest shareholders need to be asked, Dustin’s Board of Directors currently comprises seven unless this would result in the Nomination Committee members: Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman), Caroline consisting of less than its minimum of three members Berg, Gunnel Duveblad, Johan Fant, Tomas Franzén, appointed by shareholders. Mattias Miksche and Morten Strand. During the 2018/19 financial year, Dustin’s Board of Directors fulfilled the The Committee’s mandate period extends until such Code’s requirement stating that the majority of the time as a new Committee has been appointed. members elected at the Annual General Meeting must be independent in relation to the company and company Ahead of the 2018/19 Annual General Meeting, Dustin’s management, and that at least two of the members Nomination Committee comprises the following members: must be independent in relation to the company’s major • Caroline Berg, Axel Johnson/Axmedia, Chairman of shareholders. The independence of the members of the the Nomination Committee Board is detailed in the table “Board of Directors during • Lennart Francke, Swedbank Robur Fonder the 2018/19 financial year” on the next page. • Tomas Risbecker, AMF Försäkring & Fonder • Mia Brunell Livfors, Chairman of Dustin’s Board of The Board of Directors has adopted rules of procedure that Directors (co-opted to the Nomination Committee) regulate the Board’s work methods and assign­ments, as well as instructions to the CEO, including instructions for The composition of the Nomination Committee fulfils financial reporting. The Board has also adopted policies the requirements of Rule 2.4 of the Code, with the for important parts of the operations, for example, exception of the deviation stated above. communication and a Code of Conduct. All policies are evaluated when necessary and at least once per year. The Nomination Committee has held two meetings to date. In addition, discussions and interviews have been The Board does not have any specific internal held between the meetings. The Chairman of the Board distribution of work except for certain issues being has informed the Nomination Committee of the work of prepared by committees. Dustin has established an the Board and its committees and presented the Board’s Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The evaluation of its work. Together with the companymembers of the committees are elected annually and specific requirements, this evaluation has formed the the duties are regulated in the instructions established basis of the Nomination Committee’s work. A report of for each committee annually. The committees have the Nomination Committee’s work will be submitted at a preparatory and administrative role. The issues the Annual General Meeting. No special remuneration considered at committee meetings are recorded in was paid to the members of the Nomination Committee, minutes and reported at the next Board meeting. 90 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors during the 2018/19 financial year Attendance at meetings Board members Elected Board of Audit Remuneration Director fees Dependent** Directors Committee Committee (SEK)* Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman) 2016 18/19 3/3 680,000 Caroline Berg 2016 18/19 3/3 340,000 Gunnel Duveblad 2016 19/19 6/6 360,000 Johan Fant 2016 19/19 6/6 410,000 Tomas Franzén 2013 19/19 2/3 340,000 Mattias Miksche 2006 19/19 310,000 Morten Strand 2017 19/19 6/6 360,000 Total 22 2,800,000 = Dependent in relation to major shareholders. No member is to be considered dependent in relation to the company or company management. * Director fees include remuneration for committee work, as adopted by the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting. ** According to the definition in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Evaluation of the Board’s work The work of the Board of Directors and CEO is evaluated For the 2018/19 financial year, the annual evaluation annually through a systematic and structured process. was carried out in survey form followed by reporting The aim is to prepare a good basis for the Board’s and discussion by the Board. The survey focuses on own development with respect to work methods how the Board’s work is progressing, as well as the and efficiency, as well as provide the Nomination Board’s commitment and competence. The results of Committee with a basis for the nomination work. The the evaluation were also presented to the Nomination Chairman of the Board is responsible for the evaluation. Committee. The Board’s annual calendar • Monitoring of strategy and risks • Q4 Interim Report* AUG SEP • Follow-up of corporate responsibility • Annual and Corporate JUL Responsibility Report • Q3 Interim Report* OCT • Budget and financial outlook • Evaluation of the Board’s work JUN Q4 Q1 NOV Grundfärg Blå Varianter 100,44,0,0 100,44,0,20 MAY Q3 Q2 DEC 75,30,0,0 • Q2 Interim Report* • Inaugural Board meeting • Strategy Day APR JAN • Q1 Interim Report* 57,16,0,0 MAR FEB • Significant instructions and policies *The interim reports also include corporate responsibility information. 23,5,0,0 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 91 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In line with the results of previous years’ evaluations, minutes. The company’s CEO, CFO, external auditors the Board’s work is deemed to be progressing very and representatives from specific functions of the well. The members are considered to be making organisation were present at all Committee meetings. a constructive contribution to both the strategic discussion and the governance of the company. The The work of the Committee focused mainly on discussions are seen as open and the dialogue between monitoring improvements pertaining to financial the Board and management is perceived to be positive. reporting and financial processes, with a special focus on identifying risks and evaluating the internal control The Board is also evaluated within the scope of the environment, as well as following up the results of Nomination Committee’s work. The Nomination the review by external auditors. The review of the Committee held meetings with all members of company’s financial statements, examination of the Board and the CEO in order to put questions to company risks, examination and updating of internal individual members as to how the Board’s work is control and the follow-up of reported whistle-blowing progressing. cases were standing items on the agenda. During the financial year, the Audit Committee also reviewed the Corporate responsibility issues on the Board annual impairment test of goodwill, evaluated the The Board of Directors is responsible for and approves Group’s dividend policy, discussed the audit plans of the the Group’s business strategy, which also includes external auditors and evaluated the independence of corporate responsibility activities. The Board regularly the auditors. addresses relevant corporate responsibility matters at its meetings. In 2018/19, areas addressed included the Remuneration Committee outcome of corporate responsibility efforts connected The main task of the Remuneration Committee is to to the company’s focus areas, and ideas for future review and provide recommendations to the Board of corporate responsibility efforts after 2020. Directors pertaining to principles for remuneration of senior executives. Audit Committee The main task of the Audit Committee is to ensure the The Committee currently comprises three members: quality of the financial and corporate responsibility Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman), Caroline Berg and reporting, risk management and efficiency in the Tomas Franzén. During the 2018/19 financial year, company’s internal control and regulatory compliance. the Committee held three meetings and work pertained primarily to remuneration of the CEO and The Committee currently comprises three members: senior executives (including the long-term incentive Johan Fant (Chairman), Gunnel Duveblad and programme for 2020), the structure for target Morten Strand. During the 2018/19 financial year, the formulation, financial goals and the performance Committee held six meetings, which were recorded in management model. Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Main tasks Main tasks • Monitor the quality of financial Provide recommendations to the Board regarding reporting, corporate responsibility reporting and risk remuneration of senior executives (including long-term management incentive programmes) • Monitor the effectiveness of internal control and compliance Members • Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman) Members • Caroline Berg • Johan Fant (Chairman) • Tomas Franzén • Gunnel Duveblad • Morten Strand Meetings Three meetings were held during the financial year Meetings Six meetings were held during the financial year 92 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The company’s CEO and CFO are present at all and development, as well as performance follow-up. Committee meetings. However, they do not participate In addition to these meetings, there is close daily in the items on the agenda that relate to remuneration collaboration within management. The presentation of of the CEO or the CFO. the members of Group Management is available under the section “Group Management” on page 100. CEO and Group Management The CEO is responsible for Dustin’s day-to-day Auditors management and daily operations. The division of work The auditor reviews the Annual and Corporate between the Board and the CEO is set out in the rules of Responsibility Report for the company and the Group, procedure for the Board and instructions to the CEO. and conducts a review of the quarterly report for the third quarter. The auditors report on the results of the The CEO reports to the Board of Directors and ensures review of the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report that the Board receives the information required to be and the review of the Corporate Governance Report, able to make well-founded decisions. Pursuant to the which are presented to the Annual General Meeting. adopted instructions, the CEO must keep the Board continuously informed about the development of the At the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting, Ernst & Young company’s operations, the sales trend, the company’s AB was re-elected as the audit firm, with Jennifer Rockearnings and financial position, liquidity projections, Baley as the Auditor in Charge for the period up to the important business events, as well as all other events, end of the next Annual General Meeting. In addition circumstances or conditions that may be considered to her assignment with Dustin, Jennifer Rock-Baley is material to the company’s operations. the Auditor in Charge for companies including DeLaval International AB, Recipharm AB (publ), HKScan AB, Dustin’s CEO leads Group Management’s work and Skånemejerier AB and Swedfund International AB. makes decisions pertaining to the operations in consultation with other senior executives in the Group. When Ernst & Young AB is engaged to provide services At the end of the financial year, Group Management other than the ordinary audit, decisions pertaining to comprised nine individuals with each member holding the nature, scope and fees for such work are made by responsibility for one of the Group’s business areas or the Audit Committee. Information about fees paid to functions. Group Management meetings were held the auditors for the 2018/19 financial year can be found monthly and otherwise as necessary. The meetings in Note 6, Auditor’s remuneration and expenses. focus primarily on strategic and operative monitoring CEO Thomas Ekman People & Culture Finance & Business Support Morten Jakobi Nielsen Johan Karlsson Supply Chain IT & Digitalisation Jenny Ring Alexandra Fürst SMB Nordic LCP Nordic Services & Solutions Nordic SMB & LCP Netherlands Rebecca Tallmark Michael Haagen Petersen Alexandra Drevenlid Henk Makaske DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 93 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal governance for responsible business course, employees confirm that they undertake to Dustin’s Code of Conduct is our Group-wide policy for follow the Code. At the end of the financial year, 85.6 company actions governed by core values and responsibility. per cent of active employees had completed the course. The Code is based on our values, voluntary commitments and business that is consistently conducted in accordance Employees are encouraged to report suspected with prevailing laws and regulations. The Code of Conduct violations to their immediate supervisor, safety has been adopted by Dustin’s Board of Directors. representative, Group Management or the company’s chief corporation counsel. There is also a whistle-blower In addition to Dustin’s Code of Conduct, policies and system that provides employees with anonymous guidelines clarify and exemplify expectations and access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. It is requirements in the Code of Conduct linked to Dustin’s a secure web-based reporting system. The function is corporate responsibility efforts: managed by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. One case was recorded in 2018/19. • Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Business ethics guidelines Internal control of the financial reporting • Conflict minerals policy Internal control of the financial reporting is a central • Environment, work environment and quality policy component in Dustin’s corporate governance. The • Guidelines for processing personal data internal control process is based on the framework • Guidelines for equality for internal control published by COSO, and has been adapted for Dustin’s operations. The framework consists Compliance of five components: control environment, risk assessment, All employees are personally responsible for following control activities, information and communication, and the company’s external and internal regulations, which monitoring activities. means acting in compliance with Dustin’s policies, instructions and procedures. The Board has overall responsibility for the financial reporting and the corporate responsibility reporting. A new online course on Dustin’s Code of Conduct The Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors was launched during the financial year. The course in tasks such as monitoring the efficiency of Dustin’s is targeted at all employees; in conjunction with the internal control and risk management. OUR COMMITMENTS Dustin has committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the ILO conventions and core labour standards. We have also endorsed the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles taking into account the fundamental responsibilities of business in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore, we have committed to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. These voluntary commitments are incorporated into Dustin’s Code of Conduct and Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct, and apply to all companies in the Group. 94 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Dustin has an internal control function aimed at the allocation of responsibility in decision-making supporting the Audit Committee and management in procedures. providing a strong internal control environment. The function reports to the Audit Committee. Information and communication The internal control documents are available on Control environment Dustin’s intranet. Control documents relevant to The control environment forms the basis of the internal accounting and financial reporting are available to the control. One important part is that decision-making employees concerned in newly acquired companies in paths, authorisations and responsibilities are clearly an electronic handbook. The control documents are defined and communicated in the Group. Dustin’s reviewed at least once annually. Board of Directors has adopted fundamental internal policy documents such as rules of procedure for the The internal control function reports on the results of Board and Committees as well as instructions to the the work on internal control during Audit Committee CEO. In addition, there is a Group-wide delegation order meetings. The results of the Audit Committee’s work that sets out the responsibilities and authorities for in the form of observations, recommendations and different levels and functions within the Group. Another act­ions are routinely reported to the Board of Directors. important part is maintaining a high ethical standard The minutes from the Audit Committee are provided to through establishing values and governing documents the Board of Directors, and the Chairman of the Audit in the form of policies, instructions and procedures. Committee reports on its work at the following Board meeting. The internal control function works on developing, improving and safeguarding the Group’s framework External financial reporting takes place in accordance for the internal control environment. The intent is to with the relevant external and internal control maintain a framework that is appropriate and effective, instruments such as the Group’s communication policy. and to enable reliable financial statements and corporate responsibility reports. Monitoring activities The internal control function routinely monitors the Risk assessment effectiveness of the internal control environment through Risk assessment entail identifying and evaluating the self-evaluations. Any deviations are reported to the control most substantial risks that impact internal control in owner responsible for correcting the shortcomings noted. the Group. The assessment forms the basis for how risks are to be managed through various controls. The Internal control developments are reported on a risk assessment is updated regularly, and the results are continuous basis to the Audit Committee. Furthermore, reported to the Audit Committee. the company’s auditors report their assessment of the internal control environment to the Audit Committee. Control activities The control activities are defined in a Group-wide Focus areas during the year framework for internal control, divided into the During the year, there was a great deal of focus on Group’s most important processes related to financial integrating the internal control environments of the reporting and corporate responsibility reporting. The acquired companies into Dustin’s framework. The work most substantial risks from the risk assessment are included subsidiaries in the Netherlands, Denmark and managed through the control activities. The controls are Finland. As a result of Dustin’s reorganisation during the to ensure both effectiveness in the Group’s procedures year, the Group-wide delegation order was updated and and proper internal control. communicated. Over the last two financial years, Dustin has also focused on GDPR and data privacy issues. Every control has an assigned control owner who In this connection, management has developed an routinely evaluates whether the control covers the risk internal framework for managing the internal controls identified, as well as the performance of the control. in the data privacy field. The framework is maintained by Dustin’s legal department and controlled by Dustin’s Examples of control activities are authorised approval Data Protection Officer, who in turn reports to Dustin’s of business transactions, accounts reconciliation, Board of Directors. analysis of income statement items and control of DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 95 GOVERNANCE AND DEVELOPMENT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For further information, see Note 7 Number of Evaluation of a specific review function employees, employee benefits expense and remu­ There is currently no specific review function at Dustin neration of senior executives. (internal audit). The Board has examined the issue and determined that the current monitoring structure and Board remuneration activities conducted within the risk management and Remuneration and fees that were approved by the internal control frameworks provide a satisfactory 2017/18 Annual General Meeting and the attendance basis. The Board evaluates the need for a specific review function annually. of Board members at meetings during the 2018/19 financial year are described in the table “Board of Directors during the 2018/19 financial year” on page 91 and in Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits Remuneration of senior executives expense and remuneration of senior executives. The shareholders resolve on guidelines for remuner­ Remuneration for committee work was paid in line with ation of the CEO and other senior executives at the the resolution of the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting. Remuneration of the CEO and (SEK 100,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee other members of Group Management is thereafter and SEK 50,000 to each of the other two members of decided by the Board, based on recommendations from the Audit Committee, and SEK 60,000 to the Chairman the Remuneration Committee. of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 30,000 to each of the other members of the Remuneration Remuneration of Group Management Committee). Board members are not entitled to any During the 2018/19 financial year, the remuneration benefits after their assignments as Board members of Group Management consisted of a fixed salary, have come to an end. short-term variable remuneration of between 40 and 100 per cent of fixed salary, long-term incentive Guidelines for remuneration programmes, pension and other customary benefits. The 2017/18 Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt The variable salary is linked to established, individual guidelines for remuneration of senior executives within and measurable financial targets. the Dustin Group, consisting of a fixed salary, shortterm variable remuneration incentive (STI), which is During the 2018/19 financial year, the total linked to the achievement of Dustin’s financial targets remuneration of Group Management amounted to SEK and individual performance targets, and a long-term 42.5 million and is reported in more detail in Note 7 share-based or share-related incentive programme Number of employees, employee benefits expense and (LTI), in addition to pension and other benefits. The remuneration of senior executives. guidelines can be found on www.dustingroup.com/en/ guidelines-remuneration. Long-term incentive programme The Board evaluates on an annual basis whether a The 2018/19 Annual General Meeting will decide on the long-term incentive programme is to be proposed to guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. The the Annual General Meeting or not. Dustin has three Board proposes guidelines whose content is essentially outstanding incentive programmes: LTI 2017, LTI 2018 unchanged. and LTI 2019. None of these programmes include the Board. Deviations from guidelines adopted by the 2017/18 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting on December 11, 2018 In exceptional circumstances, the Board of Directors resolved to introduce a new incentive programme may deviate from the guidelines outlined above. In for senior executives (LTI 2019). The programme this case, the Board of Directors is obliged to explain encompasses a total of not more than 1,323,882 the grounds for the deviation at the following Annual warrants, of which 1,054,411 were acquired at a market General Meeting. value of around SEK 4.6 million. Dustin has reserved the right to repurchase warrants if the participant’s The current guidelines, as approved by the Annual employment or assignment at the company comes General Meeting on December 11, 2018, have been to an end or the participant wishes to transfer the followed and all approved remuneration was within the warrants. stipulated range. 96 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Dustin’s Board of Directors comprises seven ordinary members, including the Chairman of the Board, with no deputy members, who are elected for the period until the end of the 2018/19 Annual General Meeting. MIA BRUNELL LIVFORS MIA BRUNELL LIVFORS Chairman of the Board since 2017. Board member since 2016. Born: 1965 Education: Business at Stockholm University. Key competence: Mia Brunell Livfors has many years of experience of working on the board of directors at listed companies. Mia Brunell Livfors contributes to the Board through her experience in retail, e-commerce, telecom and media. Other current assignments: CEO of Axel Johnson. Chairman of the Board of i.a. Axel Johnson International, Axfood, Kicks and Åhléns. Board member of Martin & Servera, Stena, Svensk Handel and Efva Attling Stockholm. Previous assignments (in recent years): CEO of Kinnevik. Shareholding*: JOHAN FANT MATTIAS MIKSCHE CAROLINE BERG GUNNEL DUVEBLAD MORTEN STRAND TOMAS FRANZÉN 98 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOHAN FANT MATTIAS MIKSCHE Board member since 2016. Board member since 2006. Born: 1959 Born: 1968 Education: MSc in Economics from the Education: MSc in Economics from the Stockholm School of Economics. Stockholm School of Economics. Key competence: Johan Fant provides broad experience of Key competence: Mattias Miksche contributes extensive retail, business operations and comprehensive knowledge of experience within digital enterprise though i.a. his previous financing through his previous roles as CFO of Axel Johnson role as CEO and founder of Stardoll and his current roles as and Boliden, among other positions. board member of i.a. Avanza Bank Holding, Bubbleroom and Stratsys. Other current assignments: CEO of AltoCumulus, Chairman of the Board of Perlavita. Board member of i.a. AltoCumulus Other current assignments: Chairman of the board of Hem Asset Management, AxFast and Novax. Design Studio Sweden. Board member of Avanza Bank Holding, EuroFlorist Intressenter, Bubbleroom and Stratsys. Previous assignments (in recent years): CFO of Axel Johnson. Advisor to Altor Funds. Shareholding*: Previous assignments (in recent years): Board member of Pricerunner Group and Sportamore. Shareholding*: 56,628 CAROLINE BERG Board member since 2016. Born: 1968 GUNNEL DUVEBLAD Education: BA in Media and Psychology at Board member since 2016. Middlebury College, USA. Born: 1955 Key competence: Caroline Berg has extensive Board Education: Systems Scientist, Umeå experience from both listed and unlisted companies in the University. retail and service sectors. She is also deeply knowledgeable Key competence: Gunnel Duveblad contributes extensive in the areas of communication, sustainable business and HR board experience through her current and previous board from her years in the management team at Axel Johnson. assignments and her valuable expertise in the IT sector, where Other current assignments: Chairman of the board of Axel her positions have included several leading roles at IBM and Johnson, Martin & Servera, Erik and Göran Ennerfelts fund and CEO of EDS Northern Europe. The Global Village Foundation. Vice chairman of the board of Other current assignments: Chairman of the Board of Nordstjernan. Board member of i.a. Axfood, Axfast, Axel and companies including Team Olivia, Global Scanning A/S, the Margaret Ax:son Johnson’s Foundation and Future Work Forum. Ruter Dam Foundation and HiQ International. Board member Previous assignments (in recent years): Director of Human positions including Sweco and Kindred Group plc. Development and Communications and member of the Previous assignments (in recent years): Board member of management team of the Axel Johnson group. i.a. PostNord, Anoto Group and Aditro Holding. Shareholding*: Shareholding*: 2,285 TOMAS FRANZÉN MORTEN STRAND Board member since 2013. Board member since 2017. Born: 1962 Born: 1965 Education: MSc in Engineering, Industrial Education: Graduate in Business and Economy at Linköping University. Information Management, University Key competence: Through his previous roles as i.a. CEO of of San Francisco, USA. Bonnier and Com Hem, Tomas Franzén has extensive and Key competence: Morten Strand contributes technical wide-ranging experience of leading major companies as expertise, experience of the northern European SMB market well as solid financial knowledge and operational experience of IT, service development and Other current assignments: Chairman of the board of i.a. sales through positions at Cint and Visma Software. Bonnier Broadcasting, Bonnier News Group and Adlibris. Other current assignments: CEO of ABAX Group, Senior Board member of i.a. Axel Johnson and Tieto Oy. Industry Advisor at Nordic Capital. Chairman of the board of Previous assignments (in recent years): CEO of Bonnier, EMHA Holding. Board member of ABAX AS, Teamleader BV Com Hem, Eniro and Song Networks Holding. and Dapresy. Shareholding*: 57,686 Previous assignments (in recent years): CEO of Cint and COO of Visma Software International AS. Shareholding*: * Own or related legal and/or natural persons’ holdings as of August 31, 2019. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 99 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT Group Management Dustin’s Group Management includes the CEO Thomas Ekman and an additional eight senior executives with various areas of responsibility. THOMAS EKMAN THOMAS EKMAN President and CEO. Employed at Dustin since 2018. Born: 1969 Education: Master of Business Administration from Stockholm University. Previous assignments: CEO of Cabonline Group, CEO of Tele2 Sweden and Board member of Com Hem. Other assignments: Board member of Sportamore. Shareholding**: 33,500 Warrants: 433,591 ALEXANDRA FÜRST JOHAN KARLSSON MICHAEL HAAGEN PETERSEN JENNY RING MORTEN JAKOBI REBECCA TALLMARK HENK MAKASKE ALEXANDRA DREVENLID 100 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 DIRECTORS’ REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT ALEXANDRA FÜRST JOHAN KARLSSON EVP IT & Digitalisation. CFO & EVP Business Support. Employed at Employed at Dustin since 2019. Dustin since 2009. Born: 1973 Born: 1965 Education: Education in Industrial Education: MSc in Business and Economics Engineering and Management, Linköping from the Gothenburg School of Economics. University. Previous assignments: Regional Finance Director at Previous assignments: EVP Business Development & IT at Tech Data AB as well as CFO at ACO Hud Nordic. Wasa Kredit, VP Financial Services Sweden at Tieto. Shareholding**: 324,903 Shareholding**: Teckningsoptioner: 303,171 Warrants: 30,000 MICHAEL HAAGEN PETERSEN JENNY RING EVP Large Corporate & Public Nordic. EVP Supply Chain. Employed at Dustin Employed at Dustin since 2008. since 2015. Born: 1971 Born: 1978 Education: BSc in Economics from Aarhus Education: BSc in Business Administration University School of Business and Social from the Stockholm University. Science. Previous assignments: VP Operations at Dustin Group, Previous assignments: Sales Manager at thy:data A/S and Head of Nordic Contact Center & Ecom at Dustin Group, Market Manager at Logica A/S. Consumer Sales Manager at GE Money Bank. Shareholding**: 180,281 Shareholding**: 2,285 Warrants: 168,055 Warrants: 77,047 MORTEN JAKOBI HENK MAKASKE EVP People & Culture. Employed at Dustin EVP Large Corporate Public & SMB since 2004. Netherlands. Employed at Dustin since 2018 Born: 1975 Born: 1961 Education: BA in History and Social Science Education: MBA from University of Groningen. from Aarhus University. Previous assignments: CEO of Triade Holding and Vincere Previous assignments: Executive Assistant at Dustin A/S. Groep bv. Board member of Tech Data Europe. Senior Team Manager at Computerstore A/S. Shareholding**: Other assignments: Board member of Langebjerggaard ApS, Warrants: 54,801 2people A/S and Dansk HR. Shareholding**: 14,492 Warrants: 32,953 REBECCA TALLMARK ALEXANDRA DREVENLID EVP SMB Nordic. Employed at Dustin EVP Services & Solutions Nordic. Employed at since 2017. Dustin since 2018. Born: 1976 Born: 1967 Education: MSc in Economics from the Education: KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm School of Economics. Road and Water Department Previous assignments: Head of Strategy and Business Previous assignments: Chief Digital Officer at Tieto, Chief Development at Systembolaget, Business Area Manager Technology Information Officer at Tele2. Finance and M&A at Axel Johnson International and Shareholding**: consultant at McKinsey. Warrants: 54,801 Other assignments: Board member of Giving Wings Foundation. Shareholding**: 64,531 Warrants: 154,955 ** Own or related legal and/or natural persons’ holdings as of August 31, 2019. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 18/19 17/18 Continuing operations: Net sales 3 12,535.7 10,300.5 Cost of goods and services sold 4 -10,446.3 -8,663.7 Gross profit 2,089.3 1,636.8 Selling and administrative expenses 4, 6, 7, 8 -1,594.3 -1,183.3 Items affecting comparability 5 3.5 1.0 Other operating income 7.6 6.8 Other operating expenses -17.1 -17.5 EBIT 489.1 443.8 Financial income and other similar income-statement items 9 0.8 1.1 Financial expenses and other similar income-statement items 9 -45.0 -60.3 Profit after financial items 444.9 384.6 Tax 10 -88.7 -79.4 Net profit for the year attributable in its entirety to Parent Company shareholders 356.2 305.1 Other comprehensive income (all items will be transferred to the income statement) Translation differences -43.4 115.3 Cash-flow hedging 39.0 -128.5 Tax -8.6 28.2 Other comprehensive income -13.0 15.0 Comprehensive income for the year attributable in its entirety to Parent Company shareholders 343.2 320.1 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 11 4.12 3.91 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 11 4.11 3.89 102 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet Aug 31, Aug 31, SEK million Note 2019 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 12 3,839.8 3,221.7 Other intangible assets attributable to acquisitions 12 641.5 572.0 Other intangible assets 12 133.0 127.0 Tangible assets 13 105.7 91.7 Divestment-related receivables 14, 19 1.6 1.6 Deferred tax assets 15 5.5 2.1 Derivative instruments 16, 19 0.6 2.0 Other non-current assets 17.9 16.2 Total non-current assets 4,745.6 4,034.1 Current assets Inventories 17 465.7 395.8 Accounts receivable 18, 19 1,460.4 1,272.6 Derivative instruments 16, 19 1.4 0.2 Tax assets 45.8 9.0 Other receivables 19 31.3 14.4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 236.8 168.3 Divestment-related receivables 14, 19 – 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents 20 281.3 277.6 Total current assets 2,522.7 2,143.0 TOTAL ASSETS 7,268.3 6,177.1 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 21 Share capital 443.2 386.1 Other contributed capital 1,095.6 443.0 Reserves 8.2 21.2 Retained earnings including net profit for the year 913.2 796.2 Total equity (attributable to Parent Company shareholders in its entirety) 2,460.3 1,646.6 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax and other long-term provisions 15 235.6 186.5 Liabilities to credit institutions 19, 22 2,006.1 1,984.8 Acquisition-related liabilities 14, 19, 23 – 202.5 Derivative instruments 16, 19 24.1 7.3 Total non-current liabilities 2,265.8 2,381.1 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 19, 22 – 12.6 Accounts payable 19 ,22 1,712.3 1,568.5 Tax liabilities 15, 19 10.2 20.0 Derivative instruments 16, 19 0.7 0.1 Other current liabilities 19, 22 214.2 162.7 Acquisition-related liabilities 14, 19, 23 244.8 73.9 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 360.0 311.8 Total current liabilities 2,542.3 2,149.5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,268.3 6,177.1 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Other Share contributed Translation Hedge Retained SEK million capital capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2018 386.1 443.0 127.3 -106.1 796.2 1,646.6 Net profit for the year – – – – 356.2 356.2 Other comprehensive income Translation differences – – -43.4 – – -43.4 Cash-flow hedging, changes in fair value – – – 39.0 – 39.0 Tax attributable to cash-flow hedges – – – -8.6 – -8.6 Total other comprehensive income – – -43.4 30.4 – -13.0 Total comprehensive income – – -43.4 30.4 356.2 343.2 Dividends to shareholders – – – – -239.2 -239.2 Holdings of own warrants – – – – – – New share issue 57.1 663.3 – – – 720.4 Issue costs – -14.2 – – – -14.2 Subscription with the support of warrants – 3.5 – – – 3.5 Total transactions with shareholders 57.1 652.6 – – -239.2 470.5 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2019 443.2 1,095.6 83.9 -75.6 913.2 2,460.3 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Other Share contributed Translation Hedge Retained SEK million capital capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2017 380.9 393.7 12.0 -5.8 704.3 1,485.1 Net profit for the year – – – – 305.1 305.1 Other comprehensive income Translation differences – – 115.3 – – 115.3 Cash-flow hedging, changes in fair value – – – -128.5 – -128.5 Tax – – – 28.2 – 28.2 Total other comprehensive income – – 115.3 -100.3 – 15.0 Total comprehensive income – – 115.3 -100.3 305.1 320.1 Dividends to shareholders – – – – -213.3 -213.3 Holdings of own warrants – -5.9 – – – -5.9 New share issue 5.3 50.1 – – – 55.4 Subscription with the support of warrants – 5.1 – – – 5.1 Total transactions with shareholders 5.3 49.3 – – -213.3 -158.7 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2018 386.1 443.0 127.3 -106.1 796.2 1,646.6 104 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of cash flow SEK million Note 18/19 17/18 Operating activities EBIT 489.1 443.8 Adjustment for non-cash items 25 66.9 51.7 Interest received 0.8 1.1 Interest paid -38.8 -34.6 Income tax paid -127.7 -99.8 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 390.2 362.3 Decrease (+)/increase (-) in inventories -62.2 -87.1 Decrease (+)/increase (-) in receivables -199.5 21.8 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current liabilities 135.5 451.0 Cash flow from changes in working capital -126.2 385.7 Cash flow from operating activities 264.0 747.9 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets -37.3 -27.2 Acquisition of tangible assets -42.1 -24.9 Acquisition of operations 23 -536.1 -1,023.0 Divestment of operations 5.0 1.5 Contingent earn-out paid 23 -31.2 -53.7 Cash flow from investing activities -641.8 -1,127.4 Financing activities New share issue 680.8 – Cash flow from LTI programme 28.9 54.6 New loans raised – 2,165.0 Repayment of loans -71.9 -1,383.6 Paid liabilities start-up costs -0.6 -8.4 Dividends -239.2 -213.3 Change in financial leasing liabilities -4.8 -3.6 Cash flow from financing activities 393.2 610.8 Cash flow for the year 15.5 231.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 277.6 71.5 Cash flow for the year 15.5 231.3 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -11.8 -25.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 281.3 277.6 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company income statement SEK million Note 18/19 17/18 Net sales 0.4 0.4 Net sales P1 0.4 0.4 Operating expenses P1 Selling and administrative expenses P2, P3 -6.7 -11.8 Other operating expenses 0.0 -0.1 EBIT -6.3 -11.5 Financial income and other similar income-statement items P4 47.7 314.2 Financial expenses and other similar income-statement items P4 -59.5 -187.6 Profit after financial items -18.1 115.1 Appropriations P5 213.5 269.4 Tax P6 -29.8 -18.7 Net profit for the year 165.6 365.9 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK million 18/19 17/18 Net profit for the year 165.6 365.9 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 165.6 365.9 106 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company balance sheet SEK million Note Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Participations in Group companies P7 1,211.6 1,211.6 Total non-current assets 1,211.6 1,211.6 Current assets Receivables from Group companies P15 2,254.3 1,543.3 Tax assets 32.8 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income P8 2.2 0.8 Cash and bank balances P9 201.2 247.0 Total current assets 2,490.4 1,791.1 TOTAL ASSETS 3,702.0 3,002.7 Equity and liabilities Restricted equity P10 Share capital 443.2 386.1 Total restricted equity 443.2 386.1 Non-restricted equity P10 Share premium reserve 1,087.3 438.3 Retained earnings -191.8 -322.0 Net profit for the year 165.6 365.9 Total non-restricted equity 1,061.1 482.1 Total equity 1,504.3 868.2 Untaxed reserves P11 182.8 137.7 Non-current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions P12 2,006.1 1,984.8 Total non-current liabilities 2,006.1 1,984.8 Current liabilities Accounts payable P12 0.0 0.0 Tax liabilities P12 – 6.6 Other current liabilities P12 0.3 0.4 Accrued expenses and deferred income P13 8.3 5.0 Total current liabilities 8.7 12.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,702.0 3,002.7 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Share premium Total SEK million Share capital reserve Retained earnings equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2018 386.1 438.3 43.8 868.2 Net profit for the year – – 165.6 165.6 Total comprehensive income – – 165.6 165.6 Dividends – – -239.2 -239.2 New share issue 57.1 663.3 – 720.4 Issue costs – – -14.2 -14.2 Subscription with the support of warrants – – 3.5 3.5 Total transactions with shareholders 57.1 663.3 -84.3 636.1 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2019 443.2 1,101.5 -40.5 1,504.3 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders Share premium Total SEK million Share capital reserve Retained earnings equity Opening balance, Sep 1, 2017 380.9 388.1 -113.8 655.2 Net profit for the year 365.9 365.9 Total comprehensive income – – 365.9 365.9 Dividends – – -213.3 -213.3 New share issue 5.3 50.1 – 55.4 Issue costs – – – – Subscription with the support of warrants – – 5.1 5.1 Total transactions with shareholders 5.3 50.1 157.6 213.0 Closing balance, Aug 31, 2018 386.1 438.3 43.8 868.2 108 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent Company statement of cash flow SEK million Note 18/19 17/18 Operating activities EBIT -6.3 -11.5 Adjustment for non-cash items P14 258.7 297.7 Interest received 0.9 14.2 Interest paid -37.4 -29.8 Income tax paid -69.2 -56.6 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 146.7 214.0 Decrease (+)/increase (-) in receivables -712.5 -920.6 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current liabilities 3.3 2.3 Cash flow from changes in working capital -709.2 -918.3 Cash flow from operating activities -562.5 -704.3 Financing activities New share issue 680.8 – Cash flow from LTI programme 28.9 60.5 New loans raised – 2,153.2 Repayment of loans – -1,383.6 Paid liabilities start-up costs P12 -0.6 -8.4 Dividends received 46.8 300.0 Dividends -239.2 -213.3 Cash flow from financing activities 516.7 908.4 Cash flow for the year -45.8 204.1 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 247.0 42.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 201.2 247.0 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES and assumptions that impact the application of the Note 1 Significant accounting policies accounting policies and the carrying amounts for assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates The consolidated financial statements for Dustin have and assumptions are based on historical experience and been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual various other factors that under current circumstances Accounts Act and International Financial Reporting seem reasonable and are regularly reviewed. The Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. In addition, the actual outcome may differ from these estimates Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation and assumptions, but not significantly. A change in RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups is estimates is recognised in the period in which the applied in respect of Swedish conditions. The Parent change occurred. The areas that involve a high degree of Company applies the same accounting policies as assessment and that are of material importance to the the Group except for the cases described under the Group are described in Note 2 Important estimates and section “Parent Company’s accounting policies.” The assessments. Board and the CEO approved this Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements for publication The accounting policies outlined in this section are on November 14, 2019. The consolidated and Parent applied consistently to all external reporting, unless Company income statements and balance sheets will be otherwise stated. adopted by the Annual General Meeting on December 11, 2019. New and amended accounting policies None of the changes and interpretations in existing Valuation basis in the preparation of standards that have been applied from the financial the financial statements year beginning September 1, 2018 had any material Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, impact on the financial statements for the Group or the except for certain financial assets and liabilities that are Parent Company. measured at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value consist of derivative instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and acquisition-related earn-outs. The standard deals with the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers. The new standard Functional currency and presentation currency replaces IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue The functional currency of the Parent Company is the and related interpretations. The standard became Swedish krona (SEK), which is also the presentation effective for financial years beginning on or after currency for both the Parent Company and the Group. January 1, 2018, which for Dustin means the Group This means that the financial statements are presented applied IFRS 15 for the first time as of the financial year in SEK. All amounts, unless otherwise stated, are that began on September 1, 2018. rounded to the nearest million SEK. Dustin has chosen to apply the standard with full Classification of current and retrospective application, which means the cumulative non-current items effect when transitioning to IFRS 15 was recognised in Assets and liabilities are allocated as current or nonretained earnings at September 1, 2017 and comparative current. Non-current assets and liabilities consist figures have been restated. primarily of assets and liabilities that are expected to fall due for payment more than 12 months after the The introduction of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any balance-sheet date. Current receivables and liabilities changes to the timing of the recognition of Dustin’s consist primarily of assets and liabilities that are revenue, as Dustin’s earlier principles for revenue expected to fall due for payment more than 12 months recognition in all material respects comply with the after the balance-sheet date. new standard. No items in the income statement or balance sheet were impacted. Estimates and assessments in the financial statements Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates 110 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Practical solutions have been used with retrospective calculated and is of the opinion that the effect of the application in accordance with IFRS 15. These are: changes in principle will not have any material impact on the financial statements. • The Group does not state the amount of the Furthermore, Dustin deems the types of hedge transaction price given to the remaining performance relationship for hedge accounting fulfil the obligation and an explanation of when Dustin requirements of IFRS 9 and are thus not expected to expects to recognise the amount as income in the have any impact on the financial statements. income statement for the previous financial year (17/18). IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases is a new standard regarding recognition • Subsequent expenditure to obtain a contract has of leases, that replaced the existing standard IAS 17. been recognised by the Group as an expense when This standard, which encompasses the recognition of this arises if the depreciation period for the asset that lease agreements, comes into effect on January 1, 2019, Dustin would otherwise have recognised is less than which for Dustin means the financial year beginning one year. September 1, 2019. The classification model as stated in IAS 17 Leases whereby assets and liabilities for all leases • The Group has not adjusted the promised transaction are recognised in the balance sheet, disappears for price for the effects of a significant financing lessees. component when Dustin expects, when entering into the agreement, that the period between the date The Group will apply the modified retrospective of the transfer of the promised good or service to a transition method. That means that the cumulative customer and the date when the customer pays for effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised in the the good or service is one year or less. opening balance on September 1, 2019 with no restatement of comparative figures. Identified leases IFRS 9 Financial Instruments under IFRS 16 mainly relate to buildings (offices and The standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: warehouse), transportation (vehicles and forklifts) and Recognition and Measurement, became effective for other equipment (such as IT and machinery). Leases of financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, low value and with a term of not more than 12 months which for Dustin means the financial year that began on are not included in the right-of-use assets or lease September 1, 2018. liabilities. The present value of the future operating lease fees, discounted using the marginal loan interest The standard contains rules for classification and rate at September 1, 2019, will be recognised as an measurement of financial assets and liabilities, interest-bearing liability with a corresponding use-ofimpairment of financial instruments and hedge right asset. accounting. Dustin has elected to apply the exemption, which means that comparable information for prior Marginal loan interest rates are decided on the basis periods will not be restated with respect to changes in of country and class of asset and taking into account classification and measurement. each period of contract. The lease term is established as the non-cancellable lease term. In material contracts, IFRS 9 contains three classification categories for account will also be taken of options for renewal or financial assets: Measured at amortised cost, fair value termination, in cases where it is reasonably certain that through other comprehensive income and fair value this option will be used. through profit or loss. The earlier IAS 39 categories – held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables, The opening balance as of September 1, 2019 regarding and available-for-sale financial assets – are no longer utilization rights and lease liabilities amounts to SEK used. Dustin’s measurement of financial assets has not 342 million. Dustin’s financial statements will be changed as a result of the introduction of IFRS 9 as the impacted by this standard. EBITDA is expected to rise as measurement basis was already amortised cost or fair lease expenses will partly be recognised as depreciation. value. Net debt will increase considerably due to the increase in lease liabilities. Cash flow from operating activities The new standard entails changes in the principle will increase and cash flow from financing activities will for impairment of expected credit losses. Dustin has decrease. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 111 Segment reporting items affecting comparability. If a change in value In Dustin, segment reporting is based on the Group’s occurs before the purchase price allocation has been end-customers and corresponds to the internal finalised, and the change is of such a nature that the reporting structure used by management, the Board event arose from the acquisition date, measurement is of Directors and the chief operating decision maker carried out via the balance sheet. For more information (the CEO). Dustin’s operations are divided into three on items affecting comparability, refer to the section on business segments: SMB (Small and Medium-sized items affecting comparability below. Businesses), LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) and B2C (Business to Consumer). The segments are followed Transactions eliminated upon consolidation up using the key performance indicators of net sales Intra-Group receivables and payables, income and and segment earnings. A central function also exists, expenses arising from intra-Group transactions are to which all non-allocated costs and amortisation/ eliminated when the consolidated financial statements depreciation are recognised. are prepared. Consolidation policies Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions are translated to the Group structure functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing The Group encompasses the Parent Company and on the transaction date. Exchange-rate differences subsidiaries. The financial statements of subsidiaries arising in connection with the settlement of such are consolidated in the consolidated financial transactions, or when translating exchange rates for statements as of the date on which the controlling monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies on influence is attained and until the date on which the balance-sheet, date are recognised in profit or loss. controlling influence no longer exists. An overview of all consolidated companies in the Group can be found in Exchange-rate differences attributable to operating Note P7 Participations in Group companies. assets and liabilities are recognised in profit or loss under Other operating income or Other operating Consolidation of subsidiaries and purchase expenses. price allocations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are recognised in Functional currency is the currency of the primary accordance with the purchase method. Using this economic environment in which the entity operates, method, the acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded meaning that the local currency corresponds to as a transaction whereby Dustin indirectly acquires the functional currency for the companies. Upon the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and consolidation, this means that all assets and liabilities contingent liabilities. included in the subsidiaries’ balance sheets are translated at the closing day rate and all profit or In the event of an acquisition, the purchase price loss items are translated at the average exchange allocation is prepared to determine the cost of the rate. Any translation differences are recognised in shares or the business and the fair value at the other comprehensive income and accumulated in the acquisition date of identifiable assets, liabilities and translation reserve in equity. contingent liabilities. The difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of identified The Group applies hedge accounting to hedge net assets and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. If investments in foreign subsidiaries. For effective the purchase consideration is lower than the fair value hedges, exchange-rate differences from transaction of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference of external loans from credit institutes are recognised is recognised as revenue in the income statement. in other comprehensive income. Gains or losses Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition attributable to ineffective portions of hedges are are expensed continuously and are recognised under recognised in profit or loss under net financial items. For items affecting comparability. Any contingent earn-out further information, refer to the section on Derivative to be paid after the acquisition date is recognised as instruments and hedge accounting on page 117. a liability at fair value. Measurement is subsequently carried out on a continuous basis at fair value and changes in value are recognised in profit or loss under 112 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 Net sales in time that control of the license is passed to the Net sales include income measured at the transaction customer, which is typically upon delivery. price that has been or is expected to be received for sold goods and services, excluding VAT after eliminating When Dustin acts as agent, the performance obligation intra-Group sales and after taking into account variable consists of Dustin’s mediation of the sale between remuneration such as the expected value of volume the supplier and the customer and Dustin receives discounts. The expected value of volume discounts is commission income. Commission income is recognised based on historical data and is recognised as a liability when the obligation to mediate the sale is met, which is and as a reduction in revenue. typically when the license is delivered to the customer. Dustin believes the use of the right of return has had a Consulting services marginal impact on revenue historically and accordingly Dustin has consultants who perform services on costno loss allowance for the impact of returns has been plus contracts or at fixed prices. made and separate information relating to returns is deemed unnecessary. For consulting services on cost-plus contracts, the performance obligation can be considered fulfilled as Dustin’s sales include the sale of IT products and the customer receives and uses the benefits provided. advanced products and services to businesses (B2B) in This takes place when Dustin fulfils the obligations the SMB (Small and Medium-sized Businesses) segment, specified in the contract, which is normally when the and LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) as well as consulting hours have been delivered. consumers (B2C). For fixed prices services, income is typically recognised Income is recognised in profit or loss when Dustin fulfils a when the assignment stipulated in the contract is performance obligation by transferring a good or service completed. to a customer. Invoicing takes place in conjunction with the delivery and the normal payment period is 20-30 days. Income from bundled services To recognise income for various bundled services, Guarantees offered as optional extras for a product an assessment is made of whether a service and where Dustin is the reseller entail no extra performance hardware/license is to be deemed a performance obligation as guarantees are provided by other suppliers. obligation or if the service and hardware/license is to be recognised separately. The assessment is based on Dustin primarily recognises income from the following whether the customer can benefit from the hardware/ income streams: license separately from the service and if it is possible to separate the service from the hardware/license in the Sales of hardware contract with the customer. Sales of hardware comprise the largest share of the Group’s total income. Income is recognised at the point The main part of bundled services comprises separate in time that control of the product is passed to the performance obligations where the service and customer. This occurs when the product is delivered to hardware are recognised separately. Income from the the carrier if the customer is a company (B2B) and when hardware is recognised when control is passed to the the product is delivered by the carrier if the customer is customer, meaning upon delivery of the hardware, and a consumer (B2C). the service is recognised over time as the customer benefits from the service. The transaction price is Sales of licenses allocated to each performance obligation based on the Dustin is the reseller of licenses and does not sell its specification in the contract. own licenses to customers. Depending on the type of software license sold, Dustin has identified customer Dustin also has certain contracts with customers contracts in which Dustin in certain license contracts is where the service and hardware/license is considered the principal, but acts as agent in other contracts. to be a performance obligation and is recognised on a continuous basis over the contract period pertaining to When Dustin is the principal, the performance the performance obligation. obligation is considered to be fulfilled at the point DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 113 Cost of goods and services sold Operating leases The cost of goods and services sold includes the Other lease contracts are classified as operating. Costs purchase price, customs, other taxes, distribution costs, for operating leases are recognised as depreciation expenses for consultants and other directly attributable and interest expenses in profit or loss for the year on a costs. Discounts from suppliers, cash discounts, vendor straight-line basis over the term of the lease. bonuses and similar items reduce the cost of goods and services sold. Tax Dustin’s total tax expense consists of current and Dustin has utilised the practical solution available in deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss, IFRS 15 that allows a company to recognise subsequent except when the underlying transaction is recognised expenditure to obtain a contract as an expense when in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in this arises if the period of amortisation for the asset which case the related tax effect is recognised in other that Dustin would otherwise have recognised is not comprehensive income or directly in equity. more than one year. Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received in the Selling and administrative expenses current year, with the application of the tax rates Selling expenses includes costs directly attributable that have been decided or decided in practice on to sales of goods and services. This item includes the the balance-sheet date in the countries in which the cost of freight to customers, marketing, remuneration company’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable of sellers, debt collection, credit information, etc. earnings. This also includes adjustments of current tax Administrative expenses include administration costs attributable to prior periods. not attributable to the cost of goods and services sold or selling expenses. Administrative expenses include Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences, costs for the finance department, HR department, IT which is the difference between the taxable value of department, depreciation and other expenses. assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is Items affecting comparability calculated using the tax rates and tax regulations that Items affecting comparability relate to material income have been decided or announced as per the balanceand expense items recognised separately due to the sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only significance of their nature and amounts to facilitate to the extent that it is probable that future taxable understanding of the Group’s financial performance. surplus will be available for offsetting the temporary Items affecting comparability are specified in differences within the foreseeable future. Deferred tax Note 5 Items affecting comparability. liabilities and deferred tax assets are offset as far as possible within the framework of local laws and tax Financial income and expenses regulations. Financial income and expenses consist of interest income from bank deposits and receivables and interest Intangible assets expenses from external financing. Interest expenses and interest income are recognised when they arise in Brands accordance with the effective interest method. The Dustin brand is recognised as an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life since Dustin is actively Lease accounting continuing to support the brand via continuous further development and strengthening. The brand is not Dustin as a lessee amortised but is tested for impairment every year and whenever there is an indication of a decline in value. Financial leasing A lease is classified as financial leasing when the risk Goodwill and rewards associated with ownership have been Goodwill arises when operations are acquired where transferred to Dustin. The assets are recognised as the cost exceeds the fair value of Dustin’s share of the tangible assets and the future payments as financial acquired operations’ identifiable net assets on the liabilities. acquisition date. Goodwill is recognised at cost reduced by any impairment. 114 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 Impairment of goodwill is tested annually and • System development and upgrades that improve whenever there is an indication of a decline in value per system functionality. These activities include cash-generating unit The carrying amount of goodwill functional and technical design, upgrades, is compared with the recoverable amount, which is the development/configuration, deployment, migration highest of the value in use and the fair value less selling and project management of said activities within the expenses. Any impairment is recognised as an expense framework of the architecture principles. and is never reversed. • Costs to develop the use of the IT platforms in new parts of the organisation. Cash-generating units coincide with the business segments: Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life and is recognised in profit • B2C: Business to Consumer or loss under Selling and administrative expenses. • LCP: Large Corporate and Public Sector Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised • SMB: Small and Medium-sized Businesses as from the date the asset is available for use. The expected useful lives for intangible assets are as The cash-generating units to which goodwill has been follows: allocated are impairment tested by comparing the carrying amount of the unit, including goodwill, with Attributable to acquisitions: the unit’s recoverable amount of operating capital Customer relationships 3–10 years including goodwill. Operating capital is defined as the Technology 3–5 years net of joint operating assets and operating liabilities. Joint operating assets in Dustin include goodwill, IT platforms: inventory, accounts receivable, personnel receivables, ERP platform 3–15 years tax assets and accrued receivables. Joint operating Web platform 3–6 years liabilities in Dustin primarily include accounts payable, Other technology 2–4 years provisions, tax liabilities and deferred tax. Other items: The valuation is based on Dustin’s business plan and Licenses 3 years a discounted cash flow analysis, as the main approach Pricing platform 3 years in estimating the recoverable amount. A sensitivity analysis of the discount rate and growth assumptions is Tangible assets made after each impairment test in order to determine Tangible assets are recognised as assets in the balance whether the remaining value (the difference between sheet when it is probable that the future financial the recoverable amount and the carrying amount) is benefits associated with the assets will accrue to the sufficient. company and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Tangible assets are recognised at cost less Other intangible assets accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Other intangible assets consist of acquired customer Cost includes the purchase price and costs directly relationships and capitalised IT expenditure for the attributable to the asset for delivering it to its intended integrated IT platform and Dustin’s pricing platform. place and in a condition that matches the intended Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet if purpose. they meet the criteria for intangible assets according to IAS 38 Intangible Assets. The carrying amount of tangible assets is derecognised from the balance sheet when the item is disposed of or Capitalisation of IT expenditure for the integrated sold or when no future financial benefits are expected IT platform (refer to definitions) is only applied to to accrue from the asset. Gains or losses on the sale systems that Dustin considers strategic long-term or disposal of an asset are calculated as the difference systems. Expenditure for other systems are expensed between the selling price (less direct selling expenses) immediately. Capitalised IT expenditures consist of: and the carrying amount of the asset. Gains or losses are recognised as other operating income/expenses in profit or loss when control has been transferred to the purchaser. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 115 Depreciation is applied on a straight-line basis over Dustin applies the simplified approach under IFRS 9 that the estimated useful life and recognised in selling and entails the measurement of the loss allowance to an administrative expenses in profit or loss. Useful lives amount corresponding to the expected credit losses for are continuously assessed. The expected useful lives for the remaining time to maturity regardless of whether tangible assets are as follows: or not the credit is credit-impaired. Receivables are included in the balance sheet when Dustin has fulfilled Investment in rented premises 5–10 years an obligation and when the right to remuneration is Computers and accessories 3 years unconditional but has not been received. Since the Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5 years expected maturity of an account receivable is short, the value is recognised without discounting. Impairment of assets Assets with indefinite useful lives are not depreciated Cash and cash equivalents but are tested for impairment at least once a year. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank Assets that are subject to depreciation are also tested balances that are readily available. Cash and cash for impairment. Any impairment of assets subject to equivalents are measured at amortised cost. Utilised depreciation is reversed only when there is no longer bank overdrafts are recognised under short-term loans. any indication of impairment and the assumptions used as the basis for calculating the recoverable amount have Equity changed. However, impairment of goodwill is never Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Transaction reversed. An impairment loss is only reversed to the costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares extent that the asset’s carrying amount, after reversal, or warrants are recognised (net of tax) in equity does not exceed the recognised residual value that as a deduction from the issue proceeds. For more would have existed had the impairment not occurred. information about equity, refer to Note 21 Equity. Inventories Provisions Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated Dustin has an existing legal or informal obligation as a selling price in the operating activities, less the result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow estimated costs for accomplishing a sale. Goods are of financial benefits will be required to settle the considered to be included in Dustin’s inventory from the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount date on which the goods are owned by Dustin according can be made. If the effect of the date of payment is to civil law. The cost of inventories is measured material, provisions are calculated by discounting according to a moving average method. This averaging the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that approach is considered to yield a safe and conservative reflects current market assessments of the time value approach to recognising financial results. Calculation of of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the moving average cost is made by dividing the total the liability. cost of the items purchased by the number of items in inventories. The average cost includes all inventory Remuneration of employees items in stock and is re-calculated after every inventory purchase. Pension plans The Group only has defined-contribution pension plans, Receivables meaning the company’s obligations are limited to the Contract assets and accounts receivable are recognised payment of fixed contributions. Dustin has no legal or at the transaction price on initial recognition while informal obligations to pay further contributions should other receivables are measured at fair value plus the fund not have sufficient assets to pay all employee directly attributable transaction costs. Contract benefits relating to employee service in current and assets, other receivables and accounts receivable prior periods. For defined-contribution plans, Dustin are subsequently recognised at amortised cost less pays contributions to publicly or privately administered any impairment. As of the current financial year, pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual impairment losses are based on expected credit losses or voluntary basis. The contributions are recognised on and recognised in profit or loss under administrative a continuous basis as expenses for employee benefits. expenses. For accounts receivable and contract assets, Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to 116 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future allocation has been finalised, and the change is of such payments accrues to Dustin. a nature that the event arose from the acquisition date, measurement is carried out via the balance sheet. Share-based remuneration Liabilities for contingent earn-outs are discounted and A number of senior executives and other key individuals the effect of the discounting is expensed under financial at Dustin have been allotted warrants under the liabilities. The fair value is calculated as defined for Level framework of the Group’s share-based remuneration 3 in IFRS 13, meaning according to inputs that are not plan. Dustin receives services from these employees based on observable market data. The calculation of the as payment for the Group’s equity instruments contingent earn-out liability is based on the parameters (warrants). Furthermore, the programme also includes of each acquisition agreement. These parameters are a limited number of warrants that are settled in cash, usually linked to the outcome of performance measures known as synthetic options. The fair value of liabilities taken for up to three years from the date of acquisition. including any social security contributions for cashbased payment is charged to profit or loss at the Derivative instruments and hedge accounting corresponding change in liabilities. All warrants were Derivatives comprise interest-rate derivatives to cover issued on market-based terms on the subscription date. the variable interest-rate risk associated with external bank loans and, in certain cases, currency futures to Dustin issues new shares when the warrants are cover the transaction exposure that may arise upon utilised. Payments received, less any transaction costs, purchase of foreign currency. Derivative instruments are increase the share capital and other contributed capital recognised on the contract date and are measured at to the extent exceeding the quotient value. fair value, both initially and in subsequent revaluations via other comprehensive income, in the hedge reserve For more information regarding employee benefits, in shareholders’ equity, on condition that the hedge see Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits is effective. When the hedge is realised, the realised expense and remuneration of senior executives. portion is reversed to profit or loss for interestrate derivatives and to the carrying amount of the Loans purchased balance-sheet item for hedged purchases of External loans and drawdowns are initially measured foreign currency. at the fair value of the amount received, net after transaction costs. Transaction costs include costs If the hedge accounting ceases, the cumulative gain that arise in connection with raising loans or loan or loss on the hedging instrument remains until commitments if it is deemed probable that loan such time as the forecast transaction occurs. If the or credits will be utilised. The cost is recognised as forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the prepaid expenses until the credits or loan is utilised. cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument is Borrowing is thereafter recognised at amortised cost immediately recognised in net financial items in profit and any difference between the amount received (net or loss. If the derivative is discontinued prematurely and after transaction costs) and the repayment amount replaced with a new, similar derivative, the derivative’s is recognised in profit or loss distributed over the cost is recognised on an accruals basis in profit or loss borrowing period, applying the effective interest over the original remaining term. method. Under IFRS 9, hedge accounting is applied to net Liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless investments in foreign subsidiaries. This means Dustin has an unconditional right to defer payment of that exchange-rate differences on external loans the liability for at least 12 months after the balanceare recognised in other comprehensive income. sheet date. Efficacy analyses are carried out every quarter and in accordance with Dustin’s Financial Policy. Any gains or Acquisition-related liabilities losses from hedging instruments attributable to the Acquisition-related liabilities pertain to contingent effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other earn-outs. Measurement is carried out on a continuous comprehensive income. Gains or losses attributable to basis at fair value and changes in value are recognised the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss in profit or loss under items affecting comparability. under Financial expenses and other similar incomeIf a change in value occurs before the purchase price statement items. Accumulated gains and losses in DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 117 other comprehensive income are recognised in profit which replaces IAS 39, has not been applied by the or loss when the foreign operations are fully or partly Parent Company except for the requirements found offset. The Group meets the requirements for applying in RFR2. The Parent Company has current receivables hedging of net investments. from Group companies that are subject to the new rules concerning impairment in IFRS 9. As these receivables Accounts payable are intra-Group and will be settled shortly after the Accounts payable are obligations to pay for goods or balance-sheet date, no provision has been recognised services that have been acquired from suppliers in the for expected credit losses in the Parent Company. operating activities. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if they fall due for payment within In the Parent Company, Dustin has also chosen to apply one year. If payment is expected to be made more than the exemption available in RFR2 from applying IFRS 16 12 months after the balance-sheet date, the liability is in a legal entity. recognised as a long-term liability. Accounts payable are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at Financial instruments amortised cost applying the effective interest method. The Parent Company does not apply IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. Financial instruments are recognised at Contingent liabilities cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Unlike Disclosures about a contingent liability are provided the Group, the Parent Company does not apply hedge when there is a possible obligation depending on accounting to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. whether some uncertain future event occurs or when This means the Parent Company’s income statement there is an existing obligation for which payment is not recognises the exchange-rate effect of loans in foreign probable or the amount cannot be measured reliably. currency. In accordance with Dustin’s Financial Policy, derivatives are to be used for hedging of variable Parent Company’s accounting policies interest rates on external loans. To minimise the risk The Parent Company Dustin Group AB’s financial of fluctuations in interest expenses for the Group, the statements have been prepared in accordance with derivatives must be structured so that maturities are the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the standard spread over several periods. During the current and RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. RFR 2 requires that, preceding financial years, derivatives were prematurely to the extent possible, financial statements for the discontinued and replaced with new derivatives with Parent Company should comply with all IFRS standards wider maturity spreads. The effect of the derivatives and interpretations approved by the EU. Furthermore, being prematurely discontinued is that the early the recommendation specifies permissible exceptions payment is recognised as an asset (prepaid expense) from IFRS, as well as additions to IFRS that are required in the balance sheet and the cost is recognised on an in order for the Parent Company to be compliant with accruals basis in net financial items over the original Swedish legislation. remaining duration. In accordance with Article 403, Book 2 of the Civil Code Shares in subsidiaries are recognised according to the of the Netherlands, the Company has guaranteed the cost method. The Parent Company’s carrying amounts liabilities of a certain Dutch majority-owned subsidiary. for subsidiaries are tested when there is an indication of Separate financial statements of this subsidiary are a decline in value. therefore not filed at the Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands. At August 31, 2019, Tax a 403-statement has been issued for the following The Parent Company recognises untaxed reserves company: Switch IT Solutions B.V. (appropriations) and deferred tax. Differences between the accounting policies of the Group contributions Group and the Parent Company are presented below. Dustin applies alternative regulations pursuant to RFR 2, which means that Group contributions are recognised Amended and new accounting policies as appropriations. The new standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers has no impact on the Parent Company’s Subsidiaries recognition of income. IFRS 9 Financial instruments, 118 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 Shares in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Note 2 Important estimates and assessments Company according to the cost method. Any dividend from subsidiaries is recognised in profit or loss for the Parent Company as financial income. If there The preparation of these financial statements involves is an indication that the value of the shares in the management making estimates and assessments about subsidiaries has decreased, an impairment test is the future. These assumptions and estimates are based conducted. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are on historical experience and other factors considered to be recognised in cases where the Parent Company for these important areas, and the estimates and has exclusive rights to decide about the size of the assessments are evaluated continuously. Estimates and dividend, and whether the Parent Company made assessments recognised for the year are considered to a decision about the size of the dividend before the be reasonable. The identified key estimates are: Parent Company published its financial statements. Impairment of assets Shareholders’ contributions Goodwill is considered to be the most important asset Shareholders’ contributions are capitalised in shares for which impairment testing is deemed to be critical. and participations. Any impairment requirements are The calculated recoverable amount of identified cashtaken into account. generating units is based on a number of assessments and estimates based on management’s established financial plan. Changes to these could have a material effect on the recoverable amount. The most significant assumption are outlined in Note 12 Intangible assets and Note 23 Acquisition of businesses. The sensitivity analysis shows that reasonable changes in assumptions made would not result in a lower recoverable amount than the carrying amount of goodwill. The impairment tests for the current financial year did not indicate any need of impairment. Performance-based contingent earn-out liability Dustin has often applied a price model to acquisitions whereby the total purchase consideration partly comprises a performance-based earn-out liability. The total earn-out is initially estimated when the preliminary purchase price allocation is determined in direct connection with the acquisition. Changes in the earn-out liability are subsequently evaluated every quarter or when the need arises. The assessments on which the recognised liability is based comprise a number of critical assumptions with respect to, for example, growth and margins. Company management works actively on forecasts and follow-ups and ensuring that the assumptions forming the basis of recognised liabilities are deemed to be reasonable. For more information, refer to Note 23 Acquisition of businesses. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 3 Business segments and sales by geographic area Net sales Assets* Net sales 18/19 17/18 By geographic Aug 31 Aug 31 LCP 6,376.8 5,284.1 area 18/19 17/18 2019 2018 SMB 5,532.9 4,375.1 Sweden 5,514.5 5,152.8 1,878.6 1,876.5 B2C 625.9 641.2 Finland 1,771.0 1,631.0 660.3 366.8 Total net sales 12,535.7 10,300.5 Denmark 2,507.3 1,638.5 907.6 538.3 The Segment results Netherlands 869.1 167.6 796.2 738.5 LCP 359.4 330.5 Norway 1,873.8 1,710.5 477.4 492.2 SMB 584.4 508.2 Total 12,535.7 10,300.5 4,720.1 4,012.3 B2C 36.7 31.5 * Assets excluding divestment-related receivables, deferred tax assets, Segment results 980.5 870.2 derivative instruments and other assets. Operations in the Netherlands were acquired in the final quarter of 17/18 thereof the marked increase in net sales compared with the full-year 18/19. The increase in Denmark is attributable to Central functions -420.7 -369.5 a growth in sales in the LCP segment. Adjusted EBITA 559.7 500.7 Dustin’s operations were previously divided into two Segment margin business segments: B2B and B2C, but since the 17/18 LCP, segment margin (%) 5.6 6.3 financial year a decision was taken to divide B2B into SMB, segment margin (%) 10.6 11.6 two segments: LCP (Large Corporate and Public Sector) B2C, segment margin (%) 5.9 4.9 and SMB (Small and Medium-sized Businesses) and to retain B2C. Within LCP and SMB, customers are served Costs for central functions, excluding through both the online platform and relationship items affecting comparability in selling. Dustin’s sales model has been adapted to meet relation to net sales (%) -3.4 -3.6 customer needs as efficiently as possible. In addition to the core LCP and SMB segments, Dustin also serves private customers in the B2C business segment. In Reconciliation with EBIT the B2C segment, customers are only served through Items affecting comparability 3.5 1.0 the online platform. Through this customer segment, Amortisation and impairment of Dustin gains insight into trends and pricing as well as intangible assets -74.1 -57.8 increased sales with limited additional costs. EBIT, Group 489.1 443.8 These three business segments are supported by a Financial income and other similar number of Group-wide functions including product income-statement items 0.8 1.1 procurement, pricing, online, marketing, business Financial expenses and other similar support and people development. These Group-wide income-statement items -45.0 -60.3 functions are referred to above as Costs for central Profit after financial items, Group 445.0 384.6 functions. Dustin’s central functions hold the key to delivery of the Group’s offerings in all markets, the generation of economies of scale and the simplification of the integration of acquired operations. 120 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 4 Expenses by type of cost 18/19 17/18 Cost of goods and services sold from suppliers 10,174.6 8,604.1 Personnel costs included in cost of goods and services sold 271.7 59.5 Cost of goods and services sold 10,446.3 8,663.7 Personnel costs 1,017.9 870.7 Amortisation/depreciation of tangible and intangible assets 115.5 78.4 Other selling and administrative expenses including items affecting comparability 457.4 233.2 Selling and administrative expenses including items affecting comparability 1,590.8 1,182.3 Total 12,037.1 9,845.9 The item cost of goods and services sold from Depreciation/amortisation encompasses intangible and suppliers above refers to direct costs for purchases tangible assets and is included in the line Selling and of goods and direct costs related to the delivery of administrative expenses in the income statement. services. Personnel costs included in cost of goods and Other selling and administrative expenses including services sold refers to personnel costs that are directly items affecting comparability primarily refer to rent for attributable to the provision of a service. premises, costs for temporary employees, marketing, Personnel costs that are not directly related to the IT and other personnel costs not related to salaries or provision of a service are included in the item Selling social security contributions, in addition to the Items and administrative expenses and refer to payroll affecting comparability specified in Note 5. expenses including social security expenses. Note 5 Items affecting comparability 18/19 17/18 Acquisition and divestment-related expenses -26.2 -20.2 Recruitment costs, senior executives – -2.9 Change in value of acquisition-related liabilities 48.1 23.7 Costs for launch of online retail -18.4 – Gain attributable to divestment of operations – 0.4 Total 3.5 1.0 Items affecting comparability for the year amounted to Costs for acquisitions and divestments primarily SEK 4 million (1) and mainly comprised costs of SEK pertained to payments to consultants and attorneys for 26 million (20) for acquisitions implemented during financial and legal advisory services in conjunction with the year and positive effects from the adjustments to acquisitions and divestments. The value change for the performance-based earn-outs of SEK 48 million (24). year in acquisition-related liabilities is attributable to Costs for the development of the IT platform to support previously completed acquisitions. The change mainly online retail in the Netherlands amounted to SEK 18 concerns the acquisition of Core and Norriq, where the million (–). liability for the earn-out to Core has been revalued to a higher value of SEK 17 million at the same time as a write-down was recognised regarding Norriq of SEK 63 million. For more information on acquisition-related liabilities, refer to Note 14 Acquisition and divestmentrelated assets and liabilities. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 6 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses 18/19 17/18 Ernst & Young AB Audit assignment 3.6 3.0 Audit activities other than audit assignment 1.3 1.4 Tax consultations 0.0 0.1 Other services 0.2 – Total 5.0 4.5 Other auditing firms Audit assignment – 0.2 Total 5.0 4.7 Audit assignments are defined as the examination Audit activities other than audit assignment primarily of the Annual Report and accounting records and of relate to the auditor’s review of interim reports and the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s administration of audit of the company’s Corporate Responsibility Report. the Company, other tasks incumbent on the auditor, as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by For the 17/18 and 18/19 financial years, Ernst & Young AB observations made in the course of such examinations was appointed the auditor of the Group. or the performance of such other tasks. Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives 18/19 17/18 Average number of employees Women Men Total Women Men Total Subsidiaries Sweden 205 570 776 169 540 709 Norway 29 134 163 27 126 153 Finland 37 126 163 26 82 108 Denmark 27 144 171 20 105 125 The Netherlands 45 327 371 8 49 57 Total in the Group 343 1,301 1,644 250 902 1,152 18/19 17/18 Distribution of Board members and senior executives at the balance-sheet date Women Men Total Women Men Total Board members 3 4 7 3 4 7 Group Management, including CEO 4 5 9 4 6 10 Total 7 9 16 7 10 17 122 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives, cont’d. 18/19 Salaries and other remuneration of CEO and the CEO, Group Management and Group of which, CEO Other other employees Management* Thomas Ekman employees Total Salaries and other remuneration 29.4 7.1 961.4 990.8 of which, variable remuneration 7.4 2.0 53.6 61.0 Social security expenses 13.1 3.7 285.7 298.8 of which, pension costs 5.9 1.5 86.9 92.8 Total 42.5 10.8 1,247.1 1,289.6 *Remuneration of the senior executive in the Netherlands is paid through invoicing from a self-owned company. 17/18 of which, of which, Salaries and other remuneration of CEO and CEO Thomas CEO Georgi the CEO, Group Management and Group Ekman from Ganev until Other other employees Management Jan 1, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 employees Total Salaries and other remuneration 28.2 5.8 3.3 673.7 701.9 of which, variable remuneration 9.5 2.5 1.4 26.1 35.6 Social security expenses 12.4 2.8 1.4 215.9 228.3 of which, pension costs 4.8 1.0 0.4 63.7 68.5 Total 40.6 8.6 4.7 889.6 930.2 Remuneration of senior executives Guidelines for remuneration of well as variable remuneration. The CEO is entitled to a senior executives fixed annual salary of SEK 5,280,000 and annual variable Guidelines for the remuneration of senior executives remuneration of a maximum of 60 per cent of the fixed are resolved by the shareholders at the Annual General salary. The retirement age for the CEO is 65. Until the Meeting. The Annual General Meeting, which is to be agreed retirement age, the company is to contribute a held on December 11, 2019, will take a decision about monthly amount corresponding to 30 per cent of the the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives. fixed salary in a pension. The CEO has 12 months’ notice The proposal ahead of the Annual General Meeting is of termination from the company and six months’ that the guidelines for the next year remain unchanged notice on his/her own initiative. compared with the established guidelines. The proposal is available at Remuneration of other Group Management comprises www.dustingroup.com. fixed salary, pension and other standard benefits, as well as variable remuneration of a maximum of 60 Board members per cent of the fixed salary. Pension for other Group Remuneration and fees that were approved for 2018/19 Management is paid as a percentage of the fixed are described in the table “Board remuneration”. During salary or premium-based pension scheme. In the event the 2018/19 financial year, separate remuneration was of termination of other Group Management by the paid for committee work, as resolved by the Annual company, the notice of termination is a maximum General Meeting on December 11, 2018. of 12 months. In the event of termination of other senior executives on their own initiative, the notice of CEO and other Group Management termination is six months. Remuneration of the CEO Thomas Ekman comprises fixed salary, pension and other standard benefits, as DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives, cont’d. Long-term incentive programme warrants would result in a dilution of approximately At the Annual General Meeting on December 11, 3.1 per cent. The aim of the warrants programmes is 2018, the shareholders resolved to adopt a long-term to increase the proportion of ownership among Group incentive programme (LTI 2019) for senior executives Management, and to motivate them to remain at and other identified key individuals. The programme the company. In addition, the ownership is expected has the same structure as the previous year’s incentive to increase long-term commitment to Dustin and its programme, and consists of warrants. Each warrant earnings performance. carries the entitlement to subscribe for one new share in the company. The programme includes a total of The long-term incentive programme LTI 2016 was 1,054,411 warrants and also includes synthetic options. exercised in full by participants during the financial year, The duration period for the warrants is 3.5 years. There and the number of shares thus increased 388,480. The are also two long-term incentive programmes from exercise price per warrant was SEK 65.20 and as a result, prior years (LTI 2017 and LTI 2018) that encompass a the share capital increased by SEK 2 million and the total of 1,159,996 and 866,713 warrants, respectively, share premium reserve by SEK 23 million. with a duration period of 3.5 years. Full exercise of the Outstanding Exercise price, Dilution Programme Period of utilisation warrants* SEK** on full exercise LTI 2019 Jan 30, 2022–Jun 30, 2022 1,054,411 96.7 0.9% LTI 2018 Jan 30, 2021–Jun 30, 2021 866,713 87.1 1.0% LTI 2017 Jan 30, 2020–Jun 30, 2020 1,159,996 72.4 1.2% Total 3,081,120 3.1% * The number of shares that each warrant entitles to subscribe for has been adjusted by factor 1.02 regrding LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 after the rights issue completed in 2018. ** The exercise price for the LTI 2017 and LTI 2018 programmes have been adjusted for the rights issue during its term. Number of warrants to exercise per programme Participant LTI 2019 LTI 2018 LTI 2017 CEO Thomas Ekman 219,204 189,387 25,000 Other Group Management 383,806 201,969 290,008 Other participants 451,401 475,357 606,339 Holdings of own warrants through Dustin Aktiebolag 0 0 238,649 Total 1,054,411* 866,713 1,159,996** * Of which 246,603 warrants are synthetic options. ** Of which 94,116 warrants are synthetic options. Remuneration Committee and severance pay, and to prepare proposals for The main task of the Remuneration Committee is to individual compensation packages for the CEO and prepare matters regarding remuneration and other other Group Management. Further, the Remuneration employment terms for the CEO and other senior Committee is to monitor and evaluate the outcome executives. This work comprises preparing proposals for of the variable remuneration and the company’s guidelines on, for example, the distribution between compliance with the remuneration guidelines adopted fixed and variable remuneration and the relationship by the Annual General Meeting. In 2018/19, the Board between performance and compensation, the principal members Mia Brunell Livfors (Chairman), Caroline Berg terms and conditions for incentive programmes, the and Tomas Franzén were members of the Remuneration terms for other benefits, pensions, notice of termination Committee. For 2018/19 financial year, the Committee 124 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives, cont’d. will submit a proposal for remuneration of the CEO for Board members the Board’s approval. The Committee will also assist Remuneration and fees that were approved for 2018/19 the CEO in approving remuneration of other Group at the Annual General Meeting are described in the Management. table below. The Annual General Meeting resolved that remuneration should be paid for committee work, in Audit Committee contrast to previous years. Remuneration for committee The task of the Audit Committee is to monitor financial work is described in the table below in the column reporting, risk management and efficiency in the Other remuneration. Remuneration of the Board is company’s internal control and regulatory compliance. approved annually at the Annual General Meeting and In 2018/19, the Board members Johan Fant (Chairman), relates to the period until the next Annual General Morten Strand and Gunnel Duveblad were members of Meeting. Board fees are paid by subsidiaries. No Board the Audit Committee. fees were paid to subsidiaries. Board remuneration (annual fees in SEK) 18/19 17/18 Board fee Committee fee Board fee Committee fee Mia Brunell Livfors (Chair) 620,000 60,000 600,000 60,000 Caroline Berg 310,000 30,000 300,000 30,000 Gunnel Duveblad 310,000 50,000 300,000 50,000 Johan Fant 310,000 100,000 300,000 100,000 Tomas Franzén 310,000 30,000 300,000 30,000 Morten Strand 310,000 50,000 300,000 50,000 Mattias Miksche 310,000 – 300,000 – Total 2,480,000 320,000 2,400,000 320,000 Note 8 Lease agreements Operating lease agreements (Dustin as a lessee) The Group’s lease expense for the year amounted to SEK 142 million (82). Future lease fees amount to: 18/19 17/18 Within 1 year 136.6 96.1 Year 2 109.3 84.3 Year 3 66.7 79.6 After 3 years 59.5 74.0 Total 372.1 333.9 The Dustin Group primarily leases premises, cars, trucks, with an option to renew. No lease agreements contain IT equipment and office equipment in accordance with requirements for extension. There are index clauses in the definition of operating lease agreements. Maturity the lease agreements. of the lease agreements is usually 24–60 months, DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 8 Cont’d. Lease agreements Financial lease agreements (Dustin as a lessee) fees were reported in net profit for the year. The leased The Group leases assets under financial lease assets are attributable to Dustin A/S, Idenet AB, JMLagreements. No financial lease agreements extend Services and Vincere and mainly consist of hardware over a period that is longer than 36 months. No variable and vehicles. 18/19 17/18 Future minimum lease fees Minimum Present Minimum Present amount to: lease fees Interest value lease fees Interest value Within one year 2.9 0.3 3.2 4.4 0.3 4.7 Between one and five years 5.4 0.4 5.8 2.2 0.2 2.4 Total 8.3 0.7 9.0 6.6 0.6 7.1 Financial lease assets Financial lease assets recognised as tangible assets comprise: 18/19 17/18 Cost Vehicles 15.4 11.1 IT hardware 7.7 10.5 Closing balance 23.1 21.6 Accumulated depreciation Vehicles -6.4 -3.8 IT hardware -4.0 -5.9 Closing balance -10.4 -9.6 Carrying amount 12.7 12.0 Note 9 Financial items Interest income and similar income-statement items 18/19 17/18 Interest income 0.8 1.1 Total 0.8 1.1 Interest expenses and similar income-statement items 18/19 17/18 Borrowing costs for external financing 38.5 54.7 Discount on contingent earn-out 3.9 4.3 Other financial expenses 2.6 1.3 Total 45.0 60.3 The reduction in borrowing costs was due to borrowing forward in connection with the conclusion of a new expenses of SEK 14 million in the preceding year bank agreement. pertaining to remaining borrowing expenses brought 126 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 10 Tax Recognised effective tax Tax expense 18/19 17/18 The following components are included in the tax expense in the income statement: Current tax -78.6 -73.1 Deferred tax -8.2 -6.1 Adjustments of current tax attributable to prior periods -1.9 -0.3 Recognised effective tax -88.7 -79.4 Recognised effective tax rate 19.9% 20.7% Recognised profit before tax 444.9 384.6 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company -97.9 -84.6 Tax effect of: Non-deductible expenses -5.3 -3.8 Non-taxable income 13.6 4.8 Standardised income attributable to tax allocation reserve -0.2 -0.1 Adjustment of tax for previous years and others -0.2 -0.3 Difference in tax rate between Parent Company and subsidiaries 0.4 0.1 Changed tax rate 0.8 4.5 Recognised effective tax -88.7 -79.4 Note 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share before dilution 18/19 17/18 Net profit for the year, SEK million 356.2 305.1 Weighted number of shares outstanding 86,472,611 78,078,991 Number of shares when calculating earnings per share 86,472,611 78,078,991 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 4.12 3.91** Earnings per share after dilution 18/19 17/18 Net profit for the year, SEK million 356.2 305.1 Weighted number of shares outstanding 86,472,611 78,078,991 Adjustment for adopted dilution through incentive programme* 294,182 370,780 Number of shares when calculating earnings per share 86,766,793 78,449,771 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 4.11 3.89** * For more information about the incentive programme, refer to Note 7. ** Key ratios have been restated in comparative periods to take into account the terms and conditions of the new share issue carried out in November 2018. Earnings per share before dilution Earnings per share after dilution The calculation of earnings per share before dilution When calculating earnings per share after dilution, has been based on net profit for the year in relation to the weighted average number of shares outstanding the weighted average number of shares outstanding according to the above is adjusted for a potential according to the above. dilution effect of the warrants outstanding. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 12 Intangible assets Goodwill Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Change in goodwill for the year 2019 2018 Goodwill per segment 2019 2018 Opening cost 3,221.7 2,105.8 B2C 7.4 7.7 Acquisition of operations 591.7 981.8 LCP 987.0 883.5 Reallocation of surplus values SMB 2,845.5 2,330.5 from preliminary purchase price Total 3,839.8 3,221.7 allocations – 1.6 Exchange-rate differences 26.4 132.5 Closing residual value according to plan 3,839.8 3,221.7 Goodwill is attributable to surplus values upon acquisition to intangible assets. Identified goodwill acquisitions of new entities. In conjunction with each is primarily related to know-how and organisational acquisition, an analysis is carried out to allocate structures, where acquisitions during the year were in the surplus value arising in connection with the areas with advanced products and services. Other intangible assets attributable to acquisitions Customer Other intangible contracts Brands assets Total Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening accumulated cost 498.5 296.1 312.0 318.3 2.4 – 812.9 614.4 Acquisition of operations 107.5 231.4 – – – 2.3 107.5 233.6 Divestments and disposals -2.3 -51.2 – -6.3 0.0 – -2.2 -57.5 Exchange-rate differences 2.0 22.3 – – – 0.9 2.0 22.3 Closing accumulated cost 605.8 498.5 312.0 312.0 2.4 2.4 920.2 812.9 Opening accumulated amortisation -240.8 -250.5 0.0 -5.9 -0.1 – -240.9 -256.5 Acquisition of operations – – – – – – – – Amortisation for the year according to plan -41.0 -29.7 – -0.4 -0.5 -0.1 -41.5 -30.1 Divestments and disposals – – – 6.3 – – 2.3 57.5 Exchange-rate differences 1.5 -11.8 – – 0.0 0.0 1.4 -11.8 Closing accumulated Amortisation -278.2 -240.8 0.0 0.0 -0.6 -0.1 -278.7 -240.9 Closing residual value according to plan 327.7 257.7 312.0 312.0 1.9 2.3 641.5 572.0 Brands refer to Dustin’s brand of SEK 312 million. The may be tested more frequently if there are indications Dustin brand was acquired in 2006 and has been of impairment. The recoverable amounts of the cashassigned an indefinite life given that the Dustin brand generating units were determined by using the value in is well established and it is difficult to estimate when use. The brand is proportionally distributed over the two it will cease generating revenues. All intangible assets cash-generating units LCP and SMB, see also the note on with indefinite useful lives are tested at least each year goodwill. to ensure that the value does not deviate negatively from the current carrying amount. Individual assets 128 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 12 Cont’d. Intangible assets Other intangible assets IT platform Other Total Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening cost 183.4 160.4 74.4 53.2 257.8 213.6 Purchases 32.3 22.9 4.9 4.3 37.2 27.2 Acquisition of operations – – 0.0 21.8 0.0 21.8 Reclassification – – – – – Divestments and disposals* – – -22.0 -7.2 -22.0 -7.2 Exchange-rate differences 0.0 0.1 0.1 2.3 0.1 2.4 Closing accumulated cost 215.6 183.4 58.8 74.4 274.4 257.8 Opening amortisation -58.3 -38.7 -48.9 -36.1 -107.2 -74.8 Amortisation for the year according to plan -25.4 -19.5 -7.2 -8.2 -32.6 -27.7 Acquisition of operations – – 0.0 -9.7 0.0 -9.7 Reclassification – – – – – – Divestments and disposals* – – 22.0 6.3 22.0 6.3 Exchange-rate differences 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -1.1 -0.1 -1.2 Closing accumulated amortisation according to plan -83.6 -58.3 -34.2 -48.9 -117.8 -107.2 Opening impairment -23.6 -23.6 – – -23.6 -23.6 Impairment for the year – – – – – – Closing impairment -23.6 -23.6 – – -23.6 -23.6 Closing residual value according to plan 108.3 101.5 24.6 25.5 133.0 127.0 *Of divestments for the year, SEK 22.0 million (–) relate to disposals. Impairment testing of intangible assets Impairment testing is conducted based on the cashWhen calculating the value in use of the three cashgenerating units’ value in use and these units are on generating units, a discount rate of 8.2 per cent (8.2) an equal footing with the Group’s reporting segments. before tax was used. The main assumptions used The calculation of the value of Dustin’s cash-generating pertain primarily to a risk-free interest rate of 1.7 per units is based on management’s cash flow forecasts cent (2.0), stock market premium of 5.8 per cent (5.2), for a period of five years. Cash flow for the ensuing share beta of 1.08 per cent (1.08) and an expected credit years has been extrapolated by applying a growth margin of 0.85 per cent (1.5). The calculation shows that assumption of 2.5 per cent for LCP and SMB as well as the weighted cost of capital could have been reduced 1.0 per cent for B2C. The main assumptions used by by 0.1 percentage points (0.5) but adjustments have not management in the calculation of forecasts of future been made in order to create stability in the calculations cash flows are market growth, the cash-generating of value in use. units’ expected market shares, the trend in product margins and personnel costs. The estimated market In impairment tests for the past two years, the was based on external industry estimates. The market estimated value exceeded the carrying amount for all share trend, product margin and personnel costs were units and no impairment was required. determined based on previous experience. A sensitivity analysis with respect to growth assumptions and the discount rate has been carried out. The analysis shows that if the discount rate DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 12 Cont’d. Intangible assets increased 0.5 percentage points the recoverable included a calculation involving a 5-percentage point amount decreased 8.0 per cent (7.6). If the discount increase in the discount rate (5) without any indication rate decreased 0.5 percentage points the recoverable of an impairment requirement. The sensitivity analysis amount decreased 6.5 per cent (6.5). The analysis also revealed the risk of impairment is low. Note 13 Tangible assets Cost of improvements on external properties Equipment Total Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, Aug 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening accumulated cost 25.7 16.8 220.3 69.9 246.0 86.7 Purchases 4.6 1.0 45.2 27.9 49.7 28.9 Acquisition of operations – 7.9 36.2 118.1 36.2 126.0 Reclassification -2.1 – 0.1 – -1.9 – Divestments and disposals -6.1 -0.3 -60.2 -2.3 -66.3 -2.6 Exchange-rate differences 0.0 0.3 7.3 6.6 7.4 7.0 Closing accumulated cost 22.2 25.7 248.9 220.3 271.0 246.0 Opening accumulated depreciation -21.8 -12.1 -132.6 -50.0 -154.4 -62.2 Depreciation for the year according to plan -1.7 -2.8 -39.8 -17.7 -41.5 -20.5 Acquisition of operations – -6.6 -25.8 -62.7 -25.8 -69.4 Reclassification 1.8 – -1.9 – -0.1 – Divestments and disposals 6.1 0.1 56.6 1.5 62.7 1.6 Exchange-rate differences 0.0 -0.3 -6.2 -3.6 -6.2 -3.9 Closing accumulated depreciation according to plan -15.6 -21.8 -149.7 -132.6 -165.3 -154.4 Closing residual value according to plan 6.6 3.9 99.2 87.7 105.7 91.7 130 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 14 Acquisition and divestment-related assets and liabilities Change in acquisition-related liabilities measured at fair value based on inputs that are not based on observable market data (Level 3) 18/19 17/18 Opening balance 276.3 109.6 Remeasurements recognised in profit or loss: Unrealised revaluation of contingent earn-out recognised under Items affecting comparability -48.1 -23.7 Discount of contingent earn-out recognised under Financial expenses and other similar income-statement items 3.9 4.3 Remeasurements recognised under other comprehensive income: Unrealised exchange-rate differences recognised under Translation differences 1.7 12.2 Changes recognised via the balance sheet: Payments attributable to previous acquisitions* -37.3 -53.7 Acquisitions 70.4 227.7 Reclassification -22.1 – Closing balance 244.8 276.3 Change in divestment-related receivables measured at fair value based on inputs that are not based on observable market data (Level 3) 18/19 17/18 Opening balance 6.6 – Changes recognised via the balance sheet: Settlement of receivable for previously divested operations -5.0 – Estimated purchase consideration, divestment of subsidiary, long and short term – 6.6 Closing balance 1.6 6.6 *The discrepancy on the line Acquisition of operations in the consolidated statement of cash flow consists of the settlement of acquisitionrelated liabilities attributable to liabilities for the acquisition of subsidiaries carried out before Dustin’s acquisition of Vincere. Fair value outcome of performance measures taken for up to The measurement of acquisition-related liabilities and three years from the date of acquisition. divestment-related assets is carried out on a continuous basis at fair value and the liability is settled as required For this financial year, an earn-out liability of SEK 70 via profit or loss. If a change in value occurs prior to million (228) for new acquisitions was recognised, the preparation of the purchase price allocation and is attributable to the acquisition of Inventio with the not the result of events following the acquisition date, assessment that the maximum earn-out will be paid. measurement is carried out via the balance sheet. Of Of the earn-out liabilities of SEK 276 million recognised SEK 245 million (276), SEK 73 million (186) is related to in the preceding year, SEK 37 million was settled in the preliminary purchase price allocations. The fair value current year. New assessments were also conducted of is calculated as defined for Level 3 in IFRS 7, meaning liabilities to Core and Norriq, where the liability for the according to inputs that are not based on observable earn-out to Core has been revalued to a higher value market data. For further information regarding purchase of SEK 17 million at the same time as a write-down price allocation, see Note 23 Acquisition of businesses. was recognised regarding Norriq of SEK 63 million. The maximum performance-based earn-out liability for The calculation of the contingent earn-out liability acquisitions during the year totals SEK 70 million (341). is based on the parameters of each acquisition For maturity structure of acquisition-related liabilities, agreement. These parameters are usually linked to the refer to Note 22 Borrowing. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 15 Deferred tax Other Total Other Total nonApproFinancial deferred nonLoss deferred current pria instrutax current carrytax assets tions ments liabilities assets forwards assets Opening balance, September 1, 2018 131.0 56.6 -1.1 186.5 2.1 – 2.1 Recognised in net profit for the year -0.5 8.2 – 7.8 1.2 – 1.2 Recognised in statement of financial position 21.8 – – 21.8 – – – Recognised in other comprehensive income 1.0 – -3.8 -2.9 2.2 – 2.2 Closing balance, August 31, 2019 153.3 64.8 -4.9 213.1 5.5 – 5.5 Opening balance, September 1, 2017 80.7 54.2 -2.1 132.9 8.4 – 8.4 Recognised in net profit for the year -2.0 1.8 – -0.2 -6.3 – -6.3 Recognised in statement of financial position 52.3 0.5 – 52.8 – – – Recognised in other comprehensive income – – 1.0 1.0 – – – Closing balance, August 31, 2018 131.0 56.6 -1.1 186.5 2.1 – 2.1 There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets or tax liabilities in the Group at the end of accounting period or in the corresponding period of the previous year. Note 16 Derivative instruments and hedge accounting Derivative instruments measured at fair value consist of Current assets Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 interest-rate derivatives and currency futures. InterestInterest-rate swaps 0.9 0.1 rate derivatives are intended as hedges for variable Currency futures 0.5 0.1 interest on external bank loans. Currency futures Total 1.4 0.2 pertain to hedging for USD purchases from China. The Group applies hedge accounting on derivatives Non-current assets Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 and the fair value is measured as defined for Level 2 in IFRS 7. The measurement level remains unchanged Interest-rate swaps 0.6 2.0 compared with August 31, 2018. Changes in fair value Currency futures – – are recognised in other comprehensive income and Total 0.6 2.0 accumulated in the hedge reserve in shareholders’ equity and are reversed to profit or loss when the Current liabilities Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 hedged items are recognised in profit or loss. No profit Interest-rate swaps 0.7 0.1 or loss was recorded in the income statement due to Currency futures – – inefficient hedging during the financial year and all Total 0.7 0.1 hedged items as of August 31, 2019 qualify for continued hedge accounting. Non-current liabilities Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Interest-rate swaps 24.1 7.3 Currency futures – – Total 24.1 7.3 132 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 16 Cont’d. Derivative instruments and hedge accounting Interest-rate derivatives Nominal amount Interest at fixed exchange rate Maturity swap Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 SWAP SEK* 140,000,000 0.565% Apr 29, 2022 SWAP SEK* 140,000,000 0.315% Jan 31, 2020 SWAP EUR* 12,500,000 0.049% Apr 29, 2022 SWAP EUR* 12,500,000 0.405% Feb 26, 2026 SWAP EUR 40,000,000 40,000,000 -0.075% -0.075% Jul 16, 2021 Jul 16, 2021 SWAP NOK 160,000,000 1.545% Oct 29, 2021 SWAP NOK** 70,000,000 70,000,000 1.950% 1.950% Jan 31, 2023 Jan 31, 2023 SWAP DKK*** 100,000,000 100,000,000 0.298% 0.298% Oct 29, 2021 Oct 29, 2021 * Swaps with a floating leg consisting of an interest-rate floor of 0.00 per cent. ** Swaps with a floating leg consisting of an interest-rate ceiling of 1.75 per cent. *** Swaps with a floating leg consisting of an interest-rate floor of 0.00 per cent and an interest-rate ceiling of a nominal DKK 40,000,000 of 0.50 per cent. Currency futures In total, the market value of outstanding futures was SEK 0.1 million (0.1) as per the balance-sheet date. Note 17 Inventories Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Goods for resale 465.7 395.8 Total 465.7 395.8 Cost of goods sold -10,174.6 -8,604.1 The obsolescence reserve amounted to SEK 10 million (16) at the end of the year. The cost of inventory impairment totalled SEK 13 million (5) for the period. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 18 Accounts receivable and other current assets Accounts receivable Maturity structure of outstanding accounts receivable Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 0–30 days 1,381.2 1,207.9 31–90 days 70.0 50.1 >90 days 13.0 16.6 Impairment due to doubtful accounts receivable -3.9 -2.0 Total 1,460.4 1,272.6 Changes in the provision for doubtful accounts receivable Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Opening balance 2.0 6.0 Acquisition of operations 0.1 0.5 Provision for possible bad debt losses 3.6 2.8 Confirmed bad debt losses -1.1 -6.9 Reversed bad debt losses -0.6 -0.6 Exchange-rate differences -0.3 0.3 Closing balance 3.9 2.0 Due to the short-term nature of accounts receivable, the The provision due to doubtful accounts receivable was effect of discounting is not deemed to be material and SEK 4 million (2) and amounted to 0.3 per cent (0.2) in the carrying amount is considered to be consistent with relation to accounts receivable. Dustin has historically the fair value. This is thus the maximum exposure. The low bad debt losses. The company continuously obtains Group’s risk exposure in foreign currencies is deemed to credit information for all corporate customers and does be low. not offer any credit itself to private customers. Prepaid expenses and accrued income Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Prepaid expenses for suppliers 54.1 31.9 Accrued marketing subsidies 23.8 15.6 Accrued discounts from suppliers 71.2 52.7 Accrued lease income 0.6 0.8 Accrued income attributable to delivered but not invoiced 25.5 42.4 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 61.6 25.0 Total 236.8 168.3 Accrued marketing subsidies relate to payments that Accrued lease income is attributable to the Norwegian Dustin is waiting to receive from suppliers on the basis business. that Dustin has fulfilled an obligation to carry out marketing activities on behalf of a supplier. Accrued Contract assets corresponds to Accrued income discounts from suppliers relate to payments from attributable to delivered but not invoiced suppliers for which there is no obligation to the supplier. 134 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 19 Financial assets and liabilities Items measured Financial Derivatives at fair value assets and used in Total Loans and through liabilities at hedge carrying Fair Aug 31, 2019 receivables profit or loss accrued cost accounting amount value Assets Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – – 2.0 2.0 2.0 Accounts receivable and other receivables 1,491.7 – – – 1,491.7 1,491.7 Accrued income – – 121.0 – 121.0 121.0 Divestment-related receivables (Level 3) – 1.6 – – 1.6 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents 281.3 – – – 281.3 281.3 Total assets 1,772.9 1.6 121.0 2.0 1,897.5 1,897.5 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions – – 2,006.1 – 2,006.1 2,006.1 Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – – 24.8 24.8 24.8 Accounts payable – – 1,712.3 – 1,712.3 1,712.3 Acquisition-related liabilities (Level 3) – 244.8 – – 244.8 244.8 Other current liabilities – – 214.2 – 214.2 214.2 Accrued expenses – – 346.2 – 346.2 346.2 Total liabilities – 244.8 4,278.8 24.8 4,548.4 4,548.4 Accounts Items measured Other Derivatives receivable at fair value financial used in Total and loans through assets and hedge carrying Fair Aug 31, 2018 receivable profit or loss liabilities accounting amount value Assets Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – 2.2 2.2 2.2 Accounts receivable and other receivables 1,287.0 – – – 1,287.0 1,287.0 Accrued income 111.5 – – – 111.5 111.5 Divestment-related receivables (Level 3) – 6.6 – – 6.6 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 277.6 – – – 277.6 277.6 Total assets 1,676.2 6.6 – 2.2 1,684.9 1,684.9 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions – – 1,997.4 – 1,997.4 1,997.4 Derivative instruments (Level 2) – – – 7.4 7.4 7.4 Accounts payable – – 1,568.5 – 1,568.5 1,568.5 Acquisition-related liabilities (Level 3) – 276.3 – – 276.3 276.3 Other current liabilities – – 162.7 – 162.7 162.7 Accrued expenses – – 280.5 – 280.5 280.5 Total liabilities – 276.3 4,009.1 7.4 4,292.8 4,292.8 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 20 Cash and cash equivalents Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 281.3 277.6 Closing balance 281.3 277.6 Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances. and cash equivalents deposited with the bank in one The unutilised overdraft facility amounted to SEK or more currencies. The purpose of this is to enhance 270 million (270) at the end of the financial year. The the efficiency of liquidity management with daily acquired Dutch subsidiary also had an unutilised payments in different currencies and countries in overdraft facility of EUR 5 million. The Group has a operating activities. The Group account enables these global cash pool with Nordea AB (publ). The Parent transactions without needing the necessary funds to be Company is the main account holder for the Group allocated in each currency, on condition that equivalent account, which enables subsidiaries to utilise cash funds are available in the Group account. Note 21 Equity Share capital Hedge reserve There is only one class of shares in the Dustin Group and, The hedge reserve includes the effective portion of the accordingly, all shares carry the same number of votes fair value measurement of derivatives that were entered per share. During the financial year, the share capital into to hedge the variable interest rate on external bank increased by 11,420,837 shares following the completed loans. rights issue and the dissolvement of the warrants programme. As of August 31, 2019, the number of shares Retained earnings amounted to 88,647,339 (77,226,502). Due to the new Retained earnings include net profit for the year and share issue, the share capital increased SEK 55 million profit earned in the preceding year in the Parent (5) and as a result of the warrant programme, the share Company and the Group’s subsidiaries. capital increased SEK 2 million (5). Capital management Other contributed capital Dustin’s financial strategy is based on a capital This item pertains to equity that has been contributed structure with a high degree of financial flexibility and by the owners. During the year, other contributed provides scope for, among other factors, acquisitions. capital increased SEK 653 million (49), of which SEK 663 The company’s net debt target is a 2.0–3.0 multiple million (50) on account of the new share issue and SEK of adjusted EBITDA for the past 12-month period. In -14 million was attributable to issue costs. Subscription addition to the Group’s equity, there is external bank with the support of warrants represents an increase of financing of approximately SEK 2 billion (2) with financial SEK 4 million (5). covenants. In the current and preceding year, Dustin has fulfilled all reported covenant requirements. Translation reserve The translation reserve pertains to all exchangerate differences arising on the translation of foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in a currency other than SEK. 136 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 22 Borrowing Maturity structure of borrowing The table below shows the maturity structure for Dustin’s contractual financial liabilities. The figures are for non-discounted future cash flow and thus may differ from reported figures. Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity one year two years Maturity Total within one but within but within longer than Aug 31, 2019 borrowing year two years five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 2,112.6 25.2 25.2 50.4 2,011.7 Accounts payable 1,712.3 1,712.3 – – – Tax liabilities 10.2 10.2 – – – Derivative instruments 24.8 0.7 0.5 4.9 18.7 Other current liabilities 214.2 214.2 – – – Acquisition-related liabilities 244.8 244.8 – – – Accrued expenses 360.0 360.0 – – – Total 4,678.9 2,567.5 25.7 55.3 2,030.5 Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity one year two years Maturity Total within one but within but within longer than Aug 31, 2018 borrowing year two years five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 2,103.7 32.5 20.0 59.9 1,991.4 Accounts payable 1,568.5 1,568.5 – – – Tax liabilities 20.0 20.0 – – – Derivative instruments 7.4 0.1 1.8 5.6 – Other current liabilities 162.7 162.7 – – – Acquisition-related liabilities 276.3 73.9 202.5 – – Accrued expenses 280.5 280.5 – – – Total 4,419.2 2,138.2 224.2 65.4 1,991.4 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 22 Cont’d. Borrowing Summary of cash flow from financing activities pertaining to external loans Change in liabilities to credit institutions for the year 18/19 17/18 Opening balance 1,997.4 1,068.6 Change in financial cash flow New loans raised – 2,165.0 Paid liabilities start-up costs -0.6 -8.4 Repayment of debt -71.9 -1,383.6 Other changes in financial cash flow – – Total change in financial cash flow -72.5 773.1 Other changes New loans raised through acquisitions during the year 59.1 – Amortisation/impairment capitalised liabilities start-up costs 1.7 20.9 Exchange-rate differences, NOK, DKK and EUR 20.4 134.8 Total other changes 81.2 155.7 Closing balance 2,006.1 1,997.4 Loans of up to two years, by one year at a time. The loan is During the fourth quarter of the previous financial free from amortisation during the term of the loan. year, Dustin entered into a new bank agreement for a New loans of SEK 59 million raised through acquisitions credit volume amounting to approximately SEK 2,000 during the year pertain to loans in the acquisition of million with the option of additional lending of SEK Chilit Oy, which was acquired in the third quarter of 1,000 million. All former external loan agreements the current financial year. The loan was settled in its were repaid in full whereupon the borrowing expenses entirety before the end of the financial year. relating to the former financing agreements were written down in full, which explains the decrease in the Fair value of external loans amortisation/impairment item for capitalised liabilities The fair value of external loans is deemed to correspond start-up costs. The interest terms for bank loans utilised to the carrying amount. The interest rate for bank loans are described in the table below. The bank agreement is variable and the credit risk is not considered to have extends for three years with the option of an extension changed significantly since entering into the loans. Group and Liabilities to Interest Parent Company, Aug 31, 2019 credit institutions Interest terms period* Bank loan SEK 106.5 Stibor + interest margin 0.65–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years Bank loan EUR 110.8 Euribor + interest margin 0.65–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years Bank loan NOK 280.0 Nibor + interest margin 0.65–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years Bank loan DKK 280.0 Cibor + interest margin 0.65–1.45% 3 + 1 + 1 years * New bank loans came into effect in July 2018 with an interest period of 3+1+1. At the end of the 18/19 financial year, the remaining period is 2+1+1 years. Covenants reported to the banks each quarter. All conditions were The current financing for the Group is based on external fulfilled as per August 31, 2019. bank loans, which are subject to covenants that are 138 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 23 Acquisition of businesses Acquisitions 2018/19 In May 2019, the Finnish subsidiary acquired all of In 2018/19, Dustin conducted a total of three the shares in the Finnish company Chilit Group Oy, acquisitions. All of the acquisitions were in the Corp. Reg. No. 2768847-4. Chilit combines products advanced products and services category. with services for delivering intelligent IT solutions to small and medium-sized businesses. The purchase In March 2019, the Dutch subsidiary Vincere Nether­ consideration amounted to SEK 231 million. lands, Corp. Reg. No. 71903968 acquired all of the shares in the company Norisk Beheer B.V., Corp. Reg. No. 04039918. The effects of the acquisitions on the Group’s financial Norisk has a broad portfolio of managed IT services, position are specified below. The purchase price ranging from infrastructure to client manage­ment. The allocations are preliminary and the final analyses of purchase consideration amounted to SEK 58 million. acquired assets will take place within one year from the acquisition date. The purchase price allocations are In April 2019, all the shares outstanding in the Danish preliminary to ensure high quality in internal processes company Inventio.IT A/S, Corp. Reg. No. 26112001, and procedures for the acquired companies before the were acquired through the subsidiary Dustin Denmark preliminary analyses are concluded and finalised. A/S. Inventio specialises in hosting, infrastructure and business systems as a service. The purchase Acquisition-related costs amounted to SEK 26 million (20). consideration amounted to SEK 344 million, of which SEK 70 million pertained to an expected earn-out. Preliminary purchase price allocations Fair value of acquired assets and liabilities Norisk B.V. Inventio.IT AS Chilit Oy Total Intangible assets (excl. goodwill) 13.1 63.7 31.1 107.9 Tangible assets 2.2 6.5 1.7 10.4 Inventories 1.4 – 4.2 5.6 Other current assets 7.3 22.1 38.6 68.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 23.5 39.7 65.4 Liabilities to credit institutions – – 59.1 59.1 Other current liabilities 10.9 61.4 41.6 113.8 Total identified assets and liabilities 15.3 54.4 14.7 84.4 Consolidated goodwill 42.3 289.4 255.8 587.5 Purchase consideration including estimated contingent earn-out 57.6 343.8 270.5 671.9 Less: Cash balances (acquired) 2.2 23.5 39.7 65.4 Estimated contingent earn-out – 70.4 – 70.4 Net cash outflow 55.5 249.9 230.8 536.1 Income and earnings attributable to acquired companies Goodwill The acquisitions during the financial year of Norisk, In the preliminary purchase price allocations, acquired Inventio and Chilit contributed a total of SEK 202 million surplus values have been allocated in part to goodwill. to the Group’s income during the year and SEK 19 million Goodwill is deemed to be attributable to employee to the Group’s EBITA. know-how and expected synergies. Goodwill is not deemed to be tax deductible. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 23 Cont’d. Acquisition of businesses Acquisition-related liabilities Acquisitions 2017/18 Acquisition-related liabilities pertain to contingent earnSix acquisitions were completed during the previous outs. For further information on contingent earn-outs, financial year. The total purchase consideration including refer to Note 14 Acquisition and divestment-related estimated contingent earn-out amounted to SEK 1,291 assets and liabilities. million, of which the total net cash outflow was SEK 1,054 million. In 2018/19, the final purchase price allocations were confirmed for acquisitions in 2017/18 as specified below and consequently the total previously recognised surplus value increased SEK 2 million. Norriq Infrastructure Core JMLDAV Vincere Fair value of acquired & Cloud Services System Partner ITaito etherlands assets and liabilities Services AS AB AB Oy B.V Total Intangible assets (excl. goodwill) 32.8 7.0 7.4 – 5.8 203.0 256.0 Tangible assets 1.3 0.0 7.1 0.1 5.3 42.8 56.6 Financial assets – – 0.1 – – – 0.1 Inventories 0.1 – 6.9 7.2 0.5 24.8 39.5 Other current assets – 41.2 51.2 23.0 6.7 83.6 205.7 Cash and cash equivalents – 39.9 -4.2 4.9 8.8 – 49.4 Other current liabilities 11.8 30.1 43.6 23.3 10.2 171.4 290.4 Total identified assets and liabilities 22.4 58.1 24.8 11.9 16.9 182.7 316.8 Consolidated surplus value 193.3 139.6 111.1 3.8 55.3 472.0 975.1 Purchase consideration including estimated contingent earn-out 215.8 197.7 135.9 15.7 72.2 654.6 1,291.9 Note 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income 18/19 17/18 Accrued personnel costs 198.2 142.1 Accrued expenses for suppliers 100.9 89.2 Accrued discounts to customers 3.4 7.6 Deferred marketing subsidies 5.7 4.1 Advance invoicing 30.5 27.2 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 21.3 41.6 Total 360.0 311.8 140 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note 25 Cash-flow statement Adjustment for non-cash items Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Depreciation of tangible assets 41.5 20.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 74.1 57.8 Unrealised revaluation of contingent earn-out recognised under Items affecting comparability -48.1 -23.7 Capital gain -1.4 -2.3 Exchange-rate differences -0.4 – Other items 1.3 -0.6 Total 66.9 51.7 Note 26 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 For loans and bank overdrafts Floating mortgages 93.3 98.3 Total 93.3 98.3 The decrease in floating mortgages is related to mortgages in companies merged during the year. Dustin has not pledged any assets for its obligations under the current loan agreement. Note 27 Related-party transactions Note 29 Proposed appropriation of the Company’s profit Transactions with related suppliers and customers The Board of Directors proposes that available earnings Dustin has transactions with suppliers and customers totalling SEK 1,061,085,412 be distributed at SEK 3.00 per that have been defined as related parties. These share as an ordinary dividend. The proposal states that trans­actions are normal business trans­actions and this amount be appropriated as follows: the amounts have not been deemed to be material to the Group and thus are not presented. All Group Appropriation of earnings companies referred to in Note P7 are considered related. Transactions between Group companies are eliminated SEK on consolidation. With respect to salaries and remu­ Dividends 265,942,017 neration of Board members and senior executives, refer To be carried forward 795,143,395 to Note 7 Number of employees, employee benefits Total 1,061,085,412 expense and remuneration of senior executives. In its proposed appropriation of earnings, the Group has taken into consideration the company’s operations, Significant events after the need for consolidation, liquidity and financial position in Note 28 balance-sheet date general. In September, the Swedish subsidiary Saldab IT AB was The Board of Director’s complete statement regarding merged into Dustin Sverige AB. The merger is part of the proposed dividend is available on the company’s the continous integration of aquired operations into the website, www.dustingroup.com. common IT platform. After the merger, the business will operate under the Dustin brand. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Parent Company notes Note P1 Information on income and expenses within the Group 18/19 17/18 Income 100% 100% Expenses 0% 0% Note P2 Number of employees, employee benefits expense and remuneration of senior executives Number of FTEs and gender distribution 18/19 17/18 Distribution of Board members and senior executives at the balance-sheet date Women Men Total Women Men Total Board members 3 4 7 3 4 7 Total 3 4 7 3 4 7 The Parent Company has no employees. Information about the remuneration of the company’s Board of Directors is outlined in Note 7 on page 122 for the Group. Number of employees, personnel costs and remuneration of senior executives on page 96. Note P3 Auditor’s remuneration and expenses Note P4 Financial items Audit assignments are defined as the examination Interest income and similar incomeof the Annual Report and accounting records and of statement items 18/19 17/18 the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s administration of Interest income 0.9 14.2 the Company, other tasks incumbent on the auditor, Dividends 46.8 300.0 as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by Total 47.7 314.2 observations made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such other tasks. Interest expenses and similar Audit activities other than audit assignment primarily income-statement items 18/19 17/18 relate to the auditor’s review of interim reports and audit of the company’s Corporate Responsibility Report. Borrowing costs on external financing 37.7 54.5 Costs for the Parent Company audit are paid by the Exchange-rate differences on subsidiary Dustin Aktiebolag. liabilities to credit institutions 21.2 132.5 Other financial expenses 0.6 0.6 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries – – Total 59.5 187.6 142 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P5 Appropriations 18/19 17/18 Group contributions received 258.7 297.7 Change in tax allocation reserve -45.2 -28.3 Total 213.5 269.4 Note P6 Tax Recognised effective tax Tax expense 18/19 17/18 The following components are included in the tax expense in the income statement: Current tax -29.7 -18.7 Adjustments of current tax attributable to prior periods -0.1 0.0 Recognised effective tax -29.8 -18.7 Recognised effective tax rate 15.3% 4.9% Recognised profit before tax 195.4 384.6 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Tax according to current tax rate -43.0 -84.6 Tax effect of: Non-deductible expenses -0.3 -0.1 Non-taxable income 13.4 66.0 Adjustment of tax for previous years and others 0.0 0.0 Recognised effective tax -29.8 -18.7 Current tax 18/19 17/18 Current tax liabilities – 6.6 Current tax assets 32.8 – Total 32.8 6.6 The Parent Company has no recognised or unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P7 Participations in Group companies Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies Carrying amount Number Net profit Aug 31, Aug 31, Company name Corp. Reg. No. Domicile of shares Participation Equity for the year 2019 2018 Dustin AB 556237-8785 Stockholm 25,000,000 100% 330.7 86.3 1,211.6 1,211.6 Total 1,211.6 1,211.6 The following companies are included in the Group in addition to the Parent Company’s direct holdings: Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Corp. Reg. Participating Participating Company name No. interest interest ComPromise Domino B.V. 04062532 100% 100% Core Services AS 995962292 100% 100% Chilit Group Oy 2768847-4 100% – Chilit Oy 2768846-6 100% – DAV Partner AB * 556609-4842 – 100% Dustin A/S 26092183 100% 100% Dustin Finland Oy 0935141-3 100% 100% Dustin Netherlands B.V. 06088974 100% – Dustin Norway AS 939483969 100% 100% Dustin Supply Chain Netherlands B.V. *** 73864994 100% 100% Dustin Sverige AB 556666-1012 100% 100% Idenet AB ** 556443-9072 – 100% Issys ICT B.V. 37104253 100% 100% Inventio IT A/S 26112001 100% – ITaito Oy 2201996-8 100% 100% JML-System AB 556643-2802 100% 100% NORISK Beheer B.V. 04039918 100% – NORISK IT Groep B.V. 04073648 100% – NORISK Facilitair B.V. 56499248 100% – NORISK Visionair B.B 58806687 40% – Purity IT AS 915291783 100% 100% Saldab IT AB 556645-4210 100% 100% Sincerus B.V. 51450976 100% 100% Sincerus Consultancy B.V. 08142104 100% 100% Switch IT Solutions B.V. 06070240 100% 100% TopCrowd B.V. 08142105 100% 100% Unilogic B.V. 14053559 100% 100% Unilogic Networks 2 B.V. 68329210 100% 100% Vincere Group B.V. 06070239 100% 100% Vincere Netherlands B.V. 71903968 100% 100% Xcellent Automatisering B.V. 32119865 100% 100% * During the financial year, DAV Partner AB merged with JML-System AB ** During the financial year, Idenet AB merged with Dustin Sverige AB *** During the financial year, Webnamen B.V. changed name to Dustin Supply Chain Netherlands B.V. 144 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P8 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Pre-paid interest-rate swaps 0.9 – Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 1.3 0.8 Total 2.2 0.8 During the financial year, an interest-rate swap was repaid early to ensure a wider maturity spread. The cost of the swap is recognised on an accrual basis over the remaining period from the exercise date. Note P9 Cash and bank balances Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 201.2 247.0 Closing balance 201.2 247.0 The Parent Company is the main account holder for and credit facility, see the Group Note 20, Cash and cash the Group account with Nordea (publ). For more equivalents. information about the cash pool and overdraft facility Note P10 Equity Share capital Annual General Meeting on December 11, 2018. For the See Note 21 for the Group for information about the current financial year, the proposed dividend is SEK 264 Parent Company’s share capital and other contributed million (239), which corresponds to about 74 per cent of capital. net profit for the year (78). Retained earnings Share premium reserve Retained earnings include net profit for the year and During the year, other contributed capital increased profit earned in the preceding year. SEK 653 million (49), of which SEK 663 million on account of the new share issue (50) and SEK -14 million Dividends was attributable to issue costs. Subscription with the During the financial year, a total dividend of SEK 239 support of warrants represents an increase of SEK 4 million was distributed in line with the resolution by the million (5). Note P11 Untaxed reserves Aug 31, 2019 Aug 31, 2018 Tax allocation reserve 182.8 137.7 Total 182.8 137.7 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Note P12 Borrowing The Group’s external financing is with the Parent Maturity structure of borrowing Company. Total external loans amount to SEK 2,006 The table below shows the maturity structure for the million (1,985). For more information about loans, refer Parent Company’s contractual financial liabilities. The to the Group Note 22. figures are for non-discounted future cash flow and thus may differ from reported figures. Maturity Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity Total within one year but two years but longer than Aug 31, 2019 borrowing one year within two years within five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 2,112.6 25.2 25.2 50.4 2,011.7 Accounts payable 0.0 0.0 – – – Tax liabilities 0.0 0.0 – – – Other current liabilities 0.3 0.3 – – – Accrued expenses 8.3 8.3 – – – Total 2,121.3 33.9 25.2 50.4 2,011.7 Maturity Maturity Maturity longer than longer than Maturity Total within one year but two years but longer than Aug 31, 2018 borrowing one year within two years within five years five years Liabilities to credit institutions including future interest payments 2,091.1 20.0 20.0 59.9 1,991.4 Accounts payable 0.0 0.0 – – – Tax liabilities 6.6 6.6 – – – Other current liabilities 0.4 0.4 – – – Accrued expenses 5.0 5.0 – – – Total 2,103.1 31.9 20.0 59.9 1,991.4 Accrued expenses and Note P13 Note P15 Related-party transactions deferred income Aug 31, Aug 31, Transactions with subsidiaries 2019 2018 For information about direct and indirect shareholdings Accrued expenses for suppliers – in subsidiaries, refer to Note P7 for the Parent Company. Other accrued expenses and deferred income 8.3 5.0 Transactions with subsidiaries 18/19 17/18 Total 8.3 5.0 Purchases – – Sales 0.4 0.4 Receivables as of August 31 2,254.3 1,543.3 Note P14 Cash-flow statement Liabilities as of August 31 – – Adjustment for non-cash items 18/19 17/18 Outstanding Group contributions 258.7 297.7 Total 258.7 297.7 146 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL INFORMATION | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION Corporate responsibility information About this report Materiality assessment Dustin’s Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report The 2015/16 materiality assessment was the most provides a summary of the financial results and the comprehensive corporate responsibility assessment ever corporate responsibility efforts we have carried out performed by Dustin. A total of 77 stakeholders took during the 2018/19 financial year. This is the second time part, including manufacturers, distributors, customers, we are presenting financial information and corporate business partners, employees, the Board, Group Manage­ responsibility information in a joint report. Dustin has ment, investors, non-governmental organisations and used the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines other partners. The aim was to identify the aspects that in its reporting since 2014/15. For 2018/19, Dustin is our stakeholders considered material. following the GRI standards and reporting at “Core” level. This means Dustin has identified the aspects that Dustin has used the results of the materiality are material for the company and has reported at least assessment and our five focus areas to define the one indicator per aspect. corporate responsibility areas described in this year’s Corporate Responsibility Report. The areas of corporate This report encompasses the Group’s corporate responsibility are considered material for the entire responsibility efforts during the financial year from organisation, as well as our external stakeholder groups. September 1, 2018 to August 31, 2019. Dustin presents corporate responsibility data every year, and the report Because our corporate responsibility targets are longfor the preceding year was published on November 15, term – until 2020 – we have decided to conduct a 2018. materiality assessment at least once every third year. In the event of significant changes to the company’s If you have any questions, please contact Henrik Lampa, strategy or operational activities, such as geographic Head of Corporate Responsibility. expansion or the launch of new product categories, more frequent materiality assessments may be required. In 2018/19, we began conducting a new materiality assessment that will form the basis of our new corporate responsibility strategy for 2020 and beyond. Materiality assessment Sustainable and smart product packaging and green transportation Measures to prevent climate change and Dustin’s environmental impact Business ethics Very high relevance Open communication and transparency Responsible manufacturing Equality, diversity and discrimination prevention Management system certification for the environment, occupational health and safety and quality Responsible extraction and use of raw materials Essential for external stakeholders Energy and resource-efficient IT services and solutions Workplace well-being and health promotion Good governance model and risk management Talent and expertise attraction Privacy and customer data protection Green and energy-efficient product offerings Simple and efficient end-of-life services for electronic waste Eco-product Design Purchase of green electricity and renewable energy High relevance Water shortage and biodiversity Local community support, commitment and charity Prioritise Achieve Environmental lobbying Wait High relevance Very high relevance Essential for Dustin from an economic, environmental or social perspective DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 147 FINANCIAL INFORMATION | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION Stakeholder overview Dialogue with our stakeholders is conducted on an ongoing basis. Below is a presentation of the stakeholders we have identified as most significant for our corporate responsibility efforts, the dialogue channels and important issues during the year. Stakeholders Dialogue channels Key issues Customer • Customer contact and customer • Conflict minerals meetings • Certified management system • Concept store • Code of Conduct and compliance • Customer magazine and IT trade fair • Factory audits (Dustin Expo) • Information on website, customer service and social media • Customer surveys and brand tracker Shareholders • Individual investor meetings • Risk analysis of value chain • Webcasts/telephone conferences for and factory audits interim reports • Environmental targets • Presentations for investor lunches • Code of Conduct and Business ethics seminar and other meetings • Board of Directors and AGM Employees • Daily meetings and interaction • Our Code of Conduct and business ethics • All-staff meetings • Work on Dustin’s five focus areas • Training, classroom and e-courses • Relationship with the environment • Annual employee surveys • End-of-life returns • Annual appraisals Suppliers • Separate meetings in purchasing process • Compliance with the Code of Conduct • Supplier assessments under framework • Healthy working conditions and of Dustin’s Code of Conduct promoting human rights • Seminars and panel discussions • Occupational health and safety • Factory audits • Environmental protection • Anti-corruption and bribery • Country of origin and traceability Voluntary • Individual meetings • Sustainable IT and eco-labelling organisations and • Conferences, training courses and panel • Environmental targets partners discussions • Country of origin and traceability • End-of-life returns 148 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL INFORMATION | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION Employees A more detailed presentation is given below of age At the end of the 2018/19 financial year, the gender distribution among new employees and employees balance at Dustin was 31/69 per cent. If we include leaving the company as well as the distribution employees at our acquired companies, we see a more between countries, in addition to the employee data uneven gender balance of 23/77 per cent. The main reported on pages 64–66. Dustin has few part-time reason for this is the large number of men working at the employees and the age distribution at Dustin is acquired companies. If we compare the gender balance comparable with the age distribution at medium-sized between countries, then Sweden is at the forefront with companies in the IT industry. a gender balance of 33/67 per cent while Denmark is lagging behind with a gender balance of 17/83 per cent. Age distribution employees Aged <29 Aged 30–49 Aged >50 New employees (number) 122 (70) 154 (116) 30 (14) New employees (%) 40% (35%) 50% (58%) 10% (7%) Employees leaving (number) 74 (62) 100 (107) 18 (23) Employees leaving (%) 39% (32%) 52% (56%) 9% (12%) Employees Total Sweden Norway Denmark Finland New employees (number) 306 (200) 217 (136) 26 (8) 31 (41) 32 (15) New employees (%) 71% (68%) 9% (4%) 10% (21%) 10% (7%) Employees leaving (number) 193 (192) 142 (130) 10 (16) 20 (28) 21 (18) Employees leaving (%) 74% (68%) 5% (8%) 10% (15%) 11% (9%) Gender balance at Dustin Total Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Gender balance at Dustin 31/69 (30/70) 35/65 (35/65) 24/76 (23/77) 17/83 (16/84) 30/70 (29/71) Gender balance including 23/77 (26/74) acquisitions Gender balance at the managerial 38/62 (36/64) 42/58 (40/60) 35/65 (38/62) 18/82 (16/84) 46/64 (44/65) level Gender balance at managerial level 31/69*(34/66) incl. acquired companies * Excluding Vincere Age distribution Group Management and Board of Directors Aged <29 Aged 30–49 Aged >50 Total 0% (24%) 38% (64%) 62% (12%) Group Management 0% (0%) 67% (70%) 33% (30%) Board of Directors 0% (0%) 0% (0%) 100% (100%) The collective bargaining agreement for employees in Finland is generally binding. Since the spring of 2017, the majority of employees in Sweden are also covered by collective bargaining agreements. No employees in Denmark and Norway are covered by collective bargaining agreements. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 149 FINANCIAL INFORMATION | ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Accounting policies for corporate responsibility Data collection and measurement The reporting is performed in accordance with the GHG Environmental data, energy and emissions are Protocol, and includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 collected through the Group’s environmental reporting emissions. We chose the “operational control” approach process. Group-wide definitions are used for all for consolidating greenhouse gas emissions. This means environmental parameters in order to increase quality. that we calculate units based on whether we can The consolidation principles used for environmental introduce policies and operating measures, rather than data include all companies within the Group. Acquired on the basis of financial control and economic interest. companies are included in reporting for environmental For this reason, the following emission sources are used: data within twelve months of the acquisition date. All • Trips with vehicles owned by Dustin (Scope 1) data has been collected in accordance with Dustin’s • Electricity consumption, heating and cooling of reporting period September 1 to August 31 for 2014/15, Dustin’s offices in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and 2015/16, 2016/17 and 2017/18 as well as 2018/19. The Finland with more than 15 employees. The Dustin collection of data related to emissions and energy uses Concept Store in Sweden, Dustin’s central warehouse the reporting period August 1 to July 31. in Sweden and smaller consolidation warehouses in Finland are also included (Scope 2) Employee data is collected in a separate HR system, which is also used for other HR purposes. Consolidation • Outbound shipments from warehouses to customers. principles for employee data include all majorityThis includes shipments from Dustin’s central owned companies within the Group, including Dustin’s warehouse in Sweden, consolidation warehouses in acquisitions. Internal consultants, meaning consultants Finland and Norway together with direct deliveries with their own e-mail address from Dustin, are also from distributors to customers (Scope 3) included. • Dustin’s off-premises data centres (Scope 3) • Leasing vehicles for staff (Scope 3) During the 2016/17 financial year, IKT Gruppen became an operational part of Dustin and Commsec was • Business travel by train and air (Scope 3) integrated in 2017/18. Idenet and Norriq were integrated • Recycling and energy recovery of waste from the into Dustin during the 2018/19 financial year. DAV head office and central warehouse (Scope 3) Partners was also merged with JML Systems. This • Specific emission factors have been used to calculate means employee data reported for Dustin also includes all Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions, in IKT Gruppen, Commsec, Idenet and Norriq, while JML accordance with the “location-based” method. For Systems (including DAV Partners), Saldab, Purity IT, Core the calculation of Scope 2 emissions in accordance Services, Vincere Group and iTaito are reported under with the “market-based” method, the Nordic Residual acquisitions. Dustin IT-Hantverkarna was divested Mix for 2018, which amounts to 250.76 g CO2/kWh, is during the 2017/18 financial year. used. By comparison, the Nordic Residual Mix for 2017 amounted to 329.19 g CO2 / kWh. Greenhouse gas emissions Climate data produced by companies are often • CO2 savings through re-use in connection with endassociated with uncertainty. This is because of scientific of-life returns have been calculated using the same uncertainty about measurement methods but also method for all end-of-life returns partners. This is also uncertainty about the data used in the measurement the same method used in previous years. The method methods. The total amount of greenhouse gas is based on a useful life model from the Berlin emissions is reported in kg CO₂ equivalents (CO₂e), Institute of Technology (Energieund CO2-Bilanz von and primarily includes CO₂ greenhouse gases. Biogenic PCs – Relevanz für ReUse-Strategien, 2005) and the emissions are insignificant and have not been reported. EuP preparatory study TREND/D1/40-2005, Lot 3, 150 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL INFORMATION | ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2007), in which half the savings, rounded downward, Between 2016/17 and 2017/18, legislation was changed is taken as Dustin’s contribution to the savings. The concerning the reporting of means of recovery for values for energy savings have been updated for collected electrical and electronic products. telephones since the method was developed, with During these years, most of the hazardous waste data for the following models. iPhone 5S, iPhone 5, generated by Dustin was linked to the collected iPhone 4S, iPhone 4, iPhone 3G, Sony Experia Arc, electronic waste we are responsible for handling as Sony Ericsson W890, Samsung Galaxy Note 2 (British producer. In 2017/18, the collection system did not LCA), Samsung Galaxy Note 2 (Japan LCA), Blackberry provide companies with data pertaining to recycling Torch 9810. method, which was amended again in 2018/19; thus, This yields a savings of 13 kg CO2 per mobile phone 2018/19 also includes waste generated at Dustin and tablet, 20 kg CO2 per monitor, 34 kg CO2 per associated with the collected electronic waste that we laptop and 54 kg CO2 per desktop computer. as a producer are responsible for handling in addition to the volume of hazardous waste we generated ourselves Energy at our central warehouse and office – such as old The total quantity of energy consumed is reported in fluorescent tubes, batteries and end-of-life electronics kilowatt hours and includes electricity consumption, equipment. heating and cooling. The calculations encompass all of Dustin’s office properties with more than 15 employees, End-of-life returns of electronics products the central warehouse, small consolidation warehouses The quantity of returned products includes the in Finland and the Dustin Concept Store in Sweden. categories of desktop computers, laptops, tablets, The boundary is in accordance with the calculations of mobile phones, monitors, servers, networking Scope 2 emissions. Moreover, consumption includes equipment and printers. Categories not included are electricity and cooling at off-premises data centres. computer mice, keyboards, cables, laptop docking stations, external hard drives, removable hard drives, The office properties in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and CDs and removable computer components. Carbon Finland are used only partly by Dustin, and their heat savings are only calculated on the four product consumption is allocated based on space. The same categories that have key service life metrics in relation applies to the consolidation warehouse in Norway as to “Carbon savings in connection with reuse.” Having well as the Dustin Concept Store. For the data centres, previously come only from one of the end-of-life returns consumption is measured using PUE (Power Usage partners, who collects approximately one quarter of Effectiveness) values. the total number of products, the scope for calculating carbon savings has expanded to cover all four end-ofWaste life returns partners. The total reported quantity of waste encompasses Dustin’s waste from its head office and central Employees warehouse. Other properties or warehouse space Active employees refers to all employees at Dustin and are not included. In the “Waste” table the “Waste for acquired companies, including internal consultants with energy reclamation” for the 2017/18 financial year also their own e-mail address at Dustin. Individuals on includes the 287,093 kg of waste designated as “Other parental leave or on long-term sick leave are not processing method” in the preceding year’s report. included. Active employees are reported in connection with the proportion of employees who have completed Hazardous waste the online course on Dustin’s Code of Conduct. The total reported quantity of hazardous waste only Certain GRI indicators concerning our employees have encompasses hazardous waste from the central not been broken out by age group and country, when warehouse and electronics waste that we as a producer the difference between the ages was not considered are responsible to accept. Dustin does not currently important. have an accepted method to measure the quantity of waste from our other properties that is sent for recycling. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 151 FINANCIAL INFORMATION | ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Changed information compared with preceding Statutory Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate Responsibility Report Dustin is subject to the requirements for statutory In 2018/19, Dustin chose to include CO2e savings for all corporate responsibility reporting in accordance products collected as end-of-life returns and reused. with requirements in the Annual Accounts Act. The This means that carbon savings due to re-use of end-ofstatutory Corporate Responsibility Report is available life products has been adjusted from 33,035 kg CO2e to in the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 112,899 for 2014/15, from 122,891 kg CO2e to 217,025 for under the following headings and encompasses 2015/16, from 129,688 kg CO2e to 368,815 for 2016/17 and reporting requirements including the environment, from 172,018 CO2e to 894,151 for 2017/18. The scope of social responsibility, personnel, human rights and antithe adjustment is due to CO2 savings previously having corruption: represented only around 30 per cent of re-used end-of• Targets and key performance indicators on pages life products. 28–29 • Business model and value creation on pages 18–24 Significant changes concerning scope and boundaries • Privacy and risk management on pages 67, 76–87 and 94 The decision to include all acquisitions in the • Internal governance on pages 88–94 environmental report for energy and emissions within • Materiality assessment and stakeholders on pages 12 months of the acquisition date has entailed an 147–148 increase in the number of data centres and properties included in the report. Based on this principle, Vincere • Responsible purchasing on pages 35–37 and 61–63 Group, Saldab, JML Systems (including DAV Partners), • Human rights on pages 35–37 and 61–63 Itaito, Purity and Core Services are included in energy • Environment on pages 37 and 56–59 and emissions reporting, while Idenet, Norriq, Commsec and IKT Gruppen are already an operational part • Personnel on pages 44–47, 65–66 and 149 of Dustin. Chilit, Inventio and Norisk have not been included for 2018/19, however, as twelve months have External assurance not yet passed from the date of the acquisitions at the Corporate responsibility information in the Annual and end of the financial year. Corporate Responsibility Report for 2018/19 has been audited by Dustin’s auditors, Ernst & Young. In addition, Precautionary principle it has been approved by Dustin’s Board of Directors. The precautionary principle is one of the fundamental principles for sound accounting standards applied by Dustin. The precautionary principle is currently being applied to corporate responsibility as needed, for issues such as estimated emissions from leasing vehicles. The principle is defined in the company’s Code of Conduct. 152 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | BOARD SIGNATURES The consolidated income statement and balance sheet which includes sustainability information will be put before the Annual General Meeting on December 11, 2019 for adoption. The Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and present a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings. The Annual Report was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and presents a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and earnings. The Directors’ Report for the Group and the Parent Company presents a fair review of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations, financial position and earnings and describes the material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. The statutory Corporate Responsibility Report for Dustin Group AB (publ), the content of which is presented in the Directors’ Report, was approved for publication by the Board of Directors. Mia Brunell Livfors, Caroline Berg Gunnel Duveblad Johan Fant Chairman of the Board Tomas Franzén Mattias Miksche Morten Strand Thomas Ekman CEO Stockholm, November 14, 2019 Our auditor’s report was submitted on November 14, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Jennifer Rock-Baley Authorised Public Accountant DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Dustin Group AB, corporate identity number 556703-3062. Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated consolidated accounts are consistent with the content accounts of Dustin Group AB (publ) except for the of the additional report that has been submitted to the corporate governance statement on pages 88-96 for the parent company's audit committee in accordance with year 2018-09-01 – 2019-08-31. The annual accounts and the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 52-153 in this document. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under present fairly, in all material respects, the financial those standards are further described in the Auditor’s position of the parent company as of August 31, 2019 Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent and its financial performance and cash flow for the year company and the group in accordance with professional then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present these requirements. This includes that, based on the fairly, in all material respects, the financial position best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services of the group as of August 31, 2019 and their financial referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article performance and cash flow for the year then ended 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, in accordance with International Financial Reporting where applicable, its parent company or its controlled Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual companies within the EU. Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 88-96. The statutory We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained administration report is consistent with the other parts is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. opinions. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Key Audit Matters Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial Key audit matters of the audit are those matters statements section of our report, including in relation that, in our professional judgment, were of most to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the significance in our audit of the annual accounts and performance of procedures designed to respond to consolidated accounts of the current period. These our assessment of the risks of material misstatement matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements. The results of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual procedures, including the procedures performed accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we to address the matters below, provide the basis for do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For our audit opinion on the accompanying financial each matter below, our description of how our audit statements. For each matter below, our description of addressed the matter is provided in that context. how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the context. 154 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets Valuation of contingent consideration and with indefinite useful life purchase price allocation GGoodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite During the financial year of 2018/2019, Dustin has life represents a significant portion of Dustin Group AB’s completed three acquisitions of which one includes total assets, totaling SEK 3,840 million as of August 31, an earn-out which is based on future financial 2019 That equals 53% of the group’s total assets and 156% performance of the acquired businesses. In accordance of the group’s Equity. Goodwill and intangible assets with with IFRS 3 the total earn-out combined with the indefinite life are recorded at historical acquisition value initial price of purchase is reported at fair value per and are annually tested for impairment. An impairment is the acquisition date. The estimated total purchase recorded if the recoverable value of an asset is lower than price has a direct impact on the Company's purchase its carrying value. price allocation and the allocation to goodwill. As of August 31, 2019 the total debt related to earn-outs for The recoverable value of the assets was based on the acquisitions amounted to SEK 245 million. Company’s value in use from future potential and ability to generate cash flows. The Company’s assessment of The earn-outs are calculated as a multiples based on the recoverable value was therefore per August 31, 2019 future financial performance of the acquisitions and based on the Company’s forecast of future cash flows. Dustin has therefore estimated future earnings of the The assessment also considers the discount rate to be acquired companies. In order to calculate the fair value used and the annual growth rate after the initial five-year of the estimated future earn-outs the net present value period. has been calculated using a discount rate reflecting the related risks. As part of the purchase price allocations As the value of goodwill and other intangible assets the Company has allocated the purchase price to with indefinite life in proportion to the total assets acquired assets including goodwill. This has been done are substantial this is a focus area for our audit. In by identifying acquired assets and valuing them at combination with uncertainty normally present with fair value based on applicable valuation methods. The estimating recoverable values we have assessed remaining value after allocation to identified assets has valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets with been allocated to goodwill. indefinite life as a key audit matter. When estimating the fair value of an earn-out and the Our audit procedures included assessing the Company’s fair value of the identifiable acquired assets there is process for preparing the impairment test. We evaluated normally a certain degree of uncertainty present. That the forecast of future cash flow which the Company base in combination with the significant financial impact their impairment test on. The forecast was evaluated that the estimate has we have assessed the valuation for reasonability in comparison to our knowledge of of earn-outs and purchase price allocation to be a key the Company’s business and historical information audit matter in our audit. However, the outstanding as well as the Company’s past accuracy in developing earn-outs open in the 2019 financial statements forecasts. We have in our audit included our internal are short-term, which reduces the uncertainty that valuation specialists for the evaluation of the interest normally exists regarding the assessment of the fair rate and valuation model used. The reasonability of the value. used rates and long term growth for the individual cash generating units was compared to similar companies. We have evaluated the Company’s forecast of future We have evaluated the company’s identification of cash financial performance of the acquired businesses generating units and the allocation of Goodwill that has used by the Company to estimate the fair value. The been allocated to these units during the year. forecast has been assessed for reasonability by taking in to account previous financial performance of the Refer to note 1 for accounting principles related to acquired businesses, the forecast used when calculating valuation of goodwill and intangible assets with an the enterprise value, the Company’s future plans for indefinite life and to note 2 and 13 for the company’s developing the acquired business and Dustin’s previous description of assumptions used for preparing the ability to prepare accurate forecasts. impairment test. We have assessed if the disclosed Refer to note 1 for the accounting principles regarding information is suited for the purpose. valuation of earn-outs and notes 2, 14 and 23 for the DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Company's description of the assessments made In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated in connection with the valuation of earn-outs and accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing purchase price allocations. We have assessed if the Director are responsible for the assessment of the disclosed information is suited for the purpose. company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters Refer to note 1 for the accounting principles regarding related to going concern and using the going concern valuation of earn-outs and notes 2, 14 and 23 for the basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting Company's description of the assessments made is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the in connection with the valuation of earn-outs and Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to purchase price allocations. We have assessed if the cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. disclosed information is suited for the purpose. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Other Information than the annual accounts Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, and consolidated accounts among other things oversee the company’s financial This document also contains other information than reporting process. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-51 and 160-169. The Board of Directors Auditor’s responsibility and the Managing Director are responsible for this other Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about information. whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstate­ment, Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s accounts does not cover this other information and report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance we do not express any form of assurance conclusion is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee regarding this other information. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and always detect a material misstatement when it exists. consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are information identified above and consider whether the considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, information is materially inconsistent with the annual they could reasonably be expected to influence the accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained annual accounts and consolidated accounts. in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional If we, based on the work performed concerning scepticism throughout the audit. We also: this information, conclude that there is a material • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement misstatement of this other information, we are required to of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate the Managing Director to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are detecting a material misstatement resulting from responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in internal control. accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal responsible for such internal control as they determine control relevant to our audit in order to design audit is necessary to enable the preparation of annual procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 156 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates responsible for the direction, supervision and and related disclosures made by the Board of performance of the group audit. We remain solely Directors and the Managing Director. responsible for our opinions. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We going concern basis of accounting in preparing the must also inform of significant audit findings during our annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence control that we identified. obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast We must also provide the Board of Directors with significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s a statement that we have complied with relevant ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude ethical requirements regarding independence, and to that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to communicate with them all relationships and other draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated our independence, and where applicable, related accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to safeguards. modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based From the matters communicated with the Board of on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our Directors, we determine those matters that were of auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions most significance in the audit of the annual accounts may cause a company and a group to cease to and consolidated accounts, including the most continue as a going concern. important assessed risks for material misstatement, • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe content of the annual accounts and consolidated these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the regulation precludes disclosure about the matter or annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine the underlying transactions and events in a manner that a matter should not be communicated in the that achieves fair presentation. auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the regarding the financial information of the entities public interest benefits of such communication. or business activities within the group to express Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions Basis for Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and We conducted the audit in accordance with generally consolidated accounts, we have also audited the accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our administration of the Board of Directors and the responsibilities under those standards are further Managing Director of Dusting Group AB (publ) for described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We the period 2018-09-01 – 2019-08-31 and the proposed are independent of the parent company and the group appropriations of the company’s profit. in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. opinions. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and can give rise to liability to the company, or that the the Managing Director proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At As part of an audit in accordance with generally the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the professional judgment and maintain professional requirements which the company's and the group’s scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the the administration and the proposed appropriations parent company's and the group’s equity, consolidation of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on requirements, liquidity and position in general. the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s with starting point in risk and materiality. This means organization and the administration of the company’s that we focus the examination on such actions, areas affairs. This includes among other things continuous and relationships that are material for the operations assessment of the company’s and the group’s and where deviations and violations would have financial situation and ensuring that the company's particular importance for the company’s situation. organization is designed so that the accounting, We examine and test decisions undertaken, support management of assets and the company’s financial for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of administration according to the Board of Directors’ Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s guidelines and instructions and among other matters profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ take measures that are necessary to fulfill the reasoned statement and a selection of supporting company’s accounting in accordance with law and evidence in order to be able to assess whether the handle the management of assets in a reassuring proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. manner. The auditor’s examination of the corporate Auditor’s responsibility governance statement Our objective concerning the audit of the The Board of Directors is responsible for that the administration, and thereby our opinion about corporate governance statement on pages 88-96 discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to has been prepared in accordance with the Annual assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether Accounts Act. any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR´s • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination omission which can give rise to liability to the of the corporate governance statement. This means company, or that our examination of the corporate governance • in any other way has acted in contravention of the statement is different and substantially less in Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Articles of Association. International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed that the examination has provided us with sufficient appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and basis for our opinions. thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal A corporate governance statement has been prepared. is in accordance with the Companies Act. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in same law are consistent with the other parts of the accordance with generally accepted auditing standards annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 158 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDITOR’S REPORT The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory Corporate Responsibility Report The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory Corporate Responsibility Report that has been defined on page 152, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory Corporate Respon­ sibility Report. This means that our examination of the statutory Corporate Responsibility Report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. A statutory Corporate Responsibility Report has been prepared. Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm with Jennifer Rock-Baley as auditor-in-charge, was appointed auditor of Dustin Group AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on December 13, 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since February 13, 2015 (Ernst & Young AB has been appointed auditors since October 2, 2006). Dustin Group AB (publ) has been a company of public interest since February 13, 2015. Stockholm, November 14, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Jennifer Rock-Baley Authorized Public Accountant DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 159 FINANSIELL INFORMATION | AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Dustin Group AB’s voluntary corporate responsibility Report in accordance with GRI To Dustin Group AB (publ), Corp. id. 556703­-3062 Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Dustin Group AB to undertake a limited assurance Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive engage­ment of Dustin Group AB’s Corporate system of quality control including documented policies Responsibility Report for the year 1 September 2018 – and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 31 August 2019. The company has defined the scope requirements, professional standards and applicable legal of the Corporate Responsibility Report to the areas and regulatory requirements. referred to in the GRI Index on pages 162-163. We are independent of Dustin Group AB in accordance Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and the Executive Management for the Corporate have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in Responsibility Report accordance with these requirements. The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible for the preparation of the Corporate The procedures performed, consequently, do not enable Responsibility Report in accordance with the applicable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware criteria, as explained on the pages 162-163, and are the of all significant matters that might be identified in a parts of the corporate responsibility Reporting Guidelines reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do published by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) that are not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. applicable to the Corporate Responsibility Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Company has developed. This responsibility also includes Board of Directors and the Executive Management as the internal control relevant to the preparation of a described above. We consider these criteria suitable Corporate Responsibility Report that is free from material for the preparation of the Corporate Responsibility misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Responsibilities of the Auditor conclusion below. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Corporate Responsibility Report based on the limited Conclusion assurance procedures we have performed. Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that We conducted our limited assurance engagement in causes us to believe that the Corporate Responsibility accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in other than audits or reviews of historical financial accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of information. A limited assurance engagement consists Directors and Executive Management. of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Corporate Responsibility Report, Stockholm, November 14, 2019 and applying analytical and other limited assurance Ernst & Young AB procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less Jennifer Rock-Baley in scope than for, a reasonable assurance engagement Authorized Public Accountant conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. 160 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OTHER INFORMATION | 2018/19 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018/19 Annual General Meeting Dustin’s Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, December 11, 2019 at 3:00 p.m. at Westmanska Palatset, Holländargatan 17 in Stockholm, Sweden. Registration will begin from 2:00 p.m. Participation Trustee-registered shares Shareholders wishing to participate at the Annual To be entitled to participate in the Meeting, General Meeting must: shareholders who have their shares registered with • be entered in the shareholders’ register maintained a trustee must temporarily re-register the shares in by Euroclear Sweden no later than Thursday, their own name in the shareholders’ register (known December 5, 2019; and as voting rights registration), in addition to their • notify the company of their attendance via notification of participation in the Meeting. To ensure e-mail: gm@dustingroup.com, by telephone on this registration is completed by December 5, 2019, +46 8 553 44 000 or by post to Dustin Group AB shareholders should contact their trustee or bank well (publ), Att: Bolagsstämma, Box 1194, SE-131 27 Nacka in advance of this date. Strand, Sweden, no later than Thursday, December 5, 2019. Dividends The Board of Directors proposes a total dividend of Notification approximately SEK 266 million in 2018/19, corresponding In their notification to the company, shareholders must to SEK 3.00 per share. The proposed dividend represents state their name, personal identity number or corporate approximately 75 per cent of the net profit for the year. registration number, address and telephone number Friday, December 13, 2019 is proposed as the record date and, where applicable, information regarding proxies for the dividend. The estimated payment date for the and assistants (not more than two assistants). dividend is Tuesday, December 17, 2019. If participation is to take place based on a power of Financial calendar attorney, such power of attorney must be dated and 2018/19 Annual General Meeting December 11, 2019 signed. The power of attorney must be sent to Dustin Interim Report Sep–Nov January 8, 2020 Group AB at the address above well in advance of the Interim Report, Dec–Feb April 1, 2020 Annual General Meeting. Interim Report Mar–May July 1, 2020 Year-End Report Sep–Aug October 7, 2020 The power of attorney registration form is available in both Swedish and English on the Group’s website: http://www.dustingroup.com/en/agm-18-19. Representatives of legal entities must present a certified copy of the registration certificate or equivalent documents of authorisation. For information on the processing of personal data, refer to the Privacy Policy available on Euroclear Sweden’s website https://www.euroclear.com/dam/ ESw/Legal/Privacy-notice-bolagsstammor-engelska.pdf. The notice and other information will be available at http://www.dustingroup.com/en/agm-18-19 four weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 161 OTHER INFORMATION | GRI INDEX GRI index GRI Standard Description/disclosures Page Outstanding information GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation 53 102-2 Products, services and brands 8 102-3 Location of headquarters 68 102-4 Location of operations 68 102-5 Ownership and legal form 68 102-6 Markets served 8 8, 66 & 102-7 Scale of the organisation 70–72 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 66 & 151 102-9 Supply chain 35–38 Significant changes to the organisation 102-10 7 & 16–18 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 152 102-12 External initiatives 94 Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, 102-13 Membership of associations Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) & Womentor Strategy 12–13 & 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 54–55 Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards, 46–47, 67 & 102-16 and norms of behaviour 88–96 Governance 102-16 Governance structure 88-101 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 148 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 149 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 147 Approach to stakeholder 102-43 148 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 147-148 Reporting practice Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 144 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 147 102-47 List of material topics 147 102-48 Restatements of information 150–152 102-49 Changes in reporting 152 102-50 Reporting period 150 162 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OTHER INFORMATION | GRI INDEX GRI Standard Description / disclosure Page Outstanding information Cont’d. Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 147 102-52 Reporting cycle 150 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 147 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 147 102-55 GRI index 162–163 102-56 External assurance 152–159 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 205 67–94 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 67 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 67 GRI: 301: Materials 2016 103 – 1/2/3 Management Approach 301 33 & 34 Focus on the number as it is 301-3 Share of reused and recycled products 56 key for Dustin’s 2020 target GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 302 58 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 58 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 305 57 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 57 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 57 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 58 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 308 35–38 New suppliers that were screened using 308-1 environmental criteria 61–63 GRI 401: Employment 44–47, 66 & 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 401 149–151 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 66 & 149 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 405 44–47 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 66 & 149 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 103-1/2/3 Management Approach 414 35–38 New suppliers that were screened using 414-1 61–63 social criteria DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 163 OTHER INFORMATION | MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW Multi-year overview All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 Income statement Organic sales growth (%) 9.9 2.0 8.6 4.4 5.7 Gross margin (%) 16.7 15.9 14.8 15.0 14.1 EBIT 489.1 443.8 349.5 323.5 218.0 Adjusted EBITDA 601.1 521.2 438.4 400.2 364.1 Adjusted EBITA 559.7 500.6 426.1 389.6 353.5 Adjusted EBITA margin (%) 4.5 4.9 4.6 4.7 4.5 Return on equity (%) 14.5 18.5 16.1 15.8 9.4 Balance sheet Net working capital -67.6 -192.0 118.1 31.6 158.3 Capital employed 196.6 48.5 269.1 173.3 292.6 Net debt 1736.4 1730.6 998.3 826.3 936.9 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA (multiple) 2.9 3.3 2.3 2.1 2.6 Maintenance investments -79.5 -52.1 -27.3 -4.7 -8.9 Equity/assets ratio (%) 33.8 26.7 35.6 36.5 34.4 Cash flow Operating cash flow 395.5 854.8 301.2 500.7 217.2 Cash flow from operating activities 264.0 747.9 213.6 447.2 58.6 Data per share Earnings per share, including discontinued operations 4.12 3.91 3.08 2.89 1.71 before dilution (SEK)* Earnings per share, including discontinued operations 4.11 3.89 3.07 2.89 1.71 after dilution (SEK)* Equity per share before dilution (SEK) 27.75 21.32 19.50 18.67 17.38 Cash flow from operating activities per share before 3.05 9.58 2.75 5.76 0.80 dilution (SEK)* Cash flow from operating activities per share after 3.04 9.53 2.74 5.76 0.80 dilution (SEK)* Average number of shares* 86,472,611 78,078,991 77,696,577 77,696,577 72,976,646 Average number of shares after dilution* 86,766,793 78,449,771 77,862,249 77,696,577 72,982,940 Number of shares issued at end of period 88,647,339 77,226,502 76,173,115 76,173,115 76,173,115 Dividend per share 3,0** 2.71 2.80 2.40 1.70 * Key ratios have been restated in comparative periods to take into account the terms and conditions of the new share issue carried out in November 2018. ** Proposed dividend for current year 164 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OTHER INFORMATION | SOURCE OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Source of alternative performance measures All amounts in SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 Organic growth Sales growth (%) 21.7 10.7 12.1 4.6 7.6 Acquired growth (%) -9.9 -7.3 -1.7 -1.2 -0.6 Currency effects in sales growth (%) -1.9 -1.4 -1.8 1.0 -1.3 Organic sales growth (%) 9.9 2.0 8.6 4.4 5.7 Earnings before financial items including EBIT from discontinued operations EBIT from continuing operations 489.1 443.8 349.5 323.5 218.0 EBIT from discontinued operations – – 0.0 0.4 8.5 Total 489.1 443.8 349.5 323.9 226.5 Adjusted EBITA 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 EBIT including discontinued operations 489.1 443.8 349.5 323.9 226.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 74.1 57.8 69.3 60.6 58.3 Items affecting comparability -3.5 -1.0 7.3 5.0 68.7 Adjusted EBITA 559.7 500.6 426.1 389.6 353.5 Adjusted EBITDA 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 14/15 EBIT including discontinued operations 489.1 443.8 349.5 323.9 226.5 Depreciation and impairment of tangible assets 41.5 20.5 12.3 10.6 10.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 74.1 57.8 69.3 60.6 58.3 Items affecting comparability -3.5 -1.0 7.3 5.0 68.7 Adjusted EBITDA 601.1 521.2 438.4 400.2 364.1 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 165 OTHER INFORMATION | DEFINITIONS Definitions IFRS measures: Definition/Calculation Earnings per share Net profit/loss in SEK in relation to average number of shares, according to IAS 33. Alternative performance meaDefinition/Calculation Purpose sures: Return on equity Net profit for the year in relation to equity at Dustin believes that this performance the end of the period. measure shows how profitable the Company is for its shareholders. Gross margin Gross profit in relation to net sales. Used to measure product and service profitability. Equity per share Equity at the end of the period in relation to Shows Dustin’s equity per share. the number of shares at the end of the period. Acquired growth Net sales for the relevant period attributable to Acquired growth is eliminated in the acquired and divested companies in relation to calculation of organic growth. net sales for the comparative period. Adjusted EBITA EBIT according to the income statement before Dustin believes that this performance items affecting comparability and amortisation measure shows the underlying earnings and impairment of intangible assets. capacity and facilitates comparisons between quarters. Adjusted EBITDA EBIT according to the income statement Dustin believes that this performance before items affecting comparability and measure shows the underlying earnings amortisation/depreciation and impairment of capacity and facilitates comparisons intangible and tangible assets. between quarters. Adjusted EBITA margin Adjusted EBITA in relation to net sales. This performance measure is used to measure the profitability level of the operations. Items affecting comparability Items affecting comparability relate to Dustin believes that separate material income and expense items recognised recognition of items affecting separately due to the significance of their comparability increases comparability of nature and amounts. EBIT over time. Cash flow from operating activCash flow from operating activities, after Used to show the amount of cash flow ities changes in working capital. generated from operating activities. Cash flow from operating activiCash flow from operating activities as a Used to show the amount of cash flow ties per share percentage of the average number of shares generated from operating activities per outstanding. share. 166 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OTHER INFORMATION | DEFINITIONS Net working capital Total current assets less cash and cash This performance measure shows equivalents, current financial lease assets and Dustin’s efficiency and capital tied up. current non-interest-bearing liabilities, at the end of the period. Net debt Non-current and current interest-bearing This performance measure shows liabilities, excluding acquisition-related Dustin’s total liabilities adjusted for cash liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents at the and cash equivalents. end of the period. Net debt/EBITDA Net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA. This performance measure shows the Company’s ability to pay its debt. Organic growth Growth in net sales for the relevant period Provides a measure of the growth adjusted for acquisitions, divestments and achieved by Dustin in its own right. currency effects. Sales growth Net sales for the relevant period in relation to Used to show the development of net net sales for the comparative period. sales. Operating cash flow Adjusted EBITDA less maintenance Used to show the amount of cash flow investments plus cash flow from changes in generated from operating activities and working capital. available for payments in connection with dividends, interest and tax. EBIT EBIT is a measurement of the company’s This measure shows Dustin’s earnings before income tax and financial items. profitability from operations. Equity/assets ratio Equity at the end of the period in relation to Dustin believes that this measure total assets at the end of the period. provides accurate view of the company’s long-term solvency. Segment results The segment’s operating profit excluding Dustin believes that this performance amortisation/depreciation and items affecting measure shows the earnings capacity of comparability. the segment. Capital employed Working capital plus total assets, excluding Capital employed measures utilisation goodwill and other intangible assets of capital and efficiency. attributable to acquisitions, and interestbearing receivables pertaining to finance leasing, at the end of the period. Maintenance investments Investments required to maintain current Used to calculate operating cash flow. operations excluding financial leasing. Currency effects The difference between net sales in SEK Currency effects are eliminated in the for the comparative period and net sales in calculation of organic growth. local currencies for the comparative period converted to SEK using the average exchange rate for the relevant period. DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 167 OTHER INFORMATION | GLOSSARY Glossary Word/Term Definition/Calculation B2B Pertains to sales to companies and organisations, divided into LCP and SMB according to the definition below. B2C Pertains to all sales to consumers. Central functions Includes all non-allocated central expenses, including amortisation and depreciation, and excluding items affecting comparability. Integration costs Integration costs comprise costs for integrating acquired companies into the Dustin platform. The Dustin platform is defined as integration of e-commerce into the IT platform combined with organisational integration. IDC International Data Corporation Clients Generic name for the product categories computers, mobile phones and tablets. Contractual recurring Recurring revenues, such as subscriptions, that are likely to have revenues a duration of several years. LCP Pertains to all sales to large corporate and public sector. As a general rule, this segment is defined as companies and organisations with more than 500 employees or public sector operations. LTI Long-term incentive programme that encompasses Group Management and other key individuals at Dustin. LTM Last twelve months, also known as rolling 12 months. Refers to going back 12 months regardless of financial year. SaaS Software as a service (SaaS) is a type of cloud service that provides software over the Internet. SMB Pertains to all sales to small and medium-sized businesses. 168 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 OTHER INFORMATION | FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial calendar December 11, 2019 November 17, 2020 Annual General Meeting in Stockholm 2019/20 Annual Report January 8, 2020 December 14, 2020 Interim report for the first quarter, 2019/20 Annual General Meeting September 1, 2019–November 30, 2019 For more information, please contact: April 1, 2020 Interim report for the second quarter, Dustin Group AB December 1, 2019–February 29, 2020 Johan Karlsson, CFO johan.karlsson@dustin.se July 1, 2020 +46 708 67 79 97 Interim report for the third quarter, March 1, 2020–May 31, 2020 Fredrik Sätterström, Head of Investor Relations fredrik.satterstrom@dustin.se October 7, 2020 +46 705 10 10 22 Year-end report, September 1, 2019–August 31, 2020 DUSTIN GROUP AB ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018/19 169
