Communication of Progress 2018-2019 Contents Statement of continued support .............................................................................................................. 3 Organizational Profile................................................................................................................................ 5 Contact information............................................................................................................................... 5 Policy commitment .................................................................................................................................... 6 Focus on communication .......................................................................................................................... 6 Due diligence process ............................................................................................................................. 6 Locals at destinations we visit .............................................................................................................. 7 Guest experience and satisfaction ........................................................................................................ 8 Environment and climate .......................................................................................................................... 9 Education of Passengers ......................................................................................................................... 10 Office environmental awareness ........................................................................................................ 10 Nature conservation ............................................................................................................................ 11 Business ethics and anti-corruption ....................................................................................................... 11 Anti-corruption training ....................................................................................................................... 11 Corporate Social Responsibility .............................................................................................................. 12 ANTARCTIC REGION ................................................................................................................................ 13 ARCTIC REGION ........................................................................................................................................ 13 GLOBAL PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................................ 15 Statement of continued support 10-09-19 It is with great enthusiasm that Albatros Expeditions establishes itself in the polar expedition industry as part of the Albatros Group. As the company’s Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Albatros Expeditions reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, as well as any additional areas this might cover. The following Communications on Progress (COP) document how the company integrates these ten principles in strategies, policies and daily practices. To continually improve the integration of the Global compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations, we also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. At the compliance level, we have a due diligence process, which enables us to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on the core principles for human rights, the environment and anticorruption. Albatros Expeditions is part of the Albatros Travel Group with its headquarter based in Scandinavia. Its parent company, Albatros Travel, was founded over 30 years ago and places great priority on Social Responsibility. Following their example, we have a CSR committee, which is responsible for strategy, implementation and seasonal transparency reports. From a Green Initiative Program (supported by us, and spearheaded by Cruise Management International Leisure, hotel component of our vessel) onboard to keep our oceans clean plastic free and unpolluted, recycle, reduce chemical use and serve sustainable seafood, to our CSR program which focuses on local support in the locations we visit, as well as global positive impact to our oceans, seabirds and marine species, as well as conservation of our planet. We are dedicated to safe and environmentally responsible private-sector travel to the Antarctica and the Arctic. As part of our voyages, Albatros Expeditions arranges lectures onboard with climatologists, biologists and other experts in the field who disseminate knowledge and awareness about cultural differences and the environment to our guests, as well as an amalgam of members of our Expedition Team who ensure the protection of these locations, following strict guidelines as members of both AECO (Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators) and IAATO (International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators). These include but are not limited to mitigating adverse impacts of the cruise programs. Passenger activity ashore is considered a possible activity to cause an environmental impact. Adherence to IAATO and ATCM agreed Site Guidelines, Antarctic Treaty Recommendation XVIII-1, ATCM XXXIV Resolution 3 (2011) General Guidelines for Visitors to the Antarctic, the US Antarctic Conservation Act, proper briefings, acceptable staff to passenger ratios and careful monitoring by staff will minimize the potential for impact ashore. We already have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but we plan to strengthen our performance further by providing more extensive sustainability training. The focus on education reaches beyond our own organization and also directs any philanthropic projects, such as the establishment of sustainable guest donation projects via auctions, raffles and other events, donations to schools and education of our team and staff. Even though eco-tourism has been known and practiced for many years, working strategically and holistically with sustainability on all three bottom lines is new to many players in the travel industry and we are faced with a challenge in encouraging suppliers to work with a focus on sustainability. This does not prevent us together with our selected business partners from setting best examples possible, and champion the ten principles of the Global Compact, as well as considering going forward how we can support several of the SDGS such as goal 5, 12, and 14. The COP covers our company Albatros Expeditions, which includes our headquarters in Copenhagen, an office in China and our current vessel, Ocean Atlantic. We look forward to continuing our collaborations and support to the organizations mentioned in our CSR, our membership with AECO and IAATO, and our commitment to abiding to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). To learn more about us, or request additional information about this report, please feel free to contact me directly on the email listed below. Gorm Pedersen Managing Director, Albatros Expeditions gpe@albatros.dk CSR COMMITTEE: Cæcilie Willumsgaard, CSR Manager, Albatros Travel Group Elizabeth Torres – Media Manager, Albatros Expeditions Malik Milfeldt – Legal & Compliance Manager, Albatros Expeditions Organizational Profile Albatros Expeditions was founded in 2017 to focus on offering safe and transformational seaborn travel experiences in the polar regions. As part of the Albatros group, our company has amassed decades of know-how in the travel industry around the world, and we have become industry leaders in the Nordic countries for setting high standards when it comes to social responsibility, ethics and environment. Albatros Expeditions has been intricately conceived on the foundation of this experience, the expertise of our staff, the distinct superiority of small ship cruises, and of our greatest advantage: The familiarity and proximity to our native environment, the Nordic regions. To continue bringing high measures of quality in each voyage, our team is often tracing routes on the map to bring forth new exciting expeditions for our guests. Before the voyages are approved, we have established a demanding set of conditions to ensure Nordic standards of service, safe and transformational experiences in every outing, distinguished lectures and programs, to both educate and entertain our guests. We provide travel packages for private guests primarily traveling out of China, US, Australia and the Nordic markets. The guests travel mainly in groups of 130 200 persons and are accompanied by an expedition team during each voyage. All Scandinavian operations are planned from the company’s headquarters in Copenhagen. In addition, subsidiaries have been established in China, Greenland, and Iceland, to handle local operations and destination management services. The company is headed by the Board of Directors, including the main shareholder of the company. The management team reports to the Board of Directors. Our head office is divided into departments, each of which functions in relation to the types of tours and locations. Within the different work areas, there is a person with in-depth knowledge on the specific area. This ensures that our guests are being served with the best expertise available in the field. We currently employ 16 people in our office in Copenhagen. In addition, and during the year, we employ approximately up to 80 freelance expedition staff team members from many varied nationalities from around the world, who work with the local tour operators at the travel destinations. On an annual basis we serve more than 6000 travelers. Contact information Questions regarding the content of this COP report should be addressed to: Gorm Pedersen – Managing Director – GPE@albatros.dk Policy commitment Our CSR policy is publicly available on our websites. The policy commitment stipulates our human rights expectations of our personnel and business relations. The policy is formulated as a general CSR policy and includes environmental and anti-corruption commitments. Our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct), which includes human rights, environmental and anti-corruption requirements are still in the process of being incorporated in all business contracts. Focus on communication Our CSR strategy now has an increased focus and attention in all our communication. We are focused on familiarizing all employees with our CSR policy and projects, as well as our audience online to promote the projects goals further. The company is facing a very interesting stage of economic growth and expansion, and there have been many new employees hired during this time. All new employees have a one-week rotation programme, where they get lessons on the workflow of the different departments and teams. In this programme they also learn about Albatros’ company history, and also the importance of our CSR strategy and projects. CSR is often on the agenda at our monthly town hall meetings for all staff at our head office which we share with Albatros Travel. To further involve and educate all employees in our CSR activities, seasonal reports are given during our team meetings and yearly conferences. We also update our expedition team and guests via newsletters and website updates. The communication focus also includes external communication with our suppliers and our guests. As mentioned above, minimum on a yearly basis we review and update our CSR policy and our Ethical Requirements for our partners. Our CSR policy is available on our website, together with our CSR manifest and descriptions of some of the projects we support. Since 2018, we have communicated CSR externally through Social Media, travel fairs and online as well as physically, by distributing small pamphlets with information on our CSR activities onboard our vessel and travel conferences and fairs our company attends. Due diligence process The information flow of adverse impacts, identified by guests or tour leaders, currently flows through both media/CSR department and tour leader coordination, who because of their basic due diligence training report results to the CSR committee manager (see the figure on next page). We are in the process of implementing the direct flow from the tour leaders to the CSR person in charge, who then contacts the product manager to take action through the supply chain. We believe we will get the best results from letting the product managers who have the daily contact with the suppliers be the key implementing agents of mitigation throughout the supply chain. Internally, the CSR committee works with the Production department to supervise the function of collecting and reporting all accidents and staff grievances, thus identifying trends and initiating mitigating actions. Accidents occurring while travelling are a possible adverse impact on the health of our guests. Traveling always involves the risk of accidents, especially in less developed countries with poor infrastructure and lack of traffic regulations, as well as remote regions where MEDevacs can be delayed due to distance and harsh weather conditions. Albatros Expeditions demands high safety standards from suppliers, which is also included in our Ethical Requirements document. In case of an accident involving clients of Albatros Expeditions, the company has an emergency contingency plan in place. The contingency plan delegates responsibilities between staff for dealing with the emergency situation in the best way. Locals at destinations we visit Regarding the ethical dimensions of travel, a priority is treating people with equality and respect. This applies to both the people we work with in other parts of the world (as well as in Denmark) and the people whose country, neighborhood and homes we are visiting. Albatros Expeditions wishes to be precautionary and we have included our standpoint on child labor in our Ethical Requirements. We demand that suppliers not only assure us that they respect our views against child labor but also the respective country’s labor laws with special emphasis on minimum wages, working hours and union participation. One of our important CSR strategies is to generate local cash flow. We want to contribute to the local economy, make sure that the right people benefit from our presence and create job opportunities for locals. To achieve this, we collaborate with small local businesses wherever it is possible, and discuss with regional destination management offices how these aspects can be assured taking into account local cultures and traditions. We work with local agents, small hotels, local restaurants and use local guides. We also visit schools and purchase locally whenever there’s opportunity. As members of AECO, we also take active part in a membership-based Community Engagement Committee which was formed in 2018 and going forward will be a central part of AECO’s work, ethics and way of engaging with local cultures particularly in Greenland and Nunavut, Canada. The work of the CEC is in progress and goals are still being shaped and discussed with local partners and stakeholders, but it is certainly an ambition to support local communities by helping them build local capacity, and enhance local income and export. Facilitation of our guests’ access to knowledge about other people’s cultural life is an important part of our business. All of our voyages are conducted with experienced tour leaders and expedition staffs who generally speak the local languages and have a special insight into local conditions. In doing so, we can ensure good working conditions locally and we are able to make sure that all cultural encounters are done in the right spirit so that there is no negative impact on local societies. Furthermore, we always seek counselling and consent from locals before visiting their communities and we continue to have a dialogue on the form and frequency of visits. In this way, responsible tourism creates the opportunity for indigenous people to continue their traditional lifestyles in relatively remote areas with only little adaptation to modern economy and culture. Guest experience and satisfaction Albatros Expeditions main customer group is senior couples (60+), often retired and welltravelled. The group is, as a whole, more interested in experiencing culture and nature than relaxation. We have designed our online and offline experiences to suit our main customers, by having a website that is simple, easy to navigate and search. We have always strived for high customer satisfaction and a high percentage of returning customers. We have an experienced quality assurance team that takes care of all customer feedback and customer complaints. A Customer survey is available after each voyage for our guests to provide evaluations, anonymously or with their cabin numbers and drop it at reception. We are focused on satisfaction, transparency and ease of use in our customer experience. It started by analyzing our customer experience and creating detailed customer journey maps. Based on this, we implemented an automated customer communication flow that ensures that the customer gets relevant information at the relevant time and has knowledge of what is going to happen next through the flow of this process. Our customers’ privacy is very important to us, and that is why General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been applied to every step where personal data is handled inside our company. We are continuously improving our processes in order to ensure our privacy policy is 100% GDPR-compliant and all personal data is secure. Environment and climate As an expedition company, Albatros Expeditions has a direct environmental impact, as well as a more significant indirect footprint from our supply chains. Our most significant environmental impacts are those from the use of flights and cruise ships. These are impacts we cause through our suppliers mainly and by chartering a vessel. We have little opportunity to affect the environmental performance of these suppliers but have included several environmental demands in our Ethical Requirements. We refer any guest, who wishes to compensate for their flight-related carbon emissions, to the airlines offering climate compensation programs. Our biggest environmental efforts have focused on improving environmental performance in our offices and raising our guests’ awareness of and adherence to “environmental best practices” such as utilizing the towel saving programs offered by hotels, using less plastic while traveling and leaving nothing but footprints in fragile environments. We have written a list of 10 travel guidelines for our guests, which also highlights the importance of ethical behavior when meeting other cultures. Additionally, our Green Initiative Program onboard, focuses on reducing chemicals released into the ocean and lowering energy used in washing and cleaning items, recycling program and reducing the use of all single-use plastics, implementing recycling stations onboard, ensuring the purchase of sustainable seafood and avoiding the spread of microfibers by the use of phosphate free, non or minimally toxic and only biodegradable products onboard our vessel. Our guests are given a reusable metal bottle to fill with fresh water every day. We hope to continue with this initiative and replicate the same strategy in our coming vessels, which are designed to be significantly more energy efficient than older expedition cruise ships operating in the same markets. Providing a first-hand Antarctic and Arctic experience to passengers educates them to the ecological sensitivity of the polar environment and promotes a greater understanding of the earth’s resources and the important role of polar regions in the global environment. Controlled visitation by well informed, well prepared travelers in small groups, led by experts in the field, helps ensure ecologically sustainable activities and the continued protection of Antarctica and the Arctic as well as support for science. Education of Passengers Prior to embarking on a voyage, passengers receive a package of pre-departure materials, including information on safety and conservation, a pre-departure Antarctic Guidebook, and a copy of Recommendation XVIII-1 (1994), “Guidance for Visitors to the Antarctic.” Copies of pre-departure materials are available from individual organizers. Once on board, briefings and education continue. All passengers receive a copy of Recommendation XVIII1 and ATCM XXXIV Resolution 3 (2011) “General Guidelines for Visitors to the Antarctic”, an integral part of conservation briefings aboard ship. A comprehensive briefing on Antarctic conservation and etiquette ashore is held on the ship before the first landing. This briefing features an IAATO-produced presentation by slide show or PowerPoint, reinforcing the visitor guidelines. Likewise, through our membership of AECO, passengers will watch a short introduction video that focuses on disseminating important information about landings in relation to nature preservation, conservation and respect for wildlife and respectful engagement with local inhabitants in polar and subpolar areas. Meaningful passenger education is a high priority for IAATO & AECO members. The Expedition Leader, supplemented by a printed daily sheet and announcements over the public address system, holds regular briefings onboard with regard to planned activities. Onboard lecturers provide slide or PowerPoint-illustrated presentations on topics of interest, provide commentary at informal review sessions at the end of the day, and also guide walks ashore and interpret while on deck (bird or marine-mammal watching or scenic cruising) and during small boat excursions. Office environmental awareness In our offices, we strive to lower our energy consumption. We have had a consultant to help us map our potential for reduced energy usage at our Copenhagen office. We have replaced conventional light bulbs with energy saving and LED ones and put a timer on our ventilation system to ensure that it only runs during office hours. We buy all of our electricity at our head office in Copenhagen from Oerstad, who is Denmark’s biggest supplier of wind power. All our electricity is renewable energy produced by Danish windmills at sea. In our Copenhagen office, we have reduced our paper usage significantly by printing on both sides. This is done automatically by all computers in the office. We have also reduced paper usage by continuing to upgrade our IT system so that we now send a lot of our letters by email. We only use recycled paper for all purposes. We sort paper, cardboard, glass and aluminum from the conventional waste. Our fruits and warm drinks are organic, fair-trade and our lunch supplier is using more and more organic and welfare produce. All of our bathroom products are allergen-free and paraben-free. Our tour leader uniforms are made from organic cotton and under good conditions in factories certified by Fairtrade. Nature conservation Nature conservation is of paramount importance to us, as the company is built on the admiration and respect to the pristine polar regions and clean seas. Our current conservation efforts include constant participation in the Clean Up Svalbard program, abiding to the guidelines in both Arctic and Antarctica by AECO and IAATO, and sponsoring several organizations such as South Georgia Heritage Trust for the preservation of Albatrosses, Hookpod for the protection of seabirds and other species at sea, Whale & Dolphin Conservation for the protection of marine species and the implementation of whale & dolphin sanctuaries, and Greenland Trees for drawing down atmospheric carbon levels. Business ethics and anti-corruption Albatros Expeditions has chosen to register our main organization in Denmark, where most of the operations work is done from the head office. This means that we pay most of our taxes in Denmark, in line with Danish law. We collaborate with Danish tax authorities, when we hire new suppliers for our head office, to ensure that we do not support any illegal work or moonlighting. We are able to show data on income and expenditure for the last two years, available upon request, and maintain accurate books and records, available for inspection. These properly and fairly document all financial transactions. We do not maintain off-the-books accounts, and any contribution to bribery and corruption is unacceptable. Internal controls are in place in order to prevent this. Anti-corruption training The implementation of our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct) will continuously be followed up by training of relevant employees. The primary target groups for this training are the product managers, who handle the supply chains and our tour leaders, who may come up against corrupt institutions in the countries in which they operate. Corporate Social Responsibility We give our guests the chance to make financial contributions to a number of local projects, where we have assessed the use of funds to ensure all donated money has the intended effect. All work by Albatros Expeditions in this area will always be funded by the company and never by external sources. On our website: albatros-expeditions.com/csr, frequent updates are provided on the status of each project we support, as well as transparency reports from the organizations we raise funds for. On the next pages, detailed information on these projects and about organizations we are member of: ANTARCTIC REGION IAATO A member organization founded in 1991 to advocate and promote the practice of safe and environmentally responsible private-sector travel to the Antarctic, Albatros Expeditions is proud to be an active member of this organization and to work together with the fellow members to ensure sustainable tourism to Antarctica. Learn more by visiting IAATO's website: iaato.org/home Follow IAATO on Social Media: Facebook: www.facebook.com/antarcticatouroperators Twitter: twitter.com/iaato_org THE SOUTH GEORGIA HERITAGE TRUST (SGHT) In an effort to reverse the ecological destruction caused by sealers and whalers through centuries, The South Georgia Heritage Trust (SGHT) aims to work with all who wish to preserve the island’s natural and historical heritage for future generations – Albatros Expeditions collaborates with SGHT to assist efforts of preserving the historical heritage of South Georgia, and increase international awareness of the island. In our Antarctic Season, Albatros Expeditions and South Georgia Heritage Trust specifically focused on a global initiative to protect South Georgia’s Albatrosses, by pledging 25,000USD in support of this project, tracking of current juvenile albatrosses and research of the species on the island is supported. (See appendix of full SGHT report). Learn more about South Georgia Heritage Trust on their website: https://www.sght.org/ Project presentation of our collaboration: 2019 report: Attached. ARCTIC REGION GREENLAND TREES Run by climate scientists, this organization expands forests in the south of the island to achieve carbon drawdown from the atmosphere. GreenlandTrees partners with local Greenlandic communities to build environmental awareness, especially among the youth. GreenlandTrees interfaces with the Greenland government to ensure regulatory compliance and a clear path toward permanence using protected area allotments. Albatros Expeditions raises funds via auctions during its Arctic voyages to support this initiative. Since our current Arctic Season is yet to conclude, we can only give a preliminary number of funds raised in this first season collaborating together, which is 1800USD. Additionally, Greenland Trees receives our support in our headquarters in Copenhagen via consulting services to help them establish CSR agreement with other organizations interested in supporting them. Learn more about the work of Greenland Trees and our collaboration on their website: greenlandtrees.org/ CLEAN UP SVALBARD To overcome the growing problem of sea transported garbage in the Arctic, which has a significant negative impact on the wildlife, Albatros Expeditions is part of the joint initiative ‘Clean Up Svalbard’, together with other AECO members and local organizations. It is an initiative that aims to remove the waste from the beaches in Svalbard every summer through dedicated cleanup trips. AECO Albatros Expeditions supports and collaborates with AECO (Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators), an international association for cruise ship expeditions in the Arctic. AECO is committed to strengthening responsible, environmentally friendly and safe tourism in the Arctic and strives to set the highest possible operational standards. In addition to the membership fee, our support to AECO extends with each guest Albatros sends to the Arctic. SeeAECO’s film about responsible tourism in the Arctic by visiting their website. Learn more about AECO and its members on the website: www.aeco.no/ GLOBAL PROGRAMS WHALE AND DOLPHIN CONSERVATION WDC funds vital research and conservation projects across the globe, working with the local communities to protect whales and dolphins in the places they live. Their main goals are ending captivity, stopping whaling, creating healthy seas and preventing deaths in nets. At Albatros Expeditions, we raise money on our Arctic auctions to help protect these wonderful creatures and their natural habitat. The current Arctic Season is still in progress, but we have already raised over 2000 USD between auctions, raffles and sales of their books on our Ocean Shop for this project. Learn more about their global outreach projects in support of whales and dolphins on the WDC website: uk.whales.org/ See the presentation of our collaboration: On our website. Follow WDC on facebook: www.facebook.com/pg/whales.org HOOKPOD One of the biggest threats faced by the albatross and other sea birds are longline fishing hooks, set into the water with fishing bait which they try to grab, getting dragged under and drowned. The solution provided by Hookpod covers reusable baited hooks and stops birds from getting caught in them. An effective, economic and easyto-use way to protect seabirds and sea turtles. During our Antarctic seasons, we raise money on every Antarctic voyage via auctions, which are donated to this organization at the end of the season to sponsor a fishing vessel with Hookpods and an observer. During the Antarctic season of 2018 – 2019, a total of 25,000 USD was collected for Hookpod, funding this year from Albatros Expeditions to equip three NZ fishing vessels. With set up costs for the device deterring some fishermen from trying new technology, providing a complete set of Hookpods for a vessel, to demonstrate their durability, efficiency and ultimate value for money. See full report as attached appendix. Learn more about Hookpod on their website: www.hookpod.com/
