Communication on Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact 07 T H OCTOBER 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT “I am pleased to confirm that Jetwing Hotels Ltd reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of Global Compact principles with our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using appropriate channels of communication.” – SHIROMAL COORAY Chairman – Jetwing Hotels Ltd ABOUT US Family owned and in the tourism industry for the past 46 years, Jetwing Hotels has surpassed expectation at every aspect. Building on our foundation of being passionate, as well as the experience of true, traditional Sri Lankan hospitality, constantly pioneering discoveries captures the essence of the brand. Such a strong statement and direction have enabled Jetwing Hotels to imagine, create and manage marvels and masterpieces, where distinctive design and elegant comfort complement each other and the environment. In line with the Jetwing Hotels Sustainable Strategy, across all properties sustainable and responsible practices are given precedence with resource efficiency, community upliftment and education, and awareness being some of our key focus areas. For more information about our sustainability initiatives: www.jetwinghotels.com/sustainability ENERGY AND WATER AND BIODIVERSITY COMMUNITY FAMILY SOURCING AND CARBON WASTE AND CULTURE PRODUCTION HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Jetwing Hotels is a responsible tourism provider in Sri Lanka, which was the first company in Sri Lanka to show its commitment to the United Nations World Tourism Organization’s (UNWTO) Global Code of Ethics of Tourism. We acknowledge and respect the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and The International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The Jetwing Human Rights Policy reflects the company’s commitment to conduct our business in a manner consistent with these principles and to protect human rights in all spheres of enterprise. We are committed to upholding principles of nondiscrimination and equality, protection of the rights of a child, refraining from forced labour, ensuring health and safety of our associates and guests, setting fair working conditions including working hours, providing fair wages and compensation and refraining from harsh or degrading treatment/harassment. The Jetwing Human Rights Policy is made aware to our associates through our orientation programme. Apart from this, awareness programmes are carried out in all our hotels, to ensure that all associates are made aware of the company’s commitment toward safeguarding human rights. Implementation The Jetwing Hotels Human Rights Policy is an essential component of our orientation programme, which ensures that each associate of the organization is made aware of the company’s commitments and values. Furthermore to ensure that no associate is left behind, refresher sessions are conducted at all hotels while also making available the policy in all three languages in staff cafeterias, ensuring awareness amongst our associates on the manner in which Jetwing Hotels maintains relations within the organization, with our guests, partners and suppliers. Jetwing Hotels is committed in providing equal employment opportunities and will strive to provide a workplace free from discrimination and harassment. The Jetwing family upholds the four simple values of passion, humility, tenacity and integrity – and nurturing these four simple values we are a responsible ethical organization committed in providing all our associates equitably and impartially through our comprehensive compensation schemes and policies and procedures that are laid down. We ensure equal pay for work of equal value, while also ensuring that equal opportunities are provided for all in recruitment, retention and as well as training and development opportunities. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, colour, gender, religion, creed, age, social and civil status, family origin, physical or mental disability or sexual orientation in our hiring and employment practices. As a result, we have actively sought avenues to integrate persons with disabilities wherever possible. Furthermore, to strengthen communities in which we operate, the Jetwing Youth Development Project (JYDP) is offered to economically challenged youth of rural localities in Sri Lanka. The sixmonth training programme in hotel operations is offered free-of-charge with the assurance of employment in our hotels, upon its successful completion. We use our best efforts to ensure that equal numbers of both young men and women benefit from our efforts to provide accessibility to education and employment opportunities. Through this programme we also have been successful in promoting women to take on non-traditional job roles in the industry. Jetwing Hotels is committed in providing our associates with the necessary training and development opportunities, whenever and wherever necessary, to help them deliver world-class service. Career development programmes are designed and conducted for promising associates in both nonsupervisory, supervisory and executive grade, to assist them in developing their careers. All the above initiatives are carried out to foster a fair and equitable working environment whereby all our associates are treated with dignity and respect. If any associate feels that he/she has been treated in an unfair, unreasonable or discriminatory manner due to any matter related to the company, all associates are encouraged to follow our Grievance Policy and Procedure, where the associate should consult his/her Supervisor / Executive/ Department Head or Manager who will assist him/her, treating all personal grievances with the utmost confidentiality. In the case that an associate deems to have not received a satisfactory solution, he or she may refer the grievance to the Head of HR, or any member of the Senior Management including the Chairman, as per our open-door policy. Fostering and promoting the health and safety of our associates is a priority at our resorts. Our comprehensive Health and Safety Policy is supported by drills and programmes that reinforce the prevalence of an optimal climate of well-being of our associates and guests. Our associates are also provided with fire and first-aid training. The orientation programmes and the associate handbook is instrumental in making awareness among all employees about the health and safety measures which are required to be adhered to, for the purpose of ensuring safety. During the financial year 18/19 only minor cuts, slippage, wildlife threats & minor burns were recorded. Jetwing Hotels has made a commitment to the environment and the community which we operate in. Apart from the Jetwing Youth Develop Project, we have also launched community outreach initiatives to uplift the local communities around us. In September 2019, a small-scale supplier sustenance programme named Thrive was launched, to provide selected small-scale suppliers the awareness, training and financial assistance needed to upscale their enterprises, with the intention of strengthening the local communities and making a positive contribution towards social upliftment. To strengthen our efforts in the non-discrimination and equality, Jetwing Hotels partnered with the SheWorks Sri Lanka private sector partnership in 2017, to advance women’s employment opportunities in the workforce of Sri Lanka. Through this platform Jetwing Hotels committed to strengthen women’s business leadership, support women in the value chain and ensure the recruitment and retention of female talent in the workplace. In appreciation of cultural diversity, to foster an inclusive work environment, Jetwing Hotels launched a programme in 2019, to address the social dysfunctionality and racial divide that resulted from the Easter Sunday tragedy which took place in April. To encourage respect for diverse opinions and beliefs, Project WE was launched to celebrate the diversity of cultures and identities in the workplace and society. Reinforcing our commitment to the environment and community, Jetwing Hotels has subscribed for the Travelife Certification system which auditor and monitors accommodation providers’ sustainability performance to prove they meet the set sustainability criteria a range of criteria that assess performance in the areas of human rights, labour, community engagement and environmental impacts, Measurement of Outcomes Jetwing Hotels had no reports of investigations, cases, rulings, fines or other events related to human rights abuse in the workplace during the financial year 2018/19. Each year, all staff policies and procedures relating to human rights are revisited and reviewed to ensure they are relevant and up to date. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Jetwing Hotels’ formal Grievance Policy and Procedure along with our open-door policy is a great facilitator when it comes to supporting aggrieved parties to file their grievances without any hesitation or fear. At Jetwing Hotels no associate is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our grievance policy is a formalized step by step process to encourage the resolution for associate grievances at the functional level, while the open-door policy encourages the upward communication process in the organization. Jetwing acknowledges and respects the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and The International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The Jetwing Human Rights Policy is a statement which reflects the company’s commitment to conduct our business in compliance with these principles and to protect human rights in all spheres of enterprise. Jetwing Hotels, as a responsible tourism entity has in place a zero-tolerance policy on the exploitation and/or abuse of the young. Accordingly, Jetwing condemns all forms of child exploitation. The company does not recruit any young person under the age of 18 as a company policy and supports the elimination of exploitative child labour. Furthermore, as a responsible organization we act by the regulations defined in the ILO Convention, Sri Lanka Labour Regulations (i.e. Shop & Office Employees Act and Wages Board Ordinance) and other applicable laws of the country. We support the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labour, and we do not accept the use of prison labour or illegal labour. Jetwing Hotels also provides a safe working environment for the associates through the Health and Safety Policy. The occupational health and safety policy details the mandatory requirements to be applied throughout the company, in order to promote the health and safety of all our associates at every level of employment. Jetwing Hotels does not tolerate any form of discrimination. Our recruitment, retention, remuneration and training and development process is governed by our commitment to nondiscrimination and equality. Thus, if any grievances, all associates are encouraged to follow the Grievance Policy and Procedure. Implementation We are committed to upholding principles of non-discrimination and equality, protecting the rights of a child, refraining from forced labour, ensuring health and safety of our associates and guests, setting fair working conditions including working hours, providing fair wages and compensation and refraining from harsh or degrading treatment/harassment, as detailed in the Jetwing Human Right Policy. To create awareness on the company’s commitments, all associates are made aware of the company policies and procedure at the orientation programme, while every associate is also made available an associate handbook, containing details on statutory entitlements, remuneration, fringe benefits, leave entitlements, attendance and working hours, career development opportunities and all company policies and procedures. Every associate is provided with a written contract of employment with agreed terms and conditions. Working hours will comply with the national laws and benchmarks of the industry. Associates are not required to work in excess of 45 hours a week on a regular basis. They are also provided with one and a half days off on average for a week. All associates are provided with adequate and reasonable rest breaks, access to drinking water and other sanitary facilities, days off and statutory leave. Furthermore, we adhere to the minimum wage requirement of the industry, while providing the mandatory 84 days of maternity leave and 2 days of paternity leave although not mandated by law. Jetwing’s Zero Tolerance Policy on child abuse and child labour is implemented with the intention of raising awareness on such exploitation. We will also cooperate with law enforcement authorities to address any such instance of exploitation which the company becomes aware of. Thus, we are committed to highlighting the problem and raising awareness wherever and whenever pertinent as our contribution to eradicating exploitation of children. We encourage our guests and associates to be vigilant at all times, particularly in relation to the presence of paedophiles and to report any suspicious activities to either the hotel reception directly or contact Child Line Sri Lanka or the nearest branch of the Sri Lanka Tourist Police. The health and safety of our associates is ensured through the suitable arrangements that have been put in place to control and mitigate any risk to the health, safety and welfare of our associates and those affected by its activities. Each associate is made aware of the Occupational Health and Safety Policy through the handbook as well as the orientation programme and is communicated about each person’s responsibility to their colleagues and the organization to comply with the health and safety regulations and to report and act upon any potential workplace hazard or incident. As a responsible hospitality provider Jetwing Hotels commits to protect our associates, guests and other stakeholders as well as the communities around us. This is ensured through the clear Health and Safety Policy and Procedure, the creation of awareness through training, the provision of personal protective equipment and the monitoring of incidents through the Employee Related and Guest Related Incident Reports. Through the reporting, incidents are tracked, and the data is utilized as lessons learnt to make a safer work environment, in order to prevent a similar incident from reoccurring. We offer training opportunities for our associates whenever the need for training arises, to up skill them to cater the demands of work. Furthermore, we offer promising associates in non-supervisory, supervisory and executive grades, structured training and career development programmes, to help them with their succession plans. Jetwing Hotels does not tolerate any form of discrimination or harsh and degrading treatment and harassment. Thus, if any grievances occur in this regard, all associates are encouraged to follow open door policy or the Grievance Policy and Procedure. Keeping in line with the commitment a series of awareness programs are conducted for all associates of the hotels to make associates aware of the different elements of sexual harassment, its implications and legal framework as well as best practices in handling sexual harassment at the workplace. Measurement of Outcomes The associate health and safety is monitored through the monthly reports maintained to record any accidents or health and safety related issues at the workplace. Jetwing Hotels had no reports of investigations, rulings, fines or other events related to labour law violation during the financial year 2018/19. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Environmental awareness and responsibility lie at the core of the Jetwing ethos. Most importantly, we have taken this from statement to fact across every aspect of business throughout our family of companies. Across all strategy and action, respect for eco-systems around our locations, environmentally friendly processes and care for natural resources are fundamental to Jetwing Hotels. Our commitment to continuous improvement in key impact areas in both environmental and community spheres is outlined in Jetwing Hotels’ Sustainability Strategy. Specific measures for maintaining a clean and healthy environment highlighted in the Jetwing Environmental Policy, and efforts to continually improve our energy performance via efficient and innovative strategies is outlined in our Energy Management Policy. Implementation Diligently tracking the impact our operations have on the environment, we are fully committed to mitigating any adverse effects that arise. Mindful of the fact that the long-term viability of our business depends on the sustainability of the environment, we continuously review and proactively manage the use of resources. Following are some of the initiatives implemented to effectively manage our operational impact: ˗ Consumption of electricity, diesel, water etc. is monitored daily and compared against occupancy levels to identify and address any irregularities and reduce specific consumption year on year ˗ Routine training is given to associates to help them understand the importance of carrying out sustainability initiatives and to garner their co-operation and support ˗ Guest awareness is raised regarding the hotel’s commitment to sustainability and their support enlisted through the display of the Green Directory booklet (detailing hotel’s environmental performance) in guest rooms and through environmental messages displayed across the hotel Energy & Carbon Footprint: In order to reduce the GHG emissions and carbon footprint associated with our operations, the hotels have actively reduced its national grid electricity consumption by both reducing its energy demand via energy conservation and efficiency improvements and promoting non-fossil fuel based (renewable) energy generation. Initiatives to improve energy efficiency undertaken across the hotels include: Transition to artificial illumination being provided via energy efficient CFL and LED lights Dual-set-point thermostats fitted in guest room to set the air conditioner to an energy saving, setback temperature once the key card is removed Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) used to control the speed of motors according to the load requirement or climate conditions, have been introduced for pumps and motors where the installed electrical load is high Improving energy efficiency of the hotel buildings is also considered at the concept stage of new properties and designed to minimize the need of the artificial illumination and mechanical ventilation Initiatives to move to renewable energy sources implement in many of the hotels include: Solar PV systems supplement grid electricity supply Hot water requirement generated via renewable energy sources solar hot water panels during daytime and a biomass boiler fuelled by cinnamon wood, during night-time Vapour Absorption Chillers, run sustainably via steam generated from a biomass boiler, cater (04) hotels’ entire air conditioning requirement Cooking in the staff cafeteria is fuelled through sustainable means; this includes the use of cooking stoves fuelled by biogas (generated from onsite biogas digesters), and industrial biomass stoves In an effort for continuous improvement, further investments have been proposed for the next financial year, such as the installation of net-metered solar PV systems at Jetwing Kaduruketha and Jetwing Surf to offset the hotels’ total day-time electricity requirement. Water use and wastewater management: Recognizing the importance of water conservation, initiatives are taken to minimize water consumption, reduce wastages and reuse wherever possible. Throughout the hotels, where possible separate water meters have been installed in different departments, allowing for daily monitoring of use and highlighting any abnormal use. While fixtures in use, such as taps, shower heads and toilet cisterns are specifically chosen during design/retrofitting to prevent wastage, introduction of flow restrictors/water savers with faucets have also improved the efficiency in water usage. Further investments are proposed for Jetwing Surf next financial year to reduce the hotel’s freshwater requirement via use of untreated groundwater and grey (waste)water from guest room showers for garden irrigation purposes. Wastewater generated at the hotels is treated & reused onsite or responsibly discharged to the environment following pre-treatment (anaerobically) in septic tanks. Treated wastewater is reused for cooling towers, cisterns, or garden irrigation; and quality of the discharged treated water is routinely checked by an accredited external company to ensure it meets the required standards of the Central Environmental Authority. Solid waste management: By the very nature of business, hotels generate considerable quantities of waste from their diverse areas of operation. Through our comprehensive waste management system practiced, solid waste generated is separated at their sources of origin – in all departments such as the kitchen, restaurant and bar, maintenance, stores and guest rooms – stored safely and hygienically and disposed in the most environmentally-sound manner available. Dry solid waste collected (such as cardboard, plastic, glass bottles and metal) is inventoried and sold to external parties for recycling or reuse. Organic waste (primarily food waste) collected from hotel operations is treated and reused onsite via composters, fed into biogas units for renewable energy generation or sent to a local piggery to be used as animal feed. (Plastic) bottled water use remains a concern because of both the cost and emission of transporting from source to end user as well as the waste disposal problem that it creates in due course. To replace the use of the plastic bottled water with reusable glass water bottles, potable-water bottling plants have been commissioned at strategic locations. Biodiversity: Although Jetwing Hotels does not operate any sites in formerly protected areas, located in scenic natural locations, such areas may hold high biodiversity values. Thus, we have a distinct responsibility in ensuring that activities carried out do not have an appreciable adverse effect on the local flora and fauna. We continue to review our impact and work towards reducing energy, water and material usage and generation of emissions, effluents and solid waste; while also enhancing habitats through increasing the green cover with native flora, control of invasive alien species etc. which have an ongoing positive effect on biodiversity in the areas in which we operate. Further, we provide environmental education support with a particular focus on future generations – local students – to share best practices and awareness on the importance of biodiversity and nature conservation. Measurement of Outcomes The hotels systematically track their resource usage and the savings it achieves through various conservation efforts. During the preceding year, at Jetwing ‘owned’ hotels: ˗ 65% of the energy demand was met via renewable energy sources ˗ Over 265,000m3 of wastewater was treated and reused onsite (enough to fill 106 Olympic size swimming pools!) ˗ Over 28,000 glass bottles was produced on average, per month (eliminating approximately 280kg of plastic waste) Savings acquired from such measures are not only beneficial for the environment but incur direct benefits to the hotel(s) in the long run as these savings go hand in hand with cost savings. Compliance with regulatory and voluntary standards demonstrates our commitment to always operating in an environmentally responsible manner. The management systems introduced adhere to all relevant local laws and comply with a range of Jetwing’s own internally developed policies including the Jetwing Sustainability Policy, Environmental Policy, Energy Management Policy and Health & Safety Policy. In addition, Jetwing ‘owned’ hotels have obtained or are currently in the process of obtaining external verification as compliant with ISO 14001:2015 standard for environmental management systems, ISO 50001:2011 standard for energy management systems and Travelife’s sustainability criteria. The company is always aware that disputes and concerns could arise over the environmental impacts of the organization’s activities and its relationships with others. Should such grievances/complaints be brought forward, the hotels are ready to handle them efficiently at source, through dialogue and mediation. We are geared to investigate and address such issues via a clear and transparent process. We maintain a positive outlook viewing any issues that crop up as opportunities to improve and better manage our environmental performance. It is our belief that protecting the environment isn’t just a legal or social obligation but is integral to our strategy to run our business in a way that is ethical and aims to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Jetwing Hotels considers the risk of corruption across its business low, however we are committed to ensuring that company is not involved in any corruption, extortion or bribery in our business dealings. “Taking of or giving bribes or gratification in cash or any other kind” has being formally recognized as an act of associate misconduct and we expect our associates to achieve a high standard of personal, ethical and professional conduct. Implementation Jetwing’s outlook on business practices are guided by our ‘family’ values: Passion, Honesty, Integrity and Tenacity. These values combine to form and provide the foundation for corporate governance; thus, we strive to pursue all business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. We maintain transparency and open communication with stakeholders regarding our progress, impacts and services offered. Internally, we maintain an excellent check and balance system with information on transactions being corroborated and monitored by the senior management. Measurement of Outcomes Hotels’ accounts are subject internal audits as well as statuary external audits; which can be used to identify any suspicious transactions. Audit results are reviewed by the senior management periodically to ensure consistency with commitment to unethical business dealings. There have been no incidents related to corruption and bribery within this period. – END OF REPORT –
