DELIVER INSPIRE COLLABORATE S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT 2018 SUSTAIN EVOLVE DESIGN ENHANCE LEAD INNOVATE PERFORM ENVISION ACHIEVE CREATE TRANSFORM GROW CONNECT ENGAGE SUPPORT Run-of-River Hydropower Bhote Koshi River, Nepal W E LC O M E Table of Contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 1 ABOUT STANTEC 2 SUSTAINABILITY AT STANTEC 7 Sustainability Governance 9 Sustainability in Our Operations 10 Sustainability for Our Clients 12 Sustainable Development Goals 12 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 15 Environmental Management 17 Emissions 18 Resource Conservation 20 SOCIAL BETTERMENT 25 People-Centered Workplace 27 Health, Safety, and Security 38 Thought Leadership 42 Community Engagement 44 Indigenous Connections 46 RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE 49 Ethical Business Practices 50 Corporate Governance 52 Strategy 53 Risk Management 53 Integrated Management 55 Cybersecurity and Customer Privacy 56 Supply Chain Management 57 GRI CONTENT INDEX A-1 UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS B-1 ATB Financial Westwinds Campus Calgary, Alberta, Canada ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS 2018 Reviews and Approvals SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our consolidated financial statements were audited This Sustainability Report, Stantec’s twelfth annual, by Ernst & Young LLP Chartered Professional provides information about Stantec’s material Accountants. Our greenhouse gas emissions environmental, social, and governance (ESG) inventory was independently verified by Bureau issues and impacts for our fiscal year ending Veritas Group. December 31, 2018. All financial information is reported in Canadian dollars (unless otherwise Stantec’s sustainability disclosures and data stated). This report communicates Stantec’s underwent internal quality checks and are factual to overall sustainability journey and demonstrates the best of our knowledge at the time of reporting. our transparency regarding vital topics that apply The report also underwent a formal review and to most organizations and that stakeholders are approval process by senior management from each highly interested in. functional area, the Executive ESG Committee, and the C-suite. Plus, the board-level Health, Frameworks Safety, Security, Environment, and Sustainability The Sustainability Report covers GRI Standards and Committee reviewed the report before its release. the ways we meet the needs of stakeholder groups. The GRI Content Index (Appendix A) We commissioned ISOS Group, a leading sustainability report assurance and verification • Cross-references sections of this report and company, to conduct a third-party review of the public documents that contain relevant data content and quality of this report. • Adds pertinent details not explained in the main More Information body of this report and explains any omissions Additional information is available in our 2018 Annual Report; our Management Information • Refers to topics in the Engineering and ConCircular dated March 15, 2019; our Annual struction Services Standard of the Sustainability Information Form dated February 28, 2019; and Accounting Standards Board (SASB) our 2018 CDP Disclosure (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project); as well as on stantec.com. • Refers to recommendations in the Task Force on Combined, these resources provide transparency Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of regarding Stantec’s ESG performance. the Financial Stability Board This report and future updates can be accessed The report also includes Stantec’s Communication at stantec.com/sustainability. Please direct any on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact comments and questions about our sustainability (UNGC) (Appendix B). efforts to sustainability@stantec.com. Report Boundaries This report reflects all Consulting Services global operations but does not include Construction Services operations, which were divested in 2018. When I think about the future of my children and future generations, I feel very proud to be leading Stantec, an organization with sustainability at the core of our business. Our commitment to designing infrastructure that supports a sustainable future is ingrained in our operations through the services we provide to our clients, the way we treat our people and run our business, and the passion we have for serving our communities. Actively and purposefully, we address all three elements of sustainability: environmental, social, and governance (ESG). Our Response to Key Global Trends While creating our 2019 Strategic Plan, Stantec’s Executive Leadership Team identified key global trends that factor heavily in our decision-making and direction. Climate change is one of the high-impact, high-uncertainty global trends we identified. By addressing climate change in our design and delivery solutions, our global team of designers, engineers, scientists, and project managers are doing what’s right plus reinforcing our position as a top-tier firm that’s recognized for our creative, technologyforward, and collaborative approach. We’re targeting the following strategic growth opportunities, which are directly tied to the world’s response to climate change: • Making smarter cities to serve residents more sustainably and efficiently • Invigorating infrastructure to improve performance and resource efficiency • Creating resilient coastlines to prepare communities for sea-level rise and extreme weather • Remixing energy to help the world’s energy supply move from fossil fuels to renewable and low-carbon sources M E S S AG E F R O M T H E C E O By pursuing opportunities like these, along design in order to make measurable with projects that create and maintain progress toward the goal of carbon neutral sustainable communities, we support the buildings, developments, and major UN Global Compact and the Sustainable renovations by 2030. Development Goals. • We provided inspiring, inclusive, As well as contributing to our overall strategic collaborative, flexible, safe, and healthy direction, several members of Stantec’s work environments. leadership team serve on our Executive ESG Committee. We also have a board-level • We invested in our people by funding their Health, Safety, Security, Environment, and innovative ideas and by providing learning Sustainability Committee. programs and volunteer opportunities. Our Approach to Sustainability For these accomplishments and The way I see it, Stantec’s future depends commitments, Stantec earned several on our Company’s ability to successfully accolades, including for leadership in the address the challenges posed by climate fight against climate change from CDP, a change, create an inspired work culture that Sustainable Development Goal Leadership draws the world’s best and brightest to the Award from the Global Compact Network Company and keeps them engaged and Canada, and one of the Best 50 Corporate excited about their work, and manage our Citizens in Canada from Corporate Knights. business to maximize sustainable growth while operating ethically and transparently. Inspiration to Action, Action to Inspiration I’m proud of our sustainability performance Our achievements in 2018 show we’re on the improvements and even prouder of our right track: people for designing sustainable solutions for our world. You’ll read about some of our • We brought together our 1,200 team success stories in this report. members in Edmonton, moving them from three offices into one new LEEDI hope you’ll be as inspired as I am—inspired certified head office, Stantec Tower. This by the progress of the past year and inspired great example shows our work toward to do even more for sustainability in the years reducing carbon emissions; improving to come. employee comfort, collaboration, and team building; and increasing financial sustainability by saving costs. • Stantec’s per-employee emissions have dropped significantly over the years. Gord Johnston And we committed to reducing emissions Stantec President and CEO even further by setting new ambitious reduction goals. • Our Buildings business operating unit signed on to the American Institute of Architects 2030 Commitment in support of the 2030 Challenge, which asks firms to prioritize energy performance in their S TA N T E C I N C. 1 Our Purpose Creating communities Our Promise Design with community in mind Our Goal To be a top-tier global design and delivery firm that is recognized for our creative, technology-forward, and collaborative approach Our Values We put people first. We do what is right. We are better together. We are driven to achieve. S I X S T R AT E G I C O B J E C T I V E S  1 Inspired Culture – We will continue to build an inspiring, inclusive work environment that attracts, supports, and develops world-class talent. 2 Winning Impactful Work – We will pursue and win work that transforms communities and inspires our people. 3 Exceptional Project Execution – We will execute projects exceptionally for our clients. 4 Inspired Thought Leadership – We will combine proven ideas with curiosity, creativity, and technology-forward approaches to position Stantec as an iconic firm. 5 Competitive Operational Advantage – We will embrace and enhance our collaborative business model and integrated platform for competitive and operational advantage. 6 Strategic Acquisitions – We will grow through strategic acquisitions to meet client needs and strengthen our ability Scioto Greenways Columbus, Ohio, United States to create communities. 2 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T A B O U T S TA N T E C Reportable Segments* 54% United States 30% Canada 16% Global 2 018 G R O S S R E V E N U E $4.3 billion Business Operating Units* 27% Infrastructure 22% Buildings 21% Water 16% Environmental Services 14% Energy & Resources *Percent of Consulting Services gross revenue Continental Europe Africa Canada 441 7,885 Middle East United States 387 8,912 Asia Latin America Caribbean 208 416 India United Kingdom 344 1,674 Australia New Zealand 715 Acquired Divested Traded Cegertec Experts Conseils, Inc. Stantec Construction Services TSX ESI Limited NYSE Norwest Corporation Under the symbol STN Occam Engineers, Inc. Peter Brett Associates, LLP Traffic Design Group Limited True Grit Engineering Limited S TA N T E C I N C. 3 WE ASPIRE TO BE A TOP-TIER GLOBAL I N D U S T RY DESIGN AND DELIVERY FIRM THAT RECOGNITIONS CHANGES THE WORLD FOR THE BETTER #1 We are champions of sustainability, sharing our collective knowledge and influencing others with action, insight, and commitment. green design firm for educational facilities We forge new paths (ENR) By finding novel approaches, challenging the #1 conventional, and being socially innovative, trailblazers build a better world for all. international design Learn more firm for sewer and waste (ENR) We use emerging tools to achieve success #2 In our designs, we put responsible resource consumption at the forefront and consider new dimensions of sustainability like wellness, international design living small, autonomous vehicles, and smallfirm for water (ENR) scale agriculture. Learn more #2 green building firm We invest in energy efficiency (BD&C) The way we design and retrofit our buildings has #3 a significant impact on mitigating the climate crisis and, therefore, is a sound investment. design firm in Learn more North America (ENR) We are guardians of water Our water management and ecosystem experts #3 help communities protect our drinking water, design firm in power coastlines, streams, and more. for hydro plants (ENR) #7 Learn more We help communities prepare for the effects environmental firm of climate change (ENR) A powerful framework has been created to assist #9 communities in their journey toward resiliency. Learn more design firm in power for wind power (ENR) We make renewable energy feasible #10 Many small communities want to invest in renewable energy but lack the required infrastructure—microgrids can help. design firm in the world (ENR) Learn more ENR – Engineering News-Record Magazine BD&C – Building Design & Construction Magazine 4 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T A B O U T S TA N T E C SECTION HIGHLIGHTS Environmental Recognized by CDP for climate leadership. Set new emission reduction targets and reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 36% since 2013. Relocated our head office into Stantec Tower, a resource-efficient building designed with occupant well-being in mind. Joined the City of Edmonton’s Corporate Climate Leaders Program. Signed on to the American Institute of Architects’ 2030 Commitment, which promotes carbon-neutral design. Social Reduced our injury rate (total recordable incident rate or TRIR) by 47% since 2013. Consistent with previous years, invested about $3 million to support the innovation, creativity, and thought leadership of our people. Donated more than $20 million to charity since 2007. Hosted the fifth annual Company-wide volunteer event, Stantec in the Community Week; 6,000 Stantec employees volunteered. Supported the success of Indigenous communities through Indigenous Business Partnerships. Governance Operated an Integrated Management System that includes internationally certified environmental, health and safety, quality, and IT management systems. Guided by a board of directors—40% of those directors are female. Appointed two female executive vice presidents in 2018; one was appointed chief financial officer. Oversaw ESG performance with executiveand board-level sustainability committees. Further incorporated ESG considerations, including climate change, into our Company’s strategy. S TA N T E C I N C. 5 Center Parcs, Woburn Forest Bedford, United Kingdom 6 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T IN THIS SECTION Sustainability Governance Sustainability in Our Operations Sustainability for Our Clients Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability at Stantec At Stantec, sustainability is built on the premise that positive economic results are possible when we effectively manage our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) activities. Our sustainability commitments are integrated into how we operate our business, the services we offer, and our Company’s values: we put people first, we do what is right, we are better together, and we are driven to achieve. We participate in the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and actively support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). S TA N T E C I N C. 7 P R OAC T I V E Taking proactive climate action is vital for C L I M AT E AC T I O N the world and critical to Stantec’s success. At Stantec, employees use their Climate change can be risky for our longcollective passion term financial standing, reputation, and and expertise to ability to attract investment. So we directly address the world’s address climate change in our Enterprise biggest and most Risk Management program and during our pressing problems, strategic planning process. We set ambitious including climate emission-reduction goals and take steps to change. decrease our resource consumption. Our services support climate action; therefore, addressing climate change presents an opportunity for Stantec. We work in both energy conservation and renewable energy generation. Our specialists help communities understand the local implications of climate change and plan for and recover from wildfires, hurricanes, flooding, coastal erosion, and infrastructure damage. A word about “In October 2018, I attended the Global climate action Engineering Congress in London, which from our senior brought together a worldwide community vice president of of 2,000-plus engineers focused on Corporate Strategy, climate action. David Smith “I moderated a session on climateresilient infrastructure: we reviewed the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and discussed contributions that the engineering profession could make. “At the event, a Statement of Intent to support the SDGs was released. We pledged to collaboratively develop a practical roadmap to achieve the goals for water, energy, innovation, sustainable cities, and climate change. “Stantec recognizes our role in moving toward a low-carbon future and co-creating climate resilient infrastructure. Climate action and resilience solutions are critical to our clients and our own position as a top 10 global design firm. But most critical is our The Leys Cambridge, United Kingdom role as global citizens to help communities secure a sustainable future.” See video 8 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AT S TA N T E C Sustainability Governance Our sustainability commitments are Our Executive ESG Committee, accountable for C L I M AT E C H A N G E embedded in the way we operate our our sustainability performance, communicates IS IN OUR Company and support our clients. We pride critical ESG knowledge and concerns to the S T R AT E GY ourselves on teamwork and collaboration, board-level HSSES Committee. Our Strategic Plan lead with our values, work to ensure mutual outlines our initiatives success with our clients, and commit to The executive-level committee is coordinated and investments for health and safety in everything we do. by the director of Sustainability; members addressing climate include the following: change. Stantec’s comprehensive Sustainability Policy • Chief operating officer (committee chair) and certified management systems guide and • Chief financial officer Our coastal growth encourage us as we implement best practices • Chief human resources officer initiative, for example, and improve our environmental, social, and • Senior vice presidents of Corporate manages sea-level governance (ESG) impacts. We incorporate Strategy and of Health, Safety, Security, rise and ecological sustainability risks and opportunities into our Environment, and Sustainability restoration. This Enterprise Risk Management program and • Vice presidents of Risk Management, initiative helped Stantec strategic planning process, and we consider Procurement, and Practice Services and win the Mid-Breton sustainability in our acquisition strategy as we Indigenous Relations Sediment Diversion look for companies that will give us long-term project in Louisiana growth and stability. Committee members ensure that (United States), which sustainability and stakeholder priorities has one of the highest Stantec’s sustainability commitments are align, that sustainability is integrated into land-loss rates in overseen by a board-level Health, Safety, our Strategic Plan and operations, and that the world. Security, Environment, and Sustainability sustainability-related impacts, risks, and (HSSES) Committee. opportunities are addressed. Learn more Another example is our Urban Places strategic investment, which makes developments S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y G OV E R N A N C E S T R U C T U R E more livable, equitable, and sustainable. As part of this investment, BOARD-LEVEL HSSES COMMITTEE Stantec advanced smart city models by conducting an autonomous vehicle EXECUTIVE ESG EXECUTIVE HSSE feasibility study in the COMMITTEE COMMITTEE suburbs of Atlanta, Corporate teams Georgia (United States). contributing to Stantec’s DIRECTOR, sustainability SUSTAINABILTIY Learn more performance S TA N T E C I N C. 9 C O N S I S T E N CY I N PROJECT DESIGN At Stantec, many employees are dedicated experts in Sustainability in well-established industry Our Operations frameworks like LEED®, Envision®, and WELL®. And Managing our business with a triple-bottomOnce feedback is received, those topics will be to support our clients to take line1 focus benefits our people, clients, plotted on a matrix and used to augment the more ambitious steps toward investors, and planet. Company’s strategies, targets, and reporting. sustainability, we offer team members specialized ESG initiatives save the Company money STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT training in frameworks like by introducing efficiencies; providing a Stantec’s stakeholder feedback is critical as we Certified Passive House foundation for effective decision-making, evolve our Sustainability Program and improve and Greenroads Sustainable risk management, and transparency; driving our business. By listening to our stakeholders’ Transportation. innovation; supporting our brand; and ideas and requirements, we better understand improving recruitment and retention. their expectations and identify emerging People opportunities and challenges. • 900+ LEED Accredited At Stantec, we take responsibility for the Professionals impacts of our internal operations by We don’t yet have the stakeholder survey • 250+ Envision • Choosing approaches that are least likely results from the second phase of Stantec’s Sustainability to impact the environment materiality assessment update; however, other Professionals • Providing an inclusive and equitable stakeholder feedback—from focus groups, workplace for our employees meetings, questionnaires, and research—gives • 15 Certified Passive • Actively volunteering in and engaging with us relevant information for addressing the House Designers our communities material topics outlined in this report. • 11 WELL Accredited • Committing to ethical business behavior Professionals MATERIAL TOPICS • 8 Fitwel Ambassadors MATERIALITY The following GRI topics were deemed material So that Stantec focuses energy and resources based on the first phase of the materiality • 7 Green Globes Accredited on top sustainability priorities, we periodically assessment and on stakeholder feedback. Professionals assess our material ESG topics. In 2018, we • 4 Greenroads Accredited began refining our process to confirm those Each material topic is covered in the body of Professionals topics that are pertinent to our business. this report, and additional details are presented • 1 Pearl Qualified in the GRI Content Index (Appendix A). Professional Our materiality assessment process has two phases: Projects 1. Operational priorities (completed): • 630+ LEED Certified A sustainability subject-matter expert Projects facilitated an in-person workshop for • 34 Net Zero Certified Stantec’s Executive ESG Committee. Buildings The committee identified material • 7 Envision Certified topics, then ranked them based on their Projects significance of impact to our operational • 2 Fitwel Certified business strategy. Workplaces 2. Stakeholder priorities (to be completed): • 1 Zero Carbon-Design Stantec will survey internal and external Verified Building stakeholders to determine their sustain• 1 Certified Passive 1  riple bottom line: A business’s focus that includes not only T ability priorities as they relate to our financial considerations but also social and environmental House Building operation. A pairwise evaluation2 has considerations. • 1 WELL Certified been completed to determine the impor2 P  airwise evaluation: A process of comparing entities in pairs Workplace tance of one stakeholder to another. to judge which entity is given greater weight. 10 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AT S TA N T E C M AT E R I A L TO P I C S A N D B O U N DA R I E S Sustainability Report Section and Public Reporting References GRI Standards Material Topics Boundaries1 About Stantec and Annual Report Economic performance (GRI 201) Employees, Customers, Investors, Supply Chain, Communities Responsible Governance and Anti-corruption (GRI 205) Employees, Supply Chain Management Information Circular Anti-competitive behaviors (GRI 206) Employees, Supply Chain Environmental Stewardship and Energy use (GRI 302) Leased Office Space CDP Disclosure Emissions (GRI 305) Leased Office Space, Vendors Environmental Stewardship Environmental compliance (GRI 307) Leased Office Space, Projects Social Betterment Employment (GRI 401) Employees Occupational health and safety (GRI 403) Employees Training and education (GRI 404) Employees Diversity and equal opportunity (GRI 405) Employees, Supply Chain, Communities Social Betterment and Non-discrimination (GRI 406) Employees, Supply Chain Responsible Governance Responsible Governance Customer privacy (GRI 418) Employees, Customers 1 According to GRI, the boundaries describe who or what is impacted by each material topic. S TA N T E C I N C. 11 S TA N T E C Sustainability Sustainable S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y for Our Clients Development Goals SERVICES Although Stantec is committed to sustainable We recognize that sustainability success Buildings operations, we most positively impact is possible only when society achieves an Health and well-being the world through the services we deliver equitable distribution of social, environmental, Passive House to clients. At Stantec, we support a more and economic benefits in both the developed Resilient communities sustainable future for our clients, big or small. and developing world. To guide and support Sustainability rating systems We walk the path with them, identifying our sustainability strategy, Stantec adopted Zero carbon and zero energy and capturing ways to make their projects the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) more sustainable through architecture, framework. Energy & Resources engineering, planning, project management, Biogas production and environmental services. To better focus on our areas of greatest Energy storage influence, we prioritized the goals and began Grid modernization While providing the best design solutions tracking the projects that support them. Hydropower for our communities, we work with clients Stantec shares SDG expertise, knowledge, Microgrids to balance their social, environmental, and and innovative implementation strategies Pumped storage economic needs. We see the big picture; in across our business and works with clients to Solar the context of a changing climate, shifting build their SDG awareness and to meet their Waste-to-energy demographic trends, and evolving economic SDG commitments. Wind realities, we anticipate and address the longterm impacts of our design decisions. Though Stantec’s SDG practices and tracking Environmental Services systems are evolving, our successes have Atmospheric sciences Sustainability runs deep at Stantec—each been recognized. For example, in 2018, we Conservation geography and business operating unit (BOU) were honored to win an SDG Leadership Cultural resources actively engages in creating a sustainable Award from the Global Compact Network Emergency response world, a world where buildings give back, Canada for our efforts in clean water and Energy financing water is valued, nothing gets wasted, sanitation, affordable and clean energy, Remediation development is responsible, and everyone sustainable cities and communities, and Restoration can access renewable energy. climate action. Supplier responsibility Zero waste The list to the left summarizes Stantec’s We are proud to see our work improving the sustainability services by BOU and provides livelihoods and well-being of communities Infrastructure links to project examples. around the world. Autonomous vehicles Brownfield development Complete streets Public transport Resilience Smart cities Sustainable infrastructure Urban places Water Nutrient recovery Wastewater treatment Water resource management Water supply Water treatment and reuse Watershed management Wet weather 12 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AT S TA N T E C I M PAC T T H R O U G H O U R Climate action in the Seychelles P R O J E C T WO R K Rises in sea level, temperature increases, weather We focus on the SDGs that relate changes, and accelerated coastal erosion—all are to our core business, our area of impacts of climate change. And these impacts are greatest influence: affecting the Seychelles, its people, and its economy. 6 C lean Water and Sanitation Stantec-led planning efforts help the government 7 A ffordable and Clean Energy • Address drought risks and respond to rising 9 Industry, Innovation, and sea levels Infrastructure • Manage water demand in an energy-efficient way 11 S ustainable Cities and • Bring sanitation services to 75% more residents Communities than before 13 C limate Action • Implement its Climate Change Strategy and its 14 L ife below Water Intended Nationally Determined Contributions 15 L ife on Land • Develop local capacity to address climate change issues under the Global Climate Change Alliance Plus initiative (funded by the European Union) I M PAC T T H R O U G H O U R Relieving suffering in Austin, Texas C O R P O R AT E AC T I O N S Poverty and homelessness take a toll on the health Stantec currently has a direct of a community. Stantec works with Mobile Loaves & operational focus and existing Fishes to support their Community First! Village, a management strategies in place 27-acre master-planned community dedicated to for the following SDGs: lifting men and women off the streets and providing them with homes, an organic farming co-op, mental 3 G ood Health and Well-Being and physical healthcare, addiction recovery services, 5 G ender Equality and micro-enterprise opportunities. 8 D ecent Work and Economic Growth Stantec’s long-term commitment to this development 12 R esponsible Consumption helped the project overcome planning and logistical and Production hurdles and a “not in my backyard” opposition. 13 C limate Action Pont Urbanova See video Terrebonne, Quebec, Canada S TA N T E C I N C. 13 ELI Beamlines International Laser Research Centre Dolní Břežany, Czech Republic 14 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T IN THIS SECTION Environmental Management Emissions Resource Conservation Environmental Stewardship As a leading global provider of environmental consulting services, Stantec is acutely aware of our responsibility to reduce our environmental footprint. We work to minimize the impact of our operations, conserve resources on projects for clients and in our corporate programs, and incorporate environmentally friendly practices to engage and motivate employees. S TA N T E C I N C. 15 SIX PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABILITY Stantec’s Buildings group has joined the the 2030 Commitment of the American Institute of Architects. What is the commitment? By 2030, all designs for new buildings, developments, and major renovations will be carbon neutral. How will we meet this commitment? Using our sustainability discovery levels as a guide, our design teams analyze project site design possibilities for the microand macroclimate, set energy benchmarks, find ways to meet and even exceed those benchmarks, perform energy modeling, and conduct workshops to identify sustainable solutions—all before the first line is drawn. Our aim is to design so communities thrive. Six sustainability principles enable our holistic, cross-disciplinary approach: 1 Elements 4 Materials 2 Resilience 5 Well-Being 3 Ecosystems 6 Vision We identify design strategies and measure success based on these sustainability principles, each necessary for designing with healthy, resilient communities in mind. evolv1 Centre for Sustainability Excellence Waterloo, Ontario, Canada 16 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T E WA R D S H I P Environmental Management Stantec is a professional services firm All offices are internally audited for WA S T E R E D U C T I O N operating in leased office space; therefore, compliance; a sampling of offices are As Edmonton offices the direct environmental impact of our externally audited. Results are shared with prepared to move into business relates primarily to office energy executive leadership, and corrective action Stantec Tower, the local consumption, business travel, and office is taken as required. Green Team focused on supply use. To decrease our environmental minimizing waste. The impact and reduce costs, we apply the • Project Management Framework: At Rid Your Bin program precautionary principle1 and look for a project level, Stantec complies with asked employees to operational environmental efficiencies. environmental laws and regulations and give up their desk trash looks for ways to improve the environmental and recycling bin and PROGRAM AND PRACTICES impact of our efforts (described in the use central kitchen bins Our policies, management system, and project Integrated Management section). instead. management framework guide us as we operate our business and execute projects. CORPORATE INFLUENCE Making waste disposal Edmonton is home to Stantec’s corporate a conscious effort • Environmental policies: Stantec’s pledge headquarters. And Stantec is one of improves waste to protect the environment is reflected Edmonton’s largest employers. We recognize sorting, encourages in our Sustainability Policy and Health, our influence in the Edmonton area and physical health because Safety, Security, and Environment Policy. community and know that sustainability employees must get These policies commit the Company to actions taken here can inspire similar actions up more often, and monitoring compliance with environmental across our Company. eliminates plastic regulations, reducing the environmental bags in individual work impacts of our operations, and advancing Two corporate actions taken in 2018 show stations. environmental performance. our commitment to sustainability and encourage others to act. Eliminating desk bins at • Environmental Management System: our new head office will We manage, monitor, and improve our • Stantec relocated three offices and save almost two million environmental performance with a formal 1,200 employees into Stantec Tower, plastic bags per year. ISO 14001:2015-certified Environmental our new LEED corporate headquarters Management System (EMS), part of our (Gold exteriors and Silver office space), Integrated Management System. Stantec which uses energy and water efficiently, has ISO 14001-certified systems in Canada, purchases renewable energy, encourages the United States, the United Kingdom, sustainable commuting, and focuses on Australia, New Zealand, Italy, and the well-being of its occupants. the Netherlands. Learn more Our EMS sets environmental objectives and monitors and measures environmental • Stantec joined the City of Edmonton’s targets, regulatory compliance, orders and Corporate Climate Leaders Program, citations, and improvement plans. Our created to support Edmonton’s transition formal corporate environmental targets to a low-carbon future and to develop a reduce energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) greener economy. emissions, and paper. Learn more We require a documented emergency response plan for every office and a spill response plan for every laboratory. Although we do not track water use, we 1 P  recautionary Principle: “Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be do take measures to conserve water in used as a rationale for postponing cost-effective measures to our offices. prevent environmental degradation” (Rio Declaration). S TA N T E C I N C. 17 Emissions AWA R D Each year, Stantec Stantec has measured, managed, and Reduction Baseline Target discloses our analyzed our carbon footprint since 2010. Scope Target Year Year carbon management We follow the Climate Registry Protocol, performance to CDP. covering GHG emissions and energy use Scope 1 and 2 40% 2013 2028 In 2018, Stantec was for various activities. recognized by CDP Scope 3 20% 2018 2028 for climate leadership At year end, Stantec occupied more than with an A– score. We 400 offices in 19 countries, covering more are the only A-class than 567,000 square metres (6.1 million In addition to following best practices firm in the top 10 of square feet). The space we need must be for energy conservation, we reduce our Engineering Newsadaptable, so we lease space primarily in Company’s emissions in four main ways: Record’s Top 500 multi-tenant buildings. But this means that • Consolidating offices into energyDesign Firms. separate metering is rarely available and efficient spaces utility costs are wrapped into lease costs, • Reducing travel making it complicated to collect activity data • Greening our vehicle fleet and measure, manage, and mitigate our • Enhancing print management energy consumption. And these strategies are working. We will To address this, we collect utility usage data continue to reduce emissions and costs, from the landlords of our largest offices and plus investigate innovations and ideas that use industry-recognized intensity factors in aid us in achieving even more. our calculations. METRICS Our Company’s strategy of growth through Stantec’s direct and indirect emissions acquisitions means we regularly add new (Scope 1 and 2) per employee decreased staff and offices to our footprint; therefore, by 13% in 2018 from the previous year absolute emissions and energy consumption and by 36% against the 2013 baseline. continually increase. So to measure the Our other emission sources (Scope 3) per success of our conservation measures, employee remained consistent against the we normalize emissions and energy previous year. consumption use by employee. REDUCTION TARGETS Stantec’s reduction strategy has been formally integrated into our Environmental Management System and is directly connected to our business efficiency and innovation strategies. 18 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T E WA R D S H I P E M I S S I O N S P E R E M P LOY E E BY Y E A R 5 4 Metric Tons C02 Equivalent 3 2 1 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Direct energy sources (gasoline and diesel for fleet fuel, and Stanteccontrolled natural gas, fuel oil, and propane for office energy) Scope 2 Indirect energy sources (electricity and landlord-controlled natural gas, fuel oil, and propane for office energy) Scope 3 Other emission sources (air travel, rental car use, work-related personal car use, line loss,1 and paper use) 1 L ine loss: Loss of electricity in transmission between the source of supply and point of High Sheldon Wind Farm distribution to the consumer. Sheldon, New York, United States S TA N T E C I N C. 19 Resource Conservation AWA R D To recognize our Stantec conserves resources in our operations, • Interior design: Once a location is environmentally bringing direct environmental benefits, selected, we improve floor plan efficiency conscious office increased efficiencies, and reduced costs. and incorporate health and well-being practices, Stantec into the design. We consider access to was awarded Silver OFFICE ENERGY CONSUMPTION daylight, clean drinking water, acoustic Status from the Buildings are our most significant consumer control, indoor air quality, options for active City of Portland’s of energy, and energy used in our offices workdays and collaboration, impacts on (United States) accounts for most of our emissions. operational energy efficiency, and more. Sustainability at Work program. Reducing energy using traditional approaches • Equipment: To save power, we automatically is difficult since most offices are leased in hibernate workstations and laptops when multi-tenant buildings where the landlords they are not in use. Our IT data centers and control the interactions with utility companies disaster recovery sites are co-located in and make the decisions on whether to build spaces with efficient energy specifications energy-efficient features. and technologies. Some strategies that Stantec implemented to Network technologies reduce duplicated overcome this challenge follow: services and equipment. We have highdensity servers and disk configurations • Office consolidation: Our most effective that use smaller spaces and less energy. strategies to reduce the footprint of our And we decrease the number of devices Company—and therefore use less space in each office by using print management and less energy—are consolidating our programs. offices into fewer locations and relocating offices to more resource-efficient buildings. • Landlord collaboration: We continue to work with landlords of new and existing • New office selection: When co-locating offices to reduce operational energy use or adding space, we use a real estate and encourage upgrades like energyscorecard to make balanced business efficient lighting, lighting controls, and decisions, consider sustainability features programmable thermostats. and wellness criteria, and weigh factors such as cost, proximity to clients, security, employee commutes, access to public transportation, and walkability. • Certifications and features: We choose certified green buildings for our leased corporate facilities when possible and pursue interior design and construction certification using recognized green building and wellness standards. At the end of 2018, Stantec occupied more than 100 buildings (about half of our global square footage) that had sustainability RESILIENCE certifications, features, or both. 20 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T E WA R D S H I P Hydropower Plant Tafitoala and Fausaga, Samoa BUSINESS TRAVEL Our Canada and US fleets include trucks with GO SMART To be effective consultants, Stantec ratings of up to 30 highway miles per gallon The Go Smart program in employees must travel to respond to (12.8 kilometres per litre). In 2018, 95 vehicles our UK operations reduces clients’ needs. But Stantec introduced were replaced to modernize the fleet with emissions by encouraging ways to travel more efficiently and reduce the latest in safety design and to reduce energy-efficient behaviors nonessential travel. We use Skype for maintenance and repair expenses. in offices and promoting Business, allowing collaboration via safe, healthy, and conference calls, chats, and videos. And Our UK and Netherlands operations purchase sustainable travel. an additional level of management review Company vehicles that have emissions of resulted in fewer flights and miles traveled no more than 140 and 120 grams of CO2 Using the interactive online by fleet, rental, and personal vehicles and, equivalent per kilometre, respectively. Our and wallet-sized Go Smart in turn, reduced expenditures. Australia and Netherlands operations have plans for each UK office, hybrid and electric vehicles in their fleets. employees can plan To mitigate the environmental impacts of journeys to work, client, our fleet, our Fleet Management team makes Stantec looks forward to the new all-electric and project sites. The improvements to decrease vehicle emissions. models in development so that we can further guides suggest practical Each year, Stantec incorporates more fuelreduce our carbon footprint. travel options—like cycling, efficient trucks, vans, and crossovers, thereby bus travel, car sharing, and reducing overall emissions and maintenance train travel—and ways to costs, as well as improving employee safety. stay healthy and active. S TA N T E C I N C. 21 AIMING FOR ZERO Our staff in the Netherlands challenged themselves to reduce the waste produced in their offices. The contest began in 2017 with a baseline of 26 kilograms (57 pounds) of waste per person per year. In 2018, we decreased that by 61%. How? We restricted office supply purchases to only those that could be repurposed, recycled, or composted. We separated more waste. And we communicated, communicated, communicated. But our environmentally friendly practices in the Netherlands don’t stop there. We also • Purchase field clothing that can be returned to the supplier at the end of the life cycle for recycling • Use biodegradable sampling equipment for our field work • Source only vegetarian and locally produced food for events • Added electric cars to the fleet • Have an electric charging station that is free for employee use • Encourage bike and public transportation for going to and from work and client meetings Learn more Corning Riverfront Park Albany, New York, United States 22 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T E WA R D S H I P OFFICE SUPPLIES In 2018, a new corporate print vendor P R I N T M A N AG E M E N T As a professional services firm, our Company was selected because of service quality Our print management uses office supplies more than any other and price, plus the vendor is certified program in our US offices physical resource. Ways we reduce our 100% carbon-neutral. encourages employees consumption follow: to print less, mandates WASTES the use of recycled paper, • Paper: Stantec implements various Because of established recycling and streamlines the number of techniques to reduce paper use. Our conservation programs, employees reduce print devices, and always Records Management Policy encourages the amount of office materials—like paper, recycles toner, ink, and electronic markup of documents and glass, cans, bottles, batteries, e-waste, printer unused equipment. drawings as well as electronic management ink, and plastic dishware—that enters waste of employee files. We set printer defaults streams. And many Stantec offices offer In 2018, Stantec’s US to double-sided, black-and-white printing organic composting. offices and implement numerous behavior-based • Reduced paper use programs to reduce paper use. Information from Environmental Management by at least 30% System audits and our Eco-Footprint Database • Recycled 600 older Stantec promotes electronic distribution supports us in identifying needs and areas of devices of Company materials—Company improvement. • Lowered emissions communications, marketing materials, client by 8 metric tons of CO2 invoices and reports, proposals, and field Computers leased from and then returned • Reduced waste reports—and provides access to more than to Dell at the end of the lease are reused, by 9,000 pounds 6,000 technical journals in our eLibrary. refurbished, or recycled. For computers (4,082 kilograms) purchased in North America, we use Dell’s For the paper we do consume, we buy Global Asset Resale and Recycling Services We anticipate savings of from centralized vendors so that we can to securely recycle our computer e-waste. about US$2 million a year. standardize the purchase of environmentally Plus, we use Firefly Asset Recovery to recycle friendly paper. mobile devices. • Equipment: All standard workstation and In 2018 in Canada and the United States, laptop equipment is EPEAT(Electronic Stantec recycled 99,635 kilograms Product Environmental Assessment (219,658 pounds) of equipment and Tool-) certified and Energy Star-rated. 1,380 cellphones. We standardized our Dell, Microsoft, and Apple hardware; one reason for selecting EVENTS them is their approach to life-cycle Stantec expects our offices to host environmental management.1 environmentally friendly events. In 2018, we piloted an official Eco-Event Program. • Furniture: Our interior design guidelines New guidelines make it easy to incorporate recommend that we purchase responsibly environmental stewardship into event sourced furniture. Modular furniture is planning. The program is effective, as easily rearranged or moved between demonstrated during the Innovation Forum— offices when employee numbers or office a low-waste, carbon-neutral event (described layouts change. When consolidating in the Thought Leadership section). offices, Stantec reuses, donates, and recycles unused furniture. • Promotional materials and stationery: Our internal Company store contains branded items for Company and personal purchase. We try to find store merchandise that is 1 L ife-cycle environmental management: A systems approach that considers the sustainability of materials used for product sourced in an environmentally and socially production, energy used in transport, and post-consumer responsible manner. waste management. S TA N T E C I N C. 23 Stantec Office Edmonton, Alberta, Canada 24 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T IN THIS SECTION People-Centered Workplace Health, Safety, and Security Thought Leadership Community Engagement Indigenous Connections Social Betterment People are at the heart of everything we do; they give our work purpose. So we provide fulfilling careers to our own people, help them set and then surpass their individual goals, value the safety of everyone our work touches, encourage our employees to innovate and become thought leaders in their respective fields, and support our communities through our volunteer efforts. S TA N T E C I N C. 25 F I V E R E A S O N S TO 1 I mpact – Employees make WO R K AT S TA N T E C a difference in the world We hear from our Employees appreciate the impact employees that we make in our world and our people are attracted dedication to doing what is right. to more than just From developing creative solutions the job—they want that meet our clients’ needs to a purpose and they volunteering time and talent with want to contribute. local charities, employees can enhance their communities. So, at Stantec, we continuously strive to 2 O  pportunity – Employees explore be a place where the local and global experiences best and brightest Employees always have new come to build on avenues to explore. Rooted in local each other’s talents, communities, our global network do exciting work, provides new roles and experiences and make a positive on the other side of the world or in impact. our own neighborhood. 3  ommunity – Employees can C be their best selves Our culture—built on the foundations of community—attracts social, supportive, and collaborative people. We value relationships and encourage one another’s contributions because we know we are better together. 4  rowth – Employees excel among G the best and brightest Stantec’s aggressive growth strategy and industry leadership create a dynamic environment with numerous possibilities for career and personal growth. Our people are lifelong learners, pursuing their own development and developing our communities. 5 P  ersonalization – Employees discover the right path for them We value diversity, celebrate life, and applaud ambition. Each employee has a unique past and wants to forge her or his own distinct future. At Stantec, Stantec Office Waterloo, Ontario, Canada employees can take on new experiences, change roles, or work in an office across the world. 26 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT People-Centered G LO BA L WO R K F O R C E Workplace Our most valued resource at Stantec is our people. We are a professional services firm operating in a competitive industry where turnover costs are high and long-term relationships are key. We work hard to build an inspiring, inclusive work environment and to recruit top talent—as well as retain them. And at Stantec, we consider the entire experience, from the start of an employee’s career to the end. Males: 66% Females: 34% AWA R D S United States: 42% Listed as one of the Best 50 Corporate Citizens Canada: 38% by Corporate Knights Magazine (Canada). Europe and Africa: 10% Asia Pacific: 4% Ranked one of the 10 Top-Rated Workplaces L  atin America and in Alberta by Indeed (Canada). Caribbean: 2% India: 2% Recognized by the Muse (United States) as one Middle East: 2% of 20 Companies That Value Learning, one of 27 Companies We Love Right This Minute, and one of 27 Companies Who Love to Give Back. Named Best Apprentice Employer in the Berkshire Apprenticeship Awards (United Kingdom). Recognized as Socio Emprendedor (Entrepreneurial Partner) for best practices in Human Resources from the Asociación de Buenos Empleadores (Association of Good Employers) (Peru). Full Time: 92% Part Time: 8% Permanent: 94% Temporary: 6% S TA N T E C I N C. 27 TA L E N T TALENT ATTRACTION • Adopt best practices from the acquired M A N AG E M E N T When we build an inclusive organization company to continuously improve our Stantec’s cloud-based composed of diverse people, we create Stantec systems TalentHub helps extraordinary results. Stantec attracts, • Conduct post-acquisition surveys to better recruiters reach more engages, and develops employees with understand the impact of integration candidates and better a wide range of talents, perspectives, • Develop action plans as required manage employee and experiences. referrals. Employees Succession Planning can build talent profiles, We have a multifaceted Talent Acquisition Our chief executive officer and board plus set career goals team: they understand the talent required in of directors work together on executive and chart a path to our industry and each of our business lines. succession planning. Other Stantec meet them. We promote opportunities internal to the leaders participate by identifying potential Company and recruit subject-matter experts candidates for leadership positions Angela Moore (Canada), from the general market. In North America, all and developing plans to prepare those HR Solution Delivery jobs are promoted internally first so current candidates for advanced roles and duties. leader, says, “Whatever employees can develop their careers. job you choose to grow TALENT MANAGEMENT into, you have a path to As well, employees are asked to refer—and So that employees feel valued and follow. No employee’s are rewarded for referring—people they think inspired, we focus on employee well-being career aspirations will would be suitable for the job and a good and provide adequate compensation be overlooked.” match for Stantec. In North America, nearly and a pathway for successful career 30% of our organic hires1 come from referrals. development. Using our new TalentHub system, employees can drive their career Stantec’s Talent Acquisition team transdevelopment, feel connected to the Stantec formed in 2018 so that we could increase purpose, and find fulfilling opportunities our knowledge of the marketplace and more for career growth. effectively identify talent. The team now includes dedicated strategists, sourcing Competitive Benefits and Compensation specialists, operational leaders, campus Stantec values giving each employee the recruiters, and talent branding specialists. opportunity to live well, save well, and spend well. Our benefits program for eligible Also in 2018, Stantec began a phased fulland part-time employees is designed rollout of a Company-wide human capital to enhance their financial, emotional, and management system called TalentHub. physical health. Because Stantec is global, It integrates human resources processes our programs vary based on country of into one centralized system, improving operation, local markets, social benefits, the candidate experience, providing better and tax impacts. access to reporting and metrics tracking, and increasing our digital presence. Stantec’s benefits include healthcare, life insurance, disability insurance, paid and Acquisitions unpaid time off, a retirement plan, services Many employees join us through acquisitions. to assist with life events (e.g., depression, The primary value of our acquired companies substance abuse, relationship and family comes from the business relationships and problems), an employee stock purchase expertise that those employees have, so plan, and more. Voluntary programs—such F O R O L ATA M we work hard to retain them. as public transport spending accounts, The Foro Latam critical illness insurance, legal support, and encourages collabStantec wants acquired employees to feel pet, home, and auto insurance—address oration and idea sharing supported and engaged so that they can do employees’ individual needs. among our Spanishtheir best for the Company and our clients. speaking technical To assist them in becoming part of the We give an annual incentive to eligible experts in Peru, Chile, Stantec family, we employees based on their experience and Argentina. The • Integrate them quickly into Stantec systems level, individual performance, and program helps us • Share information about our Company’s Company performance. We benchmark discover capabilities, culture our compensation to industry data to be increase our knowledge, competitive in the market, and we strive to interconnect our region, 1 O  rganic hire: A new employee who comes to Stantec through decrease unconscious bias when we set, and integrate our teams. the regular hiring process, not from an acquisition. evaluate, and increase employees’ salaries. 28 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Organizational Development We want our people to manage their A DAY I N T H E Personal growth and career development careers and improve their employability. Not L I F E O F S TA N T E C are essential ingredients for our success. everyone has the same career goals, skills, E M P LOY E E S By fortifying our talent pool with the and preferences, so we offer a choice of Our people—some of information, tools, and other resources career streams—business, discipline, project the industry’s brightest employees need, we management, or functional services. Each and most talented • Gain an advantage over our competition stream is distinctly focused, is equally valued, engineers, scientists, • Support our employees to reach their and has leadership opportunities. planners, schedulers, full potential and regulatory experts— • Reduce voluntary turnover Across geographies, employees can take on a contribute each day to • Increase employee engagement new project or different work, which might be make our world better. • Improve motivation, teamwork, and unavailable in their home base of operations. effectiveness For instance, employees have broadened Our “Day in the Life” their experience and developed their careers series gives a glimpse Career Path Framework by moving between the United Arab Emirates into the work experience Employees at every level are encouraged and Canada and between Argentina and Italy. of Stantec employees to anticipate new trends, adapt to change, around the world. and develop strong leadership and technical skills. We provide resources so employees See videos can determine their strengths, interests, values, and skills, as well as identify career options, set goals, and create a career development plan. S TA N T E C I N C. 29 T H R E E E s O F D E V E LO P M E N T Learning Ensuring our people have the skills and knowledge they need to perform their roles is fundamental to employee success and vital to the future of our Company. We support the three Es of development: experience, exposure, and education. Our blended learning environment offers various training On-the-job application approaches and learning methods—formal and and integration of learning informal, internally and externally delivered. Key elements of our learning programs follow: Experience • Action learning and problem • Content development: Stantec’s Talent and solving Organizational Development team designs • Shadowing, self-directed learning, learning programs for our global workforce. and incidental learning Accredited as an International Association • Placements, secondments, and for Continuing Education and Training job rotations provider, Stantec designs and delivers high• Lateral career progression quality courses and programs that follow • Projects and special assignments industry-recognized instructional design • Lessons learned principles. Content mastery is based on learning objectives and is measured. This rigor means we can provide professional development hours or continuing education units to support employees’ professional licensing requirements. Apart from creating our own content, we Learning reinforcement enter into agreements with third-party vendors to get an extensive array of online learning options for our employees. Exposure • Communities of practice • Coaching and mentoring: Stantec believes • Subject-matter networks in learning by exposure. Our mentorG LO BA L T E A M WO R K (internal, industry, best-in-class) protégé program connects mentors Stantec’s global presence • User-generated content with employees at various stages in the and collaborative work • Collaboration platforms employees’ career development. style means employees can • Sponsorship work on projects­outside • Coaching In 2018, we launched a pilot coaching their local geographies. • Mentoring program with FranklinCovey®; peers • Feedback in “accountability partnerships” coach Varsha Bhosale (India) and support each other to improve their says, “From my desk in effectiveness at work. Pune, I’ve worked on really interesting projects— • Learning outcomes: In 2018, Stantec Inverurie Wastewater began measuring learning outcomes using Treatment Works in the Learning events the Kirkpatrick Evaluation Model®. The UK, Lynn Water and Sewer model classifies learning effectiveness Commission in the US, into four levels. Stantec currently applies Al Sheehaniya Utility in Education level 1 (reaction) and level 2 (increase in the Middle East, and Clyde • Workshops and conferences knowledge/skills and change in attitude) to Sewer in Australia. I’ve not • Self-led internal online learning our learning programs. We plan to extend only gained great work • Self-led external online learning our measurement into level 3 (behavior experience, but I’ve also • Instructor-led webinars and change) and level 4 (results achieved while met fascinating people.” classroom learning on the job). 30 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT As well, we adopted the Phillips and Phillips® Mental health programs in Canada, the method to measure our return on investment United States, the United Kingdom, New for learning in selected learning programs. Zealand, Australia, and Continental Europe give employees tips, services, and resources Leadership Development so they can be inspired, active, healthy, Stantec’s Leadership Development program and mindful. Employees have access is evolving to better support our global to Company and community resources workforce and further develop leadership and tools, employee testimonials, and a competencies at every career level. This dedicated mental health blog. program mixes instructor-led (in-person or virtual) training, self-led online training, We also openly promote and support Mental mentorship, and coaching. Health Awareness Month, World Mental Health Day, and Time to Talk Day. In 2018, we developed and implemented a High-Potential framework that identifies our Physical Health high-performance, high-potential talent at three Stantec wants employees to attend to their levels: emerging talent, leadership talent, and physical health—more exercise, improved executive talent. To retain and progress top nutrition, and better sleep. Through our talent, we assist these employees in managing Wellness programs, employees can complete their career development plans and provide health and wellness activities, earning them leadership development and sponsorship. funds to spend on extended healthcare or to get discounts on medical premiums. Performance Feedback Our multidimensional performance appraisals In the United Kingdom and Continental Europe, help employees evaluate successes of the we have campaigns called “Be Healthy,” “Be previous year and set clearly defined goals Active,” and “Be Inspired.” Activities include and objectives for the coming year. Through the following: assessments, reviews, and coaching from supervisors, employees measure achieve• Health assessments: Employees get ments, review their contributions, identify information about their body mass index, career development and training options, and blood pressure, and glucose levels. establish strategic performance objectives. • Fitness challenges: Employees publicly In 2019, using our new TalentHub framework, pledge to meet their fitness goals. Stantec’s once-a-year career development and performance review will become a • “Inspired Role Model” communications: collaborative, dynamic year-round process. Employees share skills and hobbies not M E N TA L H E A LT H directly related to work. M AT T E R S Well-Being To break down social Focusing on well-being brings out our • Workshops: Employees learn about various barriers around mental best—personally and professionally. And a topics, such as hypertension, cancer, health and jumpstart holistic approach to employee well-being menopause, stress management during conversations, our UK is imperative as we compete to recruit and post-surgery recovery, and leadership operations assigned retain a highly skilled workforce. under stress. Mental Health First Aiders in each office. Mental Health These caring employees We want our people to work in a supportive, participate in specialized open, and trusting environment, free of training and volunteer stigma and discrimination. Stantec strives time to support coto create an atmosphere in which mental workers in need. health can be discussed frankly and openly. Globally, we run an annual mental health In our “This Is Me” series awareness campaign to encourage emof videos, employees ployees to focus on mental health goals share personal mental and support others to meet their mental health experiences with health goals. co-workers. S TA N T E C I N C. 31 Work-Life Alignment The client-driven work for employees of consulting companies often means strict deadlines and extra effort to meet project needs. Stantec’s resources, tools, and programs assist employees to align their work life with their personal life. Many locations offer flexible work schedules and eco-friendly virtual work options (based on business and employee needs). Employees can work from home to support family commitments, enable volunteering, and reduce commute times. Virtual work options keep our projects progressing and our people safe when employees can’t get to the office. F L E X I B L E WO R K I N G In nine months, the program Sense of Purpose S U P P O R T S E M P LOY E E S • Avoided emissions of 13 metric tons With incredible skill and passion, our AND THE ENVIRONMENT of CO2 employees create a lasting impression on Our operations in Italy developed • Reduced travel time by 2,530 hours our Stantec community and the communities the Smart Working program, which (roughly 300 working days) we serve. Employees appreciate the positive focuses on flexible working hours and • Saved 593,000 kilometres impact we make in our world and are working remotely. To enhance work(360,000 miles) of travel distance motivated by a sense of purpose. life alignment and reduce personal • Saved employees 13,500 euros in fuel, stress, employees can work away from tolls, and train tickets Collaboration the office up to three days per week. Great achievements come from collaboraThis program has not only reduced tion. So our Company fosters and supports A new online tool, Smafely (“smart” the environmental impact of employee a high-performing culture and stimulating and “safely”), tracks the impacts of commutes but has also been very well work environment where we can learn from working remotely and evaluates data received by staff and credited with improeach other. When we combine our local patterns to suggest improvements. ving motivation, productivity, and retention. strengths, knowledge, relationships, and world-class talent and expertise, we have the flexibility to meet our clients’ needs in creative and personalized ways. This collaborative mindset comes from employees who want to work together H E L P I N G T H E WO R L D ’ S programs. These programs support but is enhanced by significant Company MOST VULNERABLE countries in achieving resilient investments like the following: BECOME RESILIENT and equitable growth, transitioning In the developing world, Stantec to lower carbon economies, and • Collaborative Business Model: We live our works with international donors protecting natural capital. philosophy of collaboration every day using and financial institutions to improve an interconnected management structure the design, implementation, and See video we call our Collaborative Business Model. oversight of economic development This leadership, management, and business approach requires commitment, cooperation, and consensus at all organizational levels (geographically based regional operating units and market-based business operating units). • Technology: Stantec invests in technology; employees can collaborate through connected networks, cloud storage, and Skype. They can easily work from any Stantec office or home, communicating in 32 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT real time, sharing screens, and participating in conference calls. • Developing Professionals Groups: In every geography, Stantec sponsors a chapterbased network so younger professionals can develop skills and relationships. Companysponsored events connect them to peers and senior staff, broaden their career opportunities, and provide a venue for supporting communities. • Employee Resource Groups: These Company-sponsored grassroots teams assist employees to connect based on shared interests. From just a handful in 2016, Stantec now has 41 groups around the world. (See the Inclusion and Diversity section.) S TA N T E C C U P : from 33 offices. The connections, S H A R I N G L AU G H S , comradery, and collaboration produce • Innovation: Employees can submit their MAKING CONNECTIONS immeasurable job satisfaction. creative solutions to secure funding from the For more than 15 years, the Stantec Greenlight Program. Plus, they can present Cup has brought together staff Brian Lim (New York, United States) their ideas more broadly at our annual infrom different disciplines, regions, says, “I’m very happy with the work I do person Innovation Forum. (See the Thought and backgrounds for an interoffice here at Stantec, but the Stantec Cup Leadership section.) hockey tournament. The most tournament makes me love being here!” recent attracted 175 employees • Volunteering: Our Company sponsors activities so employees can support their communities and causes. These community engagement activities emotionally connect employees to Stantec and encourage employees to have fun and demonstrate teamwork. (See the Community E N GAG I N G YO U N G One well-received recognition Engagement section.) PROFESSIONALS activity was “Kindness Week 2018,” Because Stantec’s Continental spearheaded by the Dutch DPG Making a Difference Europe operations are composed chapter and inspired by a similar DPG Stantec pursues work that benefits commumainly of younger professionals, chapter initiative in Sydney, Australia. nities; employees can build impressive careers our Developing Professionals Colleagues anonymously shared working on challenging, meaningful, and Group (DPG) chapters have a high messages of appreciation for and iconic projects. participation level. thanks to one another. Because of our market position and global We surely see the positive impact of Our “High-Five Walls” in the Delft presence, our people can work on projects from this group: 96% of our Continental and Arnhem offices were filled with around the world. For instance, team members Europe employees said they would messages of kindness. in the United States, Argentina, the Netherlands, recommend Stantec as a good Italy, India, and Panama—over 13 time zones— place to work (in our 2018 employee Learn more worked on the Stantec-designed Panama Canal engagement survey). Third Set of Locks, one of the most recognized and sophisticated lock systems and largest water-saving basins in the world. Recognition Stantec strives to create a culture where employees feel valued and appreciated. Our Service Award program, for instance, celebrates and rewards the milestone career anniversaries of our employees. S TA N T E C I N C. 33 INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Some of our inclusion and diversity practices A WO R D A B O U T We recognize that inclusion and diversity are described below: INCLUSION facilitate innovation, increase employee “To me, diversity engagement, connect us with clients, and • Inclusion and Diversity Program: Our begins with inclusion. create opportunities. At Stantec, we invite, Inclusion and Diversity Program, developed We invite opinions from embrace, and celebrate differences. That based on employee input and industry best those who differ from means all of us—together—shape a culture practices, is driven by a dedicated team us, not only in gender, by bringing our whole selves to work in an that moves our program and objectives sexuality, and ethnicity environment that is welcoming, accepting, forward and increases accountability. but also in geography safe, supportive, and free of judgement. and disciplinary • Inclusion and Diversity Councils: Stantec’s experience. Leading with Inclusion three Councils (Canada, United States, Inclusion is a mindset, our chance to and Asia Pacific)—comprising influential “Here, inclusion and learn together and from one another. An business leaders who serve as change diversity is more than inclusive workplace empowers and inspires, agents for inclusion—activate our inclusion a program: it’s core to encouraging all people to celebrate their and diversity strategy in their offices, who we are and what identity and unique voice. business lines, and regions. The councils we do. It strengthens regularly report their progress to the chief our Company, Stantec champions inclusion for two reasons. executive officer and board of directors. our workplaces, First, we want to do what is right; everyone our services, and, deserves the freedom to bring their whole • Employee Resource Groups: Employee ultimately, the selves to work every day without fear of Resource Groups (ERGs) are grassroots communities and judgment or discrimination. Second, we want employee-driven teams organized around clients we serve.” an inclusive workplace culture that attracts shared interests. Members voluntarily and invites the full spectrum of talent into advance inclusion and diversity across Gord Johnston, CEO our organization. our business, support professional networking, provide education and Inclusion means valuing distinct experiences, development, address business perspectives, and talent. This, in turn, builds a challenges, and offer suggestions more innovative and prosperous Stantec. for improving corporate policies. Program and Practices In 2018, the number of ERGs grew from For inclusion and diversity initiatives to be 33 to 41. Groups include Women@Stantec, meaningful, they must be supported and Pride@Stantec, Persons with Disabilities, endorsed by a range of people, from those in Latinos@Stantec, Indigenous Connections, our C-suite to those in entry-level positions. Cultural Awareness and Inclusion, and Military and Veterans Advocates. Stantec’s Strategic Plan states that inclusion and diversity are necessary for achieving growth. We hold our Executive Leadership Team members accountable (as part of our short-term incentive plan) for reducing inclusion gaps between identified groups (measured in our employee engagement survey). And employees are regularly reminded of the reasons that inclusion is a key part of our Company’s culture. DIVERSITY 34 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT Unconscious Bias P R OV I D I N G S A F E A N D S U P P O R T I V E S PAC E S Even people who enthusiastically embrace Stantec is a Pride at Work Canada sponsor—we believe in supporting diversity can have an “unconscious bias” LGBTQ2+ colleagues and allies. (also known as “implicit bias”)—a preference for or prejudice against a person or group We celebrate Pride each June, and, in 2018, without even realizing it. Unconscious bias creates barriers to inclusion, performance, • Pride@Stantec desk cards were distributed in North America, engagement, attraction and retention, Australia, and New Zealand to promote our organization as a safe promotions, and, ultimately, innovation. space for people identifying as LGBTQ2+. Unconscious bias can be managed once we • Pride t-shirts were available to the entire company; employees could realize we all have it. Stantec offers employees show their support of the community, both within Stantec and beyond. a chance to figure out their own biases: first, by using an online Harvard Implicit Association • We sponsored floats in the Edmonton and Calgary Pride Parades Test and, second, through e-learning and an (Canada). Our people rode on floats decorated with signs expressing in-person workshop (“Managing One’s Own how LGBTQ2+ employees feel about their place in the Company— Bias and Managing Bias in Others”), which supported, valued, respected, welcomed, celebrated, included—while explains unconscious bias and offers tools employees cheered them on along the route. and techniques to manage it. Travis Park (Canada) says, “The Edmonton Pride Parade was great; everyone was excited. I feel like we really let Edmonton know that Stantec is a major player when it comes to diversity and inclusion and supporting the LGBTQ2+ community.” S TA N T E C I N C. 35 M E E T S O M E AWA R D E M B R AC I N G W I N N I N G WO M E N W H O I N T E R N AT I O N A L WO R K AT S TA N T E C WO M E N ’ S DAY Shelley Brown (Canada), board memCristina Howick (United Kingdom), Each year, Stantec ber, was honored with a Lifetime planner, was named one of the employees celebrate Achievement Award from the Women of Influence by The Planner. International Women’s Chartered Professional Accountants Day in offices around of British Columbia, inducted into Fritha Bevin-McCrimmon (United the world. In 2018, we the Order of Canada, and listed on Kingdom), project engineer, was shared ways that we Canada’s Top 100 Most Powerful named a Rising Star at the 2018 will #PressForProgress. Women for four years, earning her a Women in Science and Engineering position on the Women’s Executive (WISE) awards for her efforts to See video Network Hall of Fame. promote STEM to girls and women. Denise Pothier (Canada), vice president, Stephanie Thompson (New was named one of Canada’s Top Zealand), water and wastewater 100 Most Powerful Women by the engineer, received the Outstanding Women’s Executive Network and one Achievement in Design from the of Canada’s 50 most inspirational National Association of Women women by Inspiring Fifty Canada. in Construction. Kim Austin (United States), vice Cathy Kingdon (Canada), president, was named an honoree on environmental engineer, received the the 40 under 40 list by the Tampa Bay APEGA Volunteer Recognition Award Business Journal. for her passion for supporting girls who are interested in engineering. Erin Davis (Canada), director, was named the Diversity & Inclusion Isobel Oldfield (New Zealand), Practitioner of the Year by the environmental specialist, was Canadian Centre for Diversity and named the Young Environmental Inclusion and the Emerging Leaders Professional of the Year by the Champion by Catalyst. Environmental Institute of Australia and New Zealand. Rachel Bannon-Godfrey (United States), sustainability discipline lead, Afaf Azzouz (Canada), building was named on the Who’s Who in energy specialist, was given the Energy list by the Denver Business Emerging Green Leader Award from Journal. the Canada Green Building Council of Ontario. Resa Furey (United States), marketing and business development manager, Lilian Marrero (United States), was named one of 100 Global engineer in training, was given the Inspirational Women in Mining by Hispanic Leadership Award from Women in Mining. the South Florida Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. Rachel Fitzgerald (United States), senior lighting designer, was Erica Deane (United Kingdom), named on both the North American apprentice, was named the Star and Global 40 under 40 lists by Achiever Apprentice in the Berkshire Lighting Magazine. Apprenticeship Awards. 36 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT Gender Diversity and Equity • Engaged Catalyst—a global nonprofit E N GAG E M E N T Traditionally, women are underrepresented that promotes inclusive workplaces I N I T I AT I V E S in science and engineering. In fact, industry for women—to conduct a detailed A 2014 engagement statistics note that only about 28% of the workforce analysis to improve women’s survey in our Australian science and engineering workforce in the representation in senior leadership operations found that United States is female. women had lower EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT engagement levels than Stantec focuses on gender diversity and Stantec wants employees to feel they belong men. The women said equity, and we actively work to increase the and feel good about their work. Fostering they felt a lack of balance number of women in our talent pool and engagement fuels their drive to succeed— in their work lives. leadership roles. Globally, our percentage and contributes to Stantec’s overall success. of female employees in all roles has held To improve the life of all steady for the past three years at 34%. Every two years, Stantec invites employees to employees, we Although the ratio of females to males is not share their perspectives on ways to improve as balanced as we would like, we are pleased the organization via a formal employee • Expanded parental to see progress in the percentage of female engagement survey. In 2018, we expanded leave programs managers (from 16% to 19%). this survey beyond North America, including employees in the United Kingdom, Barbados, • Delivered greater Gender diversity and equity continues to Continental Europe, India, Turkey, and the workday flexibility be a priority for Stantec, and, in 2018, we Middle East.1 accomplished the following: • Provided more profesThe survey results were meaningful. sional development • Added a female director to our board, Unfortunately, our 2018 overall engagement bringing the percentage of female directors score2 came in 6% lower than our 2016 • Helped staff at risk of on our board to 40% score. Our employees say Stantec needs to leaving find ways to improve connections and communication re-engage at work— • Named two female executive vice with leadership, attend to recognition and ways specific and presidents: Theresa Jang, chief financial compensation, and remove internal barriers. motivating to them officer, and Cath Schefer, regional operating But we are addressing how we can improve unit leader for Global operations outside of this. C-suite members have been assigned Our initiatives paid off. North America objectives to improve engagement. Since 2014, the turnover of female staff in our • Issued our first Gender Pay Gap Report in The good news is that our employees say Australia operations has the United Kingdom, and prepared for a that they feel a sense of accomplishment and decreased 46%. global pay equity study enjoy their work, that they have effective and productive relationships with colleagues, and • Inspired and empowered women at Stantec that our commitment to safety is strong. to be strong leaders with our 26 Women@ Stantec Employee Resource Groups In addition to our engagement survey, we track success using external tools like • Sponsored the Girls in Science event at the Glassdoor and Indeed. We closely watch our Denver Museum of Nature and Science ratings, take stock of the feedback, and then for the fourth year in a row (8,000 people improve our systems. attended the 2018 event) • Joined the Gender Equality Leadership Project with the UN’s Global Compact Network Canada 1 O  ur offices in Latin America and Asia Pacific had recently • Signed on as a founding partner of The completed an engagement survey, thus another survey Diversity Agenda in New Zealand; the goal was not required. is to get 20% more women into engineering 2 T  he average score of the positive responses, i.e., responses and architecture roles by 2021 that score 4.5 or more (on a 6-point scale). S TA N T E C I N C. 37 Health, Safety, AWA R D S and Security Received an Order of Distinction for winning Stantec’s safety culture encourages each of PROGRAMS AND PRACTICES 15 consecutive Gold us to make safe choices for ourselves and Stantec applies health and safety principles Awards from the Royal our colleagues, partners, and clients so that when planning and executing projects, Society for the Prevention we all return home safely each day. Nothing sharing best practices and lessons learned, of Accidents (United is more important than the health, safety, and managing the continuous improvement Kingdom). security, and well-being of the employees, cycle. Our programs connect to mental subcontractors, visitors, and communities health, physical health (fitness for duty), Won an International the Company serves. freedom from injury, and protection from Safety Award from the violence in the workplace in all its forms. British Safety Council Our proactive health, safety, security, (United Kingdom). and environment (HSSE) programs1 and The following policy, system, and programs systems focus on identifying, assessing, guide us as we operate our business and Won the Safety Longevity and controlling hazards and risks. After we execute projects: Award from British investigate an incident, we share lessons Petroleum for five years learned and improve our practices, tools, • Health, Safety, Security, and Environment of safe practices (United training, and communication. We also (HSSE) Policy: Our HSSE Policy sets the States). conduct regular audits and inspections. Company’s expectation: everyone working for Stantec is responsible and accountable Received the Governor’s Our commitment starts at the top and for our health, safety, security, and Award for Outstanding connects directly to each employee. environmental performance. Workplace Safety from the Vermont Department • Our board-level HSSES Committee • Occupational Health and Safety of Labor (United States). (covering both HSSE and sustainability) Management System: We manage, oversees governance monitor, and improve our health and Celebrated 10 years of safety performance with a formal OHSAS injury-free work on Shell • Our Executive HSSE Committee— 18001:2007-certified management system and Chevron projects comprising senior leaders across (part of our Integrated Management System). involving hundreds of business lines and geographies—provides Stantec employees and executive sponsorship of our HSSE • In Case of Crisis: This smartphone millions of hours in the policies, programs, goals, initiatives, and application supplies on-demand, field (Canada and management systems Stantec-specific HSSE and emergency United States). response information to employees and • Our network of HSSE directors, managers, subcontractors. Employees can quickly find Obtained 100% and advisors, and office-level representatives relevant HSSE information, easily report 97% on external safety connects our programs to the day-to-day issues, complete simple forms, access audits for health, safety, lives of our employees security support, and receive information and environmental about an emergency or a pandemic. performance for required audits commissioned by • Stop Work Authority: Stantec is committed Antamina and Gold Fields, to providing and maintaining a safe and respectively (Peru). healthy workplace. We believe that incidents and injuries are preventable and that a job is done well only if it is done safely. Time taken to confirm our understanding and to execute our HSSE roles and responsibilities is time well spent. Stantec’s 1 S  tantec’s HSSE programs cover health, safety, security, and Stop Work Authority document is endorsed environment. For ease of reading, this section covers health, safety, and security commitments. Environmental commitments by our chief executive officer and available are covered in the Environmental Stewardship section. on our internal website. 38 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT INCIDENT PREVENTION Stantec takes proactive measures to identify By strengthening our safety culture, and address issues before they happen. we can reduce injuries, give employees The following components improve our the tools to get home safely each day, safety culture: and improve our safety performance. • SaferTogether™: This term defines Through our SaferTogether training our HSSE culture at Stantec—safety is initiative, which began in 2016, we personal and important; it impacts the educate leadership and employees decisions and actions we take at work, about why we must and how we can at home, and in the community. actively and consistently support a safety culture where everyone works • Leading indicators: We conduct ergonomic together to be safe—at work, at home, assessments, hazard identification, and and in our communities. planned job observations and track our success with a leading indicator safety index (LISI). Starting in 2019, each employee must identify a minimum number of leading indicators, also called proactive safety measures, as part of the career development and performance review. • Critical risk controls: We identified our 12 most critical risks that have the greatest potential to cause serious injuries, incidents, and fatalities; then we created a series of easy-to-use, concise guides that give information about identifying these hazards and implementing control measures to keep employees and others safe. • Hazard recognition, assessment, and control: This process is designed to help employees identify hazards, assess risk, and then implement controls aimed at preventing incidents. In 2018, we introduced the Energy Wheel, a resource HAZARD ASSESSMENT that employees can use to identify the Our Energy Wheel outlines 10 energy 10 sources of energy that create hazards. sources that can pose risks and create hazards. Familiar wording and symbols displayed on field equipment and forms assist employees to be more aware of their surroundings and to identify hazards early so they can more easily mitigate risk and reduce incidents. S TA N T E C I N C. 39 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING Achieving HSSE compliance and engagement takes more than telling employees about processes and how to use them. We must also inspire them to want to make safe choices and follow HSSE processes every day. Increasing leadership visibility and engagement, encouraging and recognizing safe and proactive behavior, and making safety meaningful are some ways that we continue building our safety culture. We regularly communicate about and provide training on our corporate HSSE expectations, critical risks, and workplace best practices so that employees can keep themselves and others safe. Our extensive array of training options means we can offer the right training for every employee and every type of work. We offer in-person safety trainings, facilitated by operational leadership and HSSE practitioners, plus e-learning options—from awareness-level courses (such as ladder safety; slips, trips, and falls; and hand safety) to certificate and regulatory required courses (such as HAZWOPER, confined space entry, and fall protection). In 2018, 96% of our employees in North America completed face-to-face training (conducted by operational leadership) on our SaferTogether culture. Employees learned ways they can improve the safety culture so that safety becomes second nature and we have the knowledge, motivation, and tools to always take care of ourselves and others. Our chief operating officer’s quarterly safety communications share safety successes and areas of improvement. We celebrate safe work practices through recognition and awards and hold safety rallies in some locales. Annually, as part of our career development and performance review process, employees are tested on their knowledge of applicable safe work practices. METRICS Stantec’s 2018 total recordable incident rate (TRIR) improved from 0.55 in 2017 to Sage Grouse Survey Elko, Nevada, United States 0.41 in 2018—a 25% improvement since 2017 and a 47% improvement since 2013. And we reported more than 28,000 leading indicators (proactive safety measures), 40 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT such as inspections, observations, and hazard identifications. As a result, our leading indicator safety index (LISI) score increased from 0.50 in 2017 to 1.03 in 2018—a 106% improvement since 2017 and a 267% improvement since 2015 (when we initiated the program). S A F E T Y S TAT I S T I C S BY Y E A R Our TRIR and LISI statistics are improving; however, in 2018, we experienced the tragic loss of our colleague, Martin Vasquez, in a fatal 0.8 traffic incident. This loss reminds us that, even though our safety culture is strong, one incident 0.6 Target can have devastating effects. We continue to emphasize hazard recognition, focus on leading indicators, and identify and control critical risks. 0.4 SECURE WORKPLACES AND TRAVEL 0.2 To provide secure workplaces, we take preventive measures like locating offices in safe areas and providing appropriate office security.1 0.0 13 14 15 16 17 18 In 2018, we rolled out new security guidelines and added security content to the In Case of TRIR Crisis application (described under Programs A lagging indicator that tracks the number of and Practices in Health, Safety, and Security), recordable incidents that a company experiences giving employees advice for handling security during a year, normalized to 100 full-time both internationally and domestically. In 2019, employees. A low TRIR score is desirable. we will roll out new mandatory security training for all employees. 1.2 To reduce risks to employees at the office and when they travel and work on projects, we 1.0 Target 0.8 • Provide and maintain Office Security and Workplace Violence Security commu0.6 nications, training, and guidance 0.4 • Conduct office security audits and implement resulting improvements 0.2 • Track global security trends and give advice about project-related threats 0.0 • Prepare risk mitigation plans and standards 13 14 15 16 17 18 • Provide security ground-truth2 at project locations LISI • Monitor and give advice about security An index composed of leading indicators that during live events measures proactive and preventive activities. • Hold travel safety briefings Identifying leading indicators is intended to • Offer culture guides to improve travelers’ reduce the number of safety incidents that experiences occur and to promote a proactive approach to • Support employees who experience health and safety. A high LISI score is desirable. problems while traveling As a direct result of Stantec’s travel security program, Stantec employees logged more than 46,000 airline trips in 2018—without incident. 1 C  ybersecurity is covered in the Governance section. 2 Ground-truth: Information collected by direct observation. SAFETY S TA N T E C I N C. 41 “ C R E AT I V E Thought Leadership THINKING INSPIRES IDEAS. Our inventive and collaborative approach INNOVATION FORUM IDEAS INSPIRE to problem-solving gives life to big ideas. In 2018, we held our twenty-second annual C H A N G E .” To promote innovation and facilitate Innovation Forum,1 which recognizes and This quote, by artist collaboration, in 2018, Stantec invested celebrates our most innovative projects Barbara Januszkiewicz, $2.9 million into project grants and and the people behind them. Thirty-eight is the mantra of research and speaking opportunities. employees from 10 countries gathered Stantec’s Ideas Hub, in Colorado, United States, to network where our experts share INVESTING IN IDEAS and share best practices. Our theme— their inspirational ideas Our Greenlight Program awards project Becoming Iconic—emphasized our multiwith the world. grants for innovative ideas and research disciplinary approach to designing with proposed by employees and project teams. community in mind. Readers learn about the In 2018, almost 60% of those grants funded trends, innovations, and sustainability-related projects like investigating More than 90% of topics chosen for the challenges that impact the effect of micro-plastics on drinking water, forum related to sustainability. Topics the built environment: creating prefabricated designs for Passive included renewable energy design and sustainable, resilient House-certified buildings, and advancing the financing, ecological and cultural presdesign; cities that adapt technology of autonomous transportation. ervation, social justice in transportation to climate change; and design, employee well-being, emergency the future of water. Stantec employees regularly present at response, electric and autonomous vehicle conferences and publish research papers, planning, social license to operate, water Learn more journal articles, and reports about scientific conservation, and Indigenous relations. advances on client projects. Our Publish & Speak Program awards employees money to This carbon-neutral, eco-friendly event was cover time spent developing manuscripts for webcast live; all employees could watch presentation at technical conferences and for presentations, receive strategy updates publication in peer-reviewed technical journals. from senior executives, and interact with presenters in real time using Yammer, our Stantec also partners with academic internal social media platform. researchers to access federal funding for research. In 2018, these partnerships attracted $500,000 in federal funding. 1 Previously known as the Breckenridge Forum. 42 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T The Innovation Forum Broomfield, Colorado, United States “The Innovation Forum is about “I was so nervous presenting at being inspired by our peers, jobs, the conference since English is my and being proud to be part of the second language, but I left feeling Stantec family.” supported, connected, and inspired.” —Caterina Cigala (Belgium) —Janeth Pizarro (Peru) “At the forum, I learned what Stantec “The forum provided mental is really about, and I have a new nourishment.” pride in working here. I shared —Bernadette Bezy (United States) energy, passion, connections.” —Michael Siegel (United States) “An excellent example of diversity, innovation, imagination, vision, “The event was valuable, inspiring, a passion, collaboration; makes me great experience for all.” proud to work here.” —Joanna Gascoigne (New Zealand) —Mary Murdoch (Canada) CREATIVITY S TA N T E C I N C. 43 S TA N T EC ’ S FU N D I N G PI LL A R S: Community Engagement FO U R P R I O R IT I E S O F E V E RY C O M M U N IT Y Stantec’s commitment to people extends to the communities where we work and live. We Education look for strategic partnerships that leverage Stantec co-created the annual and empower entire communities while Girls & Science event at the Denver recognizing that each community has unique Museum of Nature and Science in needs and opportunities. the United States, reaching more than 8,000 attendees in 2018. Stantec’s Community Engagement Program has four funding pillars: education, enviLearn more ronment, health and wellness, and the arts. In 2018, we donated $3.6 million to Environment organizations around the globe. Since we For the second year in a row, our began tracking in 2007, our donations have Dutch colleagues set off for a exceeded $20.5 million. weekend away with By the Ocean we Unite to conduct research to As part of our four-pillar focus, Stantec support reducing the amount of supports diversity in the communities where plastics in our waters. we live and work. We celebrate and get involved in activities that nurture inclusion Learn more in the broader marketplace; participate in community partnerships; and promote Health and Wellness programs that enable engagement with In the far north of Nunavut, Canada, women, members of visible minorities, Stantec’s backing of the Polar Bike Indigenous Peoples, people of diverse ethnic Project is a meaningful and fun way origins, and people with disabilities. to support the health of Indigenous children. Stantec cares about the people who work for us; we want them to thrive at work and Learn more within their communities. Volunteer activities not only emotionally connect employees to Arts Stantec but also inspire employees to have Music can connect diverse people fun and make a difference in the world. To and ideas. Since 2012, we have encourage volunteering, Stantec offers flexible supported Atlantic Canada’s Harvest workdays and Company-sponsored programs. Jazz & Blues Festival. Annually, we hold a signature CompanyLearn more sponsored volunteer event: Stantec in the Community Week. In addition, we encourage employees to take part in initiatives that support their personal causes. Under our Dollars for Doers Program, we donate $500 to any charity for every 25 hours an employee spends volunteering. Stantec proudly promotes post-secondary education too. Easing students’ financial burdens better enables students to complete their studies. To assist students in pursuing their goals, each of our regions is given COMMUNITY $10,000 annually for scholarship awards. 44 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT C O M PA N YS P O N S O R E D Other examples of our employees’ • Took part in mapping a comVO L U N T E E R I N G volunteer efforts follow: bined 425 square kilometres During Stantec in the Community (164 square miles) of develWeek in 2018, 5,650 employees • Landscaped 125 square metres oping areas in Ethiopia and supported 321 community orga(1,345 square feet) of communal Angola, Africa; the map provides nizations in 17 countries and space at a primary school in valuable data to support non6 continents. High Wycombe, United Kingdom governmental agencies that respond to crises During this Company-sponsored • Packaged 222 backpacks and volunteer event, teams bagged 3,700 pounds (1,678 kilograms) • Picked 1,009 pounds litter, painted walls, planted trees, of school supplies for students in (458 kilograms) of carrots at a served meals, even donated blood— Plano, Texas, United States community garden in Saskatoon, whatever was most needed locally. Saskatchewan, Canada • Donated enough blood in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, to save up to • Planted 1,752 trees across 78 lives Australia and New Zealand • Sorted 6,000 pounds • Prepared 13,203 meals for (2,722 kilograms) of food people in need in Tampa, donations in Irvine, California, Florida, United States United States S TA N T E C I N C. 45 Water Supply Centre Campbell River, British Columbia, Canada O U R A P P R OAC H TO WO R K I N G W I T H Indigenous INDIGENOUS PEOPLES IS GROUNDED Connections I N S TA N T E C ’ S C O R E VA L U E S Shortly after Stantec’s founding in We put people first: We strive to be We are better together: Our engage1954, our project work expanded from an employer of choice for Indigenous ment efforts focus first on asking, Edmonton, Alberta, to northern Canada. Peoples by proactively recruiting and “What does the community want and Since then, building and maintaining creating an inclusive workspace. need, and how do Stantec’s capabilities positive relationships with Indigenous and values align with that?” Peoples has been a Company tenet. We do what is right: We bring awareness to our employees, We are driven to achieve: We create INDIGENOUS RELATIONS clients, and communities about the opportunities for Indigenous employees Stantec’s Indigenous Relations program benefits of linking Indigenous ways and businesses by providing tangible fosters positive, productive relationships of knowing and seeing to Western training, employment, and contracting with Indigenous communities and knowledge and perspectives. prospects. businesses. We move beyond platitudes and philanthropy: Stantec’s formalized Indigenous Relations Practice publicly put people firs re be tter toge commits us to action. ea the We t W r We are members of the Canadian Council Employer of Creating for Aboriginal Business (CCAB), which Awareness Engagement Choice Opportunities promotes Indigenous relationships and an economy based on shared prosperity. And W e our vice president of Indigenous Relations ht ie W ve ed are o w h a t i s ri g d riv e n to a c h sits on CCAB’s board of directors. 46 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T SOCIAL BET TERMENT Stantec is working toward certification under An example of our Indigenous connections INDIGENOUS CCAB’s Progressive Aboriginal Relations (PAR) outside of Canada can be seen in our C U LT U R E S Program and, in 2018, successfully completed Australian operations where our Indigenous More than 5,000 the first of three phases. PAR certification Employment Policy has increased the Indigenous cultures signals to Indigenous communities that a number of Indigenous people we hire. And exist in our world. company is a good business partner, supports as part of a working group of Aboriginal and a workplace that is inclusive of Indigenous Torres Strait Islander Peoples, community Traditional territories Peoples, and is committed to helping groups, and decision makers from across our cover 20% of the earth’s Indigenous communities prosper. Australian business, Stantec is developing a surface. Reconciliation Action Plan. As an inaugural member of the CCAB’s Stantec acknowledges Procurement Champions Group, Stantec INDIGENOUS BUSINESS PARTNERSHIPS the traditional lands on contributes to economic reconciliation by Successful partnerships are built on mutual which we work and live. offering ways that Indigenous businesses respect and common goals. For 19 years, And we recognize the can participate in our supply chain. Stantec has been the minority partner in Indigenous connection and legal operator of numerous Indigenous to lands, waters, and Our commitments include Business Partnerships throughout Canada. community. • Removing project participation barriers for Indigenous subcontractors These partnerships provide direct investments • Creating jobs for Indigenous community that support economic growth. During the past members 10 years, they generated more than $200 million • Mentoring Indigenous business owners, in gross revenue; in 2018, the seven active professionals, and students partnerships generated $12.4 million. More and more, Stantec partners with Working with our Indigenous Business Indigenous-owned businesses to deliver our Partnerships means we can work, and we regularly provide services to established Indigenous businesses. • Create shared value for partners, clients, and Stantec In 2018, we developed an opportunity assessment tool to improve the connection between • Combine local knowledge with our technical our Indigenous Relations program and our capabilities to increase the number of Canadian project work. It adds value to successful projects on traditional lands Indigenous projects, helping us learn more about the communities and their relationships, • Connect clients to local resources values, needs, and ways of being. • Provide local Indigenous community memIn addition to our projects and relationships bers with ways to build capacity through with Indigenous Peoples of the land that is employment, training, and hands-on now Canada, we closely work with these skills development Indigenous communities: • Native tribes and corporations, Alaska • Expose Indigenous Peoples to careers Tribal Advisory Committee, and the in science and engineering Native American Heritage Commission (United States) • Offer longer term work that allows • Māori (New Zealand) community members to build skill sets • Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and take on roles with increasing levels Peoples (Australia) of responsibility • Comunidad Campesina de Pallancata and Chocñihuaqui Peoples (Peru) • Colla, Quechua, and Aymara Peoples (Chile) • Ethnic minorities (People’s Republic of China) S TA N T E C I N C. 47 LA Metro Division 14 Expo Line Light Rail Operations and Maintenance Facility Santa Monica, California, United States 48 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T IN THIS SECTION Ethical Business Practices Corporate Governance Strategy Risk Management Integrated Management Cybersecurity and Customer Privacy Supply Chain Management Responsible Governance Integrity means that we always work to the highest professional and ethical standards and operate our business in an open, honest, and responsible way. Stantec recognizes that we must uphold our values to gain and maintain the trust of clients, shareholders, employees, business partners, and the public. We are committed to sound principles of corporate governance and to managing our risks and strategic growth in a way that reflects our triple-bottom-line responsibilities. S TA N T E C I N C. 49 WATER FUTURES + 1: Ethical Business Practices THE NEXUS BETWEEN WATER, ENERGY, FOOD, Stantec’s ethical business practices demonAND AGRICULTURE strate our Company’s values: we put people first, Stantec’s strategic we do what is right, we are better together, and planning process includes we are driven to achieve. We ask employees, analyzing the megatrends partners, subcontractors, subconsultants, and that shape the world we vendors to live our Stantec values and take operate in and the way personal responsibility for their behaviors. we do our business. BUSINESS CONDUCT Humans have a proOur Code of Business Conduct sets global found effect on the standards that employees are expected to planet’s environment follow in their day-to-day work. and climate. Stantec recognizes that we all We expect employees to conduct business have the opportunity (and in accordance with high ethical standards. imperative) to reshape Stantec policies outline our practices and the planetary ecosystem. standards regarding conflicts of interest, anti-bribery and anti-competitive practices, Our Water Futures + 1 harassment and discrimination, data privacy, publication addresses political activities, political and charitable the nexus between contributions, sponsorships, whistleblowing, water, energy, food, insider trading, human rights, and health, and agriculture—an safety, security, and the environment. interconnection that will shape our world in the Annually, Stantec requires all employees to coming decades. Eight take Ethics and Business Conduct training. essays explore the critical Employees must acknowledge that they have uncertainties, challenges, completed the training, thereby complying and opportunities for with our policies and meeting a requirement global water security and of their career development and performance the water industry in the review. In 2018, 99% of employees completed face of climate change. this training. But we aren’t stopping We influence our supply chain with our Partner at water. We continue to Code of Business Conduct, which details our explore the tremendous values, standards, and expectations. This ways that nature-based includes competing strictly on the merits of solutions work symproducts and services and protecting human biotically with built infrarights and the environment (described in the structure solutions. Supply Chain Management section). Our next publication, Community Futures, INTEGRITY HOTLINE will explore designing, Stantec requires employees to speak up if supporting, and developing they become aware of unlawful actions or communities and cities unethical behaviors that violate our policies. around the world and They can report concerns confidentially and Ville-Marie Highway Recovery Montreal, Quebec, Canada shaping the infrastructure anonymously using our Company’s toll-free they depend on. Integrity Hotline (managed by a third party). Stantec does not tolerate retaliation against Learn more employees who voice concerns. 50 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T R E S P O N S I B L E G OV E R N A N C E Each Integrity Hotline report is assigned to HUMAN RIGHTS S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y a Corporate Integrity, Human Resources, Protecting human rights is fundamental to MOMENTS or Legal representative, as appropriate, for our corporate values; this is evident in our To keep sustainability a thorough review. Every effort is made to corporate systems and policies, including our top of mind in our work maintain the anonymity of the reporter. • Code of Business Conduct and personal activities, • Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Stantec employees are If a report about a violation of our policies Policy asked to start Company has been substantiated, we take appropriate • Equal Employment Opportunity Practices and client meetings with disciplinary action, corrective action, or both. • Harassment and Discrimination Policy a “Moment” about safety, The vice president of Corporate Integrity and Accommodation Practice (Canada security, the environment, follows up to confirm that reports have been and United States) ethics, or inclusion. properly addressed. • Americans with Disabilities Act (United States) These Moments guide us Integrity Hotline reports are aggregated • Disability Practice (United Kingdom) to do what is right and every quarter and reported to our board of create a safe, supportive, directors. Serious complaints are reported Stantec also has systems and processes and responsible work immediately to the chair of the board-level that comply with the Modern Slavery Act culture. A series of Audit and Risk Committee. (United Kingdom) and has published a thematic Moments Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. is available to use on ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR our internal website, AND ANTI-CORRUPTION We support the principles in the Universal but employees are Our business is built on trust with our clients Declaration of Human Rights, the International encouraged to create and our reputation for both fair and ethical Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundaand share their own. business dealings. mental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Stantec employees must always avoid conHuman Rights. As a signatory to the UN Global flicts of interest when dealing with current Compact, we commit to its human rights and and potential clients, subcontractors, sublabor principles. consultants, vendors, and competitors. To reduce risk, we employ mitigation strategies: We have policies and practices that prohibit operations are audited regularly for conflicts of discrimination or harassment on the basis interest and corruption risk, and the economic of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, and political conditions of the markets we sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, serve are evaluated during project pursuits. childbirth (or related medical condition), age, citizenship, marital status, disability, veteran Stantec’s ethics and compliance programs or military status, political belief, or any other comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices basis protected by applicable law. Act (United States), the United Kingdom Bribery Act, the Corruption of Foreign Public Our training educates employees about our Officials Act (Canada), and similar laws; and Company’s expectations, and we encourage Stantec policies further prohibit the payment employees to form or join an Employee of bribes, kickbacks, political contributions Resource Group that supports diversity to politicians, and improper charitable in gender, race, ethnicity, disability status, contributions and sponsorships. Requests veteran status, sexual orientation, and gender for contributions and sponsorships follow a identity (described in the Inclusion and formal approval process, with legal counsel Diversity section). oversight if required. Stantec respects the rights of our employees We prohibit employees from using Company to freedom of association and complies with funds to contribute to political candidates and legislation like the National Labor Relations parties, and we do not reimburse employees Act (United States) that governs union who make personal contributions. organizing and collective bargaining. ETHICS S TA N T E C I N C. 51 Corporate Governance B OA R D C O M P O S I T I O N AND EXPERIENCE To conduct our affairs at the highest standards of integrity, honesty, and professionalism, we continually strengthen our corporate governance practices, targeting priorities such as board diversity, board expertise, and executive compensation. Our board is responsible for the stewardship of our Company. Board members participate in Stantec’s strategic planning process with senior management, work with executive leadership to set Stantec’s strategic and operational objectives, and periodically review management’s performance in meeting those objectives. Environmental Stantec’s Board Diversity Policy guides us and Social Factors when appointing board members. In 2018, 78% highly experienced Shelley Brown became a member of our 11% general experience board. Now, 40% of Stantec’s board members 11% limited experience are women (four women and six men).1 Our board members are highly experienced in Governance business, community, and ESG (environmental, 100% highly experienced social, and governance) topics. In 2018, Stantec established a new board committee—the Health, Safety, Security, Environment, and Sustainability Committee— to oversee the overall framework for managing sustainability; health, safety, security, and environment risks; emergency preparedness; and nonfinancial risks arising from the Company’s Integrity Management Program. The formation of this committee highlights the board’s commitment to ESG (described in the Sustainability Governance section). See our Management Information Circular for more information about Stantec’s Health, Safety, corporate governance. and Security 67% highly experienced 33% general experience Risk Management 89% highly experienced 11% general experience 1 In 2019, Stantec’s board will be 44% female because one male board member is not standing for re-election. 52 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T R E S P O N S I B L E G OV E R N A N C E Strategy Risk Management Stantec recognizes that we have a significant Responsibility for risk management opportunity: to be our clients’ trusted advisor and compliance is shared across the as they adapt to a changing world. organization—from senior executives to frontline employees. Stantec systematically Our strategic planning process includes identifies and manages risks through a tracking and evaluating megatrends and comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management other forces that are reshaping the world (ERM) program that aligns with international we operate in and the way we conduct standards and includes policies, practices, business. One trend could influence and systems that address our principal Stantec’s business, but the interconnection risks: project, supply chain, human capital, and collective impact of more than one finance, currency volatility, global politics, trend could be significant. These trends and and legislative. their interrelationships are recognized and addressed in our strategic growth initiatives We consistently apply the ERM Framework and strategic investments. to identify, manage, monitor, and review our most significant and emerging risks. Stantec’s response to climate change is Using this framework, we further embed one of five global dynamics addressed in risk management approaches across the our Strategic Plan. All our strategic growth organization to support the business in initiatives and investments refer to Stantec’s making risk-aware decisions. role in addressing climate change, and we collaborate across our business lines to help Specific to climate-change risks, we have clients thrive in a low-carbon economy. carbon management and reduction programs in place, and we incorporate weather-related See our CDP Disclosure for more information risk reviews when we look at new office space. about how we integrate climate-related issues into our business objectives and strategy. The board-level Audit and Risk Committee provides risk guidance and oversees the ERM program. Executives are accountable for risks relevant to their areas of responsibility. See our Annual Report and CDP Disclosure for more information about our risk factors and our ERM program. I D E N T I F I E D M E GAT R E N D S Demographic, Social, Climate Change Geopolitics and Incremental and and Urbanization and Resource International Breakthrough Economic Power Changes Scarcity Relations Technology and Market Shifts S T R AT E G I C G R OW T H I N I T I AT I V E S Smart Cities Invigorating Infrastructure Coastal Restoration Energy Remix S T R AT E G I C I N V E S T M E N T S Urban Places Resiliency S TA N T E C I N C. 53 C E R T I F I E D M A N AG E M E N T SYS T E M S Stantec’s Integrated Management System covers our business processes and is certified to internationally recognized standards. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Management System Mitigates environmental risk, manages Identifies and promotes consistent and monitors environmental perforpractices for our project teams, mance, and is accountable for meeting thereby improving productivity and emission-reduction targets. efficiency, managing project risks, and promoting client satisfaction. OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011 IT Service System Management System Aligns work processes, systems, and Maintains data confidentiality, behaviors to protect employees from integrity, and availability. injury and prevent property loss and environmental damage. Lisbon-Durham Bridge Maine, United States 54 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T R E S P O N S I B L E G OV E R N A N C E Integrated Management Stantec’s certified Integrated Management AUDITS AND IMPROVEMENTS System (IMS) delivers a disciplined and Stantec has formal processes to encourage accountable framework that defines Company suggestions for improvement, address procedures, monitors risks and hazards, nonconformances, and identify opportunities reduces inefficiencies, maximizes Company for improvement and corrective action. resources, and enables the implementation of our Sustainability Program. • We conduct internal practice audits annually that cover all regions and business lines (for We have certified management systems compliance with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, in Canada, the United States, the United ISO 9001, and IMS requirements) Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Italy, the Netherlands, the Middle East, and Chile. • Our operations are audited by an external third party While reviewing the IMS each quarter, executive leaders consider business performance, • We solicit client feedback and conduct leading and lagging health and safety indicasurveys to assess performance and identify tors, progress against environmental goals, and prioritize improvement areas client feedback, and claims statistics. A quarterly IMS report is shared with the board-level • We identify, review, approve, communicate, Audit and Risk Committee. and document the impacts of changes to our practices and initiate change PROJECT MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK management procedures Our Project Management Framework specifies Stantec’s expectations of project • We review the consequences of unintended managers. It includes the critical tasks for changes and act to mitigate any adverse managing risks and achieving quality delivery effects on typical projects. At a project level, the framework also takes into account sustainability commitments like water use, air emissions, energy use, human rights, ethics, stakeholders, and Indigenous relations. Impacts are evaluated during the proposal and the health, safety, security, and environmental planning stages and then reviewed as part of project audits. BUSINESS CONTINUITY Our IMS incorporates planning for business continuity to decrease the impacts of events such as extreme weather resulting from climate change, which could prevent us from delivering services to our clients. To illustrate, in 2018, many Stantec employees in Florida were directly affected by hurricanes and employees in California were displaced due to fire. Teams quickly activated disaster recovery programs and kept the business functioning during these challenges. S TA N T E C I N C. 55 Cybersecurity and assures that Stantec’s IT support and Customer Privacy service delivery processes (including security) meet the quality standards set TECHNOLOGY Cybersecurity incidents can disrupt or disable by the British Standards Institute. business operations, resulting in financial losses and reputational damage; therefore, • IT security programs: Our IT security Stantec’s Cybersecurity Program aims to programs maintain data confidentiality, • Protect the availability and reliability of integrity, and availability (whether data is our corporate network and systems stored on our premises or in the cloud). • Shield client data from theft, disclosure, Comprehensive security systems include or destruction web filtering, intrusion protection, multi• Maintain the confidentiality of employees’ factor authentication, cloud access personally identifiable information monitoring, cloud-based email filtering, next• Align with applicable regulatory requirements generation firewalls, and advanced end• Balance the need to protect our organization point protection, detection, and response. with the need to operate the business As well, we have stringent requirements for Stantec provides robust IT security processes external access to our systems and wireless and practices, next-generation security sysnetwork and train our staff on cybersecurity tems, and cybersecurity awareness training best practices. for employees. Further, we respect and protect the privacy of employees, clients, investors, • Fraud detection: Stantec has platformsubcontractors, and others, ensuring that all integrated IT fraud detection systems, and personal and sensitive data in our possession our programs are subject to regular audit. or within our control is handled appropriately. The director of Enterprise Risk Management leads an Integrity Management team and Our programs comply with applicable Fraud Risk Assessment Program. Any laws, including the General Data Protection actual or potential security problems are Regulation (European Union), Defense reported to the chief information officer, Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement Risk Management team, or Integrity (United States), and Cyber Essentials Plus Management team, as appropriate. (United Kingdom). • Incident response: Stantec has comStantec protects our systems and the people prehensive security incident response who entrust us with personal information in processes for identifying, containing, various ways: eradicating, and recovering from security incidents. • Privacy Policy: Our Privacy Policy limits the collection and use of data to only Underpinning our Security Incident what is needed to operate our business. In Response program is a robust system accordance with legislation, our programs that tracks security incidents, orchestrates ensure the accuracy, confidentiality, integrity, incident response activities, and provides and security of information and provide the multi-jurisdictional information about right to request and correct data. breach notification regulations. • IT Service Management System: • Training and communication: Technology Stantec is one of the only architectural is not enough to fully shield us from cyberand engineering firms that maintains an security attacks and privacy breaches. We ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011-certified IT Service also need our employees to identify—and Management System (part of our Integrated stop or report—problems as soon as they Management System). This certification see them. 56 2018 S TA N T E C S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T R E S P O N S I B L E G OV E R N A N C E Our comprehensive Cybersecurity Training offered environmentally friendly and socially Program gives employees the tools responsible products and services. AWA R D S required to do this, and communication Stantec is a from management keeps employees PARTNER CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT top-performing informed about protecting assets and Vendors, subcontractors, subconsultants, supplier on the UK thwarting scams. and partners are expected to apply busiChartered Institute of ness practices consistent with Stantec’s Procurement & Supply Stantec has not had any significant breaches standards. Our Partner Code of Business Sustainability Index. of data security over the past three years. If a Conduct—which covers employment We received high problem is identified, the corporate Business practices, health and safety, environment, ratings in economic, Continuity Plan and IT Disaster Recovery human rights, discrimination, anti-bribery, environmental, and Procedures go into effect. intellectual property, privacy, and more— social categories: reduces the potential for problems in our 97%, 98%, and 100%, supply chain. We expect high-risk partners to respectively. Supply Chain sign our Partner Code of Business Conduct; Management to ensure they have similar values, we conduct due-diligence checks. Stantec works with a diverse network S TA N T E C ’ S of suppliers across global markets. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY VA L U E C H A I N Our commitment to responsible proStantec recognizes that supply chain divercurement includes an expectation that sity can be a powerful economic engine of Upstream suppliers conduct their operations in an growth. We work with vendors of all sizes Leased buildings, environmentally sustainable and socially but encourage diverse and small business vehicle fleet, vendors responsible manner. We use our global participation. For example, (for purchases of IT supply chain to promote sustainable hardware and software, business practices and support local • In 2018, our spending on small and telecommunications, businesses around the world. disadvantaged subcontractors in the office supplies, United States increased by US$6.9 million technical supplies, SUPPLIER SELECTION to US$92.3 million, which is 20% of our and so forth) Doing business with vendors, subcontractors, total US subcontracting costs. subconsultants, and partners who share our Stantec operations values limits Stantec’s risks and enhances our • We are members of the Canadian Council Employees, Company’s commitments to the environment for Aboriginal Business Procurement future employees, and community. Champions Group (described in the subcontractors, Indigenous Relations section). subconsultants, In 2018, we evaluated our procurement business travel approaches to enhance efficiency and streamline the overall process. We have Downstream proposed a new approach that will give us Clients, communities, more visibility and control over spending. project partners The implementation plan, still in the works, will address sustainability. Although the overall process adjustments are still pending, Stantec has already begun to connect sustainability to procurement administration. For instance, in 2018, Stantec selected new corporate office supply and furniture vendors. We looked for and selected vendors who practiced sustainable behaviors within their operations and who S TA N T E C I N C. 57 Botanical Garden Naples, Florida, United States Appendixes APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX APPENDIX A GRI CONTENT INDEX This appendix, organized into three tables—General Disclosures, Material Topics, and Non-Material Topics—outlines the GRI Content Index information relating to Stantec. The tables reference sections in this Sustainability Report (SR) and pages of our Annual Report (AR), Management Information Circular (MIC), Annual Information Form (AIF), CDP Disclosure, and website, stantec.com. Please also find citations, presented in brackets, to sections of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Engineering and Construction Services Standards and the Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations. Consider these points when reviewing this appendix: • Countries of Significant Operations (represent 91% of global employees): Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand. • Regions and associated countries: o Canada o United States o Europe and Africa – United Kingdom, Continental Europe (Italy, the Netherlands, Turkey, Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Slovakia), and Ethiopia o Asia Pacific – Australia, New Zealand, and Asia (Taiwan, China) o Remaining geographies – India, Latin America and the Caribbean (Peru, Chile, Argentina, Barbados), and the Middle East (United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait) • Data Compilation: Numbers were compiled from Stantec’s Human Resources (HR) Information System, Health and Safety Database, and Eco-Footprint Database. • GRI Version: All GRI disclosures below reference GRI Standards version 2016. General Disclosures Direct Answers and Omissions, Public Report References, GRI Standards and Disclosures [SASB and TCFD Recommendations] GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Stantec Inc. AIF, page 3. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, SR, About Stantec and Sustainability for Our Clients. and services AR, pages 6 and M9-M10. [SASB IF-EN-401a.1] STANTEC INC. | A-1 102-3 Location of headquarters Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. SR, back cover. 102-4 Locations of operations SR, About Stantec. Website, Find a Stantec Office. 102-5 Ownership and legal form AIF, pages 3-4 and 13-14. 102-6 Markets served SR, About Stantec. AR, pages 6 and M9-M10. AIF, page 12. 102-7 Scale of organization SR, About Stantec. AR, pages 6-9 and M4-M22. AIF, pages 9-12. 102-8 Employee numbers and The number and percentage of employees by employment contract demographics (permanent and temporary), type (full time and part time), region, and gender follows. SR, People-Centered Workplace. Total % Total Female % Female Male % Male Total Company 20,982 100 7,178 34 13,804 66 Full Time 19,404 92 6,317 33 13,087 67 Part Time 1,578 8 861 55 717 45 Permanent 19,727 94 6,803 34 12,924 66 Temporary 1,255 6 375 30 880 70 Canada 7,885 38 2,842 36 5,043 64 United States 8,912 43 3,000 34 5,912 66 Europe and Africa 2,115 10 704 33 1,411 67 Asia Pacific 923 4 333 36 590 64 Remaining Geographies 1,147 5 299 26 848 74 Notes: • Excludes workers who are not employees (agency and contractor resources)—under 5% of Stantec’s workforce. • Regional employment by contract and type is presented separately since most employees are full time (92%) and permanent (94%). 102-9 Supply chain SR, Supply Chain Management. 102-10 Significant changes to In 2018, acquired seven companies and divested our organization Construction Services operation. SR, About Stantec. 102-11 Precautionary principle As a consulting firm recognized for building sustainable communities, our market position is based on protecting the environment and society. As such, during our strategic planning process and following our enterprise risk management system, we evaluate and actively work to mitigate any potential environmental degradation resulting from our operations and project work. SR, Message from the CEO, Environmental Stewardship, Strategy, and Risk Management. A-2 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-12, External initiatives and Examples of Stantec’s memberships, subscriptions, and 102-13 memberships in associations endorsements of external initiatives follow. Aboriginal Environmental Leadership Circle Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure, Envision American Institute of Architects Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment American Water Works Association International Hydropower Association Australian Water Association International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001, Board of Certified Safety Professionals 14001, 20000 British Standards Institution International Water Association (IWA) Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Business in the Community National Association for Environmental Management Business for Social Responsibility Natural Capital Coalition Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 Canadian Society for Civil Engineering Social and Labor Convergence Project Catalyst – advancing women in the workplace Sustainable Apparel Coalition CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) The Climate Registry Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management UN Global Compact Engineers Australia UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Engineers Without Borders WasteMINZ Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Water Design-Build Council Fitwel Certification System Water New Zealand Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Water Research Foundation Green Building Councils Water UK WELL Building Standard Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior SR, Message from the CEO. decision maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and SR, Strategy and Risk Management. AR, pages M44-M50. opportunities CDP Disclosure. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, SR, About Stantec and Ethical Business Practices. AR, page 4. and norms of behavior Website, Purpose & Values. [SASB IF-EN-501a.3] 102-17 Mechanisms for ethics advice SR, Ethical Business Practices. AR, pages M49-M52. MIC, page 27. Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR, Sustainability Governance and Corporate Governance. MIC, pages 27-30. Website, Corporate Governance Guidelines. 102-19 Delegating ESG authority SR, Sustainability Governance. 102-20 Executive-level ESG responsibility SR, Sustainability Governance. CDP Disclosure. [TCFD: Governance] STANTEC INC. | A-3 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Stakeholder consultation on ESG topics is delegated to the director ESG topics of Sustainability, who reports to the Executive ESG Committee. Results are shared with the board-level HSSES Committee. SR, Sustainability Governance and Sustainability in Our Operations. 102-22 Composition of the highest SR, Corporate Governance. MIC, pages 16-21 and 31-40. governance body (board) AIF, pages 15-18. and its committees [TCFD: Governance] 102-23 Chair of the board Aram Keith was chair of the board in 2018. Douglas Ammerman will assume that role as of May 2019. MIC, pages 7 and 14. Website, Aram Keith and Douglas Ammerman. 102-24 Nominating and selecting Stantec’s Board Diversity Policy guides the nomination and the board selection of the directors of our board. MIC, pages 14 and 28-32. 102-25 Board conflicts of interest Identifying and managing conflicts of interest is covered during directors’ orientation and continuing education. We also implement guidelines on director overboarding. MIC, pages 31-34. 102-26 Board role in setting purpose, SR, Corporate Governance. MIC, pages 31-32. values, and strategies 102-27 Collective board ESG knowledge Stantec’s Executive ESG Committee informs the board-level HSSES Committee about economic, environmental, and social topics. SR, Corporate Governance. MIC, page 30. [TCFD: Governance] 102-28 Board evaluation of ESG The Executive ESG Committee provides direct input and analysis performance about our ESG performance, including our performance compared to our peers and to previous years. 102-29 Identifying and managing The Executive ESG Committee and director of Sustainability ESG impacts identify and manage ESG impacts and provide information to the board. Through various mediums, the board also receives regular input from stakeholder groups. CDP Disclosure. [TCFD: Strategy and Risk Management] 102-30 Effectiveness of risk SR, Risk Management. AR, pages M44-M45. management processes MIC, pages 31-32. CDP Disclosure. [TCFD: Strategy and Risk Management] 102-31 Review of ESG topics SR, Sustainability Governance. MIC, pages 39-40. AIF, pages 11-12. 102-32 Board role in sustainability SR, About This Report. reporting 102-33 Communicating critical SR, Sustainability Governance. ESG concerns 102-34 Nature and number of No critical ESG concerns were reported to the board in 2018. ESG concerns A-4 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-35 Remuneration policies MIC, pages 43-64 and 69-70. 102-36 Process for determining MIC, page 47. remuneration 102-37 Stakeholder remuneration MIC, pages 15 and 42. involvement 102-38, Annual total compensation The ratios for annual total compensation and for the percentage 102-39 ratio and percentage increase increase for our highest-paid employee to the median in each country of significant operations follows. Percentage Increase in Annual Total Annual Total Compensation Ratio: Compensation Ratio: Country Highest to Median Highest to Median Total Company 11.1 Not Available Canada 11.9 -3.9 United States 7.5 1.6 United Kingdom 9.2 -37.4 Australia 4.5 15.6 New Zealand 3.5 6.7 Notes: • Total compensation includes base salary and annual bonus but does not include long-term incentives. • Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not included in these numbers. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stantec stakeholder groups include employees, clients, communities, investors, our supply chain (subcontractors, business partners, vendors), and regulators. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Because Stantec is a professional services firm, less than 1% of employees are eligible for coverage under collective bargaining agreements. Some US employees (0.3%) belong to the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 12 and have maintained a collective agreement for over 10 years, without interference from Stantec. SR, Ethical Business Practices. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholder engagement is an essential part of Stantec’s stakeholders Sustainability Program. Stakeholder groups are identified by Stantec’s Executive ESG Committee during our materiality assessment process. For ESG topics, a pairwise evaluation determines the importance of one stakeholder to another. SR, Sustainability in Our Operations. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stantec engages with stakeholder groups in various ways (see the engagement table that follows). An engagement exercise, specific to GRI material topics, will be performed during the next phase of our materiality assessment. SR, Sustainability in Our Operations. STANTEC INC. | A-5 Employees Investors Employee engagement surveys Annual General Meetings Focus groups Earnings conference calls One-on-one meetings Investor conference presentations Integrity Hotline (third party) Meetings and calls with Investor Relations and Finance teams Post-acquisition surveys Investor disclosure requests Inclusion and Diversity Councils Industry research and publications Career Development and Performance Reviews Informal discussions at industry and professional Employee Resource Groups association events Developing Professionals Groups Subcontractors and Business Partners Clients Subcontractor prequalifications Regular meetings with account managers Joint project work Meetings and calls with account and project managers and Meetings with project managers and senior leaders senior leaders Vendors Brown-bag get-togethers to share lessons learned and best practices Contract negotiations Client surveys, questionnaires, and requests for proposals Quarterly business reviews Debriefs and bidder conferences for proposed projects Meetings with Procurement team Informal discussions at industry and professional Regulators association events Review of regulations Joint participation on technical committees Interactions during project work Communities Informal discussions at industry and professional Stantec in the Community Week (across our Company) association events Locally driven engagement initiatives (varies by region and Joint participation on technical committees locale) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Material topics presented in this report reflect ESG topics raised by stakeholder groups. Once the stakeholder survey from the updated materiality assessment is complete, we will summarize key topics and concerns raised. SR, Sustainability in Our Operations. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consoliStantec’s Annual Report covers all legal entities and services. dated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and Assessing materiality as part of our sustainability strategy ensures topic boundaries that our initiatives and reporting align with our business’s and stakeholders’ priorities. SR, Sustainability in Our Operations. 102-47 List of material topics GRI material topics as well as non-material topics are presented in this Index. Together, these topics complete the picture of Stantec’s ESG commitments and facilitate evaluations from investor-driven ESG rating systems. SR, Sustainability in Our Operations. 102-48 Restatements of information None. 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes in material topics or topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018. SR, About This Report. 102-51 Date of most recent report Our 2017 Sustainability Report was published in May 2018. A-6 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-52 Reporting cycle Stantec publishes an annual Sustainability Report. SR, About This Report. 102-53 Contact point for questions about Direct questions to sustainability@stantec.com. this report SR, About This Report. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report complies with GRI Reporting Standards: Core option. with GRI Standards All General Disclosures and topic-specific disclosures for material topics are included in this GRI Content Index. Full reporting demonstrates our commitment to transparency on important topics—those that apply to most organizations and that stakeholders are highly interested in. In addition to covering core requirements, this report covers all GRI 102: General Disclosures and covers all non-material topics (at a high level). 102-55 GRI Content Index SR, GRI Content Index. 102-56 External assurance Stantec commissioned ISOS Group, a leading sustainability report assurance and verification company, to conduct a third-party review of the content and quality of this report. Our greenhouse gas emissions inventory was independently verified by Bureau Veritas Group. SR, About This Report. STANTEC INC. | A-7 Material Topics Direct Answers and Omissions, Public Report References, GRI Standards and Disclosures [SASB and TCFD Recommendations] Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, Our economic performance and governance structures are covered 103-2, boundary, and management in depth in our Annual Report and Management Information Circular. 103-3 approach 201-1 Direct economic value generated Our 2018 gross revenue was $4.3 billion. and distributed SR, About Stantec. AR, pages 9 and M4-M42. 201-2 Financial implications and other Because we are a professional services company operating in leased risks and opportunities due to space, the impacts and risks of climate change to Stantec’s operations climate change are minimal. For us, climate action is a business opportunity: as subject-matter experts, we help clients prepare for, mitigate, and respond to a changing climate. SR, Sustainability at Stantec, Strategy, and Risk Management. AR, page M48. CDP Disclosure. 201-3 Benefit and retirement obligations AR, pages M18-M22, M29-M30, M34-M35, M49, F6, F8, F19, and F43-46. 201-4 Government financial assistance AR, page F63. GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, SR, Ethical Business Practices. 103-2, boundary, and management [SASB IF-EN-501a.3] 103-3 approach 205-1 Operational risk assessment We continually assess our global operations relating to corruption. The total number and percentage of operations assessed for corruptionrelated risks is deemed confidential and therefore omitted. Stringent control measures, in place throughout the organization, identify and mitigate the highest risks. 205-2 Communication and training Yearly, board members and employees must take Ethics and Business Conduct training, which includes details about anticorruption. In 2018, all board members and 99% of employees completed it. High-risk business partners must take the training, but specifics are deemed confidential so have been omitted. SR, Ethical Business Practices. 205-3 Confirmed incidents None. [SASB IF-EN-501a.2] GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behaviors 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, SR, Ethical Business Practices. 103-2, boundary, and management [SASB IF-EN-501a.3] 103-3 approach 206-1 Legal actions for practices None. [SASB IF-EN-501a.2] A-8 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX Environmental GRI 302: Energy 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, SR, Sustainability at Stantec and Environmental Stewardship. 103-2, boundary, and management 103-3 approach 302-1 Organization’s energy consumption Scope 1 and 2 consumption was 594,264 GJ (165,073 MWh). CDP Disclosure. 302-2 Energy consumption outside Stantec works with clients to reduce their energy use in the projects the organization we design and as a stand-alone consulting offering. Although we do not track energy consumption outside of our organization, we do influence clients to reduce their energy use. SR, Sustainability for Our Clients and Sustainable Development Goals. [SASB IF-EN-401a.2] 302-3 Energy intensity Stantec normalizes energy consumption by employee. Our 2018 Scope 1 and 2 intensity was 28.3 GJ (7.9 MWh) per employee. CDP Disclosure. 302-4 Reductions in energy consumption SR, Emissions and Resource Conservation. CDP Disclosure. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements SR, GRI Content Index 302-2. of products and services GRI 305: Emissions 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, SR, Sustainability at Stantec and Environmental Stewardship. 103-2, boundary, and management [SASB IF-EN-160a.2] 103-3 approach 305-1, GHG emissions: Direct (Scope 1), Stantec’s absolute emissions follow (presented in metric tons of 305-2, energy indirect (Scope 2), and CO2 equivalent [mtCO2e]). 305-3 other indirect (Scope 3) SR, Emissions. CDP Disclosure. [TCFD: Metrics and Targets] Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 10,333 mtCO2e 37,810 mtCO2e 29,318 mtCO2e 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions normalized by employee follow (presented in metric tons of CO2 equivalent [mtCO2e]). SR, Emissions. CDP Disclosure. [TCFD: Metrics and Targets] Scope 1 and 2 per Employee Scope 3 per Employee 2.3 mtCO2e 1.4 mtCO2e 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reductions of normalized emissions against baseline follow. SR, Emissions and Resource Conservation. CDP Disclosure. Scope 1 and 2 per Employee Scope 3 per Employee 36% reduction, 2013 baseline 2018 baseline 305-6, Emissions of ozone-depleting Because Stantec operates in offices, only GHGs are measured. 305-7 substances (ODS), nitrogen oxides ODS, NOx, SOx, VOx, hazardous air pollutants, and particulate (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) matter are not applicable and are therefore omitted. STANTEC INC. | A-9 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, The effectiveness of our management approach is evaluated 103-2, boundary, and management during our compliance performance review. 103-3 approach SR, Environmental Management. [SASB IF-EN160a.1] 307-1 Environmental laws noncompliance None. Social GRI 401: Employment 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, Stantec has numerous programs and practices in place to recruit 103-2, boundary, and management and retain our employees. We track our progress using an 103-3 approach employee engagement survey. SR, People-Centered Workplace. 401-1 New hires and turnover Total number and rate of new employee hires and turnover follow. Self-ID Total Female Male Age: Under 30 Age: 30 to 50 Age: Over 50 Minority # % # % # % # % # % # % # % Total Company New Hires 3,398 17.9 1,223 18.7 2,175 17.5 1,100 34.5 1,717 16.0 581 11.5 589 18.9 Total Turnover 3,017 15.9 1,070 16.4 1,947 15.7 596 18.7 1,695 15.8 726 14.4 538 17.3 Voluntary Turnover 2,243 11.8 843 12.9 1,409 11.4 503 15.8 1,300 12.2 440 8.7 406 13.0 Canada New Hires 1,430 19.4 532 19.8 898 19.3 441 39.1 729 16.8 260 13.8 263 20.7 Total Turnover 1,254 17.0 475 17.6 779 16.7 221 19.6 733 16.9 300 15.9 212 16.7 Voluntary Turnover 889 12.1 347 12.9 542 11.6 176 15.6 541 12.5 172 9.1 151 11.9 United States New Hires 1,189 14.4 426 15.2 763 14.0 408 28.5 547 12.9 234 9.0 306 18.0 Total Turnover 1,236 14.9 431 15.4 805 14.7 256 17.9 639 15.1 341 13.1 298 17.5 Voluntary Turnover 977 11.8 360 12.8 617 11.3 228 15.9 525 12.4 224 8.6 235 13.8 Europe and Africa New Hires 270 20.6 105 24.0 165 18.8 113 37.3 117 15.6 40 15.3 Total Turnover 169 12.9 62 14.2 107 12.2 48 15.8 95 12.7 26 9.9 Voluntary Turnover 135 10.3 49 11.2 86 9.8 42 13.9 76 10.2 17 6.5 Asia Pacific New Hires 182 21.1 77 24.9 105 19.0 52 34.4 118 21.8 12 7.1 Total Turnover 114 13.2 39 12.6 75 13.5 26 17.2 68 12.6 20 11.8 Voluntary Turnover 96 11.1 30 9.7 66 11.9 19 12.6 64 11.8 13 7.7 Remaining Geographies New Hires 327 28.8 83 28.1 244 29.1 86 48.0 206 24.9 86 66.7 20 14.6 Total Turnover 244 21.5 63 21.4 181 21.6 45 25.1 160 19.4 39 30.2 28 20.4 Voluntary Turnover 146 12.9 48 16.3 98 11.7 38 21.2 94 11.4 14 10.9 20 14.6 Notes: • Excludes agency, contractors, and temporary resources. • Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not included in these numbers. A-10 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time The information provided in this section is standard for full-time employees employees in our significant locations of operation. SR, People-Centered Workplace. 401-3 Parental leave Stantec provides parental leave in accordance with the local laws and regulations of the countries we operate in. Parental leave statistics are omitted because details are not tracked in the manner specified in the disclosure. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, All programs and records discussed apply to Stantec employees. 103-2, boundary, and management Subcontractors are assessed for their HSSE programs through our 103-3 approach Subcontractor Management System, which includes safety statistics, compensation coverage, program verification, and more. Then subcontractors are expected to manage and communicate any incidents and share any lessons learned through investigation and reporting. SR, Health, Safety, and Security. 403-1 Workers representation in formal Office safety and environment coordinators, designated for each joint management-worker health office location, connect employees in local offices to our broader and safety committees HSSE systems, resources, and professionals. The percentage of workers represented in management-worker health and safety committees is omitted because such committees are not commonly required of a professional service firm. When required by local regulations, we support the formation of officebased committees (we now have 107) but do not track the percentage of workers represented by them. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Incident rates, lost day rates, and lost time incident rates by region injury, occupational diseases, are shown in the first table that follows. lost days, and absenteeism, and Injuries rates by gender, type, and region, and work-related fatalities number of work-related fatalities by gender and region are shown in the second table that follows. SR, Health, Safety, and Security. [SASB IF-EN-320a.1] Total Recordable Lost Day Lost Time Incident Rate Rate Incident Rate (TRIR) (LDR) (LTIR) Total Company 0.41 3.56 0.14 Canada 0.47 5.01 0.14 United States 0.42 3.13 0.13 Europe and Africa 0.09 Asia Pacific 0.79 5.92 0.66 Remaining Geographies STANTEC INC. | A-11 Injuries Work-Related Fatalities by By Gender By Type of Case Gender Total Female Male Lost Restricted Medical Female Male Total Company 71 24 47 24 9 37 0 1 Canada 31 11 20 9 4 18 0 0 United States 33 9 24 10 5 17 0 1 Europe and Africa 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 Asia Pacific 6 3 3 5 0 1 0 0 Remaining Geographies 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Notes for both tables: • Data reported is for employees only. • Safety professionals assess incident details to categorize them based on the OSHA reporting standard. • Recordable injuries are those requiring more than first-aid treatment. • Incident reports are submitted to a central database by people directly involved in the incident. Investigations are recorded within the region and business operating unit. Actions are proposed and addressed. • One hundred employees work 200,000 hours in a calendar year. • Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) = (recordable injuries x 200,000) ÷ hours worked. • Lost day rate (LDR) = (lost days x 200,000) ÷ hours worked. • Stantec’s occupational disease rate is zero. • Absentee rate is omitted. We do not track an absentee rate because so long as job requirements are met, employees are granted latitude in managing their time away from the office. Many locations offer flexible work schedules and eco-friendly virtual work options. • Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not included in these numbers. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or None. high risk of occupational disease 403-4 Health and safety topics covered Stantec is a professional services firm with a very low number of in formal agreements with trade employees covered under collective bargaining agreements, so this unions does not apply and is omitted. GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, SR, People-Centered Workplace. 103-2, boundary, and management 103-3 approach 404-1 Average hours of training per year Following is the average hours of training per year that employees per employee have taken by employment category and gender. Average Hours of Training per Employee Employment Category Female Male Total Company 19.97 20.95 Managers 11.95 8.69 Professionals 24.55 22.60 Semiprofessionals 21.71 21.39 Administrative and Clerical 8.06 4.79 Skilled/Semi-Skilled 0.54 15.78 Note: Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not included in these numbers. A-12 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee During exit interviews, we provide information to employees about skills and transition assistance the portability of benefits. Transition assistance training is available programs when required. SR, People-Centered Workplace. 404-3 Percentage of employees The following table shows the percentage of Stantec employees who receiving regular performance received career development and performance reviews by employment and career development reviews category and gender. SR, People-Centered Workplace. Percentage of Employees with CDPR Reviews Employment Category Female Male Total Company 85 85 Managers 96 93 Professionals 86 87 Semiprofessionals 76 79 Administrative and Clerical 88 84 Skilled/Semi-Skilled 100 95 Note: Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not included in these numbers. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, SR, People-Centered Workplace. 103-2, boundary, and management 103-3 approach 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Of ten board members, four (40%) were women, six (60%) were men, and employees all were over 50, and no one identified as a minority group member. The percentage of Stantec employees by employment category, gender, age, and self-identified minority status (tracked only in Canada and the United States) follows. SR, People-Centered Workplace and Corporate Governance. MIC, pages 28-30 and 41. AIF, pages 11-12. Self-Identified Age: Age: Age: Minority Employment Category Total Female Male Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 (CA/US Only) Total 20,198 34% 66% 18% 54% 28% 19% Managers 1,054 19% 81% 0% 45% 54% 9% Professionals 12,535 31% 69% 19% 57% 25% 20% Semiprofessionals 4,705 27% 73% 21% 51% 28% 18% Administrative and Clerical 1,864 83% 17% 12% 53% 35% 20% Skilled/Semi-Skilled 40 5% 95% 8% 60% 33% 4% Note: Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not include in these numbers. STANTEC INC. | A-13 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and The base salary and base salary plus bonus ratio of females to males in remuneration of females to males our countries of significant operations follows. Total Canada United States United Kingdom Australia New Zealand Base + Base + Base + Base + Base + Base + Employment Base Bonus Base Bonus Base Bonus Base Bonus Base Bonus Base Bonus Category F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M F:M Total Company 0.75 0.74 0.77 0.76 0.75 0.74 0.76 0.76 0.61 0.60 0.67 0.67 Managers 0.86 0.85 0.93 0.92 0.78 0.76 1.00 1.06 0.82 0.84 0.82 0.83 Professionals 0.80 0.79 0.82 0.81 0.79 0.79 0.83 0.83 0.64 0.64 0.73 0.73 Semiprofessionals 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.88 0.89 0.89 0.90 0.90 0.71 0.71 0.75 0.75 Administrative 1.28 1.28 0.99 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.82 0.82 1.28 1.28 0.75 0.75 and Clerical Skilled/Semi-Skilled 0.68 0.67 1.18 1.18 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Note: Information for the 2018 UK acquisition of Peter Brett Associates has not yet been integrated into Stantec’s HR Information System so is not include in these numbers GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, Stantec is committed to workplace diversity, inclusion, and equality. 103-2, boundary, and management Our policies and practices specifically prohibit harassment and dis103-3 approach crimination based on characteristics such as race, ethnicity, sex, gender, color, creed, religious beliefs, citizenship status, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or disability. SR, People-Centered Workplace, Ethical Business Practices, and Supply Chain Management. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Our policies dictate that we respect the privacy and confidentiality of corrective actions taken these sensitive matters, so numbers and details are omitted. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 103-1, Explanation of the material topic, The effectiveness of our management approach is evaluated during 103-2, boundary, and management our compliance performance review. 103-3 approach SR, Cybersecurity and Customer Privacy. 418-1 Substantiated complaints None. concerning breaches A-14 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX A – GRI CONTENT INDEX Non-Material Topics Direct Answers and Omissions, GRI Standards and Public Report References, Disclosures [SASB Recommendations] 202 Market Stantec does not have a significant number of employees subject to minimum wage rules. For presence countries of significant operations, the average hourly rate of our lowest wage group is consistently higher than the minimum wage in that country. We hire local expertise when possible but do not track the percentage of senior management hired from the local community. 203 Indirect Stantec provides positive economic impacts to the communities where we live and work. As well, economic our Creativity & Innovation Program advances policy and new technologies. impacts SR, Sustainability for Our Clients, Thought Leadership, Community Engagement, and Indigenous Connections. 204 Procurement Our procurement spending supports office activities. We centralize vendors when possible to practices control costs and improve ESG performance. Project subcontractors are often local businesses. We track our diversity spending for US contracts. SR, Supply Chain Management. 301 Materials Stantec is a professional services firm, so most “products” are intellectual property. Even though the quantity of paper used for producing reports and drawings is nominal, we track paper use, reduce overall paper use, and purchase environmentally friendly paper. SR, Resource Conservation. 303 Water Stantec is a professional services firm working primarily in leased office space, so we have very little influence over our water use and virtually no control over water in our operations. But we work hard to conserve water. Through the services we provide, we positively influence the water withdrawal, recycling, and reuse practices of our clients. SR, Sustainability for Our Clients, Sustainable Development Goals, Environmental Management, and Thought Leadership. [SASB IF-EN-401a.2] 304 Biodiversity Stantec is a professional services firm working primarily in leased office space, so our operations have a low impact on biodiversity. Through the services we provide for clients, we have a significant impact in protecting and restoring biodiversity. SR, Sustainability for Our Clients, Sustainable Development Goals, Environmental Management, and Thought Leadership. 306 Effluents As a professional services firm working primarily in leased office space, Stantec produces and waste minimal effluents and waste. We maintain a few internal laboratories that responsibly dispose of waste materials and have comprehensive spill prevention processes. Through the services we provide, we are able to minimize the effluent and waste produced by our clients. SR, Sustainability for Our Clients, Sustainable Development Goals, Environmental Management, and Thought Leadership. 308, Supplier Because Stantec is a professional services firm, our supply chain includes vendors that are 414 environment centrally procured, plus we work with project subcontractors and partners. and social • Our Procurement team uses standard sustainability language. assessments • Our Subcontractor Management team screens subcontractors using numerous criteria, including environmental and social. We expect subcontractors to be ethical and follow our Partner Code of Business Conduct; high-risk subcontractors must acknowledge, in writing, that they will follow this code. SR, Ethical Business Practices and Supply Chain Management. STANTEC INC. | A-15 402 Labor As a professional services firm, Stantec has a very low number of employees covered under management collective bargaining agreements. No policies specify the amount of time required to provide relations notice before a significant operational change; however, our practice is to provide ample notice. Our change management processes minimize employee impact of operational changes. 407 Freedom of SR, Ethical Business Practices. GRI Content Index 102-41. association UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Principle 3. 408, Child and SR, Ethical Business Practices. 409 compulsory UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Principles 4 and 5. labor 410 Security perTwo employees, both trained in protecting human rights, oversee our Security Program. Because sonnel trained we are a professional services firm, the program’s goal is to protect our office-based employees in human from geopolitical threats, terrorism, crime, and natural disasters when in the office or traveling. rights SR, Health, Safety, and Security. 411 Incidents of Engaging with Indigenous Peoples and communities is critical to the success of our organization violations and projects. Stantec has an Indigenous Relations Program and seven Indigenous Business involving the Partnerships that work with our project teams so that our client work protects the rights of Indigerights of nous Peoples. Our focus is building strong partnerships and positive relationships. To the best of Indigenous our knowledge, no violations have occurred as a result of Stantec’s work with Indigenous Peoples. Peoples SR, Indigenous Connections. 412 Human Stantec’s countries of significant operations and types of consulting services performed do rights not pose significant risks for violations of human rights. Even so, our policies and programs assessments protect against occurrences. For project work done in countries where there are possible risks in our supply chain, our Partner Code of Business Conduct communicates our expectations about protecting human rights. SR, Ethical Business Practices. 413 Local Through project work, philanthropy, and employees who volunteer their time and expertise, community Stantec supports the economic development of communities. Our programs connect to the impact and arts, education, environment, and health and wellness, and, on our clients’ behalf, our development project work supports community partnerships. SR, Sustainability for Our Clients, Sustainable Development Goals, Community Engagement, and Indigenous Connections. 415 Political Company policy prohibits political contributions to individual politicians on the Company’s behalf. contributions We occasionally support measures on local ballots, after rigorous review. SR, Ethical Business Practices. 416 Customer For the services we provide to clients, we make extensive efforts to design projects that are health and safe for the end user. During field work, we protect the health and safety of our employees, safety subcontractors, and clients when they are on site and the communities that have physical access to the site. Before starting any field work, we prepare a Risk Management Strategy to address potential health and safety impacts. We document and monitor these impacts throughout the life span of the project. Compliance is audited via a rigorous internal and external audit process. SR, Health, Safety, and Security. 417 Marketing Our services are promoted to the relevant industry only. For marketing communications, and labeling we have no reported incidents of noncompliance with regulations. 419 SocioStantec has no significant fines or sanctions for noncompliance with laws or regulations in economic social and economic areas (including accounting and tax fraud, corruption, bribery, competition, compliance the provision of products and services, and labor issues). A-16 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX B UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principles Stantec Response Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and Stantec has a corporate responsibility to respect human rights. We subscribe respect the protection of internato the principles of the tionally proclaimed human rights • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • International Labour Organization’s Declarations on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Our Code of Business Conduct Policy and related training cover ethics, integrity, harassment and discrimination, anti-corruption, government contracting, political activities, and social responsibility. Protecting human rights is addressed in our Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Policy, and we comply with the UK’s Modern Slavery Act of 2015. SR, Ethical Business Practices. 2 Businesses should make sure Stantec’s Partner Code of Business Conduct addresses potential abuses they are not complicit in human that could occur in our supply chain. Stantec monitors best practice commitrights abuses ments when reviewing terms and conditions and managing projects. SR, Ethical Business Practices and Supply Chain Management. Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the Stantec does not engage in any practices that would impinge on freedom freedom of association and the of association or the right to collective bargaining. effective recognition of the right SR, Ethical Business Practices. to collective bargaining 4 Businesses should uphold the Stantec’s countries of significant operations and types of consulting services elimination of all forms of forced performed do not pose a significant risk for forced and compulsory labor. and compulsory labor Even so, we do have policies and programs to protect against occurrences, including our Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Policy. For project work done in countries where there are possible risks in our supply chain, our Partner Code of Business Conduct communicates our expectations and specifically prohibits forced and compulsory labor. SR, Ethical Business Practices and Supply Chain Management. 5 Businesses should uphold the Stantec’s countries of significant operations and types of consulting services effective abolition of child labor performed do not pose a significant risk for child labor. Even so, we do have policies and programs to protect against occurrences, including our Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Policy. For project work done in countries where there are possible risks in our supply chain, our Partner Code of Business Conduct communicates our expectations and specifically prohibits child labor. SR, Ethical Business Practices and Supply Chain Management. STANTEC INC. | B-1 6 Businesses should uphold the Stantec has a comprehensive Harassment and Discrimination Policy that elimination of discrimination in prohibits harassment or discrimination of employees based on characterisrespect of employment and tics such as race, ethnicity, sex, gender, color, creed, religious beliefs, occupation citizenship status, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or disability. SR, People-Centered Workplace and Ethical Business Practices. Environment 7 Businesses should support a Stantec supports the precautionary approach, and numerous programs precautionary approach to have been implemented to put this approach into practice. environmental challenges SR, Environmental Stewardship. GRI Content Index 102-11. 8 Businesses should undertake Stantec’s environmental commitments—consistent with our initiatives to promote greater Sustainability Policy; Health, Safety, Security, and Environment Policy; environmental responsibility and ISO 14001:2015-certified Environmental Management System— help the Company monitor compliance with environmental regulations and reduce environmental impacts. We actively track and report our carbon footprint and have programs in place to conserve resources. SR, Sustainability at Stantec and Environmental Stewardship. 9 Businesses should encourage Stantec is considered a leader in environmentally friendly designs and the development and diffusion invests in developing innovative technologies and approaches (for example, of environmentally friendly a $2.9 million investment in 2018 supports innovation, research and technologies development, and collaboration). SR, Sustainability for Our Clients, Sustainable Development Goals, and Thought Leadership Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against Stantec’s Ethics and Compliance Program, Code of Business Conduct corruption in all its forms, Policy, and mandatory Ethics and Code of Business Conduct training cover including extortion and bribery ethics, integrity, harassment and discrimination, anti-corruption, government contracting, political activities, and social responsibility. SR, Ethical Business Practices. B-2 | 2018 STANTEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable US and Canadian securities laws. Forward-looking statements are disclosures regarding possible events, conditions, or results of operations that are based on assumptions about future economic conditions or courses of action and include future-oriented financial information. By their nature, forward-looking statements require us to make assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. There is significant risk that predictions, forecasts, conclusions, projections, and other forward-looking statements will not prove to be accurate. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements since a number of factors could cause actual future results, conditions, actions, or events to differ materially from the targets, expectations, estimates, or intentions expressed in these forward-looking statements. Contact us for more information Head Office 400-10220 103 Avenue NW Edmonton, Alberta T5J 0K4 Canada Ph: 780-917-7000 Fx: 780-917-7330 sustainability@stantec.com Learn more about Stantec’s sustainability efforts at stantec.com/sustainability.
