Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd E.S.G. report issue 2 July 2017 June 2018 The pictures featured in this ESG report are the artwork of the awarded photographer Stefen Chow. The stunning portraits depict daily life in the companies of the Denis Group. 03 Our commitment 04 U.N. Global Compact 07 About this report 11 Key Indicators Scorecard 14 About Denis Asia Pacific 15 Governance and Ethics 19 Our People 22 Environmental Responsibility 25 Our next Report 39 04 05 All companies are under pressure today to make meaningful contributions to a more sustainable society and have been challenged to examine their impact on environmental and social resources. Shareholders are ultimately responsible for overseeing the implementation of their company’s long and short-term strategic plans; they play a crucial role in fostering an environment that will support the embedding of sustainability into the strategies of the companies they own. They must signal a willingness to their companies’ management toward elevating social justice, creating business value and meeting regulatory & environmental responsibilities. They encourage and push their companies to set sustainability objectives that are in line with what makes the most sense for their businesses. The Denis family have embraced the journey toward sustainability as this was both a natural transition and adaptation of the Group’s historical values to the world of today. For a 156 year family-owned enterprise, sustainability could ultimately be defined for the shareholders as the utmost desire to leave the most fitting family legacy: a flourishing Group our employees are proud to work for, reputable brands our customers are proud to shop for, and a sustainable company that we are proud to own and to pass on to future generations. The 5th generation of the descendants of Etienne Denis are indeed, very proud today to sign-off this second ESG report. Daniel Denis Olivier du Paty ESG Committee Chairman Chairman of Denis Group Holding SA, Director of Denis Group Holding SA, Board of Directors Board of Directors 06 Denis Asia Pacific’s journey towards sustainability started in 2011. We made a conscious decision to have a fundamental rethink of what manufacturing and marketing mean in today’s context. Sustainable manufacturing and marketing are strategic imperatives that reflect our company’s desire to deliver long term value to our shareholders as well as acting in our own self-enlightened interest to conserve the use of resources while achieving our corporate goals. Our role as CEOs is to initiate and supervise a comprehensive framework around sustainable manufacturing & marketing that would cover input and operations as well as the complete life cycle of the product. In this process, CEOs manage relationships between issues, objectives, policies and rules, and act to make them consistent with each other. The role of CEOs is also to gain management and employee support for the sustainability program, to act visibly and transparently, as actions put in place by top management provide the most powerful example to engage the entire company. CEOs should also encourage and reward the personal involvement of staff in sustainability efforts to increase participation and to generate a strong feeling of ownership and commitment to the company’s sustainability strategy. As CEOs, we will endeavour to conduct the change at an ideal pace that allows our staff to adapt and to change their views and habits, and that delivers results consistently without over-promising. We are also, determined to to lead the way in our markets and our business sectors. This is demonstrated in the report with many examples such as our involvement in SASPO, an initiative to promote the use of sustainable palm oil with WWF, our decision to source a significant part of the energy we use in production from renewables and the BCA Green Mark certification of all our buildings and facilities before 2030. Having embarked on this exciting journey of sustainable manufacturing & marketing, that we position as a key pillar of our corporate policy, the company will reap the many benefits it offers: the protection of the environment, the prosperity of the community as well as an increase in productivity, profitability and enhancement to our competitive advantage. Fabien Reyjal Ting Seng Hee Denis Group Holding CEO Denis Group Holding CEO 07 08 Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd has been a member of U.N. Global Compact, Network Singapore, since January 1st 2016. A reliable company’s value system Labour and a principled approach to doing business. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Corporate sustainability starts with a recognition of the right to collective company’s value system and a principled bargaining; approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, as a minimum, meet Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of fundamental responsibilities in the areas of forced and compulsory labour; human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination practices in one area do not offset harm in in respect of employment and occupation. another. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, Environment policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, companies are not only Principle 7: Businesses should support a upholding their basic responsibilities to precautionary approach to environmental people and planet, but also setting the stage challenges; for long-term sustainable development and success. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd has therefore pledged to incorporate the 10 Principles of Principle 9: encourage the development and United Nation Global Compact in its diffusion of environmentally friendly company governance and to live by these. technologies. They are divided into four main topics: Anti-Corruption Human Rights Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 1: Businesses should support and corruption in all its forms, including extortion respect the protection of internationally and bribery. proclaimed human rights; and Denis Asia Pacific has also pledged to Principle 2: make sure that they are not publish a yearly ESG report to openly complicit in human rights abuses. monitor the company’s progress. 09 The scope of the U. N. Global reference to the 10 Principles and to work Compact, Network Singapore on ad hoc solutions in order to keep what is membership. good, to correct what is found to be wrong and to amend what could be improved. The scope is inclusive of (1) Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, (2) all companies in which The company created an ESG committee Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd is in a position of (refer to page 12). The committee defined control by having a majority of shares and eight projects or pledges. The 8 pledges (2) SFI Supply Management Pte Ltd (a sister decided by the ESG committee come with holding company of Denis Asia Pacific Pte key indicators that are monitored and preLtd.) and its subsidiaries. sented in the ESG report. SFI works closely and uniquely for Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, therefore the Denis Asia Pacific shareholders decided that SFI and the companies controlled by this holding should be integrated into the sustainability journey and form part of the ESG report. In this ESG report, “DAP” or “the company” should stand for both Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd and SFI Supply Management Pte Ltd holding as defined on the above scope. The list of companies is published on page 18. Problem-solving strategy The group had a 156 year history and strong, established values before joining United Nation Global Compact, Singapore Chapter. DAP is also a medium sized company albeit with international coverage, and limited resources in terms of management resources which could be devoted to sustainability. It was therefore sensible and logical to adopt a problem-solving strategy, which consists of identifying the company’s weaknesses with 10 The 8 pledges decided in 2016, for the absence of any risk of radioactivity in 2017 and into the future, can be fish from the Pacific and implementing BPA-FREE linings in cans. divided into four main topics: Social: Environment: (6) DAP will start monitoring its companies’ (1) buildings and facilities belonging to DAP human resources as a whole across the two have to achieve Green Mark certification (or holdings with a set of various key indicators, its equivalent according to the country) such as gender equality per category, trainby 2030. ing and development, monitoring of medical leave and days lost due to injury. (2) The production facilities belonging to DAP have to implement a plan to: (7) DAP will increase the role of MyKenzen in . significantly reduce their energy supervising training within the company in consumption, especially from fossil fuels employee well-being and safety at work. The . significantly increase the share of two holding companies will encourage local renewable sources of energy in their energy initiatives relevant to this. consumption . significantly reduce waste. Governance: Supply Chain: (8) DAP is implementing a zero tolerance policy for any case of corruption, fraud, (3) All DAP suppliers should, within a reasonharassment, malpractice and unlawful able time-frame, sign and comply with our discrimination. This policy is complemented with a whistle-blower procedure. supplier code of ethics, in line with the Ten Principles of United Nation Global Compact. (4) The supply chain should propose and work towards solutions to the sustainability issues highlighted by the ESG committee. The two main challenges identified in 2016 for the supply chain are palm oil supply and tuna supply. (5) DAP wishes to be in advance of food safety regulations and inspire consumer confidence by being pro-active in implementing the latest recommendations, for example, guaranteeing the absence of mercury contamination in canned tuna, guaranteeing 11 12 This is our second sustainability report. The report covers our governance, social and environmental performance for the yearly period July 2017-June 2018, in comparison with the period July 2016-June 2017 and (when possible) with the period July 2015-June 2016. Our master report is planned to be biennial to match our action plans. This issue is an The ESG committee meets every two months. intermediary report between two main It decides on the ESG projects, it designates reports. the senior director or manager in charge for each project, sets the key indicators and An ESG committee at the highest monitors progress. level of management Accuracy of data We have constituted an Environment, Social and Governance committee (ESG committee) We rely on our internal procedures to verify at the highest level of management. The the accuracy of data and information committee is chaired by a family shareholder provided in this report. and member of the Denis Group board of directors, demonstrating the high level of As we are not a public listed company, the commitment in the durability and sustainabilESG committee freely decides the context, ity of the business model by the family scope and boundary of the company ESG owning the group of companies since 1862. report, but any information in the ESG report The group CEOs are the vice-chairmen of the is shared with accurate, relevant data in full committee. transparency and honesty. The Group Marketing Director acts as the If a project fails to reach its key indicator at coordinator and the leader of the ESG the time of the ESG report, the provisional committee. data will be provided with an explanation of the difficulties encountered in the completion The ESG committee also includes the Supply of the task. Chain Director, the Production Director, the Quality Director, the R&D Director, the Availability of the report: the choice Finance Director and the Human Resources of digital format Manager. The ESG report is to be published within The ESG committee, assisted when needed 6 months after the closing of the data by external experts, reviews and determines collection. the context, scope, boundary and prioritization of the ESG projects. The ESG report is available to anybody without limitation. 13 For sustainability reasons, the ESG report is available only in digital format. It can be downloaded in pdf from most of DAP’s websites. It is also available for consultation on https://issuu.com/denisbrands Feedback & contact The ESG committee considers it a duty to answer any question about our ESG report, which is relevant and not frivolous, but it will entertain only written questions addressed by email (ESG@denisgroup.net) or by post to: ESG committee Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Denis Group Building 21 Tagore Lane Singapore 787479 14 DAP Sustainability Key Indicators scorecard 12 Months July-June 2016/2017 2017/2018 PEOPLE Employees 1,595 1,645 Females employees 66% 67% Employee turnover rate 29% 24% Average training hours per staff 14.5 12.2 Equivalent medical leave days 10,274 11,129 Equivalent injury days (inside our premises) 537 697 Equivalent injury days (outside our premises*) 722 787 ENVIRONMENT GHG total emissions (tCO2e) 11,915 12,514 Packaging materials (mt) 5,527 5,062 Recycled materials in packaging (mt) 1,362 969 Percentage of recycled materials in packaging 25% 19% Electricity consumption (Mwh) 9,459 9,633 Natural gas consumption (mmBtu) 67,905 70,355 Charcoal consumption (mt) 364 576 Water input (m3) 364,245 360,735 Water discharged (m3) 240,412 259,775 Normal waste generation (mt) 3,667 2,862 Hazardous Waste generation (kg) 1,055 1,720 Recycled & Reused Waste (mt) 3,340 2,474 Percentage of Recycled & Reused Waste 91% 86% * We keep track of injury days outside the premises, which are caused during transportation on the way to or from work. 15 16 Our History Alce Nero and Denis Group formed a joint venture in 2004 to promote and distribute Denis Group has a fascinating 156 year Alce Nero, a leading Italian organic food history. The vision, mission, solid values and brand, all over Asia. business principles provide the foundations for this exceptional longevity. The In 2017, Denis Group opened a new descendants of Etienne Denis are still at manufacturing site near to Ho Chi Minh in the helm of the group’s businesses. Vietnam, with the aim of distributing its food brands in the Greater Mekong region. Denis Group gets its strength and stability from three different sectors, in which the Our vision of the future group is able to achieve and maintain a high level of professionalism, paired with a historiDenis Group is well positioned to benefit cally innovative spirit: food & beverages, health from the key trends that are expected to sciences, and consumer goods distribution. shape our future markets, namely: This ESG report covers the food & beverages continued urbanisation combined with activity which started in 1956 when Denis greater connectivity that requires convenient, Group took over the A.Clouet company in safe, healthy and cross-cultural food. Malaya with its main food business: Ayam Brand. Ayam Brand, founded in 1892 in pursuit of investment in the understanding Singapore by Mr Alfred Clouet, became an of better health through good nutrition, clean international brand distributed in more than food, and better hygiene. 30 markets on three continents and is ranked today 309th consumer brand in Asia. the pleasure of food discoveries and of (Asia’s Top 1000 Brands 2018, Nielsen) creating moments of reunion and surprise for family and friends centred around food; we To cater for the expansion of its food see this as a key preoccupation across the business, Denis Group invested heavily in world. production and logistics. The main production & logistics site is in Taiping, We see many opportunities for the Group in Perak in West Malaysia. It employs more than the coming years: 1000 staff. The Mafipro site consists of three factories and produces mainly canned fish the opportunity to make our brands truly and baked beans. The Guinea Foods factory global by reaching more consumers cans fish and sauces. Guinea Foods consists worldwide. of two factories to meet the growing demand for sauces. Taiping is also an important the opportunity to develop new & logistics base for the group with two large innovative segments such as ready-to-eat warehouse sites: SFI phase 1 and SFI meals, frozen foods, foods on-the-go and phase 2. foodservice solutions that better address the 17 needs of new consumers. the opportunity to promote the cultivation, manufacturing and use of organic & natural foods in the region. the new opportunities that will be brought about by the next big wave of massive investment in infrastructure in ASEAN in the next 10 years. and the opportunity to grow a sustainable food supply model with a concern for waste, nutrition and stability and with substantial social impact in society as we envisage it tomorrow. 18 Our companies Thailand The Commercial Company of Siam Ltd. Singapore Holding 1168/3-4, 2nd Floor, Lumpini Tower, Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Rama IV Road, Bangkok 10120 21 Tagore Lane, Singapore 787479 T + 66 2 285 6858 F + 66 2 285 6830 T +65 6459 8133 F +65 6459 2867 Vietnam Denis G.M. Co Ltd Companies controlled by this holding: Lot 17-4, Singapore Tech Park, Ben Cat Town, Binh Duong Province, Vietnam Australia T +84 274 357 9798 F +84 274 357 9799 A. Clouet (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 11 Melissa Place, Kings Park, NSW 2148, T +61 2 8814 8086 F +61 2 9678 9508 Singapore Holding: SFI Supply Management Pte Ltd Indonesia 21 Tagore Lane, Singapore 787479 PT. Faretina T +65 6459 8133 F +65 6459 2867 Jl. Radin Inten II, No. 8, Duren Sawit Jakarta 13440 T +62 21 8690 0868 F +62 21 8690 1336 Companies controlled by this holding: Malaysia Malaysia A. Clouet & Co (KL) Sdn .Bhd. SFI Food Sdn Bhd. 19 Persiaran Sabak Bernam, Section 26, 40400 PT 32730, Jalan Logam 5,Kawasan Perusahaan Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan Kamunting Raya, 34600 Taiping, Perak T +60 3 5191 1069 F +60 3 5191 1988 T +60 5891 8704 F +60 5891 3919 Mafipro Sdn. Bhd. Mexico Jalan Perusahaan Tiga, Kamunting Industrial SFI Alimentos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Estate, 34600 Taiping, Perak Tenochtitlan 570, 19 Puesta del Sol, Tel: +605-8912704 Fax: +605-8913919 LA Paz, 23090 BCS Guinea Foods Sdn Bhd Jalan Lintasan Perusahaan, Kamunting 3, Kamunting Raya, 34600 Taiping, Perak. Tel: 05-8911899 Fax: 05-8912899 Singapore Clouet Trading Pte. Ltd. 21 Tagore Lane, Singapore 787479 T +65 6459 8133 F +65 6459 2867 19 20 DAP has an excellent reputation for governance and ethics, built with consistency and determination over its long business history. The company intends to remain committed to the highest ethical and professional standards and also to integrate new governance and ethics requirements as the world moves towards more transparency, complexity and globalization. Governance Ethics DAP, including its subsidiaries and related Code of ethics companies, is committed to the highest corporate governance practices. DAP has a company code of ethics, which is published in the employee handbook and/or The Board of Directors of Denis Asia Pacific on the intranet for the companies that have it. Pte Ltd consists of ten members, including the Chairman, with overall responsibility for Zero tolerance policy for severe the approval of strategic plans, budgets, wrongdoings investments and financial results and for the support of the Group CEOs responsible for DAP has a zero tolerance policy for severe bottom-line operations. As part of its wrongdoings, therefore employees and commitment to best practice, the Company outside parties, such as suppliers, customers, pays specific attention to the composition of contractors and other stakeholders, are the Board and guidance thereof, the role requested to report any issue to the and responsibility of the Directors, access to management. They may use a website, information and conduct of shareholders “DG-report.net’, where their anonymity will be meetings. protected. This may be used to report any concern or complaint regarding: Internally, an Audit Committee is in place, reporting to the Board of Directors, with (1) Corruption and bribery responsibility to review audit plans with (2) Failure to comply with laws and internal & external auditors, to consolidate regulations audited accounts, to perform internal audits (3) Harassment and to investigate any matters related to the (4) Discrimination on the basis of gender, Company’s internal control system. cultural background or origin, disabilities (5) Theft Three directors of Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (6) Forgery make up the board of directors of SFI Supply (7) Misappropriation of funds and classified Management. This board adheres to the documents same principles of governance and audit (8) Abuse and misrepresentation of power protocols. and authority 21 This procedure is meant to protect genuine The ethics committee’s internal members are whistleblowers from any unfair treatment as M. Daniel Denis, Mr Nicolas Denis, Mr Ting a result of their report. Denis Group Seng Hee, Mr Fabien Reyjal, Mr Hervé Simon. encourages employees and outside parties Mrs Chan Kum Lin is acting as the ethics to put their names to their allegations committee’s secretary. whenever possible. The ethics committee The ethics committee has three main roles: (1) to set ethics rules that apply to all companies under DAP, except if the local law regulates differently. (2) to approve local company ethics & rules of behaviour. (3) to deliberate on reports of severe wrongdoings and to suggest what steps should be taken by the CEOs, including disciplinary sanctions or dismissal, if needed. Should the CEOs choose not to follow the ethics committee recommendations, they must inform the company shareholders with their reasoning. The ethics committee should be made up of representative(s) of the shareholders, of the CEOs, and representative(s) of the senior management. It should include at least one external member, chosen for his/her knowledge of the company and his/ her moral standing. As of today, the ethics committee’s external member is Mrs. Ai Ming Lee, Senior Partner at Dentons-Rodyk, Singapore Judge of Peace, Member of Singapore Copyright Tribunal, independent Director in the Boards of Agri-Veterinary Board of Singapore (AVA), Keppel Land Ltd, KReit Ltd and HTL Holdings Ltd. 22 23 DAP’s HR strategy is to attract, motivate, train and retain quality employees in order to build with them a profitable, durable and sustainable business model. Creating value for employees is an important Workers, located mostly on the site of part of our business vision. DAP believes that Taiping, Malaysia and Bet Cat Town, Vietnam our employees play the prime role of driving account for 89% of our people, while the company and determining its success. executives and management represent 6% respectively. We are committed to building an organization with a respectful and honest environWomen and various age groups have a fair ment for our employees, whilst creating value representation in the organization. Women for customers and stakeholders. account for 67% of all our employees. DAP is confident that their share in management Diversity and gender equality have always (42%) will improve in the coming years with been core values of the Group. Our employthe increasing percentage of females ees come from varied cultural and ethnic graduating from universities in Asia-Pacific. backgrounds. We are committed to creating a fair and inclusive workplace, where all employees are given equal opportunities for learning and development. Hiring and rewards are strictly based on merit, loyalty and confidence. At the end of June 2018, DAP employed 1,645 people, a stable figure versus end June 2017 (1,595 people). 93% of employment contracts are full time. Less than 6% Employee development is strategic for DAP. are temporary contracts. There are only 3 Our commitment is to create an environment part time contracts for the whole holding. where employees can develop their full potential. Continuous upgrading of employee . skills and knowledge is necessary to innovate, to work safely and to serve customers better. Providing regular training opportunities is also important for employee motivation. At end June 2018, DAP had provided 19,992 hours of training for the year . This represents an average of 12.2 hours per member of staff. The following chart shows an equal distribution of training hours within all categories of employees. 24 rence of such events. Therefore our Singaporean distribution company has decided on an action plan, comprising of (1)reinforcing its security and safety rules, (2)upgrading the Singapore safety certification from Bizsafe2 to Bizsafe3, (3)consolidating a set of systematic checks on the safety competencies of our contractors. At management level, DAP has a low employThe nutritional services, MyKenzen, part of ee turnover (8%). In production, our 24% DAP, has, as one of its objectives, to improve turnover is in line with the food industry in the well-being of employees. The certified labour tense markets with full employment. nutritionist of MyKenzen is organizing several At end June 2018, the yearly number of MC nutrition information campaigns for the holdleaves was 11,129 days: an average of 6.8 ing’s companies. MyKenzen is organizing days per employee. The average number of comprehensive health screenings, corporate days varies per category. Being food manufitness classes & sports days, nutrition talks facturers, the production sites have strict & nutrition campaigns throughout the year. rules to protect production from any contamination. In the same period, we had 1,484 Local company initiatives are developed injury days, comprising of 697 injury days under MyKenzen supervision to encourage inside our premises and 787 injury days staff to take regular physical exercise and caused by road accidents on the way to or improve their daily diet. As examples of these from work. 94% of injury days occur in proinitiatives, Australia is having a “Get Healthy duction. The average days lost due to injury at Work Program”, Malaysian factories have for men are 1.13 versus 0.84 for female. a monthly aerobics session and a weekly Healthy Wednesday with the distribution of This year was sadly marked by two severe free fruit and discounts on a healthier lunch accidents, including one fatal, of external at the canteen. contractors at our Singapore premises. A lorry driver lost his life by falling from his HR efforts are being developed in the area truck’s platform. A construction supervisor, of employees’ well-being at work. New female while working on the warehouse renovation, staff rest rooms and nursing rooms for fell from a rolling scaffolding, which a third breast-feeding mothers, monthly birthday party company had wrongly assembled. gifts and a renovated first aid room are a Despite initial investigations by the Ministry few examples of the many local initiatives to of Manpower which appear to clear our improve staff’s sense of belonging. Singaporean distribution company of any wrongdoings, we can not accept the occur25 26 This intermediary 2017/2018 report presents our progress toward meeting the objectives set in our master 2016/2017 report. We are aware of our responsibilities to future This 12,514t CO2e figure represents an generations and must strictly adhere to increase of 5 % compared to the last period exemplary environmental behaviour. We aim (11,915 tCO2e). It was expected as our Vietto produce high quality and healthy food namese production site became fully operaproducts, whilst reducing our impact on the tional. Its production increased by 88%, while environment. its GHG emissions only increased by 44%. We are therefore continually implementing new projects and developing our environmenOur offices reduced their GHG emissions by tal management system within our produc8% compared to the previous period. tion & logistics facilities and in our offices, taking advantage of new technologies, impleAt constant activity, our GHG emissions menting the highest international standards have reduced by 6%. We should be able and obtaining industry certification. to achieve the 15% target reduction as planned for the next master report, thanks to We believe that such exemplary focus and the forthcoming contribution of our new conduct is of proven economic benefit. It Solar Energy System, up and running since encourages the entire workforce to mirror August 2018. our actions, take initiatives and strive for professionalism and contributes to savings The target will be achievable as a conseand increased productivity. quence of a series of coordinated initiatives. GHG total emissions The highest international 12,514 tCO2e standards and certification ISO 14001:2015 certification Since our first ESG master report (2016/2017), we have been monitoring the direct quantity of Greenhouse Gas emitted ISO 14000 is a family of environmental man(GHG) by Electricity, Natural Gas and Charagement standards. They help organizations coal usage. minimize their operations’ negative impact on the environment, complying with applicable Within the two years period between its environmental laws, regulations and requiretwo ESG master reports (2018/2019), DAP ments and continually improving their perforaims to reduce its total GHG emissions mance with respect to environmental safe(at constant activity) by 15%. guards. 27 ISO 14001 is an internationally recognized In 2016, DAP pledged to have all buildings standard part of the European Union's and facilities under its ownership certified as Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). Green Buildings by 2030. The 12 year time EMAS requirements are considered to be the span will allow us to spread the investment world’s highest standards, with demanding and also adapt the renovation cycles of performance improvement, legal compliance, these facilities. and reporting duties. The latest version of ISO 14001 is ISO 14001:2015. In November 2017, the Denis Group Building, located at 21 Tagore Lane in Singapore, was The factories on our Taiping site (Malaysia) the first DAP building to be BCA Green have been certified under ISO 14001 since Mark certified following renovations 2013. In early 2017, we recruited a speundergone in 2016. BCA Green Mark is a cialist engineer to implement upgrades to benchmarking scheme, which incorporates meet the standards of the 2015 version. The internationally recognized best practices in factories successfully completed their ISO environmental design and performance in 14001:2015 certification in 2017. order to: We have also taken this environmental manFacilitate a reduction in energy, water and agement approach with our Taiping logistics material resource usage centre in adopting a life cycle perspective. It should complete its ISO 14001:2015 certifiReduce potential environmental impact cation by 2018. Improve indoor environmental quality for We will in addition deploy the same environbetter health and well being mental management system in our factory in Vietnam, aiming to be ISO 14001:2015 certiProvide clearer direction for continual fied in 2019. improvement Green buildings certification As the cost of certification and the certifiers’ availability vary according to the market, the Buildings have extensive direct and indirect ESG committee decided, during its meeting impacts on the environment. During their dated July20th, 2018, that DAP could use construction, occupancy, renovation, repuralternative Green Building certifications proposing, and demolition, buildings use energy, vided they are as stringent as BCA Green water, and raw materials, generate waste, Mark. and emit potentially harmful atmospheric emissions. These facts have prompted the Our facility in Selangor, Malaysia, started its creation of green building standards, certificertification process and aims to be certified cation, and rating systems aimed at mitigatby 2018. The next building to be certified will ing the impact of buildings on the natural be our facility in New South Wales, Australia, environment through sustainable design. by 2019. 28 Energy saving programs Energy-as-a-service A new business model has emerged which Yearly DAP energy consumption comes from considers energy as-a-service, redefining how three sources: Electricity (9,633 MWh), we should think about our relationship with Natural Gas (70,355 mmBtu) and Charcoal energy. Until recently, energy was considered (576 mt). a cost beyond our control – a necessary expense required to run our facilities. In the Electricity consumption is split 90% for pronew energy-as-a-service model, we are duction/logistics and 10% for offices. changing our relationship with energy in two important ways: The slight increase can be explained by several factors that occurred during this period: we have implemented intelligent software linked to a network of sensors, using One of our sites is using an additional cloud-based technology and analytics warehouse to keep raw materials. capable of monitoring and analyzing our Our overall production output has energy consumption in real time. increased during the period. It should be noted that our production in Vietnam we aim to reduce energy usage and increased by 88 %, while we managed to inefficiencies to improve business outcomes limit the electricity consumption increase by and reduce our carbon footprint. 8 %. Some new product developments require The eSight software that we are implementtesting outside of the normal production ing has been validated in many recognized time, resulting in longer usage of energy. companies around the world, such as Nestlé, Rolls Royce, and Airbus. Besides its economic benefits, we expect this energy control to contribute significantly to our carbon footprint reduction target. It gives us a better understanding of our electricity consumption, and its ins and outs. It provides high level analytical reports, dashboards and alarms to fully manage our energy consumption. It is the foundation of a global Energy Management System that allows us to aim to In the environment charts, MM stands for “Malaysia achieve higher objectives. This solution Manufacturing Site”, MV for “Vietnam Manufacturing helps us in securing projects on energy savSite” and O for “Offices” 29 ings. With close monitoring of energy conproduce around 1,341 kWp, were progressumption, savings objectives can be directly sively installed on 7 of the facility’s rooftops included in supplier contracts. It guarantees since February 2018. The entire solar the potential savings before the project, system was energized in August 2018. reducing the investment risks and giving management a proper basis for decisions The solar plant on its own should represent and follow-up. a reduction of 1,300 tCO2e per year. A saving of more than 10% of our current carbon footprint and 2/3 of our carbon The 2018 Solar Project emissions reduction target! In 2018, we installed a sizable solar plant on The Taiping site could easily take twice as our main industrial & logistics site in Taiping, many solar panels. We aim to monitor the Malaysia. evolution of solar and battery technology and we will be in a position to increase our We aim to produce around 20 to 30 % solar energy plant when new breakthroughs of the site’s electricity needs from this significantly improve the performance of both renewable source of energy. solar panels and energy storage. The PPA was signed in August 2017. The The outcomes of solar energy will fully lease project allows us to have cheaper appear in our next ESG master report. energy costs from the start without up-front investment. 20 years of fixed prices will allow us to improve our production cost control. At Materials and water the end of the 20 year lease, we expect the consumption installation to provide us with at least an additional 5 years of 20% (almost) free elecMaterials, water and energy consumption tricity for the Taiping site. occur mostly on production sites, so the report focuses on them in this chapter. We In launching this project we had to take nevertheless added office consumption where many things into consideration, for example the figures are significant, as is the case for the capability of our roofs and structures to paper. hold this number of solar panels. Moreover, as our solar system is intended to last at Materials consumption least 25 years, we took this opportunity to change some of our roofs. These new roofs (1) Raw materials include skylights to use fewer electrical lights, and to benefit furthermore from the Our factories produce a large variety of high sun’s power. quality food products for our customers. The 22,491 metric tons of raw materials mostly 4,065 solar panel units, which should consists of fish, beans, peas, tomato, sugar, 30 salt and other various food ingredients. DAP will sign up to the Singapore Packaging Agreement in 2018. The Singapore Packaging Agreement (SPA) is a joint initiative by government, industry and NGOs to reduce packaging waste, which constitutes about one-third of Singapore’s domestic waste in terms of weight. (3) Paper consumption (2) Packaging materials Paper has a major impact on the environment. 500 litres of water are necessary to We produce mostly canned food; therefore produce 1 kg of paper. All too often, certain our packaging materials are metal cans, players in the paper industry in South East glass jars, metal closures and cartons. Asia are potentially contributing to deforestation, with slash and burn practices leading to These packaging materials are highly degraded animal habitats, air pollution and recyclable. carbon emissions. The Forest Stewardship Council certifies that forest products, like Our commitment to reduce our impact paper and wood, have been sourced in an on the environment leads us to make environmentally friendly, socially responsible 19% of our packaging from recycled maand economically viable manner. The FSC terials, mostly carton. For three consecuwas founded in 1993 in response to contive years, our factories have managed to cerns about deforestation. use fewer packaging materials despite increasing production. Currently, 100 % of the paper used in our factories in Malaysia is FSC or PEFC certified. We are putting several initiatives in place to In our offices, this ratio is around 44%. This further reduce our packaging and its impact represents an improvement of more than on the environment: 20% versus last year. we are increasing the number of cans per Our paper consumption has slightly carton for those products with a high-turnincreased in both offices and factories. over on supermarket shelves. On the Manufacturing side, we were mainly impacted by an audit from the authorities, we are commissioning a piece of scientific for which it is mandatory to provide hardresearch to improve all our main packaging, copies of documents. If we remove this addilike for instance the possibility of reducing tional and exceptional consumption, we the metal weight per can without affecting should have seen a drop of 3%. the quality and safety of the food. 31 On the offices side, our monitoring has to save water and use it more efficiently. For included an Indonesian depot’s consumption example, one of our warehouses now uses which was not included in the previous conrainwater to clean the outside compound. We solidation. Nonetheless, the figures for paper also provide training for our staff on good consumption in offices are not good and we practices in order to use less water. In the should further our efforts to reduce them. production process, we aim to use water in a closed loop in the very near future. For the next ESG report, DAP aims to reach two significant milestones: Water discharged 100% paper certified as sustainable Our factories are equipped with Waste Water Treatment Plants (WWTP) to ensure that the a double digit reduction in offices’ paper discharged water is fully treated before consumption. release. Our competent and trained employees work every day to release clean water, Water consumption which meets the stipulated standards. Water input Currently, 73% of our water input is channeled through our WWTP. In the yearly period 2017/2018, DAP consumed 360,735 cubic meters of water versus 364,245 in the previous period. Water monitoring 99.2% was used by our production facilities. In the previous ESG report, the ESG commitSaving water is one of our top priorities and tee targeted a better understanding of the for the last three years, we have managed to 15% of unmonitored water. reduce our water consumption. After an extensive study of the factories’ All year long, factories make constant efforts water flow, we have identified the multiple uses of this water. Our production process 32 uses most of this unmonitored water to cool to unpack, and more fish already cut. Moredown the temperature of our cans. This over, some industrial packaging (like for water is clean and therefore can be flushed tomato paste) is now returned directly to to the monsoon drain every day.The study our supplier for re-use. highlighted the savings opportunity of re-using this water and our teams are now working on this project. The remaining quantities of unmonitored water usage comes from small, daily amounts such as in toilets, feed water injected in the boilers, water added in some sauces, water evaporated from steam generation. Waste management Hazardous waste is waste that cannot be In the yearly period 2017/2018, DAP’s manudisposed of as it could potentially pollute the facturing sites generated 2,863.6 tons of environment because of its ignitability, corrowaste (vs 3,368 tons for the previous period), sivity, reactivity or toxicity. This includes oil, the equivalent of 10% of the material input. batteries, solvents, paint etc.… Hazardous waste is monitored, properly stored and treated by authorized contractors, according to the regulations in force. The significant increase in our Hazardous Waste figure is mainly due to the forklift service which is now carried out internally. It is a transfer of responsibility and not an increase in Hazardous Waste generation. The positive result is a better monitoring of this hazardous waste, with the certainty that this oil will be properly treated and handled by Our waste is split between 2,862 tons of authorized persons. normal generated waste (mostly containers and packaging, scrap and rejected products, We also had a generation of old batteries sludge and metal) and 1.7 ton of hazardous requiring disposal. Moreover, the company waste. that previously collected our ink cartridges ceased operations. We therefore now have The drop in normal waste generation is to include this as hazardous waste from our mainly due to the incoming of raw materials. activities, and not as a product rented from We had purchased more fish without cartons our supplier. 33 Waste is a critical element of factories’ economic and environmental responsibilities. Our factories are putting more efforts in to the ONE YEAR OF control of our waste generation, by reducing, re-using and/or recycling. Environment Week This contributes to the factories’ productivity earnings whilst also contributing to the proAIRCON' POLICY AND GREEN OFFICE tection of the environment. At the end of the waste processing chain, 10% the final waste residue, which is in fact disposed of, is 389 tons, i.e. the equivalent 25 °C to 1.4% of the material input. 25°C policy and all office staff introduced to Green Office concepts WATER SAVING AND OIL POLLUTION In other words, we are able to give a 134 workers were given training Water leakage finding second life to 86% of our waste. on how to avoid oil leakage competition Environmental awareness Since the implementation of our United Nations Global Compact membership and our WASTE RECYCLING CAMPAIGN ESG policy, we have been organising events to make people more aware of environmental NO STRAW at canteen matters. Office staff have received relevant training Partnership with a local association to collect and about saving energy and resources like water recycle waste + awareness campaign in the canteen. and paper. QUIZ AND SURVEY Environment Awareness & behaviors of our employees In Production, an event called Environment Week is held every two months on various Practise plastic recycling at home. topics, such as oil pollution, water savings, Would recycle their waste if they had waste management, air-conditioning systems recycling bins in their neighborhood. or Water Treatment systems. Survey conducted in 2 o u t o f 3 p a r t i ci p a n t s c o n s i d e r themselves as being proactive in December 2017 among 40 employees protecting the environment. Our aim is for each factory worker to gain a Let's continue to go green together better understanding of environmental issues, to build on relevant knowledge and to create a sense of responsibility, commitment and policy ownership. 34 Supply chain sustainability We do not have a direct relationship with tuna fishing vessels as we work with fish canning factories, which produce our recipes to We believe that, for a Fast-Moving Consumer our specifications, and under our quality Goods business like ours, the sustainability control. Our area of influence is in the purof the supply chain is key to the durability chasing specifications we provide to the of the business model and to the company’s canned tuna manufacturers. ethics. The use of stringent tuna purchasing specifiAs an established centennial company, DAP cations that require sustainable fish sourcing benefits from a heritage of solid values. But, is our way of putting pressure on the tuna with an internationally renowned brand portfishing industry to make progress not only folio, DAP has also to check that its suppliers on sustainable tuna fishing but also on fair adhere in turn to its ethics and that they do and compliant labour practices. not participate in unsuitable and/or illegal Manufacturers who have been selected to activities or ventures that could taint the repproduce for DAP must accept our sustainutation of the company and of its brands. ability specifications. From 2017, all DAP suppliers should adhere Our sustainability specifications cover three to its “Code of Conduct” which can be downmain categories: loaded from this link: “Code of Conduct”. (1) The biomass As far as DAP’s direct supply chain is concerned, our Ethics Committee identified three DAP only uses tuna species which are not issues, sensitive to consumers, NGOs and endangered and from biomass that is public opinion: Sustainability of tuna supplies, healthy (not overfished). mercury risk in tuna and palm oil sustainability. These three topics have therefore been Data on the biomass situation is assessed by put top of the list of our priorities. Regional Fisheries Management Organizations (RFMO), international intergovernmental organizations dedicated to the sustainable manSustainability of tuna supply agement of fishery resources in international waters. We follow the Indian Ocean Tuna Even though DAP’s tuna business represents Commission (IOTC/iota.org) and the Western less than 0.1% of the yearly world tuna and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission catch, the company is committed to being a (WCPFC/www.wcpfc.int) in particular. Most of their brand that stands for quality and acts with data is published by ISSF (International Seafood responsibility by taking a strong stand for Sustainability Foundation HTTP://ISS-FOUNDATION.ORG/) sustainable fish sourcing, compliant fishing and manufacturing practices. DAP therefore only sources two species of tuna: Skipjack tuna (KATSUWONUS PELAMIS) 35 Most of our canned tuna is produced using ermen. It contributes to the local economy skipjack tuna. The skipjack tuna used by our and it is not listed as an endangered species brands is caught in the Pacific Ocean, in of tuna. On the down side, these local speareas assessed by WCPFC as not overfished, cies of tuna are not used by the major but they could come from any other fishing industries as they are less straightforward to area where skipjack tuna resources are collect and to process, therefore there is no healthy (not overfished) as assessed by official monitoring for their biomass. RFMOs. In the yearly period 2017/2018, 100% of the (2) The code of conduct skipjack tuna was sourced in line with this sustainability specification. This achievement As explained above, DAP works with suppliis in line with the previous period ers who share the same code of conduct for 2016/2017. their factories and who, in turn, make it mandatory for their own suppliers. Yellowfin tuna (THUNNUS ALBACARES) • Labour and social conditions comply fully DAP uses yellowfin tuna for canned tuna in with national laws and international treaties oil or in water. In some parts of the world, (preventing, amongst other issues, illegal yellowfin tuna is overfished. Our requirement labour and human rights abuses like slavery is that yellowfin tuna for our brands is fished or child labour). from the Western Pacific, which is assessed • No corruption. as not overfished by the WCPFC. • No tuna supply from illegal, unregulated, and unreported (IUU) fishing In the yearly period 2017/2018, 75% of the • No tuna supply from fishing vessels not yellowfin tuna was sourced in line with this certified as Dolphin Friendly or those practissustainability specification. This represents an ing shark finning or fishing endangered speimprovement of 13% versus the previous cies. period. Still, we have to face the fact that we may in the near future, experience several (3) The recommendations months without any supply from the Western Pacific. The only solution to further improve We play our role in encouraging our supplithis sustainability ratio on yellowfin should ers to improve catching methods for skipjack be to reduce the importance of this species and yellowfin tuna in order to limit bycatch in our production. (accidental catch of other species). So we intend in about 10% of our supplies, Most of our tuna is caught by purse seine to replace yellowfin by lesser known species fishing vessels and a small percentage from like Tonggol. On the sustainability balance, pole and line. We do not accept other methsuch a species presents both a benefit and ods of catching (like long lines) because of a drawback. On the plus side, Tonggol is a an excessive bycatch rate. coastal fish caught by local small-scale fishAs of today, our suppliers are unable to 36 distinguish between the percentage catch of since 2016, adopted radical measures to purse seine on free school tuna versus purse reassure consumers about its brands. seine on FADs as they are mixed in the fish ing vessels. We are, however, in constant For the total peace of mind of its tuna condialogue with our suppliers who are commitsumers, DAP sends each and every batch of ted to collecting data and sharing technical its tuna production for mercury analysis by information. This should allow us a better an independent laboratory. So since July understanding of the situation within a short 2016, one thousand eight hundred analyses time frame in order to improve our purchashave been performed. ing specifications. With 27 months’ worth of analysis, we are DAP is also in favour of the creation of more able to divide them into three categories: water and ocean sanctuaries to ensure that an important part of the marine biodiversity 52.8% of analyses comes with a “not be preserved for future generations. detected” result. The limit of detection is 0.04 ppm. Tuna & mercury 46.9% of analyses comes with a “not quanMost tuna consumers worry about the possitifiable” result, which means that the traces ble presence of mercury in tuna. Big marine of mercury are so insignificant that the lab predators like shark, whale, swordfish and machine is unable to give a figure in part per some big tuna species may contain traces of millions. The limit of quantification is 0.13 methyl mercury because mercury concentrappm. tions increase at the top of the food chain. 0.3% of analyses (5 production lots out of 1,800) come with a detection ranging The most stringent regulations in the world between 0.13 to 0.17 ppm, which remains accept a safe maximum level of detection of extremely low and far from the most strin0.40 ppm (parts per million) and western gent regulations in the world. markets usually set the limit at 1.00 ppm. While official websites are reassuring, many With this constant production monitoring, consumer websites often fail in providing the DAP is one of the few companies able to general public with clear advice. guarantee for each production batch the absence of mercury risks in the tuna distribAs explained above, DAP sources only small uted under its branding. sized fish from two species of tuna: skipjack and small yellowfin. Because the selected The Pacific Ocean & radioactivity concerns tuna are relatively small, they are naturally unlikely to concentrate mercury like big sized Since the Fukushima incident of March 11, predators. 2011, we have occasionally received Notwithstanding the tuna selection, DAP has, consumer enquiries in which concern is 37 expressed about possible radioactivity (1) The palm oil used in any DAP products contamination of fish caught in the Pacific should be sustainable. Ocean. As a consequence, DAP management Our factories are RSPO certified and they took the initiative to equip our Malaysian only source sustainable certified palm oil of canned fish factories with radioactivity deWest Malaysian origin. tectors. Since then, we have continued to test batches of our production. Up to today, (2) DAP product labels should be transparent analyses have always been negative, confirmand explicit. ing world-wide scientific experts’ reassuring When a DAP product contains palm oil, it consensus on this matter. has to be clearly stated on the ingredient list. Nevertheless, our investment in this equipment has not been wasted since we consider South-East Asia Alliance for Sustainable it, as per the question of mercury in tuna, to Palm Oil be our duty as manufacturer and marketer to produce the necessary evidence in order DAP is proud to be among the founding that our consumers can trust our brands and members of the South-East Asia Alliance for safely consume our products with total Sustainable Palm oil (SASPO), an initiative of peace of mind. WWF Singapore. The vision of the Alliance is to make CSPO Sustainable palm oil the norm to stop the haze as well as deforestation and animal habitat loss in the DAP palm oil policy region. It aims to provide a platform for companies to come on a sustainable journey DAP has, since 2011, implemented a policy towards producing, trading and using susof ‘responsible use’ of palm oil, by replacing tainable certified palm oil. it wherever technically possible, by an alternative vegetable oil with a healthier nutrient DAP palm oil policy proves that it is possible profile, like olive oil or soya bean oil. for medium sized companies to develop and implement sustainable and responsible poliToday, palm oil is present in a very limited cies. Recent years' events have demonstrated number of DAP products and our volume of that it is our duty to participate in all possipalm oil purchasing is as low as 100 MT per ble efforts to reduce and eventually eliminate year for Ayam Brand™ and 700 tons for haze from our lives. others brands. Whatever their size, all companies should Despite our extremely low use of palm oil, adopt this necessary environmental goal. DAP has nevertheless established and adhered to two stringent standards: 38 Thanks to its palm oil policy, implementWhile it has yet to achieve 100% physical CSPO, ed since 2011, DAP is 99.5% certified as Denis Asia Pacific is leading the way for other Singapore-based companies to follow.” sustainable for its palm oil ingredient and products, with the aim of achieving In 2018, Mr Hervé Simon, coordinator of 100% by 2019. DAP’s ESG committee was elected Chairman of SASPO. In its 2017 palm oil scorecard report for Malaysia/Singapore local companies, WWF In June 2018, Mr Daniel Denis, DAP’s ESG gave DAP the best score of 10 out of 12 committee Chairman, represented SASPO with this comment: at the Paris Roundtable summit on Sustainable Palm Oil. “Leading the way DENIS ASIA PACIFIC (AYAM BRAND) SCORE: 10 WWF commends Denis Asia Pacific for showing strong leadership in regard to the procurement of sustainable palm oil within the Southeast Asia region. Denis Asia Pacific has demonstrated transparency and commitment to purchase 100 per cent CSPO, is an active member in RSPO, a founding member of SASPO and publicly discloses the total volume of palm oil volumes used for each of their brands. 39 40 We aim to publish our next ESG master report in December 2019. By then, we expect to have reduced our carbon footprint by 15%, installed a fully operational solar plant, certified two more buildings under Green standards, reached 100% use of sustainable palm oil, and certified our Malaysian logistics site and our Vietnamese manufacturing site under ISO 14001:2015. In doing so, we will have increased our productivity, improved the image of the company and our brands and further ensured the durability of our business model. The main transformation that we are ultimately seeking, however, is the mindset change of each and every member of our staff in order to generate a strong feeling of ownership, pride and commitment to the company’s sustainability strategy. ESG committee Denis Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Denis Group Building 21 Tagore Lane Singapore 787479
