United Nations Global Compact South East Water Communication on Progress 2018 Managing Director Statement of Continued Support At South East Water, our vision is ‘to help create a better world for our customers with forward-thinking water solutions, for all and always, that won’t cost the earth’. Our purpose, every day and every night – at every level of our organisation – is to deliver a continuous flow of healthy water for life. It means thinking ahead, understanding and even inventing what we need to do now, so that generations to come can rely on us, too. Our vision and purpose reflect our commitment to responsible business practice and putting sustainability into action and I am pleased to affirm our continued support for the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress we’ve outlined our key policies and actions that address the ten principles with examples of how we’ve made progress. We’re striving to reduce our environmental footprint, strengthen relationships with our customers and community, and create positive social and environmental impact through our activities and procurement. We believe what we’ve achieved in the past year has put in place the building blocks for us to bring our vision to life. Along with the Global Compact, we support the broader 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that together, aim to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice and protect our planet. We’ve identified five goals most relevant to our business and are integrating them into our strategy and operations so that we play our role in contributing to this global development agenda. We know that technology plays a key role in allowing us to provide increased value to our community. That’s why we’re always thinking ahead, adopting new technologies and inventing digital water solutions that benefit not only our customers, but also the water industry in Australia and beyond. Our water-saving solutions like OneBox® and Advanced BlokAid®, continue to deliver ways to help our customers use less drinking water and to make our network more efficient. In the coming year, we will continue to implement the ten principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals and further integrate these into our strategy, processes and operations. We aspire to provide all of our customers with the services they want in the most cost efficient way – no matter who they are or when they need us (today or 50 years from now). We’re driving change to create a sustainable future for our customers and our community. Terri Benson Managing Director Aboriginal acknowledgement South East Water proudly acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the land and waters on which it relies and operates and pays respect to their Elders past and present. South East Water acknowledges Aboriginal people as Australia’s first people and the lands of the Bunurong and Wurundjeri Tribes of the Kulin Nation that are within their service region. We embrace the spirit of reconciliation. South East Water recognises and values the ongoing contribution of Aboriginal people to Victorian life and how this enriches us. Introduction This report is South East Water’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact and describes our policies, procedures and actions that align with the ten principles of the Global Compact and the outcomes that we have achieved. This report also identifies the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals most relevant to our business and how we are putting them into action. We’ve referenced these goals throughout our corporate plan to identify where they align with our strategy and what we are focusing on to achieve progress. Key Highlights Key highlights of our actions that address the ten principles of the Global Compact include: • Human rights – We’ve expanded our Family Violence Policy to support our customers as well as our people. We’ve provided our employees with training in how to help detect and support those affected, and we’re enhancing our processes to better protect customer data in cases of family violence. • Labour – We put safety first and we’ve maintained a strong focus on creating a positive safety culture. We believe that this underpins absolutely every element of our organisation and supports each and every employee (including our contractual partners) in having a safer workplace. • Environment – We’re committed to carbon reduction and in 2018 formalised our corporate pledge to reduce our carbon emissions. We’re proudly on a path to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2030. • Anti-corruption – We’ve introduced ‘Stopline’, an online and telephone hotline service to provide an alternative independent, confidential and impartial helpline service to allow employees and contractors to raise issues relating to allegations that include fraud, corruption or other improper conduct within the workplace. About Us and Our Focus South East Water delivers water and sewerage services to customers in metropolitan Melbourne. South East Water is a state government-owned retail water corporation supporting customers in metropolitan Melbourne. We deliver drinking water, sewerage, recycled water and trade waste services to over 1.7 million residents and close to 60,000 businesses across Melbourne’s south east. We own, operate and maintain $4.1 billion of assets including water, recycled water and sewerage networks and manage more than 25,500 kilometres of pipeline. • Service area: 3,640 square km • Population served: 1.79 million residents • Customers (water): 762,245 connections: 702,375 residential (92 %) and 59,870 non-residential (8 %) • Drinking water supplied: 140.4 billion litres: 105.6 billion litres residential (75%) and 34.8 billion litres non-residential (25%) • Annual revenue: $1.09 billion dollars (Aust.) • Employees: 571 full-time equivalent Source: South East Water Annual Report 2017–18 iota Services Pty Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary of South East Water. Working collaboratively with South East Water, iota Services develops and shares proven innovations, technology and solutions with likeminded water utilities in Victoria and globally. iota Services has partnered with other organisations with international projects in Ireland, Fiji and Indonesia. iota Services also manages South East Water’s Priority Plumbing and delivers plumbing services outside our regulatory and geographic boundaries across Melbourne, the Mornington Peninsula, Bass Coast and Shire of Baw Baw. Our values framework During 2017–18 we reshaped the organisation’s values to drive and guide our decision making and our dayto-day actions. Human Rights United Nations Global Compact: Human rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2. make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Supporting human rights at South East Water The Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 (the Charter) is a Victorian law that sets out the basic rights, freedoms and responsibilities of all people in Victoria and requires us to act consistently with the human rights in the Charter. Supporting and respecting protection of fundamental human rights is demonstrated by our values and how they drive and guide our decision making and day-to-day actions relating to non-discrimination and diversity in people management, privacy, professional development, and work-life balance. We embrace diversity and a culture of respect and inclusion by clearly setting out the way we expect our people to behave and conduct business. We’ve committed to initiatives that continually improve our culture, capability, diversity and inclusion practices. Our human rights policies Our policies that address protection of human rights include: Diversity and Inclusion – outlines our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the way we work, how we do business and how we support and reflect the communities in which we operate. Code of Conduct – sets acceptable standards and expectations for the way we work, provides a practical set of principles to help us make decisions and demonstrates acceptable and unacceptable behaviours. Safety and Wellbeing – defines our commitment to the safety and wellbeing of people in all aspects of our business. Privacy Charter – ensures that we adhere to Information Privacy Principles under the Privacy and Data Protection Act 2014 (Vic.) and that we recognise the importance of protecting personal information and trust placed in us when supplied with personal information. Our human rights actions We’ve undertaken a range of actions to support and respect human rights through our business. Diversity and inclusion in our workplace Our customer base spans one of Australia’s most culturally diverse catchment areas. As a result we’ve set some aspirational gender, cultural and indigenous targets, captured in and driven via our Diversity and Inclusion Framework. We’ve provided training for all employees and a series of ‘Lived Experience’ sessions aimed at broadening employees’ understanding of family violence; challenges faced by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people; and Traditional Owner engagement. Preventing family violence We’re committed to supporting any employee or customer who is experiencing or are impacted by family violence. We’ve now expanded our Family Violence Policy to support our customers as well as our people, provided our employees with training in how to help detect and support those affected, and we’re enhancing our processes to better protect customer data in cases of family violence. Employees and customers can safely and confidentially report, disclose and request support for family violence related concerns. Supporting our customers in need Members of our South East Water ‘Assist team’ are specially trained to work with customers who want to pay, but can’t pay everything. This specialised team works in line with our commitment to treating all customers fairly, respectfully and with dignity. We’ve partnered with Better Place Australia to help support customers with free financial counselling, connection to community support services and referral to specialist providers. Supporting social procurement Our procurement strategy was updated in 2017–18 to reflect our commitment towards social procurement. This initiative also aligns with the Victorian Government’s Social Procurement Framework. Some of the identified actions in the strategy include raising awareness and educating the business on social procurement, updating our policy, procedures, and documents, including our tender templates to reflect social considerations, and increasing our spend with Aboriginal businesses and social enterprises. Supporting community partnerships Recognising that together we can do more, in 2017–18 we proudly committed to two new community partnerships. We joined forces with the broader water, utility and finance industries to support vulnerable customers as a founding partner of the Thriving Communities Partnership. Its purpose is to ensure fair access to the essential services needed to thrive in society. We also signed up to Choose Tap as a corporate partner, as part of our ongoing commitment to tap water as the best choice for health, affordability and in helping to protect our environment. Public access to information The Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Vic.) allows the public a right of access to documents that we hold. In 2017–18, we received 17 requests to access documents with most requests relating to details about water and sewer faults. Access was granted to 16 requests. The average time taken to finalise these requests was 26 days. No reviews or complaints were received by the Freedom of Information Commissioner and no appeals were submitted to the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal by Freedom of Information applicants. Our human rights outcomes Aiming for gender parity Our Diversity and Inclusion Framework supports moves towards gender parity. We’ve a target of 40 per cent of women in leadership positions by June 2019 and an aspirational target of 50 per cent representation by June 2021. In June 2018 we were at 28 per cent and we acknowledge we need to make further progress. Overall female representation of the total workforce was 48.3 per cent in June 2018. We’ve a shortlisting process that sets the expectation that all positions have a balanced shortlist consisting of 50 per cent female and 50 per cent male applicants. Diverse interview panels with female and male representatives is an expected practice. Advancing reconciliation We’ve been engaging with Aboriginal communities and the Traditional Owners of the land in which we operate to better understand the cultural value of water and spiritual connection to land and water. We’ve developed an Aboriginal Engagement Strategy to create lasting, mutually beneficial relationships with the Traditional Owners of the land within our service region. In 2019 we will release our first Reconciliation Action Plan to further recognise and support Aboriginal culture values and economic inclusion in the water sector. Office supply contracts strengthen social impact We have in place office stationery supply contracts with an indigenous-owned business, Muru Office Supplies, broadening our positive impact on the community. Meaning ‘pathway’, Muru Office Supplies aims to create a pathway towards a successful indigenous business sector that can help disadvantaged communities: 15 per cent of its profits go to indigenous community projects. The new contracts strengthen our relationship and reflects our commitment to reconciliation, a focus of our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and Framework. Labour United Nations Global Compact: Labour Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced compulsory labour; Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Upholding labour standards at South East Water Our approach to upholding international labour principles is demonstrated in our commitment to diversity and a safe and inclusive workplace culture. We put safety first and we’ve maintained a strong focus on creating a positive safety culture and a safe workplace. We’ve supported moves towards gender parity, raising awareness of Aboriginal culture, enhancing employee awareness of positive workplace behaviours and a focus on understanding and managing psychological wellbeing. We create safe and inclusive working environments and do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our workplaces. Our labour policies Our policies that address labour standards include: Safety and Wellbeing – defines our commitment to the safety and wellbeing of people in all aspects of our business. Diversity and Inclusion – outlines our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the way we work, how we do business and how we support and reflect the communities in which we operate. Our labour actions We’ve undertaken a range of actions to address labour standards. We put safety first We’ve been implementing our Safety and Wellbeing Strategy, including initiatives that grow and enhance our safety and wellbeing mindset, maturing our safety behaviours and further strengthening our safety systems. To ensure we have a safe working environment, free from physical and mental harm, we remain committed to cultivating safety leadership at all levels. We’re working closely with other metropolitan water corporations on safety issues of common concern, including confined space entry. A diverse and inclusive organisation We aim to attract, engage and retain diverse talent sustaining a productive and engaged workforce focused on successfully delivering our business strategy. We will eliminate cultural barriers enabling more effective work practices where all contributions are valued. We’re undertaking strategic workforce planning to ensure workforce capabilities needed now and in the future are identified and mapped against our learning framework to support the delivery of relevant skills via a range of solutions, including secondments, traineeships, rotations and training. We’re implementing leadership development programs to identify and support our leaders of the future. A new Enterprise Agreement Together, management, employees and unions have developed a new Enterprise Agreement to achieve a set of working arrangements, which meet the needs of the majority of employees and South East Water Our Enterprise Agreement aims to enhance the quality of employees’ working lives while also allowing us to achieve our strategic directions including increasing customer service, productivity and efficiency. Our Enterprise Agreement is in the final stages of approval with the Fair Work Commission (Australia’s national workplace relations tribunal) and is expected to be in place in early 2019. Creating new work opportunities Our grounds maintenance contractor, Enviro Management Services, provides people with disability a significant and meaningful opportunity to work, to learn and to participate as part of a high functioning team and to eventually transition into the open employment market. Enviro Management Services rotate up to five people with disability through work crews, and at times make up about 60 per cent of their total crew number as part of the provision of the services. Ministerial Directions for public construction procurement The revised Ministerial Directions and Instructions for public construction procurement apply from 1 July 2018. Key changes include higher procurement thresholds and for when mandatory evaluation criteria for occupational health and safety management and industrial relations management apply. We’ve communicated these changes to the business, and will be updating our policy, tender guidelines, and templates. We’re also a part of a Water Industry Working Group working towards achieving full compliance to the Ministerial Directions. Our labour outcomes Safety remains our highest priority We’re proud to report that in 2017–18, our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate, which measures recordable injuries across the number of hours worked, fell below our target of 14.5 injuries for the first time in three years. We’ve performed well in the areas of safety leadership through strong engagement at senior leader level, prevention of serious incidents through effective hazard identification and implementing preventative measures, increased accountability for closing out hazards and close calls on time and working collaboratively with contractors to strengthen trust. Key performance indicators 2016–17 result 2017–18 result Number of reported OHS incidents a 5 4 OHS committee meetings 12 24 Safety compliance training completed within 100% 100% 10 days of commencement a Incidents include the sum of Lost Time Injury (LTI), Medical Treatment Injury (MTI) and Restricted Work Injury (RWI) for the year for our employee data only. Environment United Nations Global Compact: Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Protecting the environment at South East Water We’re future-focused, putting liveable communities and a healthy environment at the forefront of our decision-making and creating technology that supports water efficiency. One of our greatest responsibilities is to ensure long-term water security while also minimising our impact on the environment including removing septic tanks and connecting properties to the sewerage system. Climate change is already having tangible impacts on our world and we’ve developed adaptation and mitigation plans for our assets and business operations. Our environment policies and strategy Our policies that support protecting the environment include: Environment – provides strategic direction for an effective environmental program that strives for continual improvement by setting high environmental standards. Risk management – provides guidance regarding the systematic management of risk to support the achievement of our corporate objectives. Urban Water Strategy – establishes our strategic water resource management directions and actions to 2065, to further support the creation of liveable communities and sustain our region’s geographic diversity. Our environment actions Reducing use of drinking water We’re continuing to develop alternative water solutions to reduce use of drinking water. Water conservation reduces our use of a desalination plant and defers augmentation of the centralised water supply system. In 2017–18, we supplied our customers with six billion litres of recycled water for reuse, and continued to expand our recycled water network. This included building a recycled water transfer main to supply approximately 2,000 residential properties. As of 30 June 2018, approximately 28,000 homes in our region were able to receive recycled water. This is in addition to the open spaces and sporting ovals irrigated with recycled water by local councils, and the vineyards, golf courses, market gardens, nurseries and turf growers who rely on recycled water to support their businesses. We continue to encourage customers to use water efficiently around the home and at work through website content, water bill messages, and social media campaigns, posts and videos. At Fisherman’s Bend, a new inner Melbourne urban development, we’re planning to use stormwater, recycled water and rainwater to help the people who will ultimately live and work in the area reduce drinking water use by 45 per cent. In another residential development at Aquarevo in one of our fastestgrowing corridors, new homes will use recycled water and rain to hot water systems to reduce reliance on drinking water by up to 70 per cent. Technology that supports better water management Our water-saving solutions, brought to market via iota Services, continue to deliver ways to help our customers use less drinking water and to make our network more efficient. We’ve collaborated with Monash University on multiple development and testing stages of our new rain-to-hot water system, which is ready to be installed into homes at Aquarevo – allowing residents to shower and bathe using hot rainwater. The OneBox® smart pressure sewerage system is a good example of a South East Water invention commercialised by iota Services. As well as being used in Australia (including in the Mornington Peninsula as part of switching properties from septic tanks to mains sewer), OneBox® technology has been adopted by organisations worldwide from New Zealand to Ireland. Reducing carbon emissions In our Five-year Customer Commitment 2018–23, we’ve promised to reduce our carbon emissions in a way that’s financially responsible, by implementing solar power at a number of water recycling plants and identifying new efficiency opportunities within our existing operations. This supports our commitment to reduce our carbon emissions by 45 per cent by 2025 from our 2016 baseline – and by acting now to help to mitigate the impacts of climate change, helps to secure the reliability of our services into the future. Reducing spills and adverse environmental impacts We’ve continued to actively work to improve the health of local waterways in the south-east region. We’ve done this through investments to ensure our sewer system capacity can handle population growth and the upkeep of existing pipes to reduce spills; an ongoing backlog program (to switch properties from septic tanks and onto mains sewer); and a pilot program to improve septic tank management. We’ve installed 25 new model Advanced BlokAid® devices to detect and prevent spills in our wastewater network – a step toward supporting real-time sewer monitoring. More sustainable procurement Our main areas of procurement are construction (36 per cent), maintenance (35 per cent) and goods and services (29 per cent). Examples of how we’ve incorporated environmental considerations into our procurement decisions include: • clauses in market approach documents requiring tenderers to disclose environmental practices • weighting of environmental considerations in request for quotes and tenders, where relevant to the contract • considering environmental impacts in the selection of goods/services procured • training our procurement team on a new industrywide procurement guideline to ensure indigenous organisations are highlighted as preferred suppliers for cultural training and resources. Our environment outcomes Key performance indicators 2016–17 result 2017–18 result 2017–18 target Total net CO2 emissions (tonnes) 42,097 46,418a 40,410 Effluent re-use volume (end use) 23.7% 29.4% 22% a The unfavourable net emissions result against both target and prior year is caused by a timing difference on the availability of biosolids data. When this data is available, the 2017–18 result is expected to decrease and align to our 2017–18 target. Anti-corruption United Nations Global Compact: Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption at South East Water Our success and reputation is dependent on honesty, fairness and integrity. Operating ethically and responsibly underpins everything we do. Our systems are important in providing appropriate levels of assurance and accountability across the corporation and perform a key role in ensuring the processes and controls against strategic and operational risks are functioning effectively. We’ve a comprehensive risk management, employment and conduct policy framework to provide clarity of expectations to employees and which operates in alignment with public sector values. Our anti-corruption policies Our policies that address anti-corruption include: Code of Conduct – sets acceptable standards and expectations for the way we work, provides a practical set of principles to help us make decisions and demonstrates acceptable and unacceptable behaviours. Compliance – defines our approach to compliance with laws, regulations and policies which impact on dayto-day activities. Fraud and Corruption – proactively protects South East Water’s assets and reputation by preventing and managing the risk of fraud and corruption. Procurement – provides a framework to manage procurement of all goods and services within an approved budget and delegated limit of authority. All procurement must meet the principles set by the Victorian Government Purchasing Board of value for money, accountability, probity and scalability. Gifts, Benefits and Hospitality Policy – provides direction and guidance on principles and responsibilities to ensure that gifts and benefits received are ethical, properly managed, appropriately disclosed and reasonable in terms of community expectations – our ultimate aim is to minimise gift offers accepted. Our anti-corruption actions Our policies, frameworks and governance practices provide the basis for how we prevent corruption. Governance practices and risk management We maintain a comprehensive framework of governance practices designed to provide appropriate levels of review and oversight. These mainly come from statutory requirements and good governance guidelines and are embedded throughout our corporation. We maintain an enterprise risk management framework consistent with the requirements of the Victorian Government Risk Management Framework 2015. Our risk framework is built on implementing a consistent, forward-looking approach to identifying and assessing uncertainty that may positively or negatively impact our ability to achieve our corporation’s purpose and ambition. Combatting fraud and corruption Our extensive compliance management framework ensures ongoing compliance with relevant laws and regulations including the Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission Act 2011 and the Protected Disclosure Act 2012. Our Protected Disclosure Policy and Procedure outlines how we respond to complaints of corrupt or improper conduct. Anyone can make a protected disclosure about us or our board members, officers or employees by contacting the Independent Broad-Based Anti-Corruption Commission. Maintaining ethical standards Under our Code of Conduct, all employees, contractors and consultants are obliged to immediately report any suspicions of fraud, theft or other dishonest behaviour by others. We’ve also conducted Conflict of Interest training and refreshed our Conflicts of Interest Declaration Process to proactively identify, manage and disclose any actual, perceived or potential conflict through a mandatory annual declaration. Our Conduct and Counselling Policy establishes key principles for providing an environment where our employees understand and are able to reach an expected standard of performance and conduct. Our Conduct and Counselling Procedure provides a framework to consistently, constructively and fairly manage under performance or misconduct in order to support employees to achieve and maintain acceptable standards. Cyber security South East Water is committed to ensuring security governance arrangements are clearly established, articulated, supported and promoted across the organisation and to enable management of security risks to public sector data. This is underpinned by creating and maintaining a strong security culture that ensures that all persons understand the importance of security across the core security domains and their obligations to protect public sector data. Introducing ‘Stopline’ Aligned with our corporate values and complementing our existing policies and processes, we’ve introduced an independent reporting channel or whistle blower program called ‘Stopline’. ‘Stopline’ is an alternative independent, confidential and impartial helpline service to allow employees and contractors to raise issues relating to allegations that include fraud, corruption or other improper conduct within the workplace. ‘Stopline’ will support other South East Water policies and processes in place to address concerns about illegal or unethical conduct. Safeguarding our reputation in commercial projects iota Services is partnering with other water utilities and research organisations on water sanitation projects in Ireland, Fiji and Indonesia. iota Services applies a country risk framework to assess security and political risk (that includes corruption risk) and ensure appropriate mitigation, such as through due diligence, commercial agreements and working through international research partners and government-owned water utilities. Our anti-corruption outcomes We’ve maintained a governance framework with ongoing education and awareness and avenues for reporting any fraud or corruption allegations. We’ve had no incidents of fraud or corruption through 2017–18. We’ve also had no investigations by the Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission. Progressing the Sustainable Development Goals at South East Water As a member of the Global Compact, we’ve committed to supporting its ten principles that align to responsible business practice and to also support the broader 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (goals). We’ve identified five goals most relevant to our organisation and are integrating them into our strategy and operations. SDG 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all We’re implementing this goal through: • Undertaking targeted upgrades of water mains throughout our service area • Designing and constructing water and sewerage infrastructure for new suburbs • Improving customer relationship management and service delivery • Identifying ways we can improve how we warn and inform our customers about planned and emergency interruptions to their services • Taking new innovations developed at South East Water and commercialising them for use beyond our borders and across the world through iota ServicesWorking with councils to better manage septic tanks and understand risks associated with unsewered ‘backlog’ areas SDG 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation We’re implementing this goal through: • Undertaking targeted upgrades of water mains throughout our service area • Implementing technologies like OneBox® and Advanced BlokAid® to help our customers use less drinking water and to make our network more efficient • Designing and constructing water and sewerage infrastructure for new suburbs • Piloting new technologies including meters and sensors across our network which could provide more timely information about their water use, including potential leaks • Investigating the impacts of climate change on our assets and adapting our asset planning processes accordingly SDG 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable We’re implementing this goal through: • Supporting the creation of water sensitive communities by completing development of rainwater and stormwater solutions for broad scale application in future urban communities • Protecting the health of Port Phillip Bay into the future by commencing a three-year sewer monitoring trial that aims to prevent sewer spills SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change We’re implementing this goal through: • Reducing our carbon emissions by using solar panels at our water recycling plants as part of our Climate Mitigation Strategy, for example, commissioning construction of two solar generation plants at our Pakenham and Somers Water Treatment Plants • Establishing a Climate Change Committee to oversee our ongoing and planned activities to meet our ambitious pledge to reduce our carbon emissions by 45 per cent by 2025 • Working with Intelligent Water Networks and 13 other water businesses to procure renewable energy at large scale to support our collective climate mitigation objectives SDG 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development We’re implementing this goal through: • Partnering with research institutions and other organisations on integrated water management and water efficiency solutions in Victoria and globally through iota Services • Taking new innovations developed at South East Water and commercialising them for use beyond our borders and across the world through iota Services Supporting Information Supporting information on our business and performance can be found in: • South East Water’s Annual Report 2017–18: which provides an overview of our operational performance, audited financial reports and key highlights, along with statements on our governance and management practices. • South East Water’s Corporate Plan 2018–23: which guides our business and shows how we’ll deliver healthy water for life now and into the future. • South East Water’s Customer Charter: which provides information on our service commitments as well as outlining the rights and obligations of our customers. Contact South East Water WatersEdge 101 Wells Street Frankston, Victoria 3199 Australia info@sewl.com.au southeastwater.com.au
