Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Sustainability Report 2018 Message from the CEO Long-term values More than 100 years of innovation for the benefit of our customers, employees, shareholders and the community – that is the hallmark of the Datwyler Group. Over this period, Datwyler has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. Building on our strong roots, we have developed our own style with high standards and unique values: − We are entrepreneurs. − We bring value to our customers. − We excel in what we do. − We have respect for others. We strive to deliver sustainable profitable growth for the benefit of our stakeholders as the foundation for adding longterm value and preserving the corporate independence of the Datwyler Group. In our efforts, we are addressing the challenges of our times. As early as 2008, we voluntarily adopted the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the sustainability section of our Annual Report, and in 2009 we joined the UN Global Compact. This is an initiative launched by the United Nations stating ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and in combating corruption. As a UN Global Compact participant, Datwyler commits to follow the ten principles and to accept its responsibility within society. This endeavour is based on the Datwyler values and the Code of Conduct that lay down globally binding rules for all Datwyler Group employees. As far as our suppliers are concerned, we have set out our requirements in a dedicated code of conduct based on the UN Global Compact since the beginning of 2014. Regular surveys of customers, suppliers and employees provide the basis for our process of continous improvement. Since 2013, the Datwyler Group has also reported its greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In this way, we live up to our social responsibility every day as a reliable partner to our stakeholders and contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Dirk Lambrecht Group CEO Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 1 Integration of the Global Compact Communication on Progress in the sustainability reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative Since 2008, the Annual Report published by Dätwyler Holding Inc. has followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Together with the detailed GRI Content Index, the Sustainability Report meets the latest internationally recognised GRI guidelines as confirmed by GRI. Since 9 November 2009, the Datwyler Group has been a member of the UN Global Compact. The table below summarises the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. More information about the specific actions and outcomes can be found on the referenced pages of the Sustainability Report and this GRI Content Index. All documents are available for downloading at www.datwyler.com. Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Sustainabilithe GRI Content ty Report 2018 Index 2018 Human Rights Principle 1: BusiThe Datwyler Group’s Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the Page 1: Page 5: nesses should companies and employees in the Group respect the human rights, Long-term values Ethics and integsupport and redignity, privacy and personal rights of every individual. Datwyler does Page 19-21: rity (102-16) spect the protection not tolerate any form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harAttractive employPages 7/8: of internationally assment or offence. In the reporting year 2018, the Compliance Officer er, agility and Social topics, proclaimed human (currently the CFO) received no complaints of alleged discrimination in empowerment human rights rights. Datwyler companies. In its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group comPages 24/25: assessment mits to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment. Fair business (412) practices Principle 2: BusiIn its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group commits to open and hoPages 22/23: Page 5: nesses should nest behaviour with integrity. The Datwyler Group gives its suppliers Sustainable Ethics and integmake sure that fair contractual terms and reasonable valuable consideration. In return, supply chains rity (102-16) they are not comDatwyler also expects the suppliers to treat their employees and suppPage 24/25: Page 5/6: plicit in human liers fairly and honestly. Fair business Stakeholder rights abuses. practices engagement Since 2014, the Datwyler Group also has a supplier Code of Conduct. Pages 7/8: Social topics Labour Principle 3: BusiThe Datwyler Group’s Code of Conduct explicitly states that employees Pages 19-21: Page 5/6: nesses should upare free to join trade unions. The Datwyler companies maintain a conAttractive emStakeholder hold the freedom of structive dialogue with internal employee representatives. Employees ployer, agility engagement association and the of the Sealing Solutions Division in Switzerland are subject to the and empower(102-41) effective recognition Collective Bargaining Agreement of the Swiss mechanical and electriment of the right to colleccal engineering industries. Group wide, 63.8% of the Datwyler Groups Pages 24/25: tive bargaining. workforce, were covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2017. Fair business practices Principle 4: In its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group commits to protect human Pages 24/25: Page 8: Businesses should rights. It categorically rejects the use of forced and compulsory labour. Fair business Social topics , uphold the eliminThe systematic sustainability reporting shows that all companies in the practices forced or comation of all forms of Datwyler Group comply with this. pulsory labour forced and compu(409-1) lsory labour. Principle 5: In its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group commits to protect human Pages 24/25: Page 8: Businesses should rights. It categorically rejects the use of child labour. The systematic Fair business Social topics, uphold the effective sustainability reporting shows that all companies in the Datwyler Group practices child labour abolition of child comply with this. (408-1) labour. Principle 6: BusiThe Code of Conduct lays down that Datwyler does not tolerate any Pages 19-21: Page 5: nesses should form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harassment or offence. Attractive emEthics and integuphold the eliminaIn the reporting year 2018, the Compliance Officer (currently the CFO) ployer, agility rity (102-16) tion of discriminareceived no complaints of alleged discrimination in Datwyler and empowerPage 7/8: tion in respect of companies. ment Social topics, employment and Page 24/25: diversity and occupation. Fair business equal opportunity practices (405-1), nondiscrimination (406-1) Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 2 Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Sustainabilithe GRI Content ty Report 2018 Index 2018 Environment Principle 7: BusiFor the companies in the Datwyler Group, environmental protection is Pages 12/13: Page 7: Enviness should supan important mission and, as such, is embodied in the Group’s values Leading quality, ronmental topics port a precautionand Code of Conduct. This encompasses both environmentally friendly products ary approach to production with efficient use of resources and the development of Pages 14-17: environmental products that are made of the most environmentally sound components Resource-friendchallenges. possible. ly production Pages 22/23: The environmental data in the sustainability reporting covers more than Sustainable 98% of resource consumption and waste and more than 90% of the supply chains workforce of the Datwyler Group. The Group is constantly investing in the maintenance and modernisation of its production plants worldwide. In the reporting year, investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to CHF 138.0 million (previous year: CHF 117.9 million). The impact on the use of resources is also considered when any investments are made in equipment and buildings. Principle 8: BusiAt the end of 2018, 17 Datwyler companies were certified to ISO Pages 12/13: Page 7: Enviness should under14001. Other companies are working towards ISO environmental Leading quality ronmental topics take initiatives to certification. products promote greater Pages 14-17: environmental The Sealing Solutions Division and its Swiss affiliate have been Resource-friendresponsibility. members of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2002. ly production During this time, Datwyler Sealing Solutions in Schattdorf reduced it’s Pages 22/23: CO2 emissions according to Swiss set of laws to 0. Sustainable supply chains A wood-fired electricity generating plant has been in operation at the Sealing Solutions Division’s Swiss site since October 2008 to supply process and heat energy. The use of renewable energy sources enables Datwyler to save around 500,000 litres of heating oil annually and to reduce CO2 emissions by some 1,300 tonnes. At the same location, Datwyler uses only 100% hydroelectric power from naturemade-basiccertified power stations since October 2012. This saves around 2’300 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. Principle 9: Environmental protection at Datwyler encompasses both environmenPages 12/13: Page 7: EnviBusiness should tally friendly production with efficient use of resources and the developLeading quality ronmental topics encourage the ment of products that are made of the most environmentally sound products development and components possible. With its proactive chemical compliance managePages 14-17: diffusion of environment, the company goes above and beyond the legal requirements. Resource-friendmentally friendly Datwyler proactively identifies substances of concern that are particuly production technologies. larly hazardous to health and harmful to the environment and prohibits the use of these substances for the development and production of new elastomer products. In many cases, Datwyler products directly help to protect the environment. One example is the new rubber gaskets for environmentally friendly natural gas engines or for Selective Catalytic Reduction technology to reduce nitrogen-oxide emissions from diesel-powered vehicles in the automotive industry. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: BusiThe Datwyler Group’s Code of Conduct strictly prohibits collusion, Pages 22/23: Page 5: nesses should work bribery and corruption. The Code of Conduct is reiterated to employees Sustainable Ethics and integagainst corruption in regularly during internal training sessions. Once again, no legal actions supply chains rity (102-16) all its forms, includfor anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices were Pages 24/25: Page 6: ing extortion and brought against Datwyler during 2018. Nor were any significant fines or Fair business Economic topics, bribery. non-monetary sanctions imposed on Datwyler for non-compliance with practices Anti-corruption laws and regulations during the reporting year. In accordance with the (205-2, 205-3), Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group does not provide financial Anti-competitive support to political parties, organisations or office holders. behaviour (206-1) Since 2014, the Datwyler Group also has a supplier Code of Conduct. Page 7/8: Social topics, supplier The internal auditors regularly monitor compliance with laws and obsocial assessservation of the Code of Conduct in all organisational units of the Datment (414-1), wyler Group. compliance (419-1) Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 3 GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Sustainability Report 2018 Integration of Sustainability Information following the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines The Sustainability Report 2018 published by Dätwyler Holding Inc. follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for the eleventh time. The report, together with the information compiled in this detailed GRI Content Index, has been prepared according to the latest internationally recognised GRI guidelines as confirmed by GRI. GRI is the world’s leading standard for corporate sustainability reporting (www.globalreporting.org). The GRI guidelines require disclosures that set the overall context for understanding an organisation’s sustainability performance. Furthermore, they cover disclosures on the organisational profile and numerous performance indicators relating to the organisational profile as well as to economic, environmental and social topics. By adopting these guidelines, Datwyler is seeking to provide its stakeholders with comprehensive and transparent information on the company’s sustainability focus. The GRI Content Index below shows where to locate specific information in the Sustainability Report or in the Annual Report. If you have any queries about Datwyler’s sustainability reporting, please contact: Guido Unternaehrer Head of Corporate Communications Dätwyler Holding Inc. Gotthardstrasse 31 6460 Altdorf / Switzerland T +41 41 875 19 00 F +41 41 875 12 05 guido.unternaehrer@datwyler.com www.datwyler.com Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 4 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 5 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 6 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 7 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Sustainability Report 2018 8
