HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES  Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals New Starlight Position New Starlight is committed to developing an organizational culture which supports internationally recognized human rights and avoid any involvement in the abuse of human rights. New Starlight practices fair employment including the right to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, and we are also committed to ensuring that all our employees receive fair treatment. Implementation We have made our employees aware of their rights policy by carrying out workshops and disseminating information via our employee handbook. We encourage our employees to communicate with us whenever they have any issues. Our employee handbook is reviewed, revised on an anuual basis to up to date with labour principles to better reflect the rights of employees. Additionally, we have invited social security board personnel to explain about employee rights and social security benefits. We frequently hold seminars and workshops by inviting speakers and trainers from various disciplines to educate our employees to achieve career 2 development. Measurement of outcomes Human Resources department served as primary communication for employees to address issues related to human rights violations. By having HR department and consultant for consultation, conducting social security benefit awareness workshops to employees and ensuring awareness of how company monitors and evaluates performance, there were no employees’ complaints of violation of Human Rights. We have reviewed and updated the existing processes and practices with consideration for the human rights principles. We hold management meetings on annual basis to review our labour policies based on all suggestions made. LABOUR PRINCIPLES  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining,  Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation New Starlight Position 3 New Starlights strives to create a rewarding working environment for our employees. Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. An open door policy has been established where employees can report grievances to their upper management and the HR department or even the Managing Director. The principles of non-discrimination, no forced labour, no child labour (under 18 years old) are highly respected by New Starlight. As such we do not employ any form of forced labour and child labour because we consider that as fundamental violation of human rights. All job applications went through detailed screening by our Human Resources personnel. All employees in New Starlight are given equal opportunities; hiring and promotion of employees are based on criteria like academic qualifications, skills and track record. Implementation New Starlight put great emphasis on employees’ welfare and has established several welfare policies in the employees’ handbook. Employees are made aware of the employee handbooks and provided orientation trainings on the first day of the work. Employees are encouraged to attend trainings and workshops conducted every month by prominent trainers. Weekly meetings between head of departments with HR director and Managing Director are held to ensure human resources issues and other work related issues are handled appropriately. A professional HR consultant has been appointed to ensure wellbeing of employees. As part of social welfare program, recreational activities, performance based bonuses, seasonal cultural ceremony events, annual staff party, and other activities were organized. In recognizing employee contributions to company, performance awards are awarded at the annual staff party. 4 Following are examples of policies New Starlight developed and implemented:  Employees are given paternal and maternal paid leaves.  Employees are not required to work overtime. Shoud there be a need to do so, they are compensated either financially or compensatory time off.  During recruitment, age verificaiotn is conducted with naitonal ID cards and underage people are not employed.  Employees from other parts of the country are provided with accommodation, transportation and food allowance. Measurement of outcomes All employees are treated with dignity and respect. Management carried out periodic review to abide by the country labor law. Employees are provided direct access to HR department to resolve labour violations. We have numerous communication groups for the employees to raise and address their concerns. Zero complaints from employees regarding company employees’ handbook and there is no child labor and force labor during the report period. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 5  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. New Starlight Position As one of the leading developers in the country, New Starlight is conscious of the environmental risks and threats to our environment and is motivated to protect and make a positive impact on local environment. We are committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. Implementation To minimize paper usage within the office, New Starlight has asked employees to limit their paper usage and keep printing records within each department. We have established various communication groups, thereby reducing the needs for printing and informing about the activities of various departments. Another way we are limiting the paper usage is setting up company email accounts and encouraged employees to correspond and communicate via email. New Starlight, put a great emphaiss on environemnt thus water treatment and recycling, landscaping and other environmental friendly measures are essential parts of the development in our projects. In Mingalar Mandalay and Muse Central Business District projects, we have separate drainage systems for rainwater and waste water. Waste water is treated prior to disposal. With regards to project development and its impact on society and environment, we have conducted Environmental Impact Assessment and Social Impact Assessment (EIA/SIA) prior to each development. We have shared EIA/SIA findings with government officials and public by organizing public opinion events. So that community will understand the benefits and 6 impacts of the development and raise out concerns if any. Measurement of outcomes New Starlight, being one of the first companies in upper Myanmar to conduct EIA/SIA study prior to development and both local and union governments commend our projects. Positive and Negative impacts created by the development and mitigation plans are shared with neighbouring community has built trust for the compnay. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES  Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery New Starlight Position To keep New Starlight’s vision of being a socially responsible business while operating as a leading developer in Upper Myanmar, we manage our businesses with dignity, fairness, transparent and are committed to responsibility to social and all stakeholders. New Starlight will not tolerate any act of bribery for purposes of obtaining or retaining favors or any improper advantages. Implementation 7 We believe that the basic needs of the employees and their family should be well taken care of to prevent any misconduct, corruption and bribery as such management pay close attention to the well-fare of our employees. All financial claims are checked on various levels before being submitted to finance department as to promote transparency and accountability in implementing our anti-corruption commitment. Measurement of outcomes Internal and external audits are conducted regularly to monitor and identify irregualar payments or financial transactions. There have been no reported cases of attempted bribery or conflict of interest and no disciplinary taken action on any of our employees. We will keep practicing the transparent reporting system and aim to improve our anti-corruption principles. 8
