Currie Communication on Progress 26 September 2019 Statement of support by Managing Director I am pleased to reaffirm Currie’s support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since becoming a participant in 2016, Currie has continued to integrate the principles into our business strategy and culture alongside our support and advocacy for the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our commitments as a certified B Corporation (B Corp). Since our previous Communication on Progress, we have completed a review of the sustainability issues that are material to our business. The outcomes have informed our business strategy and will be reported in our forthcoming sustainability report. We have attended and promoted several Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA) local events and have continued our advocacy of the SDGs by assisting clients align their sustainability strategies and reporting with the SDGs. Our commitment to using the power of business for good has been recognised by B Corp with a Best For The World honour for the third consecutive year. This public statement of support describes the actions we have taken and plan to take to ensure our ongoing focus into 2019-20 and beyond. Susan McNair Managing Director Currie Communications Pty Ltd ABN 82 050 913 909 Level 7, 84 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria, 3000 03 9670 6599 | info@curriecommunications.com.au www.curriecommunications.com.au Human rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights issues Currie supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as described in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Our commitment to these rights is encapsulated in our Code of Conduct that explicitly promotes human rights in the workplace. We support our team members’ human rights through our Flexible Working Policy and Leave Policy which ensures they can balance their individual circumstances and needs. Our OH&S officer and OH&S policy contribute to a balanced and safe workplace. What we’ve done These policies have been implemented through our activities in 2018-19 in three key areas: Supporting non-profit partners • We met our 2018-19 financial year target of 5% pro bono work with our social, environmental and non-profit partners, including the Banksia Foundation and the Asylum Seeker’s Resource Centre (ASRC) and The World Bank’s Capturing Coral Reef and Related Ecosystem Services project (CCRES) • With the completion of our longstanding partnership with CCRES we have sought new pro bono opportunities and have recently embarked on a partnership with the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR). We are providing communications and engagement training to ACIAR’s communications officers from Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Kenya, Vietnam and the Philippines to assist them promote ACIAR’s research and technologies that advance agricultural development and improve food security • We also provided media and communications support for the Outback Spirit Foundation’s efforts to help Indigenous farmers increase their production of native vegetables, herbs and bush foods • This year we donated to causes that support asylum seekers, cancer research and the preservation of the Australian bush. Advocating for human rights • Currie advocates for business to deliver improved social and environmental outcomes. Currie supported sustainable development and human rights, including the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), through social media and blog articles on our website and in our newsletter. • In a presentation to the national horticulture conference – Hort Connections – in June 2019, Currie’s principal advocated adoption of the SDGs in their sustainability approach. Currie’s principal also spoke at the national conference of Family Business Australia in September © Currie Communications Page 2 of 8 2019, on a panel advocating the benefits to people, planet and purpose of gaining certification as a B Corp • We created an awareness-raising campaign for the Asylum Seekers Resource Centre (ASRC) to help them promote diversity by showcasing asylum seeker stories to create connection and tolerance of these new Australians • We supported MADEC, a not-for-profit organisation that delivers employment, training and community development initiatives, to take a leadership role to promote the fair treatment of seasonal workers by preparing content for its newsletter and website informing horticultural growers about their responsibilities, regulations and the benefits of looking after workers • Currie produced a suite of material for APAL, the national representative body for apple and pear growers, as part of its ‘Looking After Workers’ campaign. Outputs included a video, Q&As, check list and online content to help them educate growers about their responsibilities to treat seasonal farm workers fairly. Improving the wellbeing of our staff • Our corporate policies and employee Code of Conduct promote human rights in the workplace. There were no OH&S incidents during the period • We continue to invest in formal staff training and in-house knowledge exchange events. Each staff member is encouraged to access up to $AUD2,500 each per year for professional development. Plans for the future We will renew our human rights commitment in 2019/20 through: • Embedding the results of our materiality review into our business strategy, and ensure we are measuring and reporting what matters • Embedding our new supplier Code of Conduct to seek suppliers’ commitment to adhere to the principles on human rights • Continuing our advocacy activities around the SDGs. © Currie Communications Page 3 of 8 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We aim to provide a safe, fair and rewarding workplace and so were proud to receive recognition as a B Corp Best for the World company in the Workers category for the third consecutive year. Our employee Code of Conduct sets out our expectations for a positive work environment. Currie’s Human Resources Manual articulates guidelines and processes for the exercise of labour rights, including leave, flexible working arrangements, performance review, pay adjustment and disputes. Currie supports the International Labour Organisation’s core conventions through strict adherence to Australia’s labour laws. What we’ve done We have continued our commitment to the following activities in 2018-19: Compensating employees fairly • In the final quarter of 2018-19, Currie conducted a successful trial of Personal Administration Days which provide every employee with an extra day of leave each quarter. • Paid employees above Award rates • Increased employee salaries higher than CPI increases each year • Distributed monthly bonuses to employees who met productivity targets • Paid End of Financial Year (EOFY) bonuses to all employees. Eliminating all forms of discrimination • Promoted gender diversity by supporting working women with 75% of executives being female • Establishing a workplace that caters to individual circumstances through open, flexible working arrangements. Maintaining a positive and healthy work environment • Commissioned a workplace safety audit to identify potential safety issues in our workplace. This WorkSafe OHS Essentials Program was delivered by an independent occupational health and safety (OHS) consultant, and findings have been acted upon • Our employee Code of Conduct and suite of HR policies promote respectful and positive workplace relationships • Supported the mental health and wellbeing of employees by providing access to a thirdparty employee assistance program. The program is made available in the event of traumatic incidents in an employee’s personal life © Currie Communications Page 4 of 8 • Held monthly one-on-one meetings between employees and the Managing Director – a platform to discuss and address any concerns and provide 360 feedback • Ensured the workplace had no OH&S incidents during 2018-19 through the implementation of our OH&S policy • Involved our people in the planning and delivery of Currie’s 2019 strategy day to gather suggestions for improvements, and input into strategic priorities • Completed a materiality review to identify our priority sustainability impacts and opportunities, including our role in creating a supportive working environment. Plans for the future In the next reporting period we plan to: • Produce our second sustainability report to demonstrate transparency in our labour commitments and performance • Implementing Currie’s new Personal Administration Day policy, which gives each team member an extra day of leave each quarter • Continue to uphold our commitment to a supportive and safe working environment. © Currie Communications Page 5 of 8 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 0 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Currie’s Environmental Policy Statement directs Currie to minimise its environmental footprint through: • Responsible use of materials and resources, including energy, waste and water and emissions • Responsible purchase of products and resources, including energy supply • Our decision-making processes when reviewing suppliers and accepting clients and pro-bono work • Off-setting emissions from travel. As a professional services consultancy we are in a position to encourage our clients and suppliers to adopt sustainable practices. What we’ve done We continued our focus in three key areas in 2018-19: Minimising carbon emissions • Our office is supplied by 100% renewable energy sources stemming from hydropower. This commitment to renewable energy significantly reduces our carbon emissions • Our policy is to offset 100% of our emissions generated through energy, waste and travel. We do this directly through airlines’ offset programs (51% of emissions offset) and via our ongoing relationship with Greenfleet (49%). This relationship saw 115 native trees planted during the period. Reducing waste to landfill • We introduced a Bokashi bin to recycle our kitchen food waste scraps into garden compost, and we organised our own recycling contract in the absence of a whole-of-building recycling service • We continue to reduce our waste footprint by using reusable KeepCups to minimise the use of single-use coffee cups, 100% recycled paper, rechargeable batteries and by recycling other brands. Promoting sustainable development outside the business • Outside the business, we actively promote and encourage environmentally sustainable practice through social media, blogs and pro-bono work with environmentally-minded organisations, including the Banksia Foundation • We continue to encourage our clients to align with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by initiating conversations about these global goals, incorporating them into © Currie Communications Page 6 of 8 sustainability frameworks and sustainability plans, giving presentations on SDGs at industry conferences and conducting SDGs mapping activities for our clients • When producing publications for our clients, we encourage them to consider the environmental impacts of printed options and use recycled stock where appropriate. Plan for the future For 2019-20 our plans include: • Embedding our new supplier Code of Conduct to influence environmental best practice • Report on our environmental impacts in our upcoming sustainability report • Continue our advocacy activities around the SDGs. © Currie Communications Page 7 of 8 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption 0 in all forms, including extortion and bribery Our staff act with integrity and this value is embodied in our Code of Conduct which explicitly sets out our anti-corruption policy: • Act and maintain a high standard of integrity and professionalism • Avoid apparent conflicts of interest • Business transactions may not be influenced by offering or accepting gifts • Under no circumstances may employees offer or accept money. What we’ve done • We have reviewed and updated our Human Resources Policy and ensured it upholds our anti-corruption commitments • We have continued to show our commitment through full compliance with Australian anticorruption law. We have achieved no corruption complaints, formal or informal, during the reporting period. Plans for the future In 2019-20 we are committing to: • Continue to uphold our anti-corruption stance and ensure existing staff and new starters understand their responsibilities. © Currie Communications Page 8 of 8
