2019 IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainability Report IBK Industrial Bank of Korea About this Report 02 About Reporting Principle and Guideline this As IBK’s sixth sustainability report, this publication has been produced to transparently share its sustainability management activities and performance results for 2018 with its stakeholders. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option requirement of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, an international Report guideline on the reporting of sustainability management, as well as the requirements of ISO 26000. The sustainability management activities and performances are presented on the basis of three material topics which were identified through a materiality assessment and the Management Approach guidelines. Reporting Period This report mainly covers IBK’s financial and non-financial activities for the period of January to December 2018, although it also covers the first half of 2019 in order to include information that could be important to stakeholders in making decisions. As for IBK’s quantitative performances, the report presents three years of data from 2016 to 2018. Reporting Scope This report covers the management activities of IBK’s headquarters, domestic/overseas sales branches, and overseas representative offices. Some social and environmental data on its overseas operations are presented on a non-consolidated basis due to certain limitations in data gathering. For such data, the reporting scope is specified. The financial data are presented on a consolidated basis, and have been prepared in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Assurance To guarantee the accuracy of the reporting process and the reliability of the reported content, IBK commissioned DNV GL, an independent assurance agency, to verify this report in accordance with the global assurance standard. The results of the verification can be found on page 88-89 of this report. The financial information in this report was audited by an independent auditor, while the GHG emissions and energy consumption were verified according to the “Administrative guidelines on greenhouse gas and energy target management systems. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contents About this Report 02 CEO’s Message 04 IBK IBK Overview 08 IBK Business Domain 10 Overview Vision and Strategy 12 Social Value 14 UN SDGs 16 IBK Co-up History of IBK Co-up Financing 20 Scale-up Financing 22 Financing Level-up Financing 26 Cycle-up Financing 34 BOX 38 Sustainable Corporate Governance 42 Ethical Management 46 Management Risk Management 48 Fact book Protection of Financial Consumer Information 50 Protection of Financial Consumers’ Rights 52 Maximum Consumer Satisfaction 54 Talent oriented Management 56 Human Resources 58 Social Contribution 64 Sustainable Investment Capital Financing 68 Support for SMEs’ Eco-conscious Management 69 Introduction to the Climate Finance Market 70 Creation of Social Economy 72 Development of Products for Greater Public Interest 74 Appendix Materiality Assessment 78 Stakeholder Engagement 80 Performance Data 82 GRI Index 86 Third Party Assurance Statement 88 Membership Associations and Awards 90 IBK Industrial Bank of Korea CEO's Message 04 CEO’s Message IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Since the foundation in 1961, IBK has always stayed committed to both SMEs and the general public as a reliable financial partner, even in times of difficulties. Today, despite adverse economic conditions at home and abroad, IBK continues to work with the SMEs, the pillar of the Korean economy, to create a sustainable future. Furthermore, we will strive to make coprosperity a reality for all, while fulfilling our motto to become Innovation Bank of Korea Leading into the Future. In 2017, IBK introduced a new paradigm called ‘IBK Co-up Financing,’ to proactively support SMEs as they face a variety of difficulties throughout their corporate life cycle. Comprised of three platforms of Scale-up, Level-up and Cycle-up financing, it began to bear fruit in 2018. ‘IBK Changgong’ is yet another platform to support start-ups and thus job creation. After opening offices in Mapo and Guro in the capital city of Seoul, Changgong now has a new office in Busan, the second largest city in Korea, to spread out entrepreneurship across the nation. In addition, PT Bank IBK Indonesia Tbk was established to expand the global network to better support SMEs in their overseas operations. IBK also became the first financial institution to offer ‘Shared Daycare Centers for SME employees’, so that SMEs can offer better welfare services for their people and thus can attract more talented job seekers. In an effort to prevent competitive SMEs from being forced out of the market, IBK provides M&A matching services which in turn help keep the precious jobs for the employees. As for innovation, IBK launched ‘IBK 1st Lab’ for collaborations with innovative startups, reflecting our belief that they are not competitors, but partners for mutual success. Also, we have put our extensive expertise and knowledge in the service of SMEs into a single digital platform called ‘BOX’ to help SMEs in their daily business operation. I am confident that these efforts for innovation, combined with IBK Co-up Financing, will bring IBK to the forefront of future banking amidst intensifying competition in the industry. At the same time, IBK is promoting inclusive financing. For the small-sized merchants and sole proprietors facing adverse business environments from economic slowdown and wage hikes, we offer special loans at very low, 1%-level interest rates, as well as nonfinancial services, including consulting and commercial district analysis. Employment is also one of the priority areas for IBK, as we believe solving the issue is essential to take the Korean economy to the next level. Therefore, we plan to help create 100,000 new jobs by 2022 through ‘i-ONE JOB,’ IBK’s job matching platform for SMEs and job-seekers. I am proud to say that IBK is the only SME-focused bank that made it to the Top 100 World Banks list, even without an M&A. This would not have been possible without you, the stakeholders, including the customers, shareholders and employees. In this respect, I would like to express my deepest appreciation to you all and promise IBK’s unswerving commitment to the customers, communities and the society as a whole for a better future. I ask for your continue support and encouragement for IBK as we endeavor to fulfil the commitment. Kim Do-Jin Chairman & CEO Industrial Bank of Korea IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Overview 06 IBK Overview IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 IBK Overview 8 IBK Business Domain 10 Vision and Strategy 12 Social Value 14 UN SDGs 16 IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Overview IBK Overview 08 IBK Overview Purpose of Establishment Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK) was founded in 1961 with the mandate to promote independent economic activities of small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) and improving their economic status by establishing an efficient credit system for them. Ever since the establishment, IBK has been leading the Korean finance landscape, putting the customers first and at the very heart of all activities, with a firm conviction that their success equates with the growth of IBK. Introduction As a financial partner that upholds ‘customer happiness’ as our highest value, IBK aims to pave the way for a better future with our customers. As a part of this endeavor, we are operating our ‘Co-up Financing’ program, which is designed to assist companies throughout their entire corporate life cycle and support their success through the ‘3-UP Platforms’ of Scale-up, Level-up, and Cycle-up. We also cooperate with our nine subsidiaries, such as IBK Capital and IBK Securities, in faithfully carrying out our true role as a financial company. In the future, IBK will always work for the success of our customers as a bank specializing in the provision of support for SMEs. Major Tasks · Loans and bill discounts for SMEs · Receipt of deposits and installment savings, issuance of securities · Domestic remittances, foreign exchange, and custody business/treasury agency/acceptance of payment · Borrowings from the government, the Bank of Korea and other financial institutions · Other duties as assigned · Tasks that have been approved by the government and are needed to fulfill the objectives of the bank’s establishment (Article 33 of the Industrial Bank of Korea Act) IBK Profile (As of December 31st, 2018) Credit Ratings (As of June, 2019) Date of Establishment August 1, 1961 Company Rating Agency Long-term Short-term CEO Kim Do-Jin IBK Moody’s Aa2 P-1 No. of subsidiaries 26 (including other subsidiaries) S&P AAA-1+ No. of employees 13,324 persons Fitch AAF1+ Total Assets KRW 289.5094 trillion (Consolidated) Operating Profit KRW 2.3964 trillion (Consolidated) Net Profit KRW 1.7643 trillion (Consolidated) Share Ownership (As of June, 2019) Common Share Preferred Share Total Shareholders Ownership Ownership Ownership No. of Shares No. of Shares No. of Shares (%) (%) (%) Ministry of Economy and 305,074,798 53.1 44,847,038 45.8 349,921,836 52.0 Finance Korea Development 10,490,000 1.8 46,915,282 47.9 57,405,282 8.5 Bank Export-Import Bank of 8,501,153 1.5 6,210,000 6.3 14,711,153 2.2 Korea Foreign Investors 134,109,296 23.3 134,109,296 19.9 Others 116,769,147 20.3 116,769,147 17.4 Total 574,944,394 100.0 97,972,320 100.0 672,916,714 100.0 IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Domestic/Overseas Branches and Offices (As of June, 2019) IBK has 21 local headquarters and 644 branches across the country. IBK also has a total of 58 overseas networks, including 46 local banking subsidiaries, 9 branches and 3 representative offices, and covers such major financial hubs as New York, London, Hong Kong and Tokyo. London Tianjin Beijing Yantai Shenzhen Shenang WuHan Tokyo New York New Delhi Suzhou Yangon Qingdao Hong-Kong Phnom Penh Hanoi Manila Hochiminh Jakarta Local Headquarters 21 Domestic Branches 644 Overseas Network 58 Subsidiaries IBK operates a total of 26 subsidiaries (regular and others) in order to provide the very best financial services. IBK Capital specializes in credit finance, IBK Securities makes financial investments, and IBK Asset Management is a collective investment company that provides diverse forms of financial investment services to large corporations, ventures, SMEs, and ordinary members of the public. Furthermore, as a mutual savings bank, IBK Savings Bank is developing into a leading brand in micro-finance services for local citizens and small and medium-sized business owners. As Korea’s first pension-specialized insurance company, IBK Insurance helps its customers to prepare for a financially stable future. IBK Systems not only provides support to IBK financial groups that need to strengthen their IT competitiveness, but also actively pursues external businesses. IBK Credit Information is engaged in debt collection and credit information services. IBK (China) Ltd. is striving to expand value creation through localization in China. IBK Ownership of Subsidiaries (As of June, 2019) Subsidiary Ownership (%) Subsidiary Ownership (%) IBK Capital 100 IBK Savings Bank 100 IBK Securities 83.9 IBK Systems 55.6 IBK Insurance 100 IBK Credit Information 100 IBK Asset Management 100 IBK (China) Ltd. 100 IBK Service 100 IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Overview Business Domain 10 Business 2016 2017 2018 Domain 48,831 52,600 56,323 574 3,394 6,264 11,646 15,085 17,643 Interest Income Non-Interest Income Net Profit (Unit: KRW 100 millions) Major Businesses Corporate IBK is expanding ‘Co-up Financing’, its mid-to-long term roadmap for SME support, Banking organizing events that enable the CEOs of SMEs to network, helping SMEs achieve growth through IBK consulting support, launching job creation projects, and providing assistance to startups and companies in the early growth stage. Global IBK is expanding its global network to realize its objective of ‘Co-up Financing’ by intensifying Markets its financial support for SMEs operating in overseas markets. We have also partnered up with export-related organizations to attract blue-chip companies as customers by helping domestically-focused companies become more export-oriented as well as holding export consulting events. Retail IBK is concentrating on strengthening the foundations for growing its retail banking business Banking by adding new customers and expanding its core customer marketing activities. While working to improve the asset quality of household loans, we are providing a wide range of asset management services that will increase customer satisfaction. Trusts and IBK sells specified money trusts by providing diverse products suitable for the market Retirement conditions. We are also working to protect the rights of financial customers by recording customer interactions when selling ELT. In the retirement pension market, IBK is highly trusted Pensions and known for its low-risk products. Mutual In the bancassurance business, IBK is making tremendous efforts to secure complete sales Funds and through numerous policies and programs that reflect the latest revisions of the insurance laws and marketing tailored to changing government policies. Our bank is also trying to reduce Bancassurance the workload of our sales offices and prevent customer complaints by improving the userfriendliness of our non-face-to-face channels. Credit Card Even though the payment market has become hyper-competitive, IBK is growing steadily through the introduction of new products such as the IBK Mutual Growth Card, IBK Mutual Success Card, and Walking Together with Youth Card, all of which are very competitive in the market. Notably, we issued 85,000 GD Cards despite their being a non-face-to-face product. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2016 2017 2018 ROA Net Income / Total Assets (average balance) ROE Net Income / Shareholder’s Equity (average balance) 0.44 0.53 0.58 NIM Interest Income / Interest-Bearing Assets (average balance) 5.92 7.12 7.70 BIS Ratio Total Equity / Risk-Weighted Assets ROA, ROE, NIM are based on the separate F/S under K-IFRS 1.91 1.94 1.95 13.13 14.16 14.50 ROA ROE NIM BIS Ratio (Unit: %, %p) Major Activities Major Achievements · Expansion of financial assistance and provision of tailored mentoring services for Investment in exit TCB loans startups and ventures · Completion of digitalization of corporate banking tasks · Expansion of the horizon of exit investments to support corporate successions KRW 20.5 billion KRW 53 trillion 12 countries · Carrying overseas businesses forward as part of a new paradigm that could expand Operating profit from FX business the horizons of the Asian financial belt, with the first milestone of this initiative being the founding of PT Bank IBK Indonesia · Strengthening of customized support activities specific to each growth stage for export-import enterprises 28 branches/office KRW 190.9 billion · Restructuring of IBK VIP CLASS, the bank’s new preferential customer service Retail deposit total Retail core deposits system · Expansion of branches to strengthen the bank’s comprehensive asset management KRW 59 trillion KRW 21.8 trillion · Launch of new products that are designed to suit the current market conditions, such Trust deposit balance No. of corporate subscribers as Gold More Trust and Foreign Currency Specific Money Trust to retirement pension · Ranked 1st in DC and IRP (amongst 6 banks that have the largest deposits) KRW 9 billion Ranked 1 st · Revision of the criteria for judging whether a behavior falls under the illegal practice Insurance sales fees Mutual Funds Sold of forcing customers to purchase financial product(s) in exchange for giving loans; Inhouse assessment of the insurance sales process · Launch of i-ONE ROBO, a fund portfolio recommendation service that utilizes a robot advisor KRW 65.2 billion KRW 8.6 trillion · Walking Together with Youth Card, IBK’s program for sponsoring the public transport New members Annual spent expenses of youths working in industrial complexes, occupying the top market share 80,000 First to reach KRW · The IBK Mutual Growth Card and the IBK Mutual Success Card reaching 250,000 41.7 trillion accounts accounts (As of the end of 2018) IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Overview Vision and Strategy 12 Vision and New Midto Long-Term Strategy Strategy IBK established a new midto long-term management strategy in 2017 to overcome the unpredictable business environment in Korea and overseas and to consolidate its market dominance in SME finance. At the same time, we introduced a new paradigm of SME assistance by launching IBK Co-up Financing. Furthermore, in 2018 we produced our first practical success story with Co-up Financing. We also developed a five-year innovation plan to increase our bank’s publicness and maximize our social value. After establishing our midto long-term strategy, we were named a global top 100 bank by The Banker, an international financial affairs publication based in the UK. Business Strategies and Goals Just as our slogan ‘Innovation Bank of Korea Leading into the Future’ claims, IBK established the business strategy for 2018 based on a systematic analysis of the business environment. The strategies for 2018 are focused on attaining sustainable growth centered on our customers, the future, and making a leap to the next level. We set reasonable business goals that would facilitate the successful execution of our strategies, and goals that would enable us to solidify our reputation as a leader of corporate finance for SMEs. We also changed the direction of our business strategy in a timely manner, taking into account the overall results and shortcomings of the first half, as well as the business environment in the second half. As a result, we were able to surpass our targets for key strategic indices, such as SME loan supply and net profit, and key indices related to non-interest and quality performance. Vision Your Financial Partner for a Better Future! Strategic Goal Until 2020 To build its foundation as a comprehensive financial group catering to SMEs Enhance profitability Strategic Direction Shift key competencies to Diversify the income focus on profitability portfolio Key Tasks (Social Value) Strengthen Expand the base Create card products and services Provide a stable supply of capital for market lead in for non-interest aimed at increasing social and SMEs and contribute to job creation SME financing revenue environmental values Supply the capital needed for social Broaden the scope Support the business continuity of Reinforce role SMEs through the activation of M&As stability and invest in balanced of global and IB as a policy bank and exit investments regional development businesses Make financial services more Maximize synergies Establish a joint investment Build up success accessible and inclusive through association with subsidiaries to within the IBK in retail banking CSR activities Financial Group enhance synergy in job creation Create a culture of sound financial Retake the Protect the SME ecosystem by Pursue new service consumption by securing leadership in risk identifying and guiding (potential) businesses competence in comprehensive asset management insolvent enterprises management IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 A Truly Good Bank The slogan “A Truly Good Bank” is our promise to become a truly good bank that provides the highest values to key shareholders such as the country, local communities, shareholders, customers, and employees. As a policy financing bank, we at IBK are committed to fulfilling our responsibilities and duties and producing the best results by improving our corporate value through sound management. Moreover, we will make a concerted effort to provide customers with the best products and services to create highest values for them, while creating a great workplace for our employees. Ki-eunsen, IBK’s Robot of Hope Ki-eunsen, IBK’s Robot of Hope, is a robot that lifts up our spirits in our daily lives and helps us to realize our dreams and hopes. While each customer may have his or her own unique hope, such as becoming a homeowner or starting a business, we all yearn with the same intensity. Just as Ki-eunsen, IBK’s Robot of Hope, is always there where hope is needed, we promise to become lifetime partners to our customers and help them achieve their dreams. Management IBK Philosophy After 2020 Asia’s Top Player in SMEs Strengthen efficiency Leadership Strong competitiveness Maximize the value of new Reform business processes for customer experiences greater efficiency Assume Build digital channels for greater Improve efficiency Increase productivity and prevent leadership in convenience and provide a in managing resource waste by merging and digital finance prepayment service for stability organizations streamlining branches Excellence Solid organization Strengthen professionalism through Enhance customer Expand customer participation Embed “innovation function-based HR management, and experience across all programs for the development of DNA” in the service channels cultivate female managers in order to better products and services corporate culture promote diversity Upgrade the personal information Promote the rights Foster the strategic Promote job stability by changing protection system and pursue social and interests of development of core contract positions to permanent contribution activities geared towards Power financial consumers talents positions the customer Change and innovation Improve information transparency by Fortify activating communication channels and communication with reflect meaningful ideas in business the stakeholders management IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Overview Social Value 14 Social Value Midto Long-term Goals 1 Establishing a sustainable job creation system v Create jobs by cultivating startups based on the Scale-up financial platform v Create jobs by enhancing corporate competitiveness based on the Level-up financial platform v Protect jobs and prevent corporate liquidations based on the Cycle-up financial platform · Create 100,000 jobs ( 20,000 jobs annually for the next five years) 2 Improving economic vitality by creating a startup ecosystem v Supply diverse funds to offer fair opportunities for startups v Increase the success rate of startups by expanding direct cultivation programs · Supply startup funds of KRW 100 trillion · Discover and cultivate over 500 startups 3 Leading innovation-driven growth by expanding SME support v Boost economic vitality by continuously expanding funding for SMEs v Provide SMEs with free business consultation services for growth · Supply KRW 240 trillion to SMEs · Provide 5,000 free business consultation services IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Major Achievements and Plans Improved job matching by linking the public with government jobs (21,047 new hires) Establishment of the ‘i-ONE JOB’ job portal Major Financial support program linked to recruitment Developed a KRW 60 billion fund for companies that create jobs achievements Welfare support for the employees of SMEs Opened childcare centers for employees of SMEs (Namdong Industrial Complex, Gumi 4 Industrial Complex) Construct an ecosystem to boost job creation, held job fairs, and provided Support for SMEs’ recruitment headhunting services Plans Funding for SMEs Support the improvement of SME job quality by raising KRW 60 billion by 2022 Support for youth employment Create 100,000 jobs by 2022, donation of congratulatory funds to young new hires Provided financial (investments and loans) and non-financial services to support IBK Changgong startups Major Supplied KRW 6.3124 trillion worth of IBK Startup Loans; created and operated a Diverse startup products variety of tailored products achievements IBK Startup 3 Plus Program Provided complete credit loans with deferred interest for one year; offered reduction of interest rate up to 1.0%p Expand from small-scale indirect investment through VC to joint direct investment Systematic investments from IBK Financial Group Establish organizations dedicated to improving efficiency and professionalism of Plans Installation of a working group dedicated to startups startup support Design of new products specialized for startups Increase loan limits; offer low interest rates; develop products with exemption of financial costs Surpassed the annual target of KRW 45 trillion set in 2018 and reached funding of Target funding level KRW 51.2 trillion Major Tailored investments Invested KRW 339.7 billion in 2018 to liberate SMEs from loan-dependent achievements fundraising Free consultation services Completed 1,166 special consulting projects on management, tax, family business succession, starting a business, and environment Reduce guarantee fee and interest rate through special investments from guarantee Reduction of financial costs of SMEs institutions Expand facility investments to KRW 15 trillion by 2022, Implement special provisions Increase of support for facility investments Plans when making investments New platform for technology transfers Invigorate the technology market by starting technology trading; register technologies available for supply and technologies in demand IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Overview Participation in the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 16 Participation UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) in the UN Sustainable In 2015, under the UN General Assembly, the international community Development agreed to adopt 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) for a sustainable future and the prosperity of humankind. Consisting of 17 Goals (SDGs) goals and 169 targets, the UN SDGs call for sustainable efforts in all areas of the economy, society and the environment, with the aim of promoting 'human-centered' values. IBK strongly identifies with this international movement and engages in the following activities in order to comply with it. 1 NO POVERTY 2 ZERO HUNGER 3 GOOD HEALTH 4 QUALITY 5 GENDER 6 CLEAN WATER End poverty in all its End hunger, achieve food AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION forms everywhere security and improved Ensure healthy living and Ensure inclusive and Achieve gender equality Ensure availability nutrition, and promote promote well-being for equitable quality and empower all women and sustainable sustainable agriculture people at all ages education and promote and girls management of water lifelong learning and sanitation for all opportunities for all 7 AFFORDABLE AND 8 DECENT WORK AND 9 INDUSTRY, 10 REDUCED 11 SUSTAINBLE 12 RESPONSIBLE CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH INNOVATION AND INEQUALITIES CITIES AND CONSUMPTION Ensure access to affordable, Promote sustained, INFRASTRUCTURE Reduce inequalities within COMMUNITIES AND PRODUCTION reliable, sustainable and inclusive and sustainable Build resilient infrastructures, and among countries Make cities and human Ensure sustainable modern energy for all economic growth, full and promote inclusive and settlements inclusive, consumption and productive employment sustainable industrialization, safe, resilient and production patterns and decent work for all and foster innovation sustainable 13 CLIMATE ACTION 14 LIFE BELOW 15 LIFE ON LAND 16 PEACE, JUSTICE 17 PARTNERSHIPS Take urgent action to WATER Protect, restore and AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS combat climate change Conserve and sustainably promote the sustainable INSTITUTIONS Strengthen the means and its impacts use the oceans, seas use of terrestrial of implementing the Promote peaceful and and marine resources for ecosystems, sustainably goals and revitalize the inclusive societies for sustainable development manage forests, combat global partnership for sustainable development, desertification, and sustainable development provide access to justice halt and reverse land for all, and build effective, degradation, and halt accountable and inclusive biodiversity loss institutions at all levels A solid partner that shares and gives A solid partner hope to customers while fulfilling its for SMEs social responsibilities Lead technology Protect financial financing for SMEs consumers’ data and rights Champion Create jobs for young environmental adults and nurture management of social enterprises SMEs Enhance welfare and Conduct social life of SME laborers contribution activities for the vulnerable group IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Priority Goals Of the 17 goals defined as UN SDGs, IBK is contributing to the realization of 11 goals, including 5 priority goals SDGs Commitments Description of IBK’s activities Clean energy · Renewable energy lending and investments Guarantee access to reliable, sustainable and modern energy for everyone at reasonable prices Quality jobs and regrowth · Co-up Financing Guarantee equal wages for the same amount of work hours for all men and women, (Scale-up financing, Level-up financing, Cycle-up eradicate all forms of child and forced labor, create a safe working environment and new financing) jobs, strengthen financial services · Construction of the social economy · Development of financial products for the public interest Industrialization, innovation and social infrastructure · Support advancement of the industrial complex Pursue industrialization and the building of sustainable regional and transnational · Development of a plan for opening the IBK infrastructure to promote economic development and human welfare Indonesia bank Reduce Inequalities · Response to the Basel Convention Cultivate political/social/economic inclusivity that encompasses everyone, monitor financial · Tighter management of global risks markets and agencies, improve regulations Partnerships for SDGs · Strengthening of financial safety through the Seek ways of implementing the objectives and actively pursue global partnerships for operation of dedicated organizations sustainable development Eradication of Poverty · Operation of a fleet of free food trucks called ‘IBK The term “all forms of poverty” includes not only absolute poverty, but also relative poverty Food Trucks of Love’ wherein the definition of poverty varies depending on the situation or the country · Emergency relief work in Indonesia concerned. “All regions” includes not only developing countries, but also OECD countries and other countries where relative poverty exists High Quality Education · Global volunteer work aimed at improving the Ensure high-quality comprehensive education for both women and men and increase educational environment lifelong learning opportunities for everyone · IBK Hope for the Youth Mentoring Gender Equality · Opening of childcare centers for SME employees For every country, ensure that women receive equal opportunities for participation and the chance to show leadership when it comes to providing public services, infrastructure, · Recruitment of female employees through social welfare benefits, economical and official affairs socially fair employment · Improvement of regulations on vacation and working · Operation of the IBK Women CEOs Club Sustainable City and Community · Launch of the IBK Eco Tour Project program for Provide a sustainable public transportation system focused on the needs of the people with disabilities economically disadvantaged classes and pursue sustainable urbanization · Green Card Program Respond to Climate Change · Maintenance of the leading position in the climate Implement emergency response measures to climate change, incorporate climate finance market response measures into the national policy, strategies and plans Peace, Justice and Systems · Provision of ethical compliance training at each Reduce all forms of corruption and bribery, develop transparent trustworthy systems, stage of an employee’s life cycle guarantee inclusive and participatory decision making · Operation of an ethical misconduct reporting system · Implementation of the clean contract system IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Co-up Financing 18 IBK Co-up Financing IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 History of IBK Co-up Financing 20 Scale-up Financing 22 Level-up Financing 26 Cycle-up Financing 34 Digital Platform BOX 38 Co-up Financing History 20 History of Pursuit of IBK Co-up Financing ‘Co-up Financing’, as defined by IBK, is a platform-based financial service that resolves in a creative IBK Co-up and active manner the problems faced by SMEs in their growth stages, and which supports the Scaleup, Level-up and Cycle-up of SMEs. With Co-up Financing, IBK will always stand shoulder-to-shoulder Financing with its client companies no matter what situation they find themselves in, and will actively fulfill its role in guaranteeing their success. The Co-up Financing Platform to be constructed by IBK to aid the Scale-up/Level-up/Cycle-up of SMEs will enable companies to prepare for new changes in the economic environment, the new era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution being a very pertinent example of such change. Mar. 2018 IBK opens the IBK Namdong Sarang Feb. 2018 Childcare Center for SME employees iBK restructures the corporate smart banking program Jan. 2018 IBK forms the Exit PEF project team to support SMEs undergoing management succession 2018 Full Gear-up of Co-up Financing Apr. 2017 IBK announces Co-up Financing Aug. 2017 2017 Official Launch of Co-up Financing Dec. 2017 IBK opens the 1st branch office of ‘IBK Changgong’ in Mapo-gu Nov. 2017 IBK forms the ‘Startup IBK launches the Venture Support ‘IBK TRADECLUB’ Group’, a team service, a global dedicated to providing B2B matching Scale-up financing platform IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 Mar. 2019 May 2019 IBK opens the 3rd IBK opens the branch office of ‘IBK IBK Gumi Sarang Changgong’ in Busan Childcare Center for SME employees Co-up Financing 2.0 Sep. 2019 IBK launches IBK Indonesia and IBK 1st Lab Aug. 2019 IBK commences operation of BOX, its digital management support platform Jul. 2018 IBK forms a head team to oversee consulting services Dec. 2018 for SME on M&As IBK upgrades the IBK Phnom Penh office to a branch Sep. 2018 IBK opens ‘i-ONE JOB’, a job platform for SME jobs The Concept of ‘IBK Co-up Financing’ Nov. 2018 IBK opens an office Oct. 2018 in Vladivostok Scale-up Financing Level-up Financing Cycle-up Financing BK opens the 2nd branch office of ‘IBK Changgong’ in Scale-up finance platform Level-up finance platform Cycle-up finance platform Guro-gu Scale-up financing to assist not Level-up financing to improve Cycle-up financing to assist merely the survival but also the the fundamental strengths of companies in smoothly success of startup companies a company entering and exiting markets “We aim to create 100,000 jobs in the next 5 years!” Co-up Financing Scale-up Financing Co-up Financing that partners with companies from their early days until they achieve growth 22 Scale-up Financing Scale-Up Financing Platform Scale-up Financing is a platform designed to establish a financial/non-financial support system capable of supplementing the corporate eco-system of startups. First, the platform has a venture nurturing system of the kind Scale-up financing to assist not that one usually comes across in a Silicon Valley bank. IBK will use this system to increase the early stage success merely the survival but also the rate of SMEs by connecting them with the various market players it needs in the early startup stage and the market success of startup companies establishment stage. In addition to being a loan provider, IBK will simultaneously provide field-oriented financing services by acting as a consultant, mentor, and investor. IBK will seek to develop the potential of domestic startup companies through top-rated accelerators, and by expanding networks and strategic alliances with overseas financial institutions. Furthermore, IBK will strengthen the technology financing support system in order to raise the survival rate of companies with promising technologies. It will also increase funding support for R&D and commercialization by tapping into government subsidies, and will lay foundations for growth by providing tailored package financing services to ease the growing pains of SMEs in their startup stages. Implement a venture Form strategic Boost technology Increase the survival nurturing system partnerships with financing support rate of early stage overseas agencies companies Scale-up Financing Level-up Financing Cycle-up Financing Scale-up finance platform Level-up finance platform Cycle-up finance platform Scale-up financing to assist not Level-up financing to improve Cycle-up financing to assist the fundamental strengths of a companies in smoothly entering merely the survival but also the and exiting markets company success of startup companies Expected Results of Scale-up Financing Expand ‘IBK Changgong’, Provide special Support SMEs with By providing tailored packaged IBK’s startup nurturing loans with ultra-low special free consulting financial services to domestic platform interest rates services SMEs which have already received KRW 116.6 billion 3 branch offices (Mapo-gu, our free consulting services, IBK Guro-gu, Busan) KRW 845.7 billion will lay solid foundations for their Identify and foster the growth of 99 companies growth. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 IBK Changgong IBK promises to provide a systematic incubation program through its Scale-up financing platform. We will provide startups with incubating services, such as mentoring and business startup consulting, in partnership with accelerators, as well as investments and loans that are tailored to the needs of each startup. | PROGRAM Discovery of Acceleration Support for expansion into Promising Startups domestic/overseas markets 1-1 2-1 3-1 Develop preliminary selection Diagnose startup Support global expansion standard 1-2 2-2 3-2 “IBK Changgong” carries the meaning Receive applications Implement the IBK type Manage follow-up and other of ‘to start a factory’ in Korean, and (advertise/marketing) accelerating program forms of support expresses the yearning to ‘rise to the 1-3 2-3 3-3 blue skies by starting a business’. Proceed to selection Add more startup support Directly invest as accelerator activities Types of Support Available Investments and Loans Sales Channel Development and Marketing · Review of top-rated companies for investment by the IBK Finance Group · Creation of opportunities to sell to IBK client companies (SMEs) · Support with hosting of Demo-Day & IR sessions in Korea and · Identification and matching of client companies of IBK partner global overseas banks with startups for business partnerships · Assistance with seeking/obtaining global funding · Assistance when applying to an overseas accelerating program Mapo-gu (opened on December 19, 2017) · Assistance with creating English/Korean IR materials · Assistance with participation in exhibitions and conferences · Help in securing special loans (as needed) · Assistance with product/service promotion and product/service design Education and Mentoring Office Space · IBK-type accelerating educational program · Provision of office space within IBK Changgong is free of charge · Mentoring by industry experts from professional organizations · Provision of space free of charge to selected companies that · Mentoring by IBK specialists in each relevant area want to move in * Companies must move out when the program ends. Guro-gu (opened on October 1, 2018) Consulting HR · IBK consulting service for IP (patents), accounting, taxes, legal, · Free recruitment notifications on i-ONE JOB (job portal operated and labor issues by IBK) and recommendations of promising human talents · IP prior search & IP authorization strategy Busan (opened on May 31, 2019) Co-up Financing Scale-up Financing Co-up Financing that partners with companies from their early days until they achieve growth 24 Case Study | 1-Batch Graduate from IBK Changgong Mapo GYnetworks (Inc.) Provide solutions tailored to construction sites with expertise in safety issues GYnetworks provides a safety management system rooted in deep-learning technology. As a Key areas Office space HR Investments and loans Development of sales service that is particularly well of support channel and marketing Free office space Recruitment of the Opportunity to attract suited to construction sites, it best people investment from top-rated Opportunity to sell to IBK companies client companies (SMEs) provides safety evaluations of facilities and such solutions as image analysis using drones. GYnetworks became aware of IBK Changgong We were able to attract investments, establish CEO Bang Seung-On of GYnetworks through SNS in its early days when we our business and design our API with the desperately needed seed investment. Unlike support of IBK Changgong. We particularly our old office, the new office that we were took advantage of IBK Changgong’s pool of IBK Changgong recommended companies that able to move into with the support provided experts in accounting and consulting. could assist us in expanding our business, in by IBK Changgong is located right next to a analyzing customer opinions of our solutions, and major transportation hub in Seoul. This has in recruiting partners. Thanks to the invaluable made it much easier for people to visit our assistance we received from IBK Changgong, office and for us to meet our customers. GYnetworks is currently working with large companies like Samsung, POSCO, Lotte, and Doosan. Case Study | 2nd-batch Graduate from IBK Changgong Mapo Earlysloth (Inc.) Dream overseas market expansion with its pocket survey technology Key areas Office space Education & Mentoring Investments and loans of support Free office space Mentoring by industry Opportunity to attract experts from professional investment from top-rated organizations companies CEO Lee Jae-Won of Earlysloth received a lot of help while he was trying to stabilize the operation of his company and setting a business direction for the future. The company Earlysloth ( Inc.) provides a sur vey obtained free office space, infrastructure and expert consulting support through IBK service that is at least one level more Changgong. After partnering with IBK, the credibility of Earlysloth was greatly enhanced a advanced than the usual run-of-thebenefit that could lead to the formation of a positive feedback cycle in which the company mill surveys found in the Korean online attracts more outside interest and more investments. survey market. The company relies on an innovative approach that utilizes the unique characteristics of Korean people. Through Demo-Day and other types of events, IBK provides formal promotional opportunities CEO Lee Jae-Won of Earlysloth (Inc.) to the companies it is incubating. These promotional events not only attract more interest in the companies but also help them become competitive when recruiting new talents. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Case Study | 1st-batch Graduate from IBK Changgong Guro Wright Brothers (Inc.) Expand business scope to include long-term rental of used bicycles Key areas Office space Education & Mentoring Consulting of support Free office space Expert advice Product specialized (production management), consulting Mentoring on patents, etc. IBK Changgong supports SMEs in many different ways. For instance, IBK Changgong provides a mentoring service, legal support through a legal advisory team, and expert consulting on taxes and labor issues, thereby preparing companies to attract investments or identify opportunities to Wright Brothers has built a platform for selling and buying obtain investments, and even recruiting from IBK’s own pool of employees. certified used goods and begun providing a certification service for used bicycles. The company has also developed a bicycle Wright Brothers in particular received accelerator’s mentoring service (related leasing program, introducing to the market a new solution for to patents) as well as product-centered consulting assistance on such recycling used bicycles. The company is ready to expand its matters as procuring office space, holding meetings with factory heads, and business to include bicycle rental on a long-term basis this establishing an outside agency and an internal agency. On the back of all this summer. CEO Kim Hee-Su of Wright Brothers (Inc.) support, Wright Brothers was able to record sales of KRW 680 million just one year after starting its operations. Case Study | 1-batch Graduate from IBK Changgong Guro August10 (Inc.) Boast global market competitiveness with digital cosmetics August10 is pioneering a new segment in the cosmetics Sales channel development & marketing market by commercializing Support for participation in domestic/overseas exhibitions and conferences, finding client the idea of using electronic Key areas companies of IBK partner global banks and matching them up with startups for business circuits with cosmetics and partnerships, assistance when applying to join an overseas acceleration program, assistance of support in product/service promotion and product/service design skin through a new product Consulting c a t e g o r y c a l l e d “d i g i t a l Consulting by experts on overseas patents and intellectual properties cosmetics”. CEO Choi Do-Yeon of August10 (Inc.) In the early stages of its business, August10 received a lot of assistance from IBK Changgong in attracting customers, signing up suppliers and building a distribution network. As a result, August10 was able to enter not only Europe, which is widely recognized as the center of the global cosmetics market, but also the US and Japanese markets where the company is now proving that it is a competitive player. August10 has received diverse types of assistance from IBK Changgong, ranging from mentoring to consulting, training and network building. According to CEO Choi Do-Yeon, however, the most valuable help has been the fact that a national bank has ‘vouched’ for the company, thereby boosting its credibility massively. By making its working relationship with IBK the centerpiece of its promotional strategy, the company has been able to show its financial credibility on top of its already respectable technological prowess. This has enhanced the credibility of the company and its market competitiveness in the eyes of its foreign corporate customers. Co-up Financing Level-up Financing Level-up financing to improve the fundamental strength of a company 26 Level-up Financing Level-up Financing Platform Level-up financing is a platform for supporting the growth of SMEs. When it comes to work-life balance, most SMEs operate in blind spots. High-quality human resources, however, are essential to the sustained growth of Level-up financing to improve the SMEs, and the platform will act as a bridge for creating jobs that could attract such talents. By expanding the welfare fundamental strength of a company infrastructure of SMEs, IBK will build working environments in which employees can enjoy a sound work-life balance. Such welfare expansions include the provision of financial/non-financial services that will induce SMEs to improve their welfare standards, preferential financing for SMEs with good welfare programs, and free consulting on ways of enhancing welfare. In addition, IBK will provide a unique support system for entering overseas markets, such as consulting services tailored to local market conditions and information-gathering services that SMEs seeking to successfully establish themselves in overseas markets desperately need. After evaluating the potential of a country where a significant number of SMEs has entered to do business, IBK will also enter the country in tandem and do its best to provide the necessary financial and non-financial services for doing business in the local market. Support recruiting Support improving Support global Strengthen top-rated human the organizational expansion competitiveness talents culture Level-up Financing Scale-up Financing Cycle-up Financing Scale-up finance platform Level-up finance platform Cycle-up finance platform Scale-up financing to assist not Cycle-up financing to assist Level-up financing to improve companies in smoothly entering merely the survival but also the success of startup companies the fundamental strengths of a and exiting markets company Expected Results of Level-up Financing Deploy ‘BOX’ Support SMEs in Support SMEs with By providing tailored packaged developing overseas special free consulting financial services, IBK will lay solid sales channels services foundations for the growth of Digital business management Namdong Industrial Complex SMEs. support platform for SMEs Global business partner (March, 2018), matching Gumi 4 Industrial Complex (March, 2019) IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Case Study | Recruitment of Overseas Marketing Specialist through the IBK Scout Program Clair (Inc.) A manufacturing company specializing in eco-friendly air purifiers with the ultimate goal of becoming a world-class brand CEO Lee U-Heon of Clair (Inc.) Clair, a company specializing in eco-friendly air purifiers with a worldwide presence Originally founded as an IT consulting company, Clair began researching air purifier filters in 2010 based on its prediction that environmental pollution would become an even more serious issue in the near future. In 2014 Clair introduced its first air purifiers, i.e. miniature air purifiers that you can keep at your bedside or on your desk, rather than the typical large-capacity units for living room use. The company is most probably the only SME to make filters as well as finished products. Clair hired a global marketing specialist through IBK Scout and is currently selling its products in thirteen countries in North America, Europe, and Asia. Meanwhile, in Vietnam, Indonesia and Hong Kong, the company saw rising revenues just one year after entering the local market. Today the company is working steadily to become a globally recognized manufacturer of eco-friendly air purifiers. Clair, a company seeking further global expansion through IBK Scout, the human talent matching program from IBK Clair has been conducting a vigorous global marketing campaign ever since it recruited top human talents through the IBK Co-up financing program. With increasing sales coming from overseas, Clair needed global marketing experts as well as human resources for its production management and business management. However, it was difficult to find the right people, so the company approached the IBK job creation team to match them with potential candidates. Thus, IBK held a series of meetings with Clair to find the ideal human talents for the company, and in the end recommended an The office interior of Clair has a clean and tidy look appropriate for a overseas marketing expert with experience in the industry, who has company that makes air purifiers greatly propelled Clair’s overseas business forward. Today, Clair is ambitiously pursuing its overseas business with the global marketing IBK Scout, expert it recruited with IBK’s help. It is anticipated that Clair will enter the Russian market in addition to the thirteen countries where it has a leading solution to SMEs’ already established a presence. manpower shortage What is Scout? Clair’s Objective Scout is a free, premium At present, Clair is focused on achieving balanced revenues from the Professional headhunters headhunting service from thirteen countries where it is doing business. Exports to Indonesia, IBK that matches the right top-rated Vietnam and Hong Kong have been showing sustained growth, but candidates with exports to other countries have fallen behind these countries. Clair top-rated SMEs is planning an IPO in 2021. Clair’s ultimate goal is to enjoy stable Jobseeker Employer in a timely growth by earning high levels of revenues and to become a globally manner Suggests promising Determines requirements companies Recommends candidates recognized manufacturer of eco-friendly air purifiers, all the while Career management who are best suited for the maintaining financial transparency. after getting employed position Co-up Financing Level-up Financing Level-up financing to improve the fundamental strength of a company 28 Case Study | Establishment of Human Resource Management Plan Based on the Results of Consulting on the R&D Organizational Culture Kang Won-Ho CEO of Danusys (Inc.) Danusys (Inc.) Aim to become a global leader in intelligent CCTV and analysis systems In the field of intelligent CCTV and integrated The effects of the consulting on organizational control solutions, Danusys’ technology is viewed culture began to appear within a short period as being among the very best in the industry, of time; and when the research team was and the company is positioning itself as a leader reorganized, the effects showed immediately. of digital transformations in the era of the Fourth Although the number of researchers was now Industrial Revolution. Danusys, which invests 15% smaller than before, the R&D team produced of its revenues in R&D, is concentrating its R&D twice the output and was able to execute a efforts on areas with strong growth potential, for greater number of projects simultaneously. example, the development of an integrated control Danusys can boast of having the most competitive VMS system. Recently, Danusys received Level-up Danusys is keen on growing its smart city offerings in the market for intelligent CCTV and integrated consulting from IBK to improve its competitiveness business even further with the help of IBK control solutions. Based on its leading urban control and based on the consultant’s recommendations consulting, as the smart city building business technology, Danusys will contribute to the national effort to has secured the foothold needed to make a has great growth potential. On the strength create smart cities, which are essentially urban renewals that will transform cities into places where people will be huge leap forward. of its leading technological competence and truly happy. We want to convey our gratitude to IBK Co-up skilled research team, Danusys intends to Financing for helping our company to make a bigger leap CEO Kang Won-Ho said that the R&D team become a global leading provider of intelligent forward and develop further. consulting service provided through the IBK Co-up CCTV and analysis systems, while IBK will Financing program had had a very positive effect continue to fully support the company’s on increasing the company’s research output. The growth. IBK consulting received by Danusys concerned the improvement of its corporate culture, and its goal was to improve the job handling procedures and organizational culture of the R&D team. In accordance with the consulting output, Danusys redesigned the organizational structure and jobhandling procedures to make them functionoriented. The company reassigned the jobs of some of its employees and, when recruiting new people, gave primary consideration to candidates it believed would adapt and fit in well with an energetic organizational culture. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Case Study | Overseas Financial Transaction Support through the IBK PayGOS System Beautynet Korea (Inc.) Spread K-Beauty across the world, Conquering the global market with its own brand Beautynet Korea, a company that is spreading K-beauty to countries all over the world CEO Chung Myung-Ho of Beautynet Korea started his trading business while working for another company. Later, when he concluded that Korean cosmetics products could For many years, compete on the global stage, he turned Beautynet Korea his gaze towards the beauty business and has diligently started an online shopping mall business promoted way ahead of his rivals. As a cosmetics Korean manufacturer and distributor that is spreading beauty K-beauty globally to places like the UK, Russia products in and Southeast Asia, Beautynet Korea may have overseas started with online distribution, but it has now begun to conquer the global markets. market in earnest with its own brand, Eyenlip. Today, Beautynet Korea is so Through our efforts, we have successfully introduced quite a large number of products widely known that it has even been designated a “top seller” by eBay. Sales made by Korean SMEs with superior technologies, as well those of Korean of the company’s products are rapidly increasing through the company’s own conglomerates. Based on the know-how we have accumulated, we are mall, as well as through global distributors such as eBay, Qoo10 and Amazon. now trying to succeed with our own brand. The end goal of Beautynet Korea is to start a second K-Beauty wave that could spread globally. IBK PayGOS system, a system that removes obstacles to SME exports Indeed, Beautynet Korea will spare no effort in creating a K-Beauty craze An exporting company’s greatest apprehension is the foreign exchange rate. that will spread across the whole world. The dollar exchange rate has a huge impact on earnings because it fluctuates daily. Therefore, from the point of view of an exporting company, foreign exchange rate fluctuations are one of the biggest risk IBK, the ideal partner for global expansion factors, which means that a considerable amount SMEs that venture into overseas markets have to of resources has to be spent on keeping tabs on it, deal with all sorts of problems. In business, there besides the usual expenses for currency exchange are so many challenges (entering global markets, fees. To address these problems, Beautynet Korea recruiting top talents, etc.) to overcome that people launched a special program for growth companies who run businesses are constantly worrying over under IBK Co-up Financing. In particular, benefits issues like where to begin and whether there available through the IBK PayGOS system, such as is a more efficient way to do things. Beautynet ‘foreign exchange rate information’ and ‘currency Korea was one of those small companies that exchange fee discounts’, were like ‘blessed rainfall were struggling with such problems, but today it af ter a drought’ for Beautynet Korea. When a is dreaming about bigger goals with IBK Co-up customer makes a payment through the electronic Financing. Through the support of IBK, Beautynet payment system, the money is deposited into Korea, in particular, has received a lot of benefits the IBK foreign currency account. With in currency exchange fees when making overseas this process, regular parcels which transactions. CEO Chung Myung-Ho said, “We used to be difficult to certify as have come a long way, competing in tough global goods for exports can now be markets; but we were always at our wit’s end acknowledged as exports, because there was no one to help us out. We are removing some of the now dreaming of bigger things with IBK Bank, a hassles of the partner we want to say with forever.” expor ting procedure. Co-up Financing Level-up Financing Level-up financing to improve the fundamental strength of a company 30 Case Study | Enhanced Competitiveness of Production Management System through IBK Consulting KD Bedding System (Inc.) Combine sleep with 4th Industrial Revolution to lead the next generation sleep industry KD Bedding System is bringing IoT to your bed There is a company that studies the science of Production ramped up from 4,000 units to the perfect sleep with the goal of making life more 10,000 units comfortable and enjoyable for people. The company In the past, KD Bedding System struggled with two is KD Bedding System, a manufacturer of smart problems related to production, the first and foremost mattresses that applies IoT technologies to its products. of which was its inconsistent production rate. In peak Established in 2007, the company first supplied seasons, the company produced mattresses at a mattresses to customer companies who were in the rate exceeding 10,000 units per month, but during mattress rental & sale business. It then became the slow seasons, even meeting a relatively low target of Korean distributor for Kingsdown, a famous US bed 4000 units per month was a difficult challenge. What CEO Jeon Ho-Geol of KD Bedding System (Inc.) manufacturer. The company developed IoT mattresses KD Bedding System urgently needed to do was to which it commercialized under the brand name iOBED, standardize its system and processes. The second and it is now preparing to export its IoT mattresses problem was the lack of a cash management to the United States. In recent times, the company’s system (CMS) with which to monitor the flow of production output increased substantially after cash and execute payments. Later on, when the receiving consulting from IBK, and the construction of company became aware of IBK Co-up Financing, a new plant is also proceeding without any problems. it applied for assistance, and after discussions with CEO Chun Ho-Geol confessed with delight, “Before, a professional consultant from IBK, it implemented producing as few as 4,000 mattresses per month was certain improvements. Following the consultation not easy, but now we can produce 10,000 mattresses with IBK, many changes were introduced to KD every month on a regular basis.” As a company that Bedding System. And, after conducting an audit, IBK is introducing a new science of sleep, KD Bedding suggested quantifying the production capacity for System is today realizing its dreams of expanding to each manufacturing process. KD Bedding System global markets one by one, with the cooperation of IBK. set production targets for 50 working hours per week and established educational programs at its factories to improve processes and eliminate waste. Then, the role of the production management team was enhanced. This team started operating a prerequisite management system and established a raw material supply management standard. As a result, the production rate, which had hovered around 4,000 units per month, skyrocketed to the present constant rate of 10,000 units per month. KD Bedding System in the future? Western countries are the world leaders when it comes to bed culture. US consumers in particular are known to be very fussy about their beds. Until the beds and mattresses of KD Bedding System are fully accepted by consumers in the United States, widely regarded as the country where bed culture is far more advanced, KD Bedding System and its people will iOBED, the IoT mattress developed by KD Bedding System (Inc.) continue to do their best. Also, the ultimate goal of KD Bedding System is to lead the future sleep industry by adopting the technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. KD Bedding System’s ultimate objective is to become a company that is recognized globally for its technology development and quality control and whose employees enjoy the best terms of employment. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Case Study | Strengthened Competitiveness through Management Consulting on Business Incorporation Doh Brothers (Inc.) Hope to share the company's growth with the employees who make success possible Today, on the very day we’re having this interview, we have just purchased a building in Euljiro. This wouldn’t have been possible, however, without the help we received from IBK. We are planning to open an establishment called ‘Susanna’s Apron’. In the beginning, I want to expand it into a one-stop restaurant concept where customers can order French and Italian breads and dishes as well as Japanese dishes like sushi. Afterwards, I want to focus on globalizing Meju, a traditional Korean fermented ingredient that’s widely used in Korean cuisine, at a site near my hometown. We are thankful to have IBK on our side as our company takes the first step on its transition from a private company into an incorporated business. CEO Doh Joong-Pil of Doh Brothers (Inc.) s he r r ot hB Do m In 2009, CEO Doh Joong-Pil started a business under fr o a iz z the name of Dochi Pizza. Before starting Dochi Pizza, np it a p ol Mr. Doh worked in the bakery business and made Nea short trips abroad to study cooking whenever he had the opportunity. During his travels to other countries, CEO Doh has always followed a strict business philosophy he discovered that the technique of fermentation was of never compromising on taste even if the company being used in many countries for cuisines that had a becomes incorporated. As such, IBK provided consulting savory, hearty taste. Soon afterwards, he selected that respected the CEO’s business philosophy. The pizza as the main item and founded Dochi Pizza with consulting project came up with the recommendation that his brother, Doh Joong-Beom. He reasoned that if after the incorporation of the company, Doh Brothers he bet on Neapolitan pizza, he would have a good should purchase all the stores and operate chance of succeeding, because at that time New them as directly managed stores. On top of York style pizza was being mass produced in that, IBK and Doh Brothers worked together the Korean market. And today, Dochi Pizza and examined a wide range of issues such has grown to become a subsidiary of Doh as the deployment of systems needed for Brothers that supplies food ingredients and incorporation and the appraisals needed for operates five direct stores in Seoul. As the store purchasing process. In addition, Dochi Pizza began to spread by word IBK provided guidance in areas that are of mouth, many people suggested that difficult for a company to navigate without CEO Doh start a franchise. However, professional expertise, such as how to train he thought that mass expansion employees or how to establish a company vision was not consistent with the founding after incorporation. Presently, IBK is working to philosophy of Dochi Pizza, and believed establish Doh Brothers as a complete corporation. that any reward must be shared with those employees who had been with the company from the beginning. But as sales continued to rise every year, CEO Doh could no longer postpone going public. Today, with the help of IBK Coup Financing, CEO Doh is pursuing the goal of establishing a corporation to be called Doh Brothers Incorporated. Co-up Financing Level-up Financing Level-up financing to improve the fundamental strength of a company 32 Case Study | Increased Employee Welfare through Shared Daycare Center During (Inc.) Strive to make a better workplace by caring for the employees' families Congratulatory cash gifts for the children of employees who are admitted into colleges, scholarships, and loan programs are just some of the numerous programs run by Based on its management philosophy of During Inc. to create a company where the families ‘Never Be Afraid of Failure’, During Inc. is leading the automobile precision parts of employees are truly happy. market. During is a company that regards harmony with employees’ families as the To boost its employees’ happiness, During most important value in the management Inc. is taking advantage of the welfare of the company. To create a company infrastructure support provided by IBK for where employees’ families are happy, During Inc. makes every effort possible SME employees. IBK has made access to bring happiness to its employees, their to its childcare center in Namdongfamilies, and wider society through its gu, Incheon available to the employees activities. of During Inc. At present, five children of CEO Kang Won-Ho of Doh During (Inc.) five During Inc. employees are attending the childcare center. IBK SME Childcare Center As part of its Level-up Financing program, IBK is expanding its support for improving the welfare of SME employees. By operating childcare centers on the spare land that it owns in various industrial complexes, IBK is helping SME employees to strike a better work-life balance. Date of opening 26. Mar. 2018 Capacity (enrolled) 55 children (31 children) IBK Namdong Sarang Childcare Area Indoors: 182 pyeong / Outdoors: 60 pyeong Center Participating companies 31 Teachers 12 (1 headmaster, 9 teachers, 2 cooks) Date of opening 04. Mar. 2019 Capacity (enrolled) 40 children (26 children) IBK Gumi Sarang Area Indoors: 170 pyeong /Outdoors: 38 pyeong Childcare Center Participating companies 34 Teachers 10 (1 headmaster, 7 teachers, 2 cooks) IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | IBK SME Childcare Center Large classrooms Childcare at close Extended operating Expanded meal Reduction of (Double the legally quarters hours budget employees’ financial recommended size) (Low teacher-to-child ratio) (Open until 21:30) (Triple the legally burden recommended amount, (Full support for enrollment fee Environmentally-friendly and special activities fee) cooking ingredients) | Parent Interviews What I liked most about the childcare center was how spacious it was. The childcare centers situated in private homes were extremely short of space for the kids to run around in. But our child loves the SME childcare center I like it because there is a playground indoors as well as because it is so large and roomy on the rooftop. At other childcare centers, there were very few kids who I can enjoy peace of mind because the IBK SME childcare stayed until closing time, and our child was often left alone. centers are very cautious about food ingredients and But I feel safe now because at the SME childcare center manage them meticulously. our child has many companions to play with up until the late When it comes to childcare centers, the safety of the operating hours. facility, good teachers, the teacher-to-child ratio, and reliability are all really important for me. On these criteria, the IBK SME childcare center is the perfect option. Co-up Financing Cycle-up Financing Cycle-up financing to assist companies in smoothly entering and exiting markets 34 Cycle-up Financing Cycle-up Financing Platform Cycle-up financing is an exit-specialized platform for assisting and supporting companies with M&A and exiting businesses. IBK will create an environment in which companies with growth potential can continue to Cycle-up financing to assist participate in the market by invigorating the SME exit market. IBK operates an investment strategy for preventing companies in smoothly entering and corporate value from depreciating or a company from going out of business in order to meet the demand for diverse exiting markets exit services such as recouping investment, M&A, and business closure. IBK will play the role of an M&A information intermediary and provide business exit and M&A support consulting services. Mediate M&A Invest in management Provide consolidated Restructure for information succession and exit M&A consulting market-friendliness Cycle-up Financing Scale-up Financing Level-up Financing Scale-up finance platform Level-up finance platform Cycle-up finance platform Scale-up financing to assist not Level-up financing to improve Cycle-up financing to assist merely the survival but also the the fundamental strengths of a success of startup companies company companies in smoothly entering and exiting markets Expected Results of Cycle-up Financing Expansion of SME exit Search for buyer and seller By providing tailored packaged investment companies to invigorate the SME M&A market, financial services, IBK is laying the foundations for SMEs’ growth. KRW 68.4 billion for 7 matching & companies consulting support IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 VR training simulation test center at SOLTWORKS Case Study | Best Example of M&A for Creating Business Synergies SOLT GROUP (Inc.) Combine a VR education solution with No.1 patented hardware SOLT GROUP, a provider of VR-based training and education solutions Since its establishment in 2008, SOLT GROUP has achieved growth as a provider of VRbased training and education solutions. In its early days, the munitions industry was its main source of earnings, but based on the know-how it has gained over the years, it is now making great strides in the civilian sector as well. It is developing new business areas that use AR and VR, for example, simulation rooms for safety/disaster readiness, and educational tools for plant personnel. SOLT GROUP currently has subsidiaries specializing in the related areas, such as KAT and KMT, through which it is pursuing businesses centered on robotic, communication, and VR technologies. I n 2 018 , S O LT W O R K S s t a r te d o p e r a t i o n s a s SOLTGROUP with the aim of cre ating sy ne rg y by making full use of its sof tware and hardware SOLT GROUP, a provider of VR-based training capabilities. If the company's expansion is successful, and education solutions it is predicted to achieve sales of KRW 57 billion in When SOLTWORKS became the owner of KAT After some deliberation, SOLTWORKS 2018, KRW 100 billion in 2020, and KRW 200 billion in through an M&A, the latter was a manufacturer entrusted the M&A to IBK, a company 2025. SOLTGROUP’s objective in the coming years is of cabinet and console equipment designed for with which it had worked from the to position itself as the leading player in the IT industry installation in the command rooms of warships, moment the company was founded. and to provide high earnings to its shareholders. chip mounters used in PCBs, and collaborative Through the stringent appraisals robots that are viewed as a sector with strong and mediation of the IBK Exit Private growth potential, and owned numerous secondEquity Fund, SOLTWORKS was able to-none patents. SOLTWORKS realized that to attract investments. significant synergies could be created by combining KAT’s hardware with its VR training solution software. The biggest merit of the IBK forms a private equity fund of KRW 51 billion to assist SMEs planning on management succession acquisition was that SOLTWORKS could keep IBK (CEO Kim Do-Jin) announced on the 8th that it had formed the KAT’s munitions business while creating new IBK-TS Exit Private Equity Fund (KRW 51 billion) to assist SMEs in their synergies by expanding into the civilian sector efforts to complete their management successions. ··· (omitted) and starting new businesses. By acquiring KAT, The companies considered for investment will include companies SOLTWORKS was able to greatly expand its seeking to exit their business due to management succession business portfolio. However, the M&A wasn’t all problems; companies considering M&A in order to transition to a new plain sailing: Coordinating and negotiating with sector or to expand into a new business area; and companies seeking KAT's existing shareholders required considerable to sell or buy shares and management rights. The Investment could patience and time, and there were also some be carried out in many different ways including any unexpected stumbling blocks. SOLTWORKS one of the following: acquisition of management found itself in a situation where it needed the rights jointly with the executives of a company seeking exit; acquisition of management rights assistance of a respectable investment company jointly with another strategic investor; or, following that could mediate the purchase price and timing. the acquisition of management rights, collaboration with the current CEO in running the company. -Newsis Co-up Financing Cycle-up Financing Cycle-up financing to assist companies in smoothly entering and exiting markets 36 Case Study | Management Buyout through the IBK Exit Private Equity Fund HANIL F A (Inc.) Aim to make a leap forward after acquisition by IBK HANIL F A (Inc.) Founded in 1983, HANIL F A is a medium-sized company that manufactures automated control software and facilities, the critical operating systems of animal feed production plants. Having developed its technologies over a period of thirty-five years, the company has now become the top domestic company in the compound feed factory automation system sector, and is actively exporting its products overseas. Scale-up Financing Scale-up Financing Platform Scale-up financing to assist not merely the survival but the success of startup companies Level-up Financing Level-up Financing Platform Level-up financing to improve The Concept of the Exit Private Equity Fund Step 01 the fundamental strengths of a company The Exit Private Equity Fund (Exit PEF) is a perfect example of IBK Co-up Financing’s Cycle-up Financing support. Step 02 Cycle-up Financing Cycle-up Financing Platform Step 03 IBK’s Exit PEF was created for the following situations: Cycle-up financing to assist companies in smoothly entering and exiting markets · Where a third investor and the private equity fund is considering the acquisition of · Perform the role of an information a company that is willing to sell its management rights intermediary for SMEs seeking M&A · Assist SMEs with technology · Where, after selling a company’s shares to the private equity fund, the CEO remains transfers and restructuring to pass on his or her expertise · Where a company is seeking M&A to exit its existing business, transition to a new sector or expand its business · Where a company is seeking to acquire or sell other management rights IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 A company about to close its business because Success in stabilizing the investment with IBK’s help of a family business succession issue To overcome the uncertainties surrounding HANILFA, IBK held an Exit HANIL F A came close to shutting down its business PEF session to reassure HANILFA’s employees. During the session, due to the deteriorating health of its founder and IBK tried to increase the employees’ understanding of how IBK’s Cobecause his children showed no interest in taking over up Financing differs from conventional corporate buyouts. Thanks to its the family business. The employees even debated efforts, none of the twenty employees left their jobs and the responses purchasing the company themselves, but the financial from client companies also turned positive. When CARGILL selected hurdles were insurmountable. HANILFA as its partner company in Asia for these reasons, CARGILL gained a powerful ally for establishing a bridgehead to Asia. Today, HANILFA has completed its reorganization and is dreaming about making Investment by IBK’s Exit PEF a second leap forward. IBK realized that such an outstanding SME must not be left to close down because of a family succession problem and thus acquired the company through its Exit PEF investment. Afterwards, Kim JeongSuk, a professional manager who was both a founding member and former head of the technology department, was appointed as its CEO. Today HANIL F A is still operating its business stably precisely because IBK refused to give up on them. The An investment process riddled with difficulties appointment of a professional manager to succeed the In the course of obtaining the investment, some founder upon his retirement took time to get used to, but on objections were raised internally along with the the strength of the technological know-how and experience concerns of external clients. The latter were worried it had gained over the years, the company will continue to that HANIL F A's key personnel would waver and invest and work on further developing factory automation leave the company because of the changes made technology in collaboration with its partner companies. to management. Such apprehensions were justified because the turnover of key people directly affects CEO Kim Jeong-Suk of HANIL F A (Inc.) the continuity of technology development. Therefore, after the management buyout, CEO Kim Jeong-Suk visited all the client companies to explain the Exit PEF investment and the situation surrounding the company. Co-up Financing Digital Platform BOX 38 Another world that connects people with companies, companies with other Digital companies Platform BOX A solution package that provides On August 1, 2019, during a ceremony held to mark the 58th anniversary of the bank’s founding, the customized solutions (funding, IBK announced BOX and began to promote it with the slogan, “Mr. President! Open the BOX. Managing a accounting, marketing, HR) that company is not as hard as you think!” IBK developed the BOX platform to help Korean CEOs and presidents SMEs need to conduct their manage the issues they worry about in their jobs. To help CEOs handle the issues associated with managing business activities through PCs the growth of their companies in a more systematic way, IBK developed innovation solutions for different areas and mobile phones, irrespective of of management and offered them through the BOX platform in the hope of contributing to the success of the place or time company. Now, companies can receive financial assistance through the BOX platform without having to visit an IBK branch, obtain information about low-interest, customized loans, sell and purchase corporate real estate like land, buildings, commercial facilities, and factories, meet new domestic/overseas suppliers, and achieve growth with outstanding human talents. In addition, the BOX platform provides access to free online educational sites for the company’s employees; and checks and prepares for risks upon receiving early warnings from suppliers. In addition, companies can outsource their digital management to the multi-functional BOX platform. The SME Management Support Platform BOX will always be ready to help out Korean SMEs so that their CEOs can concentrate solely on managing the companies. Launch of BOX BOX Main Screen Government Loans Policy Funds Supplier Recruitment HR management Sales channel Producer Shopping mall monitoring & attendance development network management management Corporate Tax invoice Taxes & accounting Education real estate Support Activities Primary Activities IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Voices about IBK The insight service available through the BOX will be a great help to companies because BOX from the field Due to their very nature, it a very important it makes HR management and applying for for a platform base business to dominate the government employment assistance so easy. market in the early stage. But IBK has had If more services are provided via the BOX, I applied for a personal business loan through a good start. If suppliers and consumers might we not see the day when SMEs can the BOX and was pleasantly surprised to get create synergies and create mutually enjoy the benefits of having an infrastructure approved without having to visit an IBK sales beneficial structures, I look forward to BOX that is on par with that of large companies? branch. In addition to loans, the BOX has becoming a very valuable tool for managing many other functions. If I feel they are useful businesses. Individual BOX company after trying them, I intend to spread the word CEO Woo Hee-Hyung of Dtime Inc. about them to other small business owners that I know. BOXer Workshop special lecturer Professor Lee Seung-Hoon First customer to receive loan CEO Kwon Young-Sang of Y & Company Daily Service Newsstand This service clips out news on subject matters or industries of interest such as IT or manufacturing. Then such news is shared with the employees or stored internally and kept on file. Attendance This service provides integrated management of attendance records, employment/resignations, team assignments, and working hours. Business This cloud-based business card management service permits the business cards of existing suppliers as well as those of prospective lounge suppliers to be shared with other employees. With this service, account & card usage record, and balance information from all types of financial institutions are organized and Fund updated (to the previous day) and provided to users as daily financial briefing reports (Financial transactions involving every type of management financial institution doing business in Korea). CEO lounge Premium information that is useful to CEOs, such as economy, trends and history, is provided in the form of videos or books. The service also organizes an offline forum on a regular basis, which CEOs can attend to build up their personal networks. Corporate This business magazine is published on different subject matters, and provides opportunities for companies to promote themselves magazine through the publication of company PR materials. Individual BOX Government Updates and provides information about all government Shopping mall Provides the convenience of a revenue/fund management policy funds agencies that provide government policy funds, and management service to online sellers who use a multitude of offline markets recommendations are made on the best government BOX BOX policy funds Sales channel Introduces potential domestic/overseas customers and Tax invoice Issues (billing) tax invoice/transaction statement/deposit slip/ development provides assistance when trading with them BOX receipt/payment (collection) BOX Corporate Provides market prices of real estate, real estate Supplier Collects and processes information that could be used in real estate matching, and links to loan programs monitoring assessing supplier risks, and sends the information to users on BOX BOX a regular basis Recruitment Matches SMEs with jobseekers by allowing SMEs Accounting Manages accounting, HR, procurement/inventory/cost and BOX to post open positions, and by providing new job BOX tax reporting, automatically processes the entire transaction employment information and recruitment news process from collecting/journalizing/slip entry, checks for errors in tax/accounting management Producer Matches SOHO/startups seeking to commercialize their Education Provides education tailored to the skill level of individual network ideas with manufacturers BOX employees and the objective (technology, IT, etc.) BOX Loans A digital channel for lowering the entry barriers to banks Supply Purchases most supplies including disposable items and raw BOX when SME customers need loans purchase materials required for the manufacture of products BOX IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book 40 Sustainable Management Fact book IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Governance 42 Ethical Management 46 Risk Management 48 Protection of Financial Consumer Information 50 Protection of Financial Consumers’ Rights 52 Maximum Consumer Satisfaction 54 Talent-oriented Management 56 Human Resources 58 Social Contribution 64 Raising Sustainable Investment Capital 68 Support for SMEs’ Eco-conscious Management 69 Introduction to the Climate Finance Market 70 Creation of Social Economy 72 Development of Products for Greater Public Interest 74 IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Corporate Governance 42 Corporate Deputy CEO & Senior Governance Chairman & CEO Executive Vice President Auditor Kim Do-Jin Im Sang-Hyun Im Jong-Sung Term Dec. 28, 2016 to Dec. 27, 2019 Term Jan. 21, 2017 to Jan. 20, 2020 Term Feb. 25, 2018 to Feb. 25, 2021 • Dankook University, Department of • Chungnam University, Department • University of Birmingham, Graduate Economics of Business Administration School of Business Administration • CFO, Head of Management Strategy • CEO, IBK Savings Bank (previous) • Head of Planning & Coordination Division, IBK (previous) • Head of Management Support Office, Constitutional Court of Korea • Head of Nambu Regional Division, IBK (previous) (previous) Headquarters, IBK (previous) • CFO, Head of Management Strategy • Director General for Planning & • Head of Namjoong Regional Division, IBK (previous) Coordination, Public Procurement Headquarter, IBK (previous) • Head of Chungcheong Regional Service (previous) • General Manager of Planning & Business Division, IBK (previous) • Head of Seoul Regional Public Coordination Dept., IBK (previous) Procurement Service (previous) • Head of Customs Policy Division of Tax & Customs office, Ministry of Strategy and Finance (previous) Headquarters, IB Principle and Policy for Corporate Governance Stable, efficient, and transparent corporate governance comes before anything else to ensure sustainable growth of the bank and protect stakeholder interest. Stability can be realized by checks and balance among members, and efficiency by professionalism and diversification of perspectives, respectively. Transparency is driven by disclosure on criteria, process, and results of relevant works. Composition of BoD The Board of Directors (BoD), the supreme decision-making body, consists of the CEO, Senior Executive Vice President, and four outside directors who are professionals in finance, management, economics, and law. The BoD members are appointed through personal verification by the President and the Financial Services Commission in accordance with the Industrial Bank of Korea Act and Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies. Their service term is three years and reappointment is possible. The BoD is chaired by the CEO according to Article 2 of Section 25 of the Industrial Bank of Korea Act. The senior executive vice president acts as the Chairman of the BoD when the CEO cannot perform the duties due to unavoidable circumstances, and is followed by other standing executive directors. CEO, Senior Governance Executive Vice CEO Committee President, three outside directors BoD Management Shareholders’ CEO, Senior Compensation Four outside Executive directors Meeting Vice President, four Committee outside directors Risk Senior Executive Management Vice President, two Committee outside directors IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Outside Director Kim Jeong-Hoon Lee Seung-Jae Shin Chung-Sik Kim Se-Jik Term Feb. 13, 2018 to Feb. 12, 2021 Term Mar. 26, 2018 to Mar. 25, 2021 Term Mar. 26, 2018 to Mar. 25, 2021 Term Mar. 27, 2019 to Mar. 26, 2022 • Yonsei University, Graduate School • Korea University Department of Law • Korea University Department of History • University of Chicago, Department of of Public Administration Chairman of Korean National Police • Advisor to Yeil Accounting Corp Economics • Expert Adviser & Steering Committee, University Education (current) (current) • Professor, Department of Economics, Democratic Financial Development • External Director Member of Samsung • Advisor to NH Investment & Securities Seoul National University(Current) Network (current) Electro-Mechanics (previous) Company (previous) • Member of the Financial Development • Auditor of Korea Banking Institute • The Chief of Korea Coast Guard • President and CEO of NH Bank Review Committee, Financial Services (previous) (previous) (previous) Commission(Previous) • Head of In-class Learning Department • Head of Chungcheong Regional • Senior Managing Director National of Korea Banking Institute (previous) Business Division, IBK (previous) Agricultural Cooperative Federation (previous) BoD Operation The BoD is convened once a quarter and an ad hoc meeting is held upon request of the CEO or two or BoD Meetings in 2018 11 times more outside directors. The BoD meeting is assembled when the majority of the members are present and decisions are made by majority vote. The BoD deliberates and resolves the bank’s major agendas including shareholders’ meeting, management, articles of association and regulations, capital, fundraising, etc. Governance Committee Attendance rate of The Governance Committee consists of the CEO, Senior Executive Vice President, and three outside 100% Directors in 2018 directors, who are responsible for improving the BoD operation efficiency, function and communication with shareholders and other stakeholders. Major roles include suggesting outside director candidates from whom the CEO recommends to the Financial Service Commission and appointing executive directors that are recommended by the CEO. Management Compensation Committee The Management Compensation Committee, consisting of four outside directors, reviews the overall compensation system for executive directors and evaluates their management performances for compensation. Major resolution items include evaluation and compensation on executive directors’ performances as well as review and approval of their welfare benefits. Risk Management Committee Major roles of the Risk Management Committee, consisting of Senior Executive Vice President and two outside directors, include comprehensive control of a variety of uncertainties and possible losses from the bank’s management activities and maintenance of capital adequacy. The Committee resolves the establishment of basic risk management plans, setup and allocation of risk limits by business group or unit, and setup and allocation of investment and loss limits regarding market risks. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Corporate Governance 44 Corporate Role of an Independent Auditor Governance Due to the specificity as a government-run bank established in accordance with the Industrial Bank of Korea Act, IBK does not have an Audit Committee. Instead, the financial authority appoints an auditor who performs audits on IBK’s business and accounting and has the rights to select, change, and dismiss external auditors. The auditor also reviews matters that can affect the independence of external auditors and offers suggestions for securing their independence to the BoD. BoD’s Expertise and Diversity The BoD consists of members with expertise in each field in order to secure professionalism and a diverse perspective to eliminate bias on specific backgrounds and business careers. We report the latest trends and issues in the financial and economic fields to the BoD with the aim of enhancing outside directors’ basic and global capabilities. Proactive supports are offered for those that want to join individual training courses. In 2018, the non-executive directors of our company’s board attended five lectures on finance, economic trends and critical company issues in order to increase their knowledge and strengthen our global competencies. In addition, we operate a special organization dedicated to supporting the BoD, facilitating the proceedings of BoD and subcommittee meetings, and carrying out the instructions of the BoD. Gender The operation of the BoD must comply with At least 20% of the BoD the principle of gender equality in order to candidates must be ensure diversity of opinions. women. Age The effectiveness of the BoD is enhanced The age of the BoD’s when the right balance between members should be the age of seniority, which can bring wisdom and the CEO ±15 years. experience, and youth, which can respond well to new trends in the business are met. Diversity Review Requirements Experience & The composition of the BoD must reflect Background the composition of South Korean society, and should avoid the overrepresentation of people from one region, school or background. Other Ethnicity, religion, race and other diversity factors are taken into consideration. Independence of BoD To ensure checks and balances among the BoD members, IBK delegates decision-making and business execution to the BoD and management, respectively, and the management’s business execution results are reported to the BoD. Moreover, outside directors hold the majority of the BoD as a check on management. Outside directors are required to satisfy both active and passive qualifications for their appointment and position retention. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Active Qualifications (application criteria) Passive Qualifications (exclusion criteria) 1. As for the Chairman & CEO, Deputy CEO & 1. Those who are not Korean citizens Senior Executive Vice President, and Director & 2. Those who are applicable to any one clause of the Article 33 of the Government Officials Act Senior Executive Vice President, those who have rich experience and knowledge in finance and 3. Those who cannot become executives in accordance with the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial won’t undermine the bank’s public interest and Companies and the Banking Act healthy management and order of credit IBK’s largest shareholders and their affliate persons IBK’s major shareholders and their spouses, lineal ascendants, and descendants 2. As for outside directors, those who demonstrate Those who are serving or had served within 3 years as employees or non-standing directors of IBK or our affiliates profound expertise and experience in the fields of Spouses and lineal descendants of IBK’s directors business administration, economics, accounting, Those who are serving or had served within 2 years as employees or executives of companies which are in transaction, law, and SMEs competition, or collaboration Those who have served as IBK’s outside directors for more than 6 years or as outside directors of IBK or affiliates for more than 9 years in total Those who have difficulties in fulfilling duty as IBK’s outside director or have influence on management activities but are designated by the presidential executive order Management’s Compensation System As a bank specializing in supporting SMEs in accordance with the Industrial Bank of Korea Act, IBK’s compensation and bonus system for the management complies with the budget guidance for public financial institutions of the Financial Service Commission (FSC) and the compensation guidance for public institutions’ executives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Compensation is fully made in cash due to the allocation as cashable budget and is not deferred according to the principal of setting yearbased budget. Compensation plan is approved by the FSC in advance and its limit is determined at the shareholders’ meeting. Management’s Performance Evaluation Index The management’s bonus is set by management performance evaluation internally and the achievement bonus in accordance with the management evaluation guideline for public financial institutions externally. Four indices regarding profitability, adequacy, growth, and customers are utilized for internal management performance evaluation. Outside directors conduct self-assessment on the composition, role, responsibility, and operation of the BoD and subcommittees before the annual general shareholders’ meeting without separate consultations. Performance Check and Linkage with Renumeration · Delinquency ratio · Pre-provision Profitability Quality Index · BIS capital adequacy profits, etc ratio, etc. Index Performance Index · Customer Satisfaction · Loans for SMEs · General Deposits Growth Index Customer Index · Prevention of · Core Deposits Index incomplete sales etc. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Ethical Management 46 Ethical 윤리경영 도입배경 Management 금융의 새로운 미래를 주도하기 위해 임직원의 확고한 가치관과 윤리의식을 확립하고, 청렴한 조직문화 구 축, 정도경영 실천 등을 통해 고객과 시장으로부터 신뢰받는 은행을 만들기 위해 윤리경영을 도입하였습니 다. 윤리경영을 통해 국민 모두가 거래하고 싶은 최우량 금융기관으로 발전하고 현재와 미래에 사회적 책임 을 다하는 지속가능한 은행이 되겠습니다. Practice of Ethical Management We have adopted the IBK Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct which serve as guidelines that all employees of IBK should comply with. In order to fulfill IBK's core value of customer happiness and satisfaction, trust and responsibility, creative passion, and strong teamwork, we have defined the regulation of conduct to customers, shareholders, employees, society and directors. Moreover, to prevent any corruption and ensure business integrity, we are thorough not only in prohibiting conflict of interest, unethical behaviors, and unfair profits, but also in managing critical information and consultation on ethics. More detailed information about IBK’s code of ethics and code of conduct, along with its compliance program, can be found on the company’s website. Ethical Management Practice Programs Self-inspection Inspection items are provided monthly to help employees check the practice of on Ethics and the IBK Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct. Compliance Monthly Theme-based Ethics items that employees should comply with are selected through contests Ethics Practice and are uploaded on the intranet on a monthly basis for implementation. Clean Contract As a main contractor, IBK ensures the transparency of the contract process System and fairness of transactions. Cyber Ethical We make animation films on critical ethical management activities and Management Training register them as an employee training course on the cyber training center. Completion Rate of Training Anti-corruption Education Anti-corruption Education 2017 96.5% Improper Solicitation With the purpose of raising awareness of anti-corruption and promoting and Graft Act transparent and fair business conduct, IBK implements collective training for 2018 96.1% the management and broadcast training for employees. Collective Education on We offer collective education on ethics and compliance tailored to each lifeEthics and Compliance cycle to new employees and those who are promoted Tailored to Life-cycles Education on Ethics In order to increase companywide understanding of ethical management and and Integrity put it into practice, we provide various forms of ethical education including Management touring lecturers who give classes on ethics at our regional headquarters, Through Diverse online ethics classes that employees can access via a cyber training center, Channels and residential training run by third-party organizations. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Compliance Monitoring System We operate an efficient compliance monitoring system to ensure fairness in business activities and prevent illegal or unfair behaviors. This system allows us to check compliance with related regulations and the internal control criteria and make corrective actions. We also publish and distribute manuals necessary for observing the internal control criteria. The Compliance Officer appointed by the BoD checks and inspects violations of the internal control criteria and regulations. IBK ensures the independence of the Compliance Officer and helps the officer be committed to fundamental works by excluding other duties. Tightening Inspections on Trading of Financial Investment Instruments Inspections on trading of financial investment instruments have been tightened to prevent employees from unfair stock trading through undisclosed or internal information. In a bid to further observe the Financial Investment Services and the Capital Markets Act, we extended the scope of inspectees to fund sellers at branch and shortened the reporting cycle from annual and quarterly basis to a monthly basis. Also, a five-step self-inspection criteria, including investment amount by position and connection with jobs, were introduced to enhance the monitoring of ethics and compliance. Financial Investment Instruments Trading Check Process 1 2 3 4 5 Status of Status on excess Status on Status of Inspection on Inspectees possession of a investment transactions Investments made in occurrence of security account amount by made during the companies related unfair trade position month to jobs Report on Misconduct IBK operates a variety of reporting channels to present solutions when employees face ethical conflicts to receive and treat ethical violations, thereby preventing intentional or negligent illegal behaviors and ensuing impacts on the bank. We are committed to eliminating illegal or unfair behaviors that can harm the trust of the bank. Whistleblowing System We operate a whistleblower program to prevent financial accidents and minimize the losses arising from such accidents, and to enhance our corporate image as a financial bank of high integrity that fights against corruption. Our employees are encouraged to notify abnormal behaviors such as embezzlement, malpractice, bribe, violations of the laws regarding realname financial transactions and money laundering, misdirection of superiors, etc. Real-name reporting is principle, but an anonymous one is also available if necessary. We keep all reporting contents and identification private. Clean When an employee receives money or valuables regardless of intension, he Reporting or she can protect oneself by returning or donating the gifts voluntarily. Reporting on Violations of This system requires employees to report any case when carrying on the Improper Solicitation businesses with improper solicitation or in violation of relevant laws. and Graft Act Public Interest This program allows a person to report, petition, sue, or charge someone Tip Off for committing acts which breach the public interest, report illegal acts that seem likely to occur, or provide evidence that is helpful to an investigation into violations of the public interest. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Risk Management 48 Risk Integrated Risk Management System Management IBK is focusing on managing a variety of uncertainties and risks arising from business activities in an integrated and systematic manner. This effort aims to secure financial soundness and safety, protect the right of depositors, and maximize shareholder value, thereby fulfilling our role as a state-run bank under any circumstances. Risk Management Governance Our risk-related decision-making system is centered on the BoD and consists of the Risk Management Committee, Risk Management Council, and the Risk Management Group. The Risk Management Group consists of the General Risk Department and Risk Supervisory Department. It is responsible for the execution of the Risk Management Committee’s policies. Comprehensive risk management status such as risk factors, causes and countermeasures in case of risk increase, risk analysis results, and internal capital adequacy evaluation results are reported to the Risk Management Committee and the management on a regular basis, which enables immediate communication and response to risks. Board of Directors (BoD) The highest decision-making body for risk management Approval of basic risk management plan Making risk management policies and strategies such as Risk Management Committee enacting and amending internal risk management regulations, setting and distributing risk limits, etc. Risk Consulting and adjusting systems and matters related to Management Council risk management Risk Management Group Conducting practical risk management affairs General Risk Department Risk Supervisory Department Risk Management Process Risk Management Process We recognize all possible major risks in our businesses to be managed in an integrated way. The scope Risk encompasses not only financial risks with regard to credit, market, operation, interest rate, and liquidity but Step 01 Recognition also non-financial risks such as compliance. We select risk measurement methods based on the feature of each risk and check risk management status every month, thereby understanding the effectiveness and monitoring the adequacy of risk measurement methods and policies. • Setting and complying with the tolerance limit of each risk Risk • Balancing risks and profits appropriately Step 02 Measurement • Considering profits within the tolerance limit of risks when profit opportunities are in collision with risks • Managing risks including subsidiaries in a comprehensive manner Risk Policies • Managing risks by type and in an integrated way on a company-level • Regularly analyzing the impacts of diverse market changes on both the department and the entire business portfolio Monitoring • Separately operating the organizations regarding risk management, sales Step 03 and Control business, and transaction check and settlement to ensure independence • Maintaining unified indices and consistency for risk measurement and reporting IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Core Risk Risk Areas to be Intensively Managed Management Area IBK pursues prescient, sound financial management that can lead to robust growth. IBK focuses on BIS Ratio managing its BIS ratio, asset quality, and allowance for bad debts, and is working hard to upgrade its risk management standards and improve its execution capabilities. Our systematic credit evaluation model, reflecting changes in financial environment and regulations, is used for overall business of the bank including decision-making for loans and identification of quality indices. Moreover, we secure quality and create appropriate profits through consistent inspection of risks in each area. Asset Quality Promoting Risk Management Preemptive Quality • Setting a goal for innovatively reducing allowances for bad debts Operation of Control • Disseminating a culture of allowances control throughout the business field • Enhancing company-wide cooperation in allowances control Credit Evaluation • Maximizing capability of selecting and managing potentially insolvent companies through Models rapid inspection • Supporting preemptive restructuring driven by changes in the business environment • Preemptively managing default rate based on our credit evaluation model Response to Redeveloping the • Promoting the redevelopment of Loss Given Default (LGD) of retail loans Basel III Credit Evaluation • Implementing post verification on the credit evaluation system Model Enhancing • Establishing an integrated management system including the operational risk index history Global Risk Internal Control of control and improvement of index development process Management Operational Risks • Providing information by building an employee-tailored accident prevention system • Strengthening internal control by improving the performance evaluation system that reflects operational risks of overseas branches Reinforcing Risk • Inspecting risk management status and implementation of improvement tasks Management of • Sharing strategies and issues by holding the CRO meeting Subsidiaries • Improving the effectiveness of international financial supervision by revising detailed credit supervision rules • Enhancing the quality of overseas loans by inspecting the adequacy of loan handling _ Basel III Responding to • Completing and managing the NSRF (Net Stable Funding Ratio) Basel III Guideline • Performing an integrated risk situation analysis to solidify the foundation of existence Basel III is a new international regulatory framework for • Identifying self-improving tasks for BIS ratio management and consultation with the banks announced by the Bank for International Settlements government (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision [BCBS]) on • Launching risk management indices regarding trading accounts September 12, 2010 in Switzerland. Korean banks began to adopt Basel III in December 2013. Enhancing Global • Localizing the overseas credit evaluation model by reflecting national characteristics Risk Management • Performing risk consulting and preventing risk transfer between domestic companies and local subsidiaries • Implementing risk analysis through exposure management and monitoring by country Managing Emerging Risks IBK manages current important risks while defining and managing risks that will be important in the years to come. As the volume of data-based financial transactions continues to expand, the complexity of rating credit continues to grow due to the many and diverse ways by which transactions are made. If this is not properly managed, the risk of financial insolvency is highly likely to escalate. To address this challenge, IBK has developed a credit rating model (personal/corporate non-face-to-face loans) that uses Big Data. Combining the Big Data model with the existing credit rating model will enhance the approval process of non-face-to-face loans and the loan limit strategy, thereby making it possible to manage risk preemptively. Another crucial matter is the tightening of environmental regulations and the likelihood of this leading to tougher regulations on investment, which could have an adverse impact on the company’s financial health and profitability in the long term. To respond proactively to these changes, IBK has been investing in green sectors by issuing sustainable bonds. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Protection of Financial Consumer Information 50 Protection of Financial Consumer Information Information Protection Infrastructure As the channels for financial transactions become more diversified (online, smartphone, etc.), reacting in advance Strengthened Information Protection to protect the personal information of financial consumers and customers has become critical. IBK is striving to Management System reinforce its information protection infrastructure and build a systematic security system that could protect customer IBK is operating and strengthening its information protection information and ready the company for unforeseen situations that are detrimental to it. It is doing its best to prevent system according to the standards of ISO 27001, the even 1 case of customer information infringement or leak from occurring. international certification standards on information protection. Likewise, after acquiring the domestic information security System • Server access control management certification (ISMS), IBK has been continuously Protection • Network access control • Analysis of and response • Internet security control improving its information protection level. Through a review Violation to violations Team by an outside agency, IBK was assessed to have adequate Response • Drill for responding to levels in 104 control categories such as information Team violations • Year-round security protection policies for Internet banking and smart banking, control • Operate single security access control, and risk management. By maintaining the IT Security Mobile Phone • Prevent personal Protection information leak ISMS certification, IBK was able to increase public trust in Department Team • Site security inspection the company’s information protection system. • Security policy and IT Security company law Planning • Internal and external Team reporting Security • Security weak point inspection • Education on information Assessment • Review of security level protection • Information protection Team assessment and certification Strengthening Legal Compliance Activities on Information Protection Domestic Information Security IBK is responding thoroughly to information protection and information security policies designated by the laws. Management Certification (ISMS) To comply with FSC’s audit plan on information protection, IBK carried out an in-house audit on 65 key categories like information protection. IBK was assessed to be adequate in these categories, and it conducted examination of security level and verification of security adequacy of its currently operating work system. Additionally, IBK regularly checks compliance with the Electronic Financial Transactions Supervision Standards and the Information Security Basic Directive and improves insufficient areas. IBK also inspected the information protection management system of IBK-invested companies in order to restructure IBK’s overall information protection infrastructure. Information Protection Audit An audit on 65 inspection categories is performed in accordance with FSC’s annual audit Undertaken by the Financial plan to protect information. The results of the audit are reported to the FSC, and IBK Services Commission’s passed all categories. Affiliate Organizations Inspection/Verification of Security level inspection : i-ONE Bank (personal) reconstruction inspection and 22 other Adequacy of the Security inspections Measures Built into the Security adequacy verification : Obtained qualified rating on security measures (e.g., Work System research fund management system VPN) that IBK had set up on its own initiative Tightened Compliance Every quarter : 32 categories such as PC passwords Standards on Information Every month : Improved standards deemed inadequate on 34 categories (e.g., rules on Protection bringing in/taking out IT equipment) and obtained qualified ratings Inspections of The Inspections of 7 IBK-invested companies like IBK System Co. were carried out between Information Protection July and September 2018 Systems at IBKinvested 28 problematic practices (network used by internal employees as well as outside workers) Companies were identified and rectified (~19.3) All the audit results are shared, and best practice cases are awarded IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Year-round Cyber Security Control By making its information protection system more robust through the operation of a year-round cyber security control room, IBK is increasing its competency in responding to cyber-attacks from the outside. IBK established action plans for each phase of a cyber-crisis and built a response system to fend off cyber-attacks like DDos attacks attacks, enabling the company to keep information security breaches to zero in 2018. Especially in August, the company was able to defend itself completely against ransomware attacks that involved posing as a government agency; it inspected its SWIFT system and fortified its security following news of a SWIFT hacking incident in an overseas financial institution. IBK operates its emergency response system even during national holidays like Chuseok and Lunar New Year to maintain its cybersecurity system at all times. Inspection and Removal of Security Weak Points in Key Systems IBK is preventing the likelihood of security threats from the outset by checking and eliminating security vulnerabilities in its key critical systems. To be able to respond preemptively to the recently emerging AI-powered hacking attacks, we at IBK conducted blind hacking simulations that greatly improved our responsiveness. In addition, we are making diverse efforts to eliminate security weak points such as the early removal of risk factors through regular security vulnerability checks, inspections for personal information left exposed on internet websites, and inspection of password setting on shared folders. Category Target Inspected content Remarks Homepage 31 including Internet banking 48 items such as uploading of virus-infected files Financial Security Institute DBMS 50 including electronic banking 30 items such as password management Self-inspections Network Equipment 376 units used in Internet 54 items such as ACL settings banking Information Protection 50 units including firewall 39 items such as policy management System Server 1,162 units including those 169 items such as use of unnecessary services used in statistics Safety of Personal Information Processing IBK is preventing the likelihood of security threats from the outset by checking and eliminating security vulnerabilities in its key critical systems. To be able to respond preemptively to the recently emerging AIpowered hacking attacks, we at IBK conducted blind hacking simulations that greatly improved our responsiveness. In addition, we are making diverse efforts to eliminate security weak points such as the early removal of risk factors through regular security vulnerability checks, inspections for personal information left exposed on Internet websites, and inspection of password setting on shared folders. Employees Receiving Information Protection Education (Persons) Expanding Education and Communication on Information Protection IBK is increasing all employees' awareness of security through mandatory online education on information protection. We developed a course for the cyber training center that provides tailored training on information protection for each 2016 10,791 type of jobs. In 2018 in particular, we launched the “Traveling Information Protection Education” program that targets new employees, part-time employees, and partner company employees to improve awareness of security among 2017 10,952 employees who may be less exposed to the issue. All Employees 2018 11,422 Type Target Course Type Target Course Online Executives Improvement of awareness Notice/ All • Precautions against Training of information protection, Alerts on employees ransomware etc. Information • Security check when using Staff Safe Internet banking, etc. Protection webmail and smartphone Issues • Precautions against IT Group Personal credit information cyberattacks protection, etc. Information Personal credit information Security protection, etc. Training on New Introduction of new financial Department Personal employees, security technologies and In-house TV All employees Video footage pertaining to Credit reinstated explanation on usage Programs the improvement of Information employees, for Training information protection Protection auditing officers IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Protection of Financial Consumers’ Rights 52 Protection Financial Consumer Protection System of Financial To perform its banking services with the customer in mind, IBK established the Financial Consumer Protection Consumers’ Charter and installed a financial consumer protection system, putting the bank in a position to play a leading role in the advancement of financial consumer protection culture. Furthermore, we created a dedicated organization and launched numerous services for expanding access to financial services for financially deprived segments of our Rights society. Furthermore, we are doing our best to protect customers from financial fraud or incidents by upgrading existing security systems. Operation of a Dedicated Organization for Protecting Financial Consumers IBK is doing everything it can to address in advance the inconveniences experienced by financial consumers during IBK’s Financial Consumer transactions and stop customer complaints from growing. The general manager of the Financial Consumer Protection Protection Charter Department under the CEO of IBK is in charge of dealing with inconveniences and complaints of customers apart from product development and sales functions. The Financial Consumer Protection Council discusses policy directions and basic plans for consumer protection, identification of improvement tasks, and development of products from the mindset of consumers. Customer petitions collected through diverse consumer access points like customer service centers are transferred to related sales branches where they are handled. We improved the customer petition resolution and feedback process, and it has resulted in increased financial consumers’ trust in our company. Financial Departments Consumer and customers Protection center at headCouncil quarters Chief Financial Consumer Branch IBK CEO Communication Protection Officer (CCO) Department Internet, mobile Strengthened Process for Handling Customer Grievances and Financial Consumer Rights Protection System The customer grievance handling process at IBK begins from receiving a customer complaint, and is then filed and categorized, fact-checked, and handled, ending with providing feedback to the customer. After the complaints handling process, the basic causes behind the petition is investigated. Then, through employee education, IBK seeks to prevent similar cases in the future. In addition, customer’s recommendations and petitioned ideas are reflected when we upgrade our systems, and some ideas are also used for improving product and services after internal assessment.Thanks to these efforts, IBK achieved its best performance ever in the 2018 Financial Consumer Status Evaluation by the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS). This evaluation, which replaces FSS’s previous version of the evaluation, was introduced for the first time in 2016 to comprehensively assess the level of financial consumer protection of financial companies. Although the 2018 version has been divided for more detailed assessment, IBK received a GOOD rating or higher in all 10 categories. Category Evaluated Items '16 '17 '18 Quantitative 1 Customer petitions (No. of customer petitions and increase rate) GOOD GOOD GOOD Items 2 Customer petition processing time (on average) GOOD GOOD GOOD 3 Number of lawsuits (No. of lawsuits filed from the number of lawsuits GOOD GOOD GOOD and arbitration cases) 4 Sustainability of sales (financial health index) GOOD GOOD GOOD 5 Financial mishaps (No. of mishaps, amount involved) GOOD AVG TOP Non6 Organization and system for protecting financial consumers GOOD GOOD GOOD quantitative 7 Deployment of a system for protecting financial consumers during the AVG GOOD GOOD Items product development process 8 Operation of a system for protecting financial consumers during the AVG GOOD GOOD product sales process 9 Deployment and operation of customer petition management system GOOD GOOD GOOD 10 Disclosure of financial consumer information GOOD GOOD GOOD IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Integrated Fraud Detection System Enhanced Financial Mishap Prevention System The growth of online transactions and non-face-to-face transactions could not only lead to information protection Money laundering prevention system issues like the leak of personal information but also give rise to more financial mishaps. IBK is pursuing projects that will enhance its financial mishap prevention system in order to realize its vision of becoming a “clean bank.” Abnormal financial transaction detection system To this end, we have established a multifaceted monitoring system capable of preventing financial mishaps (e.g., a refined audit information system) and deployed a large-capacity data processing system for use in expanding Unusual foreign currency transaction checking system auditing categories in non-face-to-face and small transactions. To improve the mishap pattern analysis capability of the system, a function for automatically detecting high-risk transactions and analyzing the suspect transactions was added – an excellent example of the efforts we at IBK are making to remove financial mishap risks in advance. Internal reinspection and examination Operation of an Integrated Fraud Detection System (FDS) IBK became the first company in the financial industry to install an integrated fraud detection system to screen for fraudulent trade, illegal e-finance, and money laundering. We are constantly adding system enhancements that will Reporting of suspicious transactions to increase our ability to prevent financial mishaps in the future. Through the operation of a Big Data-based analysis financial authorities system, we have improved our transaction history analysis system. With this improvement, we were able to come up with new detection policies, and we strengthened our procedure for responding to abnormal financial transactions. In addition, by linking our system to the financial industry’s crisis information sharing system, we have been able to respond swiftly to any potential financial crisis. Strengthened Security System to Defend Against Electronic Fraud In electronic fraud, criminal groups illegally obtain customer information through phishing and/or pharming and then use the information to get a public key certificate reissued in the customer’s name. With this key, they withdraw funds from the customer’s bank account. To protect against these latest forms of fraud, IBK operates a security service wherein transactions can be made only through predesignated devices or additional authentication processes. We are inoculating ourselves against damages due to electronic fraud by permitting banking transactions and additional certifications only with predesignated PCs and smartphones. IBK Phishing Stop IBK developed and launched IBK Phishing Stop, the Korean Document Security Password protection of documents saved in the PC, documents cannot be viewed from outside financial industry’s first voice phishing detection app. The app company networks. System integrates the latest digital technologies including artificial >>> Prevents viewing of documents that were unlawfully transported to the outside intelligence (AI) and voice recognition. IBK Phishing Stop uses advanced technologies such as voice recognition and deep-learning to monitor mobile phone Security USB System Block use of unapproved storage media like USB. USBs are restricted in the company HQ; in sales branches, they can only be used with prior conversations in real time. It calculates the probability of voice approval by the branch head. phishing and then sounds an alarm to prevent damages. >>> Prevents leaks of documents using portable storage media (USB) and intrusion of * Total financial damages caused by voice phishing in 2018 amounted to virus-infected documents KRW 440 billion, i.e. KRW 12.2 billion per day. Internal Information Prior approval of the supervisor is needed when a document saved in a PC has to be transferred Leak Prevention outside (via USB, Internet). System >>> Prevents unlawful leaks of customer information Personal Information Search/Delete the customer information file stored in PCs and keep them in an isolated storage Search System if they need to be retained. (Isolated storage: file cannot be searched by a hacker, file cannot be opened if leaked outside.) >>> Minimizes risk of acquiring and losing customer information Printed Material Documents including the personal information contained in it cannot be printed without the prior Security System approval of the supervisor. >>> Prevents leaks of customer information through printed material Business agreement on IBK’s real-time voice phishing AI detection service FDS System Looks out for and blocks abnormal financial transactions, performs additional certifications. (ARS, SMS, etc.) >>> Prevents electronic financial mishaps Random Cross-inspection among Branches IBK proactively seeks ways of preventing financial mishaps. For example, we are the only bank to have implemented random cross-inspection among branches to identify financial mishaps at sales branches at an early stage. Under this system, a sales branch can conduct unannounced inspection of a nearby branch to check the vault cash and important documents. The system helps raise awareness of the importance of regulations related to work and financial mishaps. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Maximum Consumer Satisfaction 54 Maximum Various Consumer Satisfaction Services Consumer IBK is strengthening its internal operational efficiency by promoting a management philosophy that emphasizes Satisfaction customer satisfaction. As a result, IBK has achieved the highest grade in the public financial institution management evaluation for 10 consecutive years, and is also the only public financial institution to have acquired “Grade A” or higher for 10 years in a row. In addition, IBK has established a Customer Service Charter that sets forth its operating values, and is committed to providing customers with the special experiences, products and services that they want and the information they need. CCM Certification In 2017, IBK obtained the Consumer Centered Management (CCM) certification from the Fair Trade Commission for the first time among public financial institutions. It is a government certification that assesses and qualifies whether all business activities and improvement processes are conducted from the customers’ perspective. Through the CCM certification, IBK was able to demonstrate its consumer-friendly activities and its commitment to financial consumer-oriented management, as well as getting its employees to pay more interest to financial consumer-oriented management and obtaining their commitment to implement it. Establishment of a Positive Feedback System for Customer Complaints To prevent customer petitions and facilitate the processing of petitions, IBK has established a positive feedback system for customer complaints which is being gradually enhanced. The responsibility for accepting and reviewing customer petitions was elevated from the staff level to the associate head level in order to raise employee concerns about customer petitions. The scope of individuals whose performances were related to customer petitions was expanded. Banks are now held more responsible for customer petitions filed against them; thus, to increase its employees’ responsibilities, IBK instituted a warning system. Also, by improving its system and taking care of dormant customer issues, we are curtailing customer petitions from the outset. Customer Petition Prevention Education for Each Alert Level of the Customer Petition Alert System 1 Time Alert 2 Times Per Year 2 Consecutive Times/ 3 Consecutive Times/ (Preparatory) (Attention) 3 Times Per Year 4 Times Per Year (Precaution) (Alert) Customer petition Customer petition Customer petition Mandatory education prevention education prevention education prevention education for all employees of the organized by regional HQ, organized by regional HQ, organized by regional HQ, sales branch, which is the targeting team leaders in targeting branch heads in targeting branch heads in target of petitions. The the region. the region. the region. sales branch in question is visited by the head of the regional HQ. Achieving the Industry Best Service IBK ranked third in the Banking Service Quality Index (KSQI) administered by Korea Management Association Consulting (KMAC). The service quality index is a measure of the customer's perception of service quality. Every year, KMAC indexes and assesses banks on the service quality felt by the customers. IBK was able to raise its credibility by ranking third among the nine banks surveyed. As a result of our efforts to raise the level of our service, IBK won the top prize in customer satisfaction at the Asia Today Finance Awards ceremony. The Asia Today Finance Awards are awarded to outstanding companies that contribute to the advancement of the financial industry in each sector during the year. Our bank was recognized for its contribution to spreading the culture of financial consumer protection through the deployment of a positive feedback system for customer complaints. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Field-Oriented CS Education and Consulting IBK is making a concerted effort to increase the CS competencies of employees at its sales branches through fieldoriented CS education and consulting. IBK began its ‘IBK Every 1’ education program, which is a residential training program aimed at improving the satisfaction of internal and external customers, at its sales branches. In 2018, 1,044 sales branch employees received the CS education (16 sessions in total), which resulted in a marked improvement of the service quality at these branches. Furthermore, IBK carried out tailored CS consulting (which included monitoring of other banks and consideration of the branch’s operating environment) in 110 sales branches. We also developed a permanent CS educational program for use in a residential training course for all employees of the sales branches (new bank clerks, supervisors and team leaders). Meanwhile, at the headquarters, we launched the HQ CS consulting CS Training project in which 19 targeted departments were given tailored education as part of our bank’s campaign to adopt customer satisfaction-oriented management. Internalization of CS Culture Every month, IBK holds a monthly CS activity called ‘Theme CS’ in which bank employees pursue specific agendas associated with the particular CS theme of the month. We conduct CS activities in which employees check their own progress by creating checklists. From February to December 2018, these activities were carried out each month with a different CS theme, which went a long way in helping employees to internalize the CS culture. Furthermore, by awarding the CS TOP employee and the CS TOP branch, IBK has created an atmosphere in which employees engage in voluntary activities aimed at raising customer satisfaction. IBK selects the CS TOP employee, the CS KING, and the Voice of the Customer (VOC) TOP employee and also holds discussion meetings for the CS TOP employees. Agenda for Monthly ‘Theme CS’ Feb Build the brand image of a trustworthy bank. Aug Adopt measures to reduce customer waiting times. Mar Use refined words and phrases in the workplace. Sep Correct customer reception in non-face-to-face channels. Apr Provide easy-to-understand explanations for Oct Adopt a responsible attitude on the job. customers. May Improve accuracy when handling tasks. Nov Manage customer information meticulously. Jun Handle customers proactively. Dec Cultivate a culture of caring amongst employees. Jul Keep promises to customers. Online Financial Education Center Our corporate website provides customers with financial information and tips on a daily basis that are useful for safe financial transactions as well as in daily life, improving customer satisfaction. It also provides basic legal information, and financial knowledge guided by the Financial Supervisory Service for consumers. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Education Program CS Consulting Provide 1:1 tailored training by visiting sales Training on CS Train basic customer reception skills and for Branches branches and offices Fundamentals on handling customer complaint cases at and the Head the teller window (for new hires, interns, transferred talents) Office CS Consulting Train fundamental CS skills and business Training on Provide training on communication skills, and for Business manners for SMEs with trade connections intensive mind-up education by position (CS Leader, IBK with Trade CS Every1 training at offices, Level-up training on communication manner at the headquarters, Connections training for the promoted, training for Pre-CEO) CS Training Broadcast CS training videos at all branches Nurturing Program for motivating outstanding talent through and head offices (46 episodes per year) Professionals and enhancing CS capabilities (CS Leader, video Provide video contents related to service training off-site for outstanding talent) leadership for employees at managerial level of higher (10 episodes per year) IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Talent-oriented Management 56 Talent-oriented Management HR Vision IBK’s HR vision is based on the principle of ‘human talent as the top priority’ and is defined as ‘Best Talent, Best Workplace, Best System’. It is implementing its HR vision through concerted efforts in the fields of recruitment, evaluation/compensation, training of human talent, employee benefits, and organizational culture. IBK’s ideal human talent is a banking professional equipped with a challenging attitude, creativity, a strong sense of personal responsibility, a global mentality and market competitiveness, who can produce results while making a strong impression on our customers. With this ideal, IBK seeks to realize its core value of ‘Customer Happiness’. HR Vision IBK Values Talented Experts HR Factors Best Talents Best Workplace Best Systems HR Goal Talents Equipped With Market Competitiveness Who Can Impress Customers and Generate Outcomes Capabilities Experts Global Responsible Creator Challenger Establishment of a Fair and Objective Recruitment Culture In March 2018, before beginning its annual recruitment drive, IBK changed its recruitment policy and completely reformed its recruitment process in an effort to eliminate the possibility of fraud in that process. In order to eliminate subjective considerations during the entire recruitment process, we outsourced the entire process and introduced an internal auditing system across it, with the exception of the written test portion, thereby eliminating impartiality. These measures were adopted to respond to the fair recruitment requirements of the government’s directives on public organization innovation. At the same time, they are a reflection of our efforts to combat illicit hiring, which has become a serious social problem. Freshman Appointment Ceremony Expansion of Social Equality Hiring To fulfill its responsibilities as a public organization, IBK is expanding its efforts to increase employment opportunities for socially disadvantaged groups such as recipients of national merit and people with disabilities. In the second half of 2018, we conducted recruitment especially for the recipients of national merit and was able to increase the obligatory veteran employment ratio. In addition, IBK continues to strive for equal employment in the general recruitment process by hiring more people with disabilities during as new hires. Beyond social equality hiring, we provide opportunities for resume building and practical work experience by recruiting recent graduates for our ongoing internship programs. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Better Working Conditions for Contract Employees In March 2018, IBK improved the working conditions of semi-full-time employees to establish a ‘discrimination-free IBK’. IBK was able to negotiate better working conditions by actively pursuing agreements through the operation of a labor-management joint TF, gathering employees’ opinions, and announcing a joint labor-management declaration. For the soft landing of these transitioned employees who need to level up their skills to become valuable human resources, IBK provides structured educational programs and has set up an effective human resource utilization plan that is run in conjunction with the job training program. Fair Performance Evaluations and Compensation System IBK is promoting a performance-centered company culture by dynamically linking employee performance evaluations with the compensation system. We have created a fair and independent evaluation system with evaluations tailored for each type of job and evaluation diversification. Our evaluation system, which is tailored to the business environment, is conducted by forming a bottom-up evaluation group that reflects the collective opinions of branches, local headquarters and business divisions through a five-step process. IBK's Job Fair In case of our compensation system, we operate it so that the compensation awarded is commensurate with each employee’s performance. The results of the performance evaluations are reflected in the employee ratings and are also used when promoting employees, switching jobs, and selecting candidates for academic training, and sending them to our overseas offices. We also offer incentives according to the evaluation ratings to maximize performance and continuously improve the system by collecting feedback. Improvement Process of Performance Evaluation Receptivity 1 2 3 4 5 6 Initiate Explain Collect Establish Consult Evaluation Determine Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation Opinions on Evaluation Standards and Standards and Standards Standards Evaluation Plans Scoring System Scoring System Managing Human Resources with the Focus on Performance Creation and Capability Development IBK manages its organization so as to enable its employees to perform well while developing their capabilities. By transferring long-term HQ employees to sales branches, they can develop their careers, while by expanding the transfer of top sales performers to the HQ, we are contributing to more balanced career development for employees and better performance results. Also, within the same geographical area, we are trying to create synergies by encouraging employees working at branches in industrial complexes and cities to switch positions. By getting employees to experience different working environments, IBK improves their understanding of banking and increases their adaptability, while the use of remote location scores ensures that no employee has to serve in one remote location for too long.Newly recruited bank clerks are assigned to locations near industrial complexes when they first join our bank to give them a chance to gain more diverse work experience. Small-scale operations with limited business transactions, such as newly opened branches and regional offices, tend to be avoided. Retirement Pension Plan Since 2011, the bank has been operating a retirement pension plan to help employees live a stable life after their retirement. As of 2018, the liabilities for the Defined Benefit plan amounted to KRW 853 billion, while the retirement allowances on the Defined Contribution plan, which are recognized as expenses, amounted to KRW 2,508 million on a consolidated basis. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Human Resources 58 Human Structured Development of Experts Resources IBK spares no effort when it comes to training expert manpower who can lead the bank to new challenges and turn ‘Co-up Financing’ into a great success. The development of expert manpower in many specialty areas and career development support, global skill cultivation, industry-leading training facilities and educational infrastructure armed with the finest human talent development program in the South Korean financial industry, we will do our best to prepare our business for the Fourth Industrial Revolution and establish ourselves as a global leader in finance. Skill Enhancement for All Employees Through Tailored Job Training IBK operates a 3-step field-oriented training program consisting of ‘Main Training, Additional Training, and a Support System’ to improve the job performance skills of its employees. In the case of the Job Academy, the program used to be a 4-step course, divided into different groups based on rank and seniority. However, it was consolidated and reformed, and, under the newly designed program, employees are divided into different skill levels, and receive tailored training at each level. In addition, IBK organized new bank clerk orientation training for 339 new bank clerks recruited in 2018 to help them develop solid job skills. Furthermore, to enhance the skills of employees, we have expanded numerous training courses, such as job retraining, job competency enhancement training, and special Job Academy Improvement training for newly promoted employees. Rank Course Main Training Job Training Academy Marketing Training No Comprehensive Course (Basic for all jobs) Distinctions Weekend Financial Theme Course (in-depth treatment of each subject) Additional Training On-the-job Training Job Skill Academy Academy Grade 3 Advanced Course Mandatory Completion Education 2nd year Support System Completion Of of Annual Minimum Coaching Guide Mileage Program Job Training Learning Hours 2,337 employees received training (27 sessions) in 2018. (Giheung Training Institute) Self-development Support Programs Mandatory Completion 4th (manager) or lower-level positions: Mandatory completion of job of Job Training training more than once/year Completion of Annual 3rd (team leader) or lower-level positions: Mandatory completion of annual Minimum Learning Hours minimum learning hours Education Employees are motivated by offering mileage in proportion to the number Mileage Program of learning hours completed Coaching Guide Recommending training courses optimized for career, qualification, and duty IBK’s Skill Enhancement Program for Each Grade/Level Common training Position-specific training Job Job Training Academy, on-the-job training, financial license preparation class, | New Employees training Korea Banking Institute, field expert specializing in core tasks, etc. · Training for new employees MBA, Executive-MBA, dispatch to professional education institutes, planning · Retraining for new employees Pro (deposit sector) power advancement course, strategic planning management program (SPMP), fessionals · Retraining for new employees professional staff (credit review, F/X, PB), digital finance course, etc. (loan sector) · Retraining for new employees (F/X sector) Guest lectures, reading communication training, weekend language course, Others training for employees returning to work, Teaching Academy, etc. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Training of Key Human Talents with Global Skills IBK develops global talents who can respond properly to changes in the global business environment and lead the company in the global age. To this end, we dispatch some of our top-performing employees to international and domestic MBA programs. We also sponsor overseas language study trips, theme-based overseas training or competitor benchmarking trips. Also, in 2018, we signed cooperative partnerships with major universities in Asia for the purpose of developing globally skilled people who can contribute to building an Asian financial belt. We signed one MOU with a university in Indonesia and another with a university in Vietnam in 2017, and a third with a university in the Philippines in 2018. Presently, we are discussing MOUs with four universities in New Delhi, India with formal signings Training for new hires Developing Digital Innovation Human Talent IBK is also committing considerable resources to strengthening its digital capabilities to prepare for the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. To achieve this goal, we developed the ‘Digital Level-up’ course for 12,466 executives and employees who utilize the company's communication infrastructure, and provided educational courses on deriving digital insights, scratch practice, and the Python programming language among others. On-site Training at External Educational Institutes for Working-Level Employees at HQ Every year IBK sends some of its working-level employees based at its HQ’s departments to external educational institutes where they are taught the latest financial trends and knowledge. Such institutions include the Korea Banking Institute and major universities in South Korea, as well as associations, media companies and other organizations with educational programs for financial experts and conferences. In 2018, 568 IBK employees were dispatched to these institutions for further education. Area Department Course No. of Students Digital Finance Digital Planning Team and 22 Blockchain business etc. 221 Sales field training others IB/Review Loan Review Team and 10 Industry analysis, private 49 others investment business etc. Legal/Compliance Inspection Team and 5 others Internal audit expert training 157 Asset Management/ Fund Management Team and 7 Foreign exchange derivatives 23 Derivatives others etc. Others Human Resource Team and 27 HR Management 118 others In 2018, 568 employees from 53 HQ departments received training (165 courses). | 5th Level Position | 4th Level Position | 3rd Level Position | Head of Department | 부점장급 | Executive or Branch · Up-grade training · Marketing training · Advance course from the · Advanced Financial ·고급 금융컨설턴트 Advanced 과정 Management · Job scope expansion · Training for employees Job Trading Academy Consultant Course 최고경영자 Consultant과정(AMP) course training promoted to 4th level · Training for employees · Advance Management 부점장 리더십 · Advance 강화 과정 Management position promoted to the 3rd level Program (AMP) Program 연수 Pre-CEO (AMP) · Leadership course · Executive training · Pre-CEO training IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Human Talent Management 60 Human Talent Management Creating a Great Place to Work Ensuring a better quality of life for employees and creating a happy workplace is both a source of ustained corporate competitiveness and a path to maximizing social benefits. The fact that topics like the '52-Hour Working Week‘ and ‘Healthy Work-Life Balance‘ are being widely discussed is a sign that our society is moving towards a culture that values a healthy balance between work commitments and social or family life.IBK recognizes that its employees are a source of global competitiveness and is thus committed to creating a workplace where employee satisfaction is at the highest possible level. To this end, we are working proactively to create ‘A Company That You Want to Work For’ by, among other things, revising our welfare policies and strengthening our welfare system, which could lead to a better work-life balance for our employees. Improving Working Conditions Responding to Shorter Working Hours Responding to Shorter Working Hours To respond fluidly to the adoption of the 52-hour work week (as of January 2019) policy, which was mandated by the Category Description collective bargaining agreement IBK signed with the labor union, and to create a productive workplace culture for its PC-OFF Policy Managing 5 hours per week, the use employees and the separation of work and life, IBK is pursuing diverse activities on many fronts. To this end, IBK has of PCs is restricted when turned on for developed and is currently implementing a 4-action plan. Going forward, we at IBK will continue our efforts to build an more than 12 hours. advanced working culture where life and work are fairly balanced. HR Policy Adopting a flexible workplace and Improving Policies on Taking Leave and Working Restructuring expanding the flexible working hour system. To encourage the separation of work and family and improve employees’ satisfaction with their work at IBK, we have revised our vacation and working policies to include new internal regulations that contain therevised items of the Organizational Improving conference/reporting culture, ‘Service Regulations for State Public Officials of the State’. The revised regulation, which came into effect in October Culture Strengthening concentrated work policy. 2018, contains clauses on shorter working hours for pregnant female employees, emergency leave, and working Improvement policies. Productivity Enhancing work productivity via Types of Leave Current Revised Enhancement computerization and automation. Reduction of Work Hours for Can be used only at a specific Can be used at any time during Pregnant Women (2 hours) period during pregnancy pregnancy Childcare Leave Formal events at a child’s school Addition of hospital visit, medical checkup Parental Leave 5 days 10 days Emergency Leave 2 days 3 days (e.g. death of a grandparent) Expanding “IBK Childcare Centers” IBK has established “IBK Childcare Centers” to help employees who are parents of infants and preschool-aged children dedicate themselves to their work. Operation of the “IBK Childcare Centers” (Unit: children) Seoul Gyeonggi-do Incheon Busan Daejeon Branch Han DoMa Pyeong Bun BuGuro IFT Ilsan Suji Busan Daejeon nam gok deul chon dang pyeong IBK Childcare Centers No. of Children 63 42 32 48 61 58 51 46 43 52 37 24 IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Employee Health and Safety Management IBK’s Policies on Employee Health Management and Illness Prevention Expanded Parental Leave Period In May 2019, IBK became the first bank in Korea to consent to · IBK requires employees to take medical checkups (comprehensive or an expansion of parental leave from 2 years to 3 years. general) every year, and provides systematic and intensive health care Medical This is the first for a bank to guarantee a 3-year period of management to employees with health issues. parental leave to all parents, with no strings attached. Checkups · Conducts thorough and comprehensive checkups for employees over If an employee who is either currently pregnant or raising a child the age of 30 who have served IBK for more than five years. under the age of 8 (including adopted children,) or gives birth to twins, the parental leave period increases from 4 years (2 years + 2 years) to 6 years (3 years + 3 years) under the new regulation. · Operates fitness centers at the head office, Hannam-dong office, and Suji IT Center. Fitness Centers · Operates a medical center at the head office that can provide dental services and first-aid medicine for employees · Provides counseling to employees and their families. · Connects counseling centers across the nation (around 50 centers in 6 Counseling regions) whenever they want. Programs · Handles various fields including personal relations, family issues, job stress, legal and financial issues, etc. Improving the Health Checkup Completion Rate Recognizing the need for more faithful health checkups to manage employee health more effectively, IBK increased the number of health checkup completions by implementing early health checkups. In the past, the high number of people who delayed their checkups until the last days of the year led to a deterioration in the quality of the checkups along with difficulties in managing manpower at sales branches. Through early health checkups, IBK was able to complete heath checkups for all employees (excluding employees on parental leave and retired employees). Improving the Office Environment at Sales Branches Other Safety Management Improvement Areas A company that wishes to conduct sustainable business activities has an obligation to create a safe workplace and environment for its employees. IBK has established a safe and pleasant working environment by improving the sales Area Description branch office environment and by introducing stronger safety accident prevention measures. The bank recently opened excellent new facilities intended for both its employees and its customers. Safety · Establish a plan on how Management employees should act in the event of a disaster, and distribute it to all Creating a safe and comfortable user-oriented working environment. sales branches. · Conduct escape drills in all sales Accident Prevention Office Environment Indoor Air Quality branches. Improvements · Purchase and install emergency · Inspect and replace ventilators. · Improve landscaping at sales · Replace ventilation system devices, etc. in the event of · Replace CCTVs with new models. branches. with a new model fitted with earthquake or fire. · On-site inspection of integrated · Provide total cleaning service better air filter · Support for installation of black library. to sales branches. boxes in company vehicles. Enhances internal/external customers’ loyalty to IBK by increasing their satisfaction IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Human Talent Management 62 Human Talent A Labor management Culture of Communication and Cooperation Management IBK operates a variety of channels to create a natural window of dialogue between labor and management Through these channels, employees can not only exchange views about their work, but also share ideas and concerns To foster a labor management culture of communication and cooperation, IBK is expanding communication channels between labor and management and initiating activitiesfor promoting exchanges between them. In addition, we are continuously communicating with the field an important activity that reflects the CEO's field oriented management philosophy. Labor management Council IBK holds regular labor management council meetings with the knowledge that sustained dialogue between labor and management is very important to employees’ happiness In 2018 4 meetings of the labor management council were held. The items on the agenda at these meetings were; expanded financial assistance for relocating to distant posts, better training for reinstating employees, and the adoption of a prior approval system for working during non-business hours. Happy IBK TFT IBK forms a TFT when, as in the case of the 52 hour work week, labor and management have to work together to adopt a particular policy. IBK created the 'Happy IBK TFT‘ with the objective of using it as acommunication window for discussing policies that could make IBK a happier workplace. In 2018, some of the issues discussed at the Happy IBK TFT meetings included plans for implementing a flexible working hour system and plans for reducing the number of working hours. Increasing Labor management Exchanges Another approach taken to establish a labor management culture of communication and cooperation lies in expanding mutual exchanges between labor and management. IBK is striving to improve employee teamwork and stimulate communication and cooperation through a diverse set of cultural and themed events, such as the self paced learning camp for children of employees, the labor union soccer competition, and trekking on the Jeju Olle Trail. Expanding Field oriented Communication As part of IBK’s field oriented management practices, the CEO visits each workplace to listen to the opinions ideas and grievances of field employees. In 2018, the CEO made 222 workplace visits. Through these visits, the voices of the customers and the difficulties experienced by employees in the field and in the sales environment were relayed to the top management executives. Employee Communication Channels IBK Leaders Club Representative employees selected in consideration of their position, region, and IBK Leaders Club Workshop gender deliver diverse opinions from the business field to the management. CEO Communication Employees can resolve their grievances through direct communication with the Postcard CEO via confidential postcards National Meeting of The bank’s strategic directions can be shared with all employees through the Branch Managers meeting, which is attended by the heads of domestic branches, the heads of overseas branches, and the CEOs of subsidiaries. Survey to Diagnose We conduct surveys to check and monitor employees’ awareness of the Organizational Issues corporate culture and to identify improvement tasks. Visits Workplace IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Special Page: Compliance with the Principles of the UN Global Compact Respect for Since joining the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2006, IBK has been complying with the ten UNGC principles in the fields of human rights, labor, Human Rights environment, and anti-corruption. We are committed to fulfilling these ten principles to become a leading bank in co-prosperity and sharing activities Human Principle 1 Companies shall support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights IBK Code of Ethics, Employee Code of Ethics, and Code of Conduct Principle 2 Companies shall make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Protection of customer information and prevention of stakeholders’ human rights infringement Labor Principle 3 Companies shall uphold the freedom of association and the effective right to collective bargaining. Operation of the Union Shop and the Labor-Management Council Principle 4 Companies shall uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Compliance with the Labor Standards Act and employment rules Principle 5 Companies shall uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Compliance with the ILO’s Principles Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Measures for Eliminating the Worst Forms of Child Labor Principle 6 Companies shall uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Open recruitment and regional balanced recruitment, youth internship program Environment Principle 7 Companies shall support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Implementation of Green SCM Consulting and diagnosis on regulations for green growth Principle 8 Companies shall undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Operation of eco-friendly programs Principle 9 Companies shall encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Substitution of paper forms of documentation with electronic forms Anti-corruption Principle 10 Companies shall work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Evaluation of performance of integrity and anti-money laundering policy and clean contract system IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Social Contribution 64 Social Activities for Social Responsibility Contribution We are now exiting the age of economic value creation in which profits and efficiency were all that mattered and entering into a new age of social value creation in which businesses must address the demands of society. For corporations, the importance of social responsibility, which includes social contributions, has become greater. As a government-owned bank, IBK makes the maximum effort to fulfill its social responsibilities. In particular, by launching Expenditures on Social truly charitable social contribution activities for SMEs and the socially vulnerable group, we will strive to become a true Contributions in 2018 partner in sharing and giving hope to the people. KRW 1,056 billion Major Social Contribution Activities in 2018 (Unit: KRW million, persons) 7.83% of net profits Category Support Amount No. of Volunteers (beneficiaries) Local communities / Public iterest 50,316 8,934 No. of Volunteers in 2018 IBK Smile Micro Credit Bank 32,958 13,075 persons Academy / Education Mecenat / Athletic events 9,739 10,862 2,259 1,700 Environment 310 31 Global 1,456 151 Vision for Social Leading CSR Management through Innovation of Financial Contribution Consumer-oriented Management Strategic Direction of Social Enhancing the Brand Value of IBK by Fulfilling Our Social Contribution Responsibility Improving the Welfareand Quality of Life of SME Employees Key Projects · IBK Youth Mentoring For Hope · Building Joint Childcare Centers · Supporting Scholarships for Employees and Families · Supporting the Medical Expenses of Employees and Families Engaging in Social Contributions for the Underprivileged · Operating ‘A Truly Good Food Truck of Love’ · Supporting the Installation of Fire Detectors in Traditional Markets · Operating IBK Eco Tours Creating Jobs for Young Adults and Cultivating Social Enterprises · SME Job Search Platform · SME Management Consulting · IBK Social Venture Development Business Performing Volunteer Work Through Employee Participation · Volunteer Work in Korea · Volunteer Work around the World Activating Support for Unpopular Sports · IBK Altos Woman’s Volleyball Team · IBK Rifle Shooting Team · Sponsoring other Lesser-known Sports IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 IBK Happiness Sharing Foundation In March 2006, IBK established the IBK Happiness Sharing Foundation to improve the welfare of the families of employees working for small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). We provide medical expense assistance for employees of SMEs who are experiencing financial hardships in paying for the costs of treating incurable and serious diseases. We also provide scholarships to children of SME employees who need help with their tuition fees because due to financial difficulties. Other social welfare projects, such as the IBK Youth Mentoring for Hope, which provides school work mentoring services to children of SMEemployees, and the SME Joint Childcare project, which builds and operates child care centers for children of SME employees, have become the foundation for IBK’s Co-up Financing. Camp for Self-directed Learning at IBK's IBK Youth Mentoring As a virtuous circle mentoring project, our new employees become job mentors of young adults Youth Mentoring for Hope who want to join financial businesses, while the beneficiaries also become academic mentors for for Hope children of SME employees. IBK Childcare The SME Joint Childcare Center helps SME employees dedicate themselves to social and economic Centers activities by supporting the healthy growth and development of their children, thereby contributing to their work-life balance. Supporting Children We offer scholarships to children of SME employees who have shown enthusiasm for studying and through Scholarships an upright character in order to encourage their visions and dreams. Supporting The medical expenses of SME employees whose family member(s) are suffering from rare incurable medical expenses diseases or severe diseases, but who are excluded from benefits because they receive a monthly income, are supported. Scholarship Awards Ceremony for families of SME employees Performance of the IBK Happiness Sharing Foundation in 2018 (Unit: KRW in millions) Project Support amount IBK Youth Mentoring for Hope 578 IBK Childcare Centers (New) 284 Scholarships for employees and their family members 2,084 Support with medical expenses of employees and their family members 1,200 Other types of support 265 Total 4,411 IBK Smile Micro Credit Bank In December 2009, IBK created the IBK Smile Micro Credit Bank to comply with the government's policy on helping low-income families start new lives and to provide practical assistance to such families. Fromsupport designed to help families with limited economic means achieve economic self-sufficiency, through consulting assistance in starting a business, advice on managing their credits, and employment opportunities, to our many different programs for lifestyle stabilization, IBK is working strenuously to create a platform of hope from which they can restart their lives. In the future, we intend to continue our activities aimed at giving people practical assistance in becoming financially selfsufficient by expanding our business. This expansion will take the form of developing new products to help people and of opening new branches to expand our national network. Support Provision of for startup information for job or working searches capital IBK Smile Micro Credit Bank Support for Consultation on business feasibility debt management analysis and in connection with management debt adjustment consulting IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Social Contribution 66 Creation of Youth Employment and Vitalization of Social Economy i-ONE JOB I-ONE JOB, a specialized job platform for SMEs, is a system created to eliminate the shortage of human resources among SMEs. We provide SME recruitment Job Platform related contents to this platform free of charge, and help to boost employment by for SMEs connecting jobseekers with good job opportunities. In 2018, we began our ‘Project to Create 100,000 New Jobs’ in a bid to expand recruitment by SMEs. Management IBK Consulting is an extended SME support system that provides both funds and comprehensive management consulting to SMEs. IBK launched IBK Consulting Consulting in 2003 as a consulting service, but it now also provides management, legal, tax Services for SMEs and accounting-related consulting for SMEs. And, in 2018, IBK took another step beyond its business scope by launching its IBK Co-up Consulting service to play (IBK Consulting) the role of a good companion for companies. IBK Social Venture The goal of this project is to identify and support social ventures with strong growth potential in order to boost the social economy. The project provides funding Growth Support for running a business, business management education, business strategy Project workshops, and mentoring for the development and operation of businesses. For the four-year period from 2016 to 2019, a total of KRW 580 million was provided to 33 businesses to fund their development. Various Activities for the Socially Vulnerable Group IBK The IBK Eco Tour project provides free tours to 21 national parks in Korea for children from marginalized families, people with disabilities, and elderly people who Eco Tour Project live alone. The IBK Eco Tour project is one example of the work we are doing to increase cultural benefits to people from disadvantaged backgrounds. IBK also provides other cultural experience programs such as traditional Korean cooking, and music and art therapy. Launched in 2013, this project has been enjoyed by 58,000 individuals to date. Fire Detection IBK donated KRW 110 million to a project for the installation of fire detection facilities in Korean traditional markets across the nation. In the event that the fire Facility Support detection devices and CCTVs installed in these markets detect a fire, an alarm Project for signal is automatically transmitted to the nearest fire station. IBK funding has enabled the installation of 1,154 fire detection facilities in 13 traditional markets. Traditional Markets Other Types of Aid IBK provides emergency relief to places in need of assistance after a disaster or catastrophe. In January 2018, when fire destroyed much of Mokpo Market, IBK for the Socially donated funds for the recovery effort and special relief funds to the merchants who Vulnerable Group had suffered damages. Furthermore, in April of the same year, IBK donated KRW 200 million to help the victims of a fire that had ravaged parts of Goseong and Sokcho in the Gwangwon province. IBK sent its fleet of free food trucks, known as the ‘IBK CHAM! Food Trucks of Love’, to these places to help people deprived of food. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Pursuing Global Social Contribution Strategies Global Volunteer In 2018, IBK carried out global volunteer activities in Indonesia. The IBK Global Volunteer Corps, composed of 73 employees, was flown to an area near Activities Jakarta where they distributed educational supplies, made improvements to the classroom environment, and provided educational services in an elementary school. By engaging in volunteer work in developing countries, IBK is fulfilling its social responsibilities, expanding its global network, and developing cooperative relationships that could assist its entry into overseas markets. Emergency Relief In September 2018, an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.5 hit Sulawesi, Indonesia, followed by a huge tsunami that resulted in more than 1,400 deaths. IBK responded Aid for Indonesia to the disaster by sending emergency relief funds of IDR 4 billion (about KRW 300 million) to the region which was devastated by numerous human casualties as well as severe property damages. IBK Eco-friendly The eco-friendly cookstove project was launched by IBK to fight climate change by supplying cookstoves to poor households in underdeveloped countries, with the Cookstove Project aim of improving the environment and reducing carbon emissions. In what was a first for any Korean bank, IBK supplied 12,000 cookstoves to people in Myanmar, and the carbon emission rights obtained upon certification of the resultant carbon emission reductions were sold to Korean companies. The proceeds from this sale were used to purchase additional cookstoves, which were also supplied to Myanmar as part of a project with a positive feedback cycle. Expanded Support for Sports IBK The IBK Altos Women’s Professional Volleyball Team is significantly contributing to the development and advancement of the Korean women’s volleyball league. IBK ALTOS Altos Women’s became the first professional women’s volleyball team to reach the championship playoffs Volleyball Team for six years in a row, reaching the semifinals in the 2017-2018 season. In addition, IBK supports social welfare institutions through the 'Spike of Love' donation program, whereby KRW 30,000 is accumulated for each score in a winning game. IBK is committed to social contribution activities in the realm of sports, operating a volleyball class for youths and providing group visitors with opportunities to watch ALTOS compete in matches. IBK Shooting The IBK Shooting Team won the gold medal at the 2014 Incheon Asian Games and the bronze medal at the 2019 ISSF World Cup held in New Delhi because the athletes were Team able to maximize both their individual skills and their team capabilities through powerful teamwork. In addition, by developing promising young players, IBK has made a significant contribution to popularizing the sport. Sponsorship IBK is seeking to popularize non-popular sports by sponsoring the Korean national field hockey team and the national boccia team, a sport played by athletes with physical of Other Nondisabilities. Both teams are competing in qualification tournaments that could earn them Popular Sports spots at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. In addition, IBK contributed to the successful hosting of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games by sponsoring the national team, donating tickets, and organizing the gala ceremony for celebrating the hosting of the Olympics. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Raising Sustainable Investment Capital 68 Raising Direction for Raising Sustainable Investment Capital Sustainable To build a sustainable society supported by finance, we raise capital from investors who demand that IBK fulfill its Investment CSR. Afterwards, we channel the capital into developing and investing in financial products, thereby contributing to creating social value, such as investment in job-creating SMEs and the nurturing of green businesses Capital · Management of the Carbon Bank project · Loans and investments for the new & Management Corporate renewable energy sectors Fundraising · Loans and investments for startups and Activities Customer business ventures · Loans and investments for job-creating companies · CDP (CarbonDisclosure Project) · Green bond · Consulting on ecofriendliness and · Social bond · Eco-friendly deposit and card products carbon asset management · Sustainable · Deposit and card products aligned with Private · Operation of SME support platforms bond the public interest Customer · Supply of funds to small business owners · Policy projects including job creation · Loans to people with a poor or bad credit history Eco-conscious Investors Conference Through its IR activities with investors, the Bank confirmed the demand for eco-friendly investment in the global market. It is currently preparing to issue green bonds in a bid to explore new channels for overseas financing. To that end, IBK has explored differentiated exclusive values that can be provided to SMEs to generate an eco-friendly culture, and risk management by utilizing experts in overseas financial markets. It held a briefing meeting to share its achievements in promoting eco-friendly financial services to eco-friendly overseas investors. Sustainable Bond IBK Industrial Bank issued about KRW 300 billion worth of sustainable bonds in February of 2019 (priority order, three-year maturity and 1.93% interest rate) as well as Korea's first subordinated sustainable bonds worth 650 billion KRW in September of the same year (subordinated, ten-year maturity and 1.7% interest rate.) As a policy lender, the bank aims to diversify its procurement market by identifying institutional investors interested in social responsibility, and to contribute to the vitalization of the bond market related to domestic ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) and the promotion of its public nature. History of Social Bond Issuance Social Bonds Successfully Issued for the First Time in Korea Since 2017, IBK has made diverse efforts to issue social bonds, which are designed to realize such social values `17.11 Awarded opinion qualified to issue social bonds. as the creation of jobs and support for SMEs. It successfully issued social bonds in August 2018 for the first time `17.12 Attended conference on social bonds and in Korea. Social bonds are issued to resolve diverse social issues, including support for vulnerable groups, the conducted IR (in Paris) deployment of social infrastructure, and crime prevention. They are especially noted as Social Responsible Investment `18.5 Issuance proposal requested (SRI) has increased sharply in advanced countries. The Bank plans to apply the funds to support SMEs and startups to comply with the purpose of its establishment. Diverse affirmative effects are expected to be created, including the `18.6 Overseas IR (in London, New York, etc.) external disclosure of the effects of CSR programs and extension of fundraising foothold by securing SRI investors. `18.7 Approved by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance Social Bond Issuance Process `18.8.2 Social Bonds Successfully Issued for the First Time in Korea 1 2 3 4 Description of Assessment by Reception of Issuance bond issuance independent statements criteria agencies Purpose Assessment Verification of Investor solicitation and use of funds of eligibility by efficacy of social and issuance international contribution appraisal agency and approval of issuance IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Support for SMEs’ Direction of Support for Environmentally-friendly Management Eco-conscious IBK provides a consulting service that offers integrated solutions designed to enable SMEs to secure sustainability Management by practicing eco-friendly management. It also helps SMEs to enhance their market competitiveness by providing consulting services, including Green SCM Consulting, which support SMEs’ energy management via business partnership agreements with large company and their development of eco-friendly action tasks, as well as certification by external agencies. Green Supply Chain Management Consulting Service Since 2011 we have provided SMEs with the Green Supply Chain Management Consulting service in collaboration with large companies. This service helps SMEs establish a GHG inventory and offers diverse useful information, including the best practices in environmentally-friendly management, and encourages their participation, as well as enhancing their efforts to practice environmentally-friendly management. Moreover, large companies give extra credits to SMEs that pursue environmentally-friendly management when selecting and evaluating their suppliers to build a sustainable supply chain. Offering consulting on Green SCM IBK Enhancement Business agreements on of SMEs’ shared growth SMEs Practice of Environmental Management Large Companies Application of eco-friendly management factors when evaluating small & medium-sized suppliers Consulting for Eco-friendliness Certification and Development of Action Plans Our consulting service encompasses safety and disaster prevention, the development of new eco-friendly businesses, and the acquisition of environmental certifications. We diagnose SMEs’ environmental management status and propose improvement measures suited to their organizational structures and management systems, thereby helping them to obtain environmental management certifications, prepare anti-fire strategies, and comply with the criteria for entrance into the supply chain of large corporations. This consulting service has attracted the active participation of SMEs that need an eco-friendly business record in order to explore overseas markets by obtaining factory sites and government policy-based funding on preferential terms, SMEs that aim to diversify into eco-friendly business, and SMEs seeking preferential treatment by large enterprises through eco-friendly business. 1 Diagnosis of Internal 2 Promotion and 3 Execution and Follow-up and External Conditions Identification of Management Improvement Tasks · Analyze current environmental · Review the possibility of execution · Support eco-friendly business certification management activities · Identify improvement tasks and action · Establish firefighting and safety assurance · Establish environmental management plans plans action plans · Meet the requirements of large companies IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Introduction to the Climate Finance Market 70 Introduction to the Climate Finance Market Foundation for Climate Finance Since the global community adopted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which declared participation in countermeasures to climate change in 2015, long-term projects have been systematically carried out in Korea to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to maintain competitiveness in addressing climate change and the related discussion. As the Korean government has declared its intention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% against the estimate value based on Business As Usual (BAU) by 2030, it is required to make aggressive investments while restructuring industries in order to reduce the current volume of greenhouse gas emissions drastically. IBK pursues its role as a financing service for GHG reduction by cooperating with local academic and research institutes while participating in projects to disclose carbon information. This is for its effort and information disclosure in responding to climate change. In addition, to induce and support SMEs’ participation in the response to climate change, it provides consulting on carbon asset management and a brokerage service for the trading of greenhouse gas emissions, and finances new and renewable energy projects. IBK’s Participation in Entities for Participation in the Global Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Response to Climate Change IBK has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) by accommodating the public demand for carbon· Decision-making committee for allocation under the Korean Emissions Trading System (K-ETS) conscious management to actively induce investment from eco-friendly investors. It has disclosed its environmental · Korea Carbon Finance Association responsibilities transparently by submitting its report on superior carbon management performances to the Carbon · 2030 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Roadmap Disclosure Project (CDP), a non-profit organization based in the UK. It is expected that its disclosure of carbon Committee management will assists its efforts to induce investment as green bonds and other eco-friendly bonds have become · K-ETS Market Stabilizaetion Association active in the securities market. · International ETS Research Association · Green Finance Experts Forum, Ministry of Participation in External Activities Against Climate Change Environment IBK collects diverse opinions from its stakeholders while sharing the status and performance of its activities against climate change by participating in local agencies, in order to set up the roles of the financial industry concerning its response to climate change and the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. In addition, it explores ideas that can be applied to its business while surveying the latest developments in climate-related financing and the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. Provision of Consulting on IBK's Carbon Asset Management Eliminating risk factors associated with climate change and the development of new services have emerged as core topics, as carbon management has emerged as new management agenda, including the UNFCCC, the Korean emissions trading system, and energy target management in connection with greenhouse gas emissions. IBK provides consulting on carbon asset management to qualified businesses aiming to comply with the social demandfor a concerted response to climate change, including those participating in the greenhouse-gas related energy target management system, businesses subject to emissions right trading, businesses requiring the emissions offset service, and businesses for which carbon management is essential. 1 Diagnosis of Current 2 Identification of 3 Carbon Asset Conditions Management Plans Management · Process assessment and analysis of · Reorganization for optimum management · Brokerage of emissions permit trading responses against regulations · Preparation for management precesses · Real-time consulting · Organization management and · Establishment of an emissions permit · Offering of market analysis reports assessment of infrastructure supply and demand plan · Modeling and prediction of · Preparation for internal and external future environment reduction plans IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Promoting IBK Carbon Bank Project To vitalize the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), the market for trading greenhouse gas emissions, IBK shares the revenue generated by selling the right to discharge greenhouse gas secured from SMEs through the IBK Carbon Bank Project. IBK sells or arranges the sale of greenhouse gas emission rights acquired by SMEs by reducing the emission of greenhouse gas to the Korea Emission Trading Scheme (K-ETS) or to other businesses that desire to purchase the trading right. IBK deducts the revenue accrued from the sale or intermediation from loans to the SMEs or transfers it to them in cash. ③ Selling of emissions ③ Emissions permit trading Companies permits subject to the KRX IBK Emissions ④ Sales revenue ④ Sales revenue Trading System ① Consulting (connecting financial support when necessary) ① Application ① Remittance of revenue (every year) SME Renewable Energy Support System IBK has established diverse three-dimensional support systems to explore and foster SMEs that run new businesses in the new and renewable energy sector. In compliance with the government’s policy to foster the new and renewable energy related industries, IBK has increased its support to the new and renewable energy industries in the form of loans and project financing, including those related to solar energy and energy storage systems. In 2018, it supported the development of new and renewable energy fuel by promoting financial arrangement to a factory that produces wooden pellets (fuel for biomass power plant). Type Support Support Amount Cases Loan (Project) Solar Power Facility KRW 32.1 billion 51 Investment Loan PF (Project) New & Renewable Energy KRW 44.7 billion 79 Co-prosperity Guarantee Loan (Target) Solar power generation, ESS KRW 101.5 billion 1 Win-win Guarantee Fund for Renewable Energy In a bid to nurture the renewable energy business and promote cooperation between large corporations and SMEs, we have raised the “Renewable Energy Win-win Guarantee Fund” in collaboration with large companies and power companies. This fund has been supporting SMEs engaging in the renewable energy business as a loan product based on credit certificates issued by certification agencies. IBK accomplished the result of KRW 3.6 trillion in loans at the end of the relevant year after starting with a KRW 300 billion loan agreement signed in September 2017. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Creation of Social Economy 72 Creation Social Economy and Balanced Growth of Social The pursuit of social economy and balanced regional growth has been emphasized to promote the Economy development of local communities, create jobs, and improve the level of social welfare. In this regard, IBK promotes inclusive finance by expanding support for local SMEs and microenterprises, in addition to improving the financial accessibility of companies that create social value. Status of financing to local SMEs Increased Support for Local SMEs With the aim of promoting balanced regional growth and vitalizing the local economy, IBK has been 2016 KRW 48.7 trillion expanding support for local SMEs. We introduced special policies to support local SMEs, including the application of a lower LTV ratio and relaxation of the standard for collateral assessment and feasibility 2017 KRW 51.1trillion studies. This support is especially focused on 63 local industrial complexes with the aim of stimulating the local economy in a strategic manner. IBK supplies funds in alliance with the central and municipal 2018 KRW 53.8 trillion governments, the central bank, and credit guarantee foundations. In addition, IBK performs the role of funneling low-interest funds utilizing the central bank’s program for supporting local SMEs. More Benefits for Small Businesses IBK supports the growth of small businesses (with 20 or fewer employees) to stabilize the livelihood of lowincome employees and strengthen the fundamentals of SMEs. Based on a fund supply plan specifically tailored to them, we have improved their financial accessibility by introducing exclusive non-face-to-facechannel products. Moreover, a variety of benefits are offered, including deferred principle redemption and deferred or exempted interest on long-term loans by installment. Financial Support for Expansion of Social Enterprises Since signing a business agreement with the Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency and the 20 or fewer employees Status of loans Korea Credit Guarantee Fund, IBK has provided guaranteed loans of KRW 100 billion to certified social to SMEs enterprises, with the aim of disseminating a culture of social value creation and building an ecosystem for the social economy. Regardless of their contribution to transactions, we apply a lower interest rate of 258,240 SMEs 1.3% and support 0.2 % of their guarantee fee every year (maximum of 1% for five years). In addition, IBK Investment & Securities created the first KRW 11 billion social enterprise investment fund in the securities KRW 104.5 trillion loaned industry to expand social value in the capital market. In particular, we invested KRW 8.1 billion in seven social enterprises in 2018. (As of end of 2018) Crowd-Funding Activities IBK has founded the Business Investment Information Forum to help businesses and investors to grow together in order to promote crowd funding, which enables businesses with excellent business ideas and technologies to raise funds from many small-sum investors. The IBK Business Investment Information Forum serves as a marketing channel promoting investment target company by providing inclusive investment information on success cases and investment methods. We provide financial expenses of KRW 1 million to companies that successfully raise capital through crowd funding and meet our support program conditions. Other types of support include the IBK HOPE-funding Loan and the IBK Follow-up Matching Investment Association, which are executed in collaboration with guaranteed firms. In March 2016, IBK Investment & Securities registered for the first time in the securities industry to raise and supply funds to startup companies by registering a brokerage company to online small investment (also known as crowdfunding.) In 2018, we achieved KRW 14.7 billion in funds and 8 successful companies. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Greater Support for Cultural Content Companies The cultural content business is a new growth engine for the Korean economy which can generate new added values through convergence with various sectors and create many new jobs. In this regard, IBK is expanding financial support for the business while continuously exploring and supporting small but promising companies in the fields of film, broadcasting, performance, and music. Supply of Funds to the Cultural Financial Support for the Cultural Content Industry Content Industry IBK focuses on cultivating cultural content companies with the aim of securing a growth engine and realizing social value by helping vitalize the art and culture business. Based on our midto long-term 2016 KRW 3,988 billion support plan, we plan to provide KRW 1.2 trillion to the business by 2019, which is 1.6 times the amount provided in the last three years. In 2018, we supplied KRW 628.4 billion, clearly consolidating our position 2017 KRW 4,404 billion in this business. 2018 KRW 6,284 billion Diversified Cultural Content Investment Portfolio IBK invested KRW 3.0 billion in two projects driven by indirect investment associations specializing in cultural content to diversify our investment portfolio, thereby contributing to the vitalization of the cultural content industry Amount of investment in cultural contents Category Total amount of equity IBK’s Contribution Remarks investment Daesung Blossom Job KRW 30.1 billion KRW 2 billion Support for contents SMEs and Creation Fund startups. KTBN Future Contents KRW 30 billion KRW 1 billion Support for content companies Job Creation Fund with overseas business. Total KRW 60.1 billion KRW 3 billion Creating Jobs through Collaboration with Cultural Content Institutions and Businesses Through cooperation with cultural content-related organizations and businesses, we are responding to the policy on job creation. In particular, through the business agreement with the Korean Film Council in September 2018, we contributed to the creation of jobs, shared growth, and investment in independent and low-budget films. In addition, through a mutually beneficial agreement with Lotte Cultureworks in September, we provided financial support to SMEs in the film industry with profits from the movie 'Along with the Gods'. Fulfilling our Public Role in Cultural Content Financing For the enhancement of Co-up Financing collaboration with cultural content-related institutions and businesses, IBK selected a financial institution for the secondary preservation business agreement for content companies by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and released relevant products. Furthermore, we contributed to the virtuous cycle of the movie industry by investing part of the profits from the commercial film investment into independent and low-budget films in order to fulfill our public role of Films invested by IBK expanding investment in independent and low-budget films. IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Sustainable Management Fact book Development of Products for Greater Public Interest 74 Development Diverse Deposit Products for the Public of Products for IBK has launched a variety of deposit products to enable people from all generations to participate in Greater Public sustainable finance. These products are designed to help employees stably build their assets and to help military personnel stand on their two feet after completing their military service. We have also expanded Interest the number of recipients who can use accounts without being subject to seizure, and launched financial products that appeal to minors to allow them to continuously use the bank’s services. These products aim to offer greater benefits to more members of our society. Deposit Products Key Features Total Deposits (Accumulated as of December 31, 2018) IBK W Account • Exemption of financial transaction fees for workers and their family KRW members when receiving their salary. • Exemption of fees for money transfer from IBK to other banks through 5,658 billion e-finance and ATMs and other fees. IBK Narasarang • Unlimited exemption from various financial feesduring military KRW Account service, benefits offered in accordance with transaction patterns even before and after completing military service, and linkage with the Narasarang (Love My Country) card. 1,173 billion IBK W Account • Exemption of various fees, benefits offered on major foreign currency exchanges. Launch of Financial Products for the Public and the Vulnerable Group We make concerted efforts to help people address their financial difficulties. In this regard, we are developing installment savings products for customers who faithfully redeem their loans so that they can build their assets. We are also providing vulnerable groups with installment savings products with high interest rates. Deposit Products Key Features Total Deposits (Accumulated as of December 31, 2018) IBK Smile Dream Installment Account • Assisting customers who have faithfully repaid their microfinance loans to stably form their property KRW 4 billion • Provision of interest rate incentives according to the contract term after the Korea Inclusive Finance Agency screens customers’ qualifications and issues a letter of reference IBK Sarang Nanum • An installment account exclusive to the underprivileged, including KRW (Sharing Love) the disabled, child breadwinners, and single parents living on welfare Installment Account benefits 584 billion • If the account reaches maturity, the same interest rates are applied to the account holder as preferential interest rates Development of a Donation Culture Utilizing Credit Card Reward Points When financial consumers agree to donate their remaining balance in expired pre-paid cards or credit card reward points, IBK delivers the money to the Credit Card Foundation, which then spends the money on supporting low-income families, small-scale credit card member stores, public research activities, and social welfare services. IBK has donated KRW 320 million so far, and will donate KRW 2.6 billion over the next five years. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Card Products to Facilitate SMEs’ Business Operation In a bid to promote IBK Co-up Financing, we have launched a variety of credit card products aimed at helping SMEs run their businesses in a sustainable way. These products contribute to reducing their financial transaction costs and provide them with various benefits necessary for business operation, thereby facilitating their financial activities. Deposit Products Key Features Total Deposits IBK (Accumulated as of December 31, 2018) Mutual Growth Card IBK Mutual Growth • Exemption of financial fees to help SMEs reduce their KRW fundraising and transaction costs Card • Exemption of transfer fees through e-finance and the installment 3,061 billion fee from the last month IBK IBK Mutual Success • Provision of diverse benefits when SMEs go on overseas business KRW Mutual Success trips and conduct local operations Card Card • Discounts at gas stations, reward points in domestic/overseas 4,036 billion member stores, free access to airport lounges Card Products Aligned with the Public Interest We have launched credit cards designed to promote the public interest to disseminate the culture of sustainable finance. The Green Card offers benefits when customers reduce their energy consumption, such as electricity, water and gas, or use public transportation. Another credit card provides transportation costs to help SMEs address difficulties in employment and encourage youth to find jobs. Deposit Products Key Features Total Deposits (Accumulated as of December 31, 2018) Green Card V2 • Contribution to disseminating a low-carbon, eco-friendly KRW consumption culture by helping people to get involved in green finance. • Cashback for eco-money points and usage of points in paying 157 billion apartment maintenance fees, electricity bills, and cellphone bills. IBK IBK Narasarang • Provision of benefits exclusive to soldiers, including discounts at PX, KRW convenience stores, accommodation, and language classes, along Narasarang Card Card with free accident insurance policies regardless of the usage records 1,566.2 or integrated discount limits billion • The highest interest rate is offered on the IBK National Armed Forces’ Hope & Preparation of Installment Account. Those who have completed their military duty are eligible A Truly Good Friend, • Provision of diverse benefits when SMEs go on overseas business trips and conduct local operations KRW Walking Together with Youth Card • Discounts at gas stations, reward points in domestic/overseas member stores, free access to airport lounges 477 billion IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix 76 Appendix IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Materiality Assessment 78 Stakeholder Engagement 80 Performance Data 82 GRI Index 86 Third Party Assurance Statement 88 Membership Associations and Awards 90 IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix Materiality Assessment 78 Materiality Materiality Assessment Process Assessment IBK has launched a variety of deposit products to enable people from all generations to participate in sustainable finance. These products are designed to help employees stably build their assets and to help military personnel stand on their two feet after completing their military service. We have also expanded the number of recipients who can use accounts without being subject to seizure, and launched financial products that appeal to minors to allow them to continuously use the bank’s services. These products aim to offer greater benefits to more members of our society. Identification of an Issue Pool We implemented an analysis of global sustainability issues and reporting standards to understand recent sustainability management trends, and Step 01 conducted benchmarking of advanced financial companies and media research to gain stakeholders’ perspectives. Review of corporate documents including earnings and business reports and in-depth interviews with employees allowed us to monitor the direction and performances of our sustainability management activities. A total of 45 issues were identified through this process. Analysis of Global Standards Analysis of Current Status • GRI Standards • Earnings report • DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) • Business report, operating report, audit • ISO 26000 report • SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) • Annual report • In-depth interview with employees Benchmarking of Advanced Companies Media Research • Checked sustainability management • Checked IBK-related news articles strategies, activities, and performances in and issues in the fields of economy, the financial industry at home and abroad environment, and society • Analyzed reporting topics and priorities in sustainability reports of 10 competitors Prioritization of Issues To select material issues that IBK should consistently manage from the pool, we evaluated the interest levels of stakeholders and business impacts in four Step 02 aspects of strategy, finance, operation, and reputation. This process enabled us to understand the impact of each issue on our business and to prioritize issues in accordance with the stakeholders’ perspective. Materiality assessment results A total of 20 major issues and 5 material issues were identified through the materiality assessment considering IBK’s business relevance and social impact. Step 03 We categorized the issues into three material topics for a more transparent report on IBK’s sustainability management activities and performances. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Materiality Assessment Matrix Impact of business 1 2 3 4 17 5 6 7 18 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 19 20 Interest of stakeholders 1 Create economic value through business activities 11 Enhance business activities centered on customer satisfaction Contribute to vitalizing economy through financial supports for 2 12 Encourage employees’ charity and volunteer work SMEs and startups 3 Expand digital finance (Fintech, mobile platform, etc.) 13 Strengthen anti-money laundering systems 4 Expand green investment portfolio 14 Develop eco-friendly products and services Protect personal information of customers 5 15 Create a positive work environment (bank fraud, cyber security, etc.) 6 Prohibit discrimination and improve human rights 16 Pursue fair employment and create quality jobs 7 Activate communication with stakeholders 17 Cultivate financial experts by sharpening employee capabilities 8 Manage social contribution performance and check social impact 18 Provide appropriate Compensation compared to legal minimum wage Improve accessibility of the financially vulnerable class 9 19 Tighten monitoring of GHG emissions (disabled, elderly, etc.) 10 Prevent unfair practices and corruption 20 Reduce energy consumption Definition of Material Topics NO. Material Issue Material Topic GRI Topic SDGs Page 1 Contribute to vitalizing economy through Comprehensive Indirect Goal 8, 9 p.18-39 financial supports for SMEs and startups financial supports for economic impacts SMEs (GRI 203) 2 Create economic value through Promotion of Economic Goal 7, 8 p.68-75 business activities sustainable finance performance 3 Increase green investment portfolio (GRI 201) 4 Expand digital finance Enhancement of Customer Goal 10, 17 p.50-53, services for financial privacy p.59 5 Protect personal information of consumers (GRI 418) customers IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix Stakeholder Engagement 80 Stakeholder Direction of Stakeholder Engagement Engagement Considering their impact on and significance for our sustainability management activities, IBK defines its key stakeholder groups as customers, employees, SMEs, local communities, the government, shareholders & investors. We also operate a variety of communication channels to encourage their participation in our communication activities in order for us to understand their expectations and opinions. IBK lays solid foundations for win-win growth by reflecting its management strategies through active communication with its stakeholders. Policies for Stakeholder Participation IBK has defined the participation of its stakeholders with minimum requirements for promoting mutual communication and collaboration with its stakeholders. IBK promptly provides transparent information to its core stakeholders, including SMEs, personal customers, officers, employees, local community residents, government, shareholders, and investors. IBK operates opinion collection channels in which the stakeholders may freely participate anytime anywhere irrespective of whether a significant business issue has arisen or not. IBK protects the right to know by providing information concerning the history, key contents, and countermeasures as soon as any significant issue arises. Stakeholder group SMEs Individual customers Key expectations and • Offer financial support for SMEs • Protect personal information requirements • Win-win growth promoted between small • Prevent financial accidents and large businesses • Resolve customer complaints • Pioneer overseas markets • Operate customer satisfaction services and • Create jobs and improve work conditions channels • Inherit management rights and survive in • Launch differentiated financing products market IBK’s response efforts • Operate a platform to promote IBK Co-up • Build and strengthen infrastructure for Financing information protection • Offer consultations tailored to growth stage • Enhance financial accident prevention • Conduct Corporate Partnership for Shared systems Growth • Promote consumer-centric management • Support corporate financing for startups • Sharpen competitiveness in digital finance • Financial support for new growth businesses • Support for increased capital investment and emergency financing Communication • IBK Changgong • Homepage channels • Corporate Partnership for Shared Growth • Sign Language Service • IBK Job Creation Investment Association • Customer satisfaction degree survey • IBK Top Managers Club • IBK Fintech Dream Lab • IBK Women Managers Club • IBK Support Center One-Stop Counseling • IBK Future Managers Club Service • i-One Bot IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Stakeholder Selection and Opinion Gathering Process Step 01 We identify stakeholder groups that correspond with the direction of IBK’s Selection of sustainability management activities, and then select key stakeholders who may Stakeholders have significant effects on our sustainable growth, such as profit creation and social value realization. Step 02 To ensure IBK’s continuous growth in sustainable management, we operate a Participation of variety of communication channels to gather and share stakeholders’ opinions. In Stakeholders particular, we hold meetings and discussions with shareholders, customer panels, and the labor-management council for ongoing communication. Step 03 IBK operates a permanent organization consisting of the responsible officers and Sharing of employees of its affiliated companies under its leadership to share opinions with its Stakeholder Issues stakeholders and implement sustainable management. Step 04 We discuss material sustainability management issues regularly and apply key Reflection of issues in our management activities to cement the foundation for sustainable Stakeholder Voices growth. Employees Local communities Government Shareholders & Investors • Encourage employee communication • Secure financing for low-income earners • Comply with finance-related regulations and • Create profits and pursue operational • Offer talent training • Improve accessibility of the financially systems efficiency • Improve employee benefits vulnerable class • Participate in SME support policies • Enhance midto long-term business • Establish a healthy labor-management • Build cultural infrastructures • Promote complete sales of financial products strategies culture • Contribute to local communities and expand • Secure transparency in management activities • Secure effectiveness in investments • Build a transparent organizational structure volunteer works • Protect the environment and respond to climate change • Promote field & communication-centric • Non-financial support • Participate in government-led public • Increase operating performances management • Support the growth of SMEs and their projects • Establish midto long-term business • Improve work conditions employees • Participate in government-led focal projects strategies • Pursue a healthy work-life balance • Alleviate the polarization of digital finance • Conclude business agreements with the • Manage businesses centered on material • Run financial expert cultivation programs • Lead the vitalization of cultural contents relevant institutions issues • Enhance communication between labor • Expand eco-friendly role in financial business • Compliance checklist and report • Enhance investment values and management • Operate subcommittees under the BoD • Leaders Club • SME Consulting • Cooperation programs for government • Annual report • Communication Postcard • IBK Happiness SharingFoundation inspection • IR website • Community of Practice (CoP) • IBK Smile Micro Credit Bank • Regular reporting • IR conference • Questionnaire survey for diagnosis of • Workplace day care centersfor SMEs • Business agreement with relevant institutions • Sustainability Report organization • Job World • M&A Support Center • Shareholders’ meeting • Knowledge Concert • Carbon information disclosure project • Government-hosted conference and • Information disclosed • Labor-Management Council • Visual ARS workshop • In-company Intranet • Support for promotion of lesser-known • Activities by Korea Federation of Banks • UC Messenger sports • Management report by public entities • Internal SNS • IBK Nature website project • IBK Newsletter • SMART ON Application • Staff meeting of each department • Operation Committee, Renumeration Committee, Risk Management Committee IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix Performance Data 82 Performance Economy Data Direct Economic Value Generated (Unit: KRW in millions) 2016 2017 2018 Total Assets 256,851,380 274,069,731 289,509,449 Operating income 1,532,591 2,028,323 2,396,435 Profit for the year 1,164,601 1,508,528 1,764,278 Direct Economic Value Distributed (Unit: KRW in millions) 2016 2017 2018 Customer Interest 2,298,499 2,266,958 2,705,034 Shareholders and investors Dividends 294,675 316,023 407,702 Employee Payroll 1,038,851 1,110,901 1,198,515 Benefits 7,855 8,024 8,351 Government Corporate tax 352,578 445,098 635,189 Community Investment for social 45,494 97,589 105,639 contribution Deposit for Retirement Pension 2016 2017 2018 Defined Date started 28 December 2011 (Unit: KRW in billions, persons) Benefit (DB) Current value of 6,152 7,383 8,529 liabilities Persons subscribed 12,463 12,813 12,652 Defined Date started 28 December 2011 (Unit: KRW in millions, persons) Contribution (DC) Expenses for 290 527 2,508 retirement allowance Persons subscribed 28 32 402 Payments to the Government (Unit: KRW in thousands) 2016 2017 2018 Calculated tax amount 318,910,455 352,909,036 405,192,616 Tax credit 3,810,449 4,720,734 6,040,500 Finalized tax amount 315,100,006 348,188,303 399,152,116 Information Protection (Unit: No. of cases) 2016 2017 2018 Number of leaks of customer 0 0 0 information Number of violations of customer 0 0 0 information statutes Lawsuit and Penalties 1) Some full-time and temporary employees brought a suit aimed at including a regular bonus in ordinary wages against the bank. The case is under way, and we expect that contingent liabilities with regard to the case will amount to KRW 77.6 billion. 2) There is no current penalty or sanction due to market order offences such as violations of the domestic laws and regulations or unfair trade rules. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environment Water Usage *Based on the head office data (Unit: ton) Activating the E-document System 2016 2017 2018 IBK has become the first bank to install tablet PCs at all Water works 46,708 34,765 28,588 counters of its branches in order to activate the e-document system. This initiative was when Underground water 67,748 54,959 49,707 establishing the “IBK e-document system” to secure a Total 113,826 89,724 78,265 paperless culture, with which we expect to innovatively reduce paper consumption and the relevant expenses. We saved KRW 4.5 billion in costs by substituting the Energy Usage *Based on the head office data (Unit: TJ) consumption of around 54 million sheets of paper for 2016 2017 2018 the year. Power used 124.845 111.756 101.412 Fuel used (gas) 123.148 118.174 128.055 Creating an Eco-friendly Workplace Total 248.993 229.930 229.467 Construction work to create an eco-friendly workplace is under way at the head office. We are currently *The GHG Energy Statement only displays energy usage based on the usage of power/fuel/steam installing a solar photovoltaic power generation system at the IBK Finance Tower to obtain our own energy. We Energy Intensity *Based on company-wide data (Unit: TJ, KRW billion, TJ/KRW billion) will continue to expand the use of eco-friendly energy to actively join the government’s GHG & energy target 2016 2017 2018 management scheme and its energy-saving policy. Energy used 1,286.124 1,186.567 1,214.000 Total assets 256,851 274,070 289,510 Encouraging Green Purchasing Energy intensity 0.0050 0.0046 0.0047 IBK is proactive in purchasing green products in accordance with the Low Carbon Green Growth Act. GHG Emissions *Based on company-wide data (Unit: tCO2e) 2016 2017 2018 Total GHG emissions 64,850 59,940 61,300 Direct emissions (Scope1) 11,800 11,443 12,497 Indirect emissions (Scope2) 53,501 48,497 48,804 GHG Emission Intensity *Based on company-wide data (Unit: KRW billion, tCO2e/KRW billion) 2016 2017 2018 Total assets 256,851 274,070 289,510 GHG emissions Total 0.25 0.23 0.24 intensity Direct 0.05 0.04 0.05 Indirect 0.21 0.19 0.19 Non-compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations (Unit: No. of cases) 2016 2017 2018 Non-compliance with environmental 0 0 0 laws and regulations IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix Performance Data 84 Social Number of Employees (Unit: Persons) 2016 2017 2018 Contract Executives (Male) 3 3 3 terms Executives (Female) 0 0 0 Regular workers (Male) 4,923 5,135 5,296 Regular workers (Female) 3,396 3,625 3,728 Contract worker (Male) 758 746 711 Contract worker (Female) 3,446 3,395 3,415 Total 12,526 12,904 13,153 Position Executives (Male) 3 3 3 Executives (Female) 0 0 0 1st rank (Male) 52 58 56 1st rank (Female) 6 5 7 2nd rank (Male) 238 313 312 2nd rank (Female) 12 15 12 3rd rank (Male) 1,719 1,746 1,626 3rd rank (Female) 295 366 443 4th rank (Male) 1,637 1,690 1,734 4th rank (Female) 1,306 1,357 1,366 Bank clerk (Male) 1,277 1,328 1,568 Bank clerk (Female) 1,777 1,882 1,900 Contract worker (Male) 758 746 711 Contract worker (Female) 3,446 3,395 3,415 Total 12,526 12,904 13,153 Ages Under 30 (Male) 789 817 677 Under 30 (Female) 1,831 1,730 1,201 Over 30 Under 50 (Male) 3,186 3,256 3,418 Over 30 Under 50 (Female) 4,748 4,961 5,365 Over 50 (Male) 1,709 1,811 1,915 Over 50 (Female) 263 329 577 Total 12,526 12,904 13,153 New Employees (Unit: Persons) 2016 2017 2018 No.of New Under 30 (Male) 120 246 198 employees Under 30 (Female) 66 161 132 Over 30 Under 2 2 9 50 (Male) Over 30 Under 0 0 0 50 (Female) Over 50 (Male) 0 0 0 Over 50 (Female) 0 0 0 IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Employee Training Hours (Unit: Hours, Persons) 2016 2017 2018 Male Total training hours 126,787 116,687 192,182 Number of employees 4,831 4,872 5,706 Average training hours per employee 26 24 34 Female Total training hours 181,317 171,548 395,791 Number of employees 6,094 6,391 6,989 Average training hours per employee 30 27 57 Total Average training hours per employee 56 51 91 Labor Practices (Unit: Persons, %) 2016 2017 2018 Total employees 12,220 12,626 13,153 Labor union members 9,676 9,899 9,963 Labor union membership rate 79% 78% 76% Current Status of Parental Leave (Unit: Persons) 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees on parental leave (Male) 2 2 11 Number of employees on parental leave (Female) 1,565 1,435 1,386 Number of employees on marternity leave (Male) 296 269 269 Number of employees on marternity leave (Female) 801 714 663 *Male: Spouse's maternity leave/ Female: Pre & post maternity leave Current Status of Health Examination (Unit: Persons) 2016 2017 2018 Health examination support 10,496 11,825 12,013 Rate of Occupational Diseases and Vulnerable Employees (Unit: Persons) 2016 2017 2018 Patients with abnormal test 1,069 991 995 results in health examination Policy Impact (Unit: KRW 1 billion) 2016 2017 2018 Membership Fees for Related Associations 29.2 32.7 31.2 Korea Federation of Banks 8.6 8.3 9.2 Credit Finance Association 1.8 2.1 0.2 Korea Financial Investment Association 17.7 20.9 21.4 Korea Life Insurance Association 0.7 0.9 0.0 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 0.4 0.5 0.4 IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix GRI Index 86 GRI Index UniversalStandards Universal Standards (GRI (GRI 100)100) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Remark Organization 102-1 Name of the organization 8 Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10-11 102-3 Location of headquarters 91 102-4 Location of operations 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 102-6 Markets served 9 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 84-85 The information of employees is included in the Business Report and Business Performance Report The current employee status is the same as the Business Report 102-9 Supply chain 69 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and our supply chain 69 No significant changes 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 47-48 102-12 External initiatives 16-17, 63 102-13 Membership of associations 90 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 47-48 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12-13 Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 62 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 42-45 The information of governance is included in the Governance and Reward System Annual Report 102-19 Delegating authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consultting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and our 42 committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 42 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 42 102-25 Conflicts of interest 44 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 42 and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 44 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 45 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 48-49 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies 45 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 45 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 45 102-38 Ratio of annual total compensation 82 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 80-81 Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 85 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 80-81 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 80-81 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 78-81 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 8-9 The entities list is included in the Practice Business Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2 102-47 List of material topics 78-79 102-48 Restatements of information No re-description of information 102-49 Changes in reporting No change in reporting method 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 sustainability report 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 91 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 GRI content index 86-87 102-56 External assurance 88-89 IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Topic-specific Standards Economic Standards (GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Remark Economic Performance 103 Management Approach 68 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 82 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 70-71 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 57 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Indirect Economic 103 Management Approach 68 Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 72-73 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 72-73 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 46-47 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 46-47 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Anti-corruption Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No violation found Economic Standards (GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Remark Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 83 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 83 302-3 Energy intensity 83 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Energy 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Emissions 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 83 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 83 305-3 Other indirect GHG-emissions (Scope 3) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 83 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) No emissions 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions No emissions Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 83 Zero cases of environmental law Compliance violations, no fines or penalties paid Social Standards (GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Remark Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 84 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 56-63 401-3 Parental leave 61, 85 Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 85 Safety work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per employee 85 Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 58-59 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 84 Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Opportunityportin Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be No branches found Association and at risk Collective Bargaining Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor No violation found Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor No violation found Compulsory Labor Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities No significant potential/ actual negative impacts on local communities found Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 0 cases 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 0 cases Customer 103 Management Approach 50-53 Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 0 cases Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 0 cases Compliance IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix Third Party Assurance Statement 88 Third Party Foreword Assurance Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of INDUSTRIAL BANK Statement OF KOREA (hereinafter “IBK”) to verify the contents of its 2019 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the Report”). IBK is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Scope and standard IBK describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a type2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. GRI Standards Reporting Principles Universal Standards Topic Specific Standards Management approach of Topic Specific Standards Occupational Health and Safety: 403-2, 403-3 Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-2, 201-3 Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2 Market Presence: 202-1 Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1 Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-1, 203-2 Freedom of Association and Collective Anti-Corruption: 205-1, 205-2 Bargaining: 407-1 Anti-Competitive Behavior: 206-1 Child Labor: 408-1 Energy: 302-1, 302-3 Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 Water: 303-1 Local Communities: 413-2 Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 Marketing and Labeling: 417-2, 417-3 Environmental Compliance: 307-1 Customer Privacy: 418-1 Employment: 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 This Report excludes data sand information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. IBK, among report boundaries. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: Reviewed overall report Reviewed materiality test process and methodology Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Our conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with IBK on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. IBK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability IBK is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder IBK left out during this procedure. Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. IBK is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communicationduring this procedure. channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any evidence that IBK’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. Recommendation for improvement We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. Enhancement of sustainability system: IBK has identified various organizational risks in the context of sustainability and made outstanding effort to prevent them in advance. For systematic execution of sustainability in the future, detailed short and long-term goals should be developed for the implementation of sustainability strategies. The report also should cover the activities of the entire organization. Our independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other IBK’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. July,19th, 2019 000-129 CEO IBK Industrial Bank of Korea Appendix Membership Associations and Awards 90 Membership Membership Associations Associations and Awards Korean Association of Korea Money & Finance Korea Federation of Banks Small Business Studies Association Korean Economic Asia Money & Finance UN Global Compact Association Association Council on International Global Finance Society ICSB Korea Financial Cooperation Awards and Certificates Presidential commendation Award presented by the Minister Presidential commendation awarded to an organization that of Economy and Finance at the awarded during the Month of provides outstanding support to Microfinance Awards Patriots and Veterans SMEs Domestic Information Security ISO/IEC27001 Consumer Centered Management Certification Management Certification (ISMS) (CCM) Inquiries about Please use the contact points below for additional information or inquiries this report about this report. Date of publication Oct 2019 Publisher Kim Do-Jin Department Shared Happiness Dept., Head Office, 79, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea, 04541 Tel. 02-729-6463 Email ibkcsr@ibk.co.kr Website www.ibk.co.kr
