2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSG Lights up Every Household in Southern China 01 2018 CSR Report Overview 2018 CSR Report Overview 02 Message from the Chairman The year 2018 marked the start to implement the guiding principles of the 19th CPC National Congress, the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening-up, We optimized the electricity-related business environment to serve the development of real economy. We lowered the electricity price for general industrial and a crucial year for building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and for the implementation of the 13th Five-Year Plan. Following the Xi Jinping and commercial businesses by 10% as the government required, thus reducing the power costs of the manufacturing industry to benefit every business entity Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, we fully implemented the major decisions and policies of the CPC Central Committee, and user, saving RMB 22.3 billion of electricity expenses for customers throughout the year. We also vigorously promoted market-oriented power transactions, actively fulfilled our political, economic and social responsibilities as a central SOE, and sped up to build a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness to reducing customers’ power costs by RMB 28.5 billion. We continued to extend the investment interface of power expansion projects to customer red line provide strong electricity support for the sustainable and healthy social and economic development of the five provinces in southern China as well as Hong Kong (the boundary of the land property where customers live or operate), saving customers RMB 23.5 billion of investment. To improve the quality and efficiency of and Macao. Keeping in mind President Xi’s words that “only wealth with a caring heart is meaningful, and only enterprises that are active in assuming our services, we promoted “Internet + power services”. There were over 30 million registered users on our unified online service platform and online services social responsibilities are truly competitive and full of vigor”, we spared no effort to create comprehensive optimal value in all respects for stakeholders. In accounted for 70% of the total. The average interruption duration in the core districts of Guangzhou, Shenzhen and six cities in the Pearl River Delta was less 2018, we sold 970.3 TWh of electricity, representing a year-on-year increase of 9%, our revenue reached RMB 537.3 billion, up by 9.2% year on year, and the than one hour, reaching the world-class standards. And we came out top in local public service evaluation in the five provinces in southern China. total assets at the end of the period reached RMB 816.7 billion, ranking 110th among the Fortune Global 500 companies. We insist on planning for long term development to explore a strategic path towards building a world-class company. With a highly responsible attitude towards We continued to strengthen Party leadership and building. We continued following Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era the Party, the country, the Company and the employees, we further considered how to adapt to economic and social development and the development pattern to guide our practice and improve our work. We kept firmly in mind the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership core, of the industry in this new stage. We further planned the long-term development direction of the Company, and identified the major contradictions and their and keep in alignment. We strengthened our confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We resolutely upheld principal aspects. We clarified new ideas for development based on the reality of the new era, formulating and implementing a series of documents including General Secretary Xi Jinping’s core position on the CPC Central Committee and in the Party as a whole, and the CPC Central Committee’s authority and its the guidelines for continuously improving Party building quality and integrating Party building with reform, development, production and operation, CSG’s overall centralized, unified leadership. We formulated and carried out the Implementing Measures on the Party Building Responsibility System to advance and integrate development strategy outline, measures for promoting high-quality development and accelerating to build a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness, Party building and core business at the same time. We also established a double A responsibility assessment system, under which performance can be and the overall plan for deepening SOE reform. We sped up the transformation to a smart grid operator, a value chain coordinator in the energy sector, and an evaluated as excellent only when the employee is rated A in both Party building performance and business performance. Adopting right approaches in selecting energy ecosystem service provider, and strive to pursue innovative, coordinated, green, opening and shared development, serve national strategies, promote and appointing officials, we encouraged officials to take responsibility and make contributions, and increased the efforts in training and screening young officials. the energy revolution, develop the power market and be a pioneer the SOE reform. We devoted great efforts to building a clean Party and fighting corruption, and coordinated the rectification of problems found in internal and external auditing as well as inspection patrols over the years, thus fostering a healthy, honest and clean political climate. Committed to giving back to the society, we are active in fulfilling our social responsibilities by participating in donations, relief efforts and voluntary activities in addition to ensuring power supply and delivering customer services, thus lighting up and warming people in the five provinces of southern China with our Resolutely implementing the major decisions and policies of the CPC Central Committee, we served the overall vision of the Party and the government as a concrete actions. responsible central SOE. To help win the three tough battles of preventing financial risks, reducing poverty and tackling pollution, we maintained a good assetliability ratio of 60.4% and provided direct help for 240 impoverished areas and 81,000 people getting out of poverty, thus being rated among the top performers The year 2019 marks the 70th founding anniversary of the People’s Republic of China and a crucial year for building a moderately prosperous society in all in the targeted poverty alleviation evaluation of central SOEs. To promote green development, we transmitted 217.5 TWh power from the west to the east respects. Following the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, we will firmly grasp the strategic opportunity throughout the year, up by 7.2% and reaching a record high. We also formulated a special plan for clean energy utilization and non-fossil energy accounted for for development, and continue to seek progress while ensuring stability, pursue innovative, coordinated, green, opening and shared development and advance 51.5% of our total power generation. To serve the strategy of regional coordinated development, we made two versions of “26 measures” respectively for the high quality development. We will focus on the supply-side structural reform to meet the requirements of “consolidating the existing results, strengthening the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area and for Hainan, and met the latest rural grid transformation goals in Guangdong two years ahead of schedule. momentum of development, improving the level of the industrial chain and smoothing the cycle of the national economy”, and promote the market-based reform To carry out the innovation-driven development strategy, we started to build the Kunbei-Liubei-Longmen UHVDC transmission project, the world’s first multiand high-level opening up. We will resolutely implement the major decisions and policies of the CPC Central Committee, and coordinate the tasks of ensuring terminal hybrid UHVDC project. Our “±800 kV UHVDC Demonstration Project (Yunnan-Guangdong)” won the China Grand Awards for Industry and we have security, stabilizing growth, advancing reform, adjusting structure, promoting transformation, increasing vitality, and strengthening Party building. We will stride totally obtained 17,300 valid patents. In active response to the Belt and Road Initiative, we promoted the grid connectivity with Hong Kong and Macao as well as towards becoming a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness and make new contributions to the sustainable and healthy development of China’s neighboring countries. Our power transaction with Myanmar, Vietnam and Laos reached 3.405 TWh in 2018. economy and society. With the goals in mind, we accomplished all the tasks of the year. We effectively responded to challenges such as frequent natural disasters and profit decline This CSR report reveals CSG’s philosophy, practice and achievements in fulfilling its social responsibility in the past year. We hope it will solicit more caused by lower price, and accomplished all the goals of business performance evaluation. Earnestly carrying out President Xi’s instructions on work safety, we understanding and support for our reform and development. We are looking forward to working with you to achieve win-win goals in the new journey of the new always ensured the safe and stable operation of complex and large power grids. We improved the emergency response mechanism of disaster prevention, era, make new contributions to achieving the Two Centenary Goals and the Chinese dream of national rejuvenation, and add more glories to the 70th founding mitigation, and relief and effectively responded to natural disasters such as super typhoons. We sped up the progress of major projects, and put the Yunnananniversary of the P.R.C.! Guangdong UHVDC transmission demonstration project, Shenzhen Pumped Storage Power Station and Qiongzhong Pumped Storage Power Station into production. As a trailblazer, we made new progress in deepening reform and the power spot market in southern China (Start from Guangdong) was the first of its kind put into trial operation. We completed the assessment targets for separating water/power/air supply and property management functions and taking over Board Chairman, Party Secretary power supply facilities. As one of the first pilot companies for the mixed-ownership reform and reform of incremental distribution network, Qianhai & Shekou Power Supply Co., Ltd. has basically achieved all the reform targets and gradually released its vitality. 03 2018 CSR Report Overview 2018 CSR Report Overview 04 Leadership Corporate Governance China Southern Power Grid is a state-owned “backbone” enterprise and in accordance with enterprise law and the requirements of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC), CSG has established a modern corporate governance structure consisting of a board of directors, Board of Supervisors and operational senior management team. CSG strives to build a safe, reliable, green and efficient smart grid ,commits to building a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness, and to be a smart grid operator, an energy industry value chain coordinator, and an energy ecosystem service provider with excellent performance and wide respect. The senior management team at CSG has defined its rights, responsibilities and decision-making procedures at all levels and departments in order to ensure that laws, regulations and efficient operations are implemented and realize the maintenance and substantial appreciation of state-owned assets. These and other actions work in tandem to create and improve the Company’s corporate governance structure and with an established board of directors and board of supervisors in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan Power Grid Co., Ltd., and Guangzhou, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co., Ltd., all work together to improve the Company-wide decision-making processes. Organization Chart Meng Zhenping Cao Zhi'an Based in Guangzhou, CSG Headquarters has 22 functional departments and controls 2 directly-administrated organizations, 3 branches, 16 wholly-owned Board Chairman, Party Secretary Board Director, General Manager, Deputy Party Secretary subsidiaries and 7 holding subsidiaries. CSG Party Group Board of Directors Discipline Inspection Group Senior Management Team Assistant President,Chief Engineer, and Deputy Chief Engineer(or the same level posts) International Cooperation Department Office for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms (Party Group Office, Office of Board of Directors) Planning and Development Department Operational Technology Department Organization and Personnel Department (Direct-Affiliated Office of Party Committee of CSG) Corporate Management Department Public Relations Department System Operation Department Safety Supervision Department (Rural Power Grid Management Department) Infrastructure Department Industry Investment Department Human Resources Department ( Office of the Discipline Inspection Group) (CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center) Finance Department Marketing Department Materials Department Technology Department Information Department Auditing Department General Office (Emergency Command Center) Legal Department Supervisory Bureau Labor Trade Union (Policy Research Office) Shi Zhengjiang Bi Yaxiong Wen Limin He Xiqiang Board Director, Member of the Party Group, Member of the Party Group, Member of the Party Group, Deputy Party Secretary Deputy General Manager Chief Accountant Deputy General Manager Directly-administrated Organizations Branches Holding subsidiaries Logistics Affairs Management EHV Power Transmission CSG Overseas Development CSG Electric Power Research China Southern Power Dinghe Property Insurance Guangzhou Power Trading CSG Yunnan International (Party School, Executive School) Education, Training and CSG Finance Co., Ltd. CSG Media Co., Ltd. Annuity Center Center Co., Ltd. Institute Co., Ltd. Grid Synthesis Energy Co., Ltd. Company Co., Ltd. Center Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Evaluation Center Wholly-owned Subsidiaries Guangdong Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd. Yunnan Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guizhou Power Grid Co., Ltd. CSG Power Generation Co., Ltd. (CSG International (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd.) CSG Capital Holdings Co., Ltd. Hainan Power Grid Co., Ltd. CSG Energy Development Yang Zhihong Chen Yunpeng Liu Qihong CSG International Co., Ltd. Guangzhou Power Supply Shenzhen Power Supply Dingxin Information and CSG Industrial Investment CSG Materials Co., Ltd. CSG Xiong’an Co., Ltd. South Dingyuan Assets Member of the Party Group, Member of the Party Group, Member of the Party Group, Head of the Discipline Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager Bureau Co., Ltd. Bureau Co., Ltd. Research Institute Co., Ltd. Group Co., Ltd. Technology Co., Ltd. Operation Co., Ltd. Inspection Group of the Party Group 05 2018 CSR Report Overview 2018 CSR Report Overview 06 Introduction This Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 focuses on the CSR concepts, initiatives, practices and performances of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. in 2018. It is hoped that you will appreciate our sincerity and, as always, understand and support the Company’s ongoing reform and development activities. Listening Evaluation Report CSG actively listens to the voice of stakeholders through the service CSG comprehensively considers the new requirements for enterprise This year's Corporate Social Responsibility Report consists of five parts: Overview, Spotlight, Main Body, Management and Performance Evaluation. The Main hotlines, questionnaires, expert discussions, exchange visits and other ways development in the new era, the new situation of the Company's reform Body section is divided into four chapters: power supply, environmental protection, operating efficiency and social harmony. Key material topics are disclosed in and channels, and timely understands the real expectations and demands of and development, the new expectations of stakeholders and other factors, different chapters of this Report. stakeholders. screens and evaluates the CSR topics, and identifies 12 material topics most concerned by stakeholders, which are highlighted in the report. Overview 07-08 CSG’s Corporate Culture Philosophy 09-10 About Us The main ways we communicate with Identification of Material Topics our stakeholders Spotlight 11-12 Guiding and Supporting the Building of a First-class Enterprise with First-class Party Building 1.000 High 0.900 Identification of material topics 13-15 Adding New Impetus to the Green Development of the Guangdong1 2 10 Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area 0.800 22 11 16 12 15 16-18 Optimizing the Business Environment to Serve the High-quality Importance to CSG development 0.700 Government Employees 4 18 21 Development of the Five provinces in Southern China 23 27 Daily reports Regular meetings 0.600 3 5 Meetings Regular training 7 Exchange visits Daily communication 0.500 0.400 9 19 25 13 30 8 14 Main Body Client Partners 17 28 6 29 20 Information disclosure Project cooperation 0.300 24 Service hotline Meetings 26 0.200 Customer satisfaction survey Daily communication 0.100 0.000 Medium Importance to stakeholder High Environment Society and the Public Information disclosure on Public welfare activities 0.000 0.100 0.200 0.300 0.400 0.500 0.600 0.700 0.800 0.900 1.000 environmental issues Volunteer service 19 38 Power Supply 39 50 Environmental Protection Forum and exchange Information disclosure activities Material topics 1 Expediting development 2 Improving the 10 Winning the tough battle in the Guangdong-Hong electricity-related against pollution Kong-Macao Greater Bay business environment Area 11 Clean energy 12 Supporting new 15 Comprehensive energy transmission energy development services 16 Coordinating the value 18 Deepening reform in 21 Taking targeted measures chain of the energy all respects to forestall and defuse major industry risks 22 Practicing the Belt and 23 Winning the tough 27 Carrying out the reform for Road Initiative battle of targeted building the workforce in the poverty alleviation new era 51 64 Operating Efficiency 65 74 Social Harmony General issues 3 Improving power quality 4 Reducing power 5 Fair measurement and outage time compliant billing 6 Digitalization of customer 7 Steady system 8 Occupational health and Management 75-77 CSR Management 78 Outlook 2019 services operation safety 9 Transformation and 13 Building green 14 Reducing line loss application of technological substations achievements Information construction Promoting antiContaining electricity violations Performance 79-80 Rating and Evaluation 81-82 Reporting Content Index & Evaluation 17 19 20 corruption and enhancing integrity 83-84 Key CSR Performance in 2018 85 About this Report 24 The new round of rural 25 The quality of power 26 Transparent recruitment grid renovation and supply services in upgrading minority areas 28 Unimpeded employee 29 Helping and caring for 30 Public welfare practice career development special groups channel 07 2018 CSR Report Overview 2018 CSR Report Overview 08 Strengthening Driving New Development Following the Bonds with Shared with Management the Strategy Values Innovation Based on its role as an SOE that is also We incorporate CSG’s Corporate Culture We have established a modern an industrial leader, a platform and a Philosophy into our strategy as value management system to pursue better value chain coordinator, CSG implements goals, integrate it into management as balanced and greater efficiency in more the new development visions, carries out a value orientation, include it into the areas. We follow the law of enterprise national strategies, promotes the energy business as a value pursuit, and embed development, further promote the revolution, develops the power market it in behaviors as a value criterion. Asking philosophy of lean management, and pioneers the SOE reform, so as to all our employees to truly understand vigorously advocate instrumental make the transformation to a smart grid and stick to these principles, we build rationality and professionalism, and operator, an energy industry value chain their awareness of the corporate values continue to foster management coordinator, and an energy ecosystem and make sure these values are widely innovation. service provider. recognized and followed across CSG . CSG’s Corporate Culture Philosophy CSG’s Corporate Culture Philosophy specifies the efforts Corporate Corporate Corporate Management Operation Safety needed to implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism Mission Positioning Vision Philosophy Philosophy Philosophy with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. Upholding the core socialist values, it represents CSG’s corporate strategy and the set of values all our employees shall enshrine and follow in the new era. Best Electricity Service for the National Backbone Enterprise Building a World-Class Enterprise Law-Based, Innovation-driven and Integrity, Thrift, Growth, Every Accident is Preventable People Platform-Based Enterprise with Global Competitiveness Strict Enterprise Management Total employee involvement Coordinator for the Energy Industry Value Chain Service HR Team Work CSG Philosophy Philosophy Philosophy Philosophy Spirit Create Value for Customers The Primary Resource of the Enterprise Team Leaders Talent Employees Planning, Compliance, Readiness for Change, Innovation and the Foundation for Market Improvement, Excellence and Contribution Be Loyal to the Party, Resolutely Dedication, Competition Be Bold to Innovate, Be Contribute to the Optimization, Team Good at Management, Country, and Be Work, Efficiency, CSG Be Able to Make the Bold to Make Honesty Image Company Thrive, and Be Innovations Honest and Upright CSG Lights up Every Household in Southern China 09 2018 CSR Report Overview 2018 CSR Report Overview 10 About Us National Backbone Platform-Based Coordinator for the Energy Enterprise Enterprise Industry Value Chain 20 电 视 电 脑 智 电 能 灯 居 空 家 调 Business ecology map China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. (CSG), was established Economic Values Social Values Environmental Values at the end of 2002. The Company is under the management of Central Government and the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Provided quality electricity services with electricity sales of 970.3 TWh Provided quality electricity services to more than 254 million Encouraged non-fossil energy power generation, and electricity generated from Council fulfills the responsibility as its primary investor. Provide electric support for economic and social development with RMB 13.47 of GDP people in its designated power supply areas of southern China non-fossil energy accounted for 51.5% CSG constructs and operates power networks throughout output per kWh in the five provinces in southern China Provided impetus to the development of agriculture, rural areas Carried out energy-saving power generation dispatch with 142.2g standard coal/kWh Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou, Hainan, Hong Paid taxes and operated its business in accordance with the law while realizing profits and and rural people with an investment of RMB 40.3 billion in rural consumed for per unit electricity generation and electricity received from other areas Kong and Macao, with a total service area spanning one taxes of RMB 43.69 billion grid renovation and upgrading Reduced operational losses with 6.31% of comprehensive line losses million square kilometers and a population base of more than Ensured the maintenance and appreciation of state-owned assets' value and has earned Dedicated to public welfare and charities, carried out 6,642 Provided energy-saving services to help customers save more than 1.34 TWh 254 million people and 87.41 million households. a Class A rating by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of volunteer service activities throughout the year of electricity cost in 2018 the State Council (SASAC) for its exceptional performance for 12 consecutive years Promoted targeted poverty alleviation, provided direct help for 81,000 people getting out of poverty 11 2018 CSR Report Spotlight 2018 CSR Report Spotlight 12 Guiding and Supporting the Building of a First-class Spotlight Enterprise with First-class Party Building State-owned enterprises (SOEs) serve as an important material and political basis for socialism with Chinese characteristics, and also a major pillar and force for our Party to govern and rejuvenate the country. It is the glorious tradition as well as the root and soul of SOEs to follow the Party leadership and strengthen Party building. Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Following the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, CSG Party Group has firmly safeguarded Xi's status as the core of the CPC Central Committee and the whole Party, as well as the authority and centralized, unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee. We Committee, Chinese President and Chairman of the Central Military Commission comprehensively implemented the overall Party building requirements and organizational policies in the new era, and unswervingly upheld the Party leadership and strengthened Party building to fully improve the Party building quality, so as to guide and support the building of a first-class enterprise with first-class Party building. Nurturing the root and soul to build the modern SOE system with Chinese characteristics The CSG Party committee insists on and strengthens the We gave full play to the role of the Party Group in guiding the direction, We promoted subsidiaries to include overall requirements for Party building overall Party leadership, and insists that the Party should managing the overall situation, and ensuring the implementation effects. into their articles of association. In 2017, we completed the revision of exercise effective self-discipline and strict Party governance. We improved the rules for decision-making of the Party Group, and made the articles of association of all domestic subsidiaries. Based on that, The Party leadership is secured in every link of corporate sure that the Party Group meets before the board and the management we updated the Party building provision template in accordance with the governance, and Party organizations are embedded in meet to decide on major issues. We integrated the strengthening of the underlying principles of the 19th CPC National Congress, and promoted the corporate governance structure. We have defined and overall Party leadership with corporate governance improvement, so as to subsidiaries at different levels to update relevant provisions in the articles of established the statutory status of the Party organization in enhance the leading group’s scientific and democratic decision-making in association. the legal-person governance structure of the Company, so accordance with the law. as to comprehensively promote the building of the modern SOE system with Chinese characteristics. We improved the leadership system of “two-way personnel exchange and We comprehensively promoted the implementation of the Party building cross appointment”. Our subsidiaries at all levels have basically adopted responsibility system. We formulated the Implementing Measures for CSG the practice of two-way personnel exchange and cross appointment . Party Building Responsibility System, revised the List of CSG Leading Meng Zhenping, Chairman and Secretary of CSG Party Group,made a speech at the Party building In all the secondary subsidiaries with the board of directors, the secretary Group’s Responsibilities for Strict Party Governance, and explored to review and assessment meeting for reporting on duty of Party committee secretaries of secondary of the Party committee and the board chairman shall bear the overall build a double A assessment system that integrates Party building and subsidiaries in 2018. responsibilities and there should be one full-time deputy Party secretary business performance of subsidiaries. responsible for Party building. Laying a solid foundation to continuously improve the Party building quality CSG has formulated and implemented the Opinions of CSG Party Group on Learning and Implementing the Guiding Principles of the 19th CPC National Congress to Further Strict Party Governance (NO.1 [2018] CSG Party Group). We made all-round efforts to see the Party’s political building enhanced, its theory strengthened, its organizations consolidated, its conduct improved, and its discipline enforced, with institution building incorporated into every aspect of Party building, and furthered the fight against corruption. “In-depth integration” was considered the start, focus and result of improving Party building quality, which gave full play to the role of the Party organizations and members, and thus strongly supported the building of a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness. 1 Political building 2 Theory strengthening 3 Organization consolidation 4 Conduct improvement 5 Discipline enforcement 6 Institutional building 7 Anti-corruption We kept firmly in mind the need to maintain political Focusing on learning, advocating and implementing We insisted on building organizations, We acted in accordance with the The CSG Party Group improved “Three meetings and one class” We maintained a tough stance that integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese appointing officials, establishing systems central Party leadership’s eight-point discipline education by focusing on have become an important part deterred people from committing core, and keep in alignment. We strengthened our Characteristics for a New Era as well as the guiding and conducting evaluation both for the decision on improving Party and the publicity and implementation of the Party day of the Party corruption, and continued to consolidate confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of principles of the 19th CPC National Congress, we Party and business development. We government conduct, and revised 29 of the newly revised Regulations branches each month. the achievements in rectifying the socialism with Chinese characteristics. We resolutely persistently armed the mind with theories by deploying have set up Party organizations in all policies about business hospitality, on Disciplinary Punishment, and problems identified by the central leading upheld General Secretary Xi Jinping’s core position We adjusted the grassroots-level the whole process, full-scope learning, all-media subsidiaries, and guided and urged the salaries for the top management, held themed seminars in the form group on disciplinary inspection and on the CPC Central Committee and in the Party sites for Party building conducted publicity, and comprehensive implementation. secondary subsidiaries to set up Party and the use of company-subsidized of enlarged group study activities promote the full coverage of internal as a whole, and resolutely upheld the CPC Central by the leading group, and set up committee and departments for Party vehicles, etc. of the central group. discipline inspections. Committee’s authority and its centralized, unified We adopted the mode of “themed studies + key remarks four working mechanisms. affairs in new organizations. leadership. And we closely followed the CPC Central + discussion”, organized seven group study activities for We kept up efforts to address Emphasizing early handling of We continued to tighten the institutional Committee in terms of our thinking, political orientation, We v i g o r o u s l y p r o m o t e d the central group, and conducted full-coverage, mobile We comprehensively promoted the building formalities performed for formalities’ minor violations, we often had “cage” by actively promoting the and actions with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core. standardized and regulated and on-site inspections at different levels. of “one Party committee for one power sake, bureaucratism, hedonism, and talks with employees in question institutional building in key areas to development of Party organizations We strictly carried out the reporting system so as to supply bureau”, “one Party branch for one extravagance, especially new forms and used letters and admonition eradicate any loophole for corruption. We innoatively developed a publicity base (Shenzhen) at the grassroots level and make sure that the CPC Central Committee knows and power supply station”, “station-based Party of formalities and bureaucratism. to serve as a wake-up call. of “Four Confidences” and organized over 1,800 continuously supported grassrootsWe continued to raise employees’ decides for major issues. In 2018, CSG Party Group branch”, etc. We have established a mechanism outstanding Party members and young officials to visit level Party branches to fully reach awareness of anti-corruption, and reported to the CPC Central Committee six times. integrating “research and investigation, for on-site education. This practice was included into the Our Party organization and work can be relevant standards. held the eighth annual anti-corruption supervision and inspection, collection CSG Party Group took the lead to organize the meetings Selected Innovative Cases in Political and Ideological found wherever our project is. We set up workshop for the top management. of clues, exposure, warning and of Party democracy. The CSG top management attended Building of SOEs in the New Era jointly compiled by the Party branches in units (projects) overseas education”. and guided these meetings in companies such as Guangxi Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee and in a timely manner, thus achieving full Power Grid Company. the SASAC. coverage of Party management. 13 2018 CSR Report Spotlight 2018 CSR Report Spotlight 14 2018 CSR Report 2018 CSR Spotlight Report Spotlight 15 15 We should build a high-quality community that is good for living, working and leisure. We should Adding New Impetus to the Green Development of the enhance the energy supply structure, vigorously carry out supply-side structural reform in the Spotlight Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area energy sector, improve the energy structure and network in the Greater Bay Area, and develop a clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient energy supply system. Development Plan for the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area The development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area is a major decision of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, and a Connecting Hong Kong and Transformation and upgrading enables us to better serve national strategy formulated, planned, and promoted by President Xi Jinping. China Southern Power Grid earnestly carries out the policies and decisions of the Building the West-to-East power transmission channel Macao to deliver clean power the green development of the Greater Bay Area CPC Central Committee, and implements the vision of green development. Based on the platform of West-to-East power transmission, we increase the supply of clean and low-carbon power, promote electric power substitution in key areas and continuously optimize the energy structure and network in the Greater Bay In December 2009, as the first of its kind in the world, the ± 800 kV Yunnan-Guangdong UHVDC The Company has connected with Hong Kong The Company actively promotes its transformation to a smart grid operator, a value chain coordinator in the energy sector, and an energy ecosystem service Area, so as to make the Greater Bay Area a high-quality community that is good for living, working and leisure. transmission demonstration project of CSG, was put into production, laying a foundation for the via 13-circuit transmission lines and with Macao provider. With the green development platform based on our grid service, we have supported the faster development and better life in the Greater Bay Area with efficient, secure and reliable hydropower transmission between the provinces. via 9-circuit transmission lines to deliver clean lower energy consumption and cleaner resources. nuclear power and hydropower from the West For the last ten years, we have continuously strengthened the construction and maintenance of to these two regions. The electricity sent in this Keeping the original aspiration in mind, we have clean electricity the West-to-East power transmission channel. In 2018, we put the ± 800 kV Northwest Yunnanway accounts for about a quarter of the total Guangdong UHVDC Power Transmission Project into full operation, and started the construction consumption in Hong Kong and more than 80% Serving new energy development transmitted eastward to the Greater Bay Area of the Kunbei-Liubei-Longmen UHVDC transmission project. By the end of 2018, the Company of the consumption in Macao. has set up a West-to-East power transmission channel consisting of “eight AC projects and ten DC The Company has actively served new energy development and promoted the energy structure optimization and development in the Greater Bay Area. CSG was established with the historic mission of carrying out the West-to-East power transmission strategy. The newly formed company upholds the guidelines projects”, among which the nine-circuit DC project transmits power to load centers in the Greater of reform and is committed to transmitting the rich hydropower resources from west China to the load centers in the eastern coastal areas. The clean power Bay Area. helps fuel the development of the Greater Bay Area while protecting the environment in this region. Offshore wind power—We actively promote the Rooftop PV projects—As the manufacturing industry is 80 Power sent from the West to Proportion of clean energy and power generation the East in 2018 sent from the West to the East in 2018 % of the power generated from Daya construction of the Guishan offshore wind farm project concentrated in the Greater Bay Area, the Company actively Bay Nuclear Power Plant transmitted to Hong in Zhuhai. Phase 1 of the project of 120MW has promotes the development of factory rooftop PV projects, and 黑色块裁切掉 217.5 TWh 86.1 % Kong each year been completed and put into production, which is expected to provide 266GWh of clean electricity per has built the Galanz (Zhongshan) distributed PV project and the Midea distributed PV project, etc. By the end of 2018, we had Equivalent to reducing CO2 emissions by year, reducing standard coal consumption and CO2 completed distributed PV projects of 1599.81MW in total in the emissions approximately by 86,600 tons and 206,700 Greater Bay Area. Approximately 27 million tons tons respectively. 广州电力交易中心 Zhaoqing Guangzhou Huizhou Environmental benefits of clean energy transmission Power transaction volume in 2018 Foshan Dongguan 500 KV Zongjiang Phase II Project, the first reservoir-crossing project in Dongguan Equivalent to reduction of Equivalent to reduction of 338.0 TWh Zhong Shenzhen Guishan offshore wind farm demonstration project in Zhuhai standard coal consumption CO2 emission shan Unit: 10,000 tons Unit: 10,000 tons Jiangmen Zhu Hong Kong hai Macao Clean energy transmission Promoting clean energy utilization through market-oriented transactions Further promoting electric power substitution Extending energy-saving services 2015 1,505 4,003 The Company initiated the Clean Energy Transmission Work Program Based on Guangzhou Power Trading Center and the first power spot The Company actively promotes the electric power substitution in key The Company has further extended its energy-saving services in hotels, 2016 1,117 2,971 2018 and the Clean Energy Transmission Operating Rules, formulated and market in China, we have fostered the complementary development of areas such as shore power technology and electromagnetic kitchens, and shopping malls, hospitals, and so on, and has introduced advanced energyimplemented 41 specific measures to absorb water, wind, solar, nuclear and 2017 1,766 4,698 hydropower and thermal power to maximize their advantages and promote Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao accelerates the construction of electric vehicle charging facilities. We have saving technologies at home and abroad, sparing no efforts to promote other clean energy to the maximum extent, so that more clean energy can clean energy consumption. In 2018, we formulated guidelines for the Greater Bay Area achieved full coverage of the inter-city charging network in the Pearl River energy conservation of customers in the Greater Bay Area. be transmitted to the Greater Bay Area. 2018 1,558 4,145 transactions on replacement of thermal power with hydropower and clean Delta. energy transactions, thus promoting the regular operation of the power Year transmission for Guangdong by replacing thermal power from Guizhou with the hydropower from Yunnan . 16 Report 16 2018 CSR 2018 CSR Report Spotlight Spotlight 2018 CSR Report Spotlight 17 2018 CSR Report Spotlight 18 We should improve the investment and market environment, gather pace in opening up, and Optimizing the Business Environment to Serve the Highreduce market operation costs, so as to create a stable, fair, transparent and predictable Spotlight quality Development of the Five provinces in Southern China business environment, accelerate the construction of a new open economy system, and promote the sustainable and healthy development of China's economy. Urban Power Supply Reliability in China(2017) Published in 2018 Statement by President Xi Jinping, also the General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee and Chairman of the Central Military Commission, on the 16th meeting of the Central Leading Group for Financial and Economic Affairs 1 Foshan 2 Shenzhen 3 Guangzhou A good business environment is important for implementing the new development visions, building a modern economic system, enhancing the development of an open economy, and achieving high-quality development. It also vital to deepening reform, exploring development potential, strengthening soft power in local economic development and enhancing a region’s competitiveness. A brand new experience of power service We established an application checklist system to further simplify the We canceled the design review and intermediate inspection for electricity We strengthened information disclosure by showing the application Year-on-year reduction of power Year-on-year reduction of power materials required for application, inform customers in advance of the connection, merged the acceptance inspection as well as meter installation procedure, materials, time limit, and charging standards for electricity connection time for low-voltage connection time for high-voltage Higher ranking in the World Bank report Ranking of getting connection procedures, and promote distribution network planning based on and power access, thus reducing the high-voltage electricity connection connection in physical service centers as well as e-channels, which customers customers electricity indicators high-voltage electricity demand. application procedure to three steps from five steps, and streamlining the effectively improved the business transparency. We promoted the Internet 14 th process of low-voltage connection to two steps. + online electricity connection application, saving both the enterprises and residents the inconvenience of having to visit a service center. 34 % 22 % On October 31, 2018, the World Bank released Doing Business 2019, revealed that China had an Ease of Doing Business (EODB) score of 73.64, ranking 46th among 190 economies. The country scored 92.01 and ranked 14th in Total extended investment getting electricity, showing the biggest increase compared with the other 9 indicators. 98th Improving Simplifying materials Reducing time transparency RMB 13.6 billion Doing Doing Business Business CSG takes action to optimize the business 2018 2019 Cutting costs Reducing expenses Enhancing environment reliability 黑色块裁切掉 Optimize the electricity connection We continued to extend the investment interface of power expansion We strictly implemented national electricity pricing policy, greatly reducing We accelerated the implementation of the one-hour action plan , The average interruption duration in the core districts of Guangzhou, In 2018, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council issued a procedures and series of targeted policies and measures for optimization of the business Increase make applications easier. Strengthen projects to customer red line (the boundary of the land property where customers live or operate). We promoted the low-voltage power supply for customers’ electricity costs. We also carried out the ten price reduction measures of the NDRC, and actively cooperated with the pricing strengthened power grid construction, continued to overcome obstacles and stepped up efforts in distribution network construction and transformation, Shenzhen and six cities in the Pearl River Delta was less than 1 hour, environment. The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) information power grid reaching world-class standards. disclosure and construction, and customers applying for incremental capacity of 200 kVA and below and departments of local governments to explore the potential to reduce thus eliminating such problems as distribution network overload, and the National Energy Administration requested that small and micro improve business improve power helped SMEs achieve free electricity connections in nine cities including electricity price for general industrial and commercial businesses. undervoltage and power outage in urban villages and improving power enterprises(SMEs)’ “getting electricity” should be made a priority, and that transparency supply reliability Guangzhou and Shenzhen in the Greater Bay Area. supply reliability. efforts need to be made to learn from the best practices of cities outside of China, and promote exemplary business environment projects in terms of Initiatives access to electricity. of Optimizing Take the initiative to the business Actively serve Strictly implementing the policies and plans formulated by the CPC Central customers, and communicate, and report and gain environment shorten the time Improving the ease of getting electricity, we promote high quality development Committee and the State Council to optimize the business environment, we policy support for applications have set up a leading group for optimizing the electricity-related business 13.47 environment, formulated action plans, and introduced seven initiatives The Company continued to improve its power supply services, comprehensively optimized the electricity-related business environment, and helped the five Optimize provinces in southern China complete their annual economic and social development goals. GDP output per kWh in the five provinces in southern China : RMB consisting of 20 measures with a focus on improving the ease of getting and extend Strictly follow electricity. We have been dedicated to optimizing the business environment the investment the electricity interface, and pricing policy, and in southern China and serving the high-quality development of the five reduce the cost reduce electricity of electricity expenses provinces. connection Guangdong Power Guangxi Power Yunnan Power Guizhou Power Hainan Power Guangzhou Power Shenzhen Power Grid Co., Ltd. Grid Co., Ltd. Grid Co., Ltd. Grid Co., Ltd. Grid Co., Ltd. Supply Bureau Supply Bureau GDP output per kWh 11.50 11.95 10.65 9.99 14.79 22.95 26.80 Unit: RMB Power supply reliability Unit: % 99.8995 99.8105 99.7696 99.7538 99.7236 99.9679 99.9823 Cost savings for customers 38 7.1 13.1 5.5 0.7 1.65 3.13 Unit: RMB billion Note: GDP output per kWh = GDP/overall electric power consumption. According to the Company's reality, data about Guangdong was calculated after excluding data about Guangzhou and Shenzhen; for indicator of cost savings for customers, data about Guangdong includes that of Guangzhou and Shenzhen. The average interruption duration in the core districts of Futian Central Business District of Shenzhen in 2018 was 1.93 minutes per household 19 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 20 Power Supply Answering the call of the era Focusing on solving the principal contradiction between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people's ever-growing needs for a better life, we must promote balanced progress in promoting a new type of industrialization, IT application, urbanization and agricultural modernization, work faster to modernize the economy and strive to achieve better-quality, more efficient, fairer and more sustainable development. An excerpt from President Xi Jinping’s speech on the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up Power Supply The latest global revolution in science and technology and industrial transformation are trends we must keep up with. We will do more in implementing the innovation-driven development strategy, and keep on making the Chinese economy more innovative and competitive. An excerpt from the Report on the Work of the Government in 2018 CSG in action We have continuously stepped up efforts in optimizing the electricityrelated business environment, reducing the average interruption duration, power consumption costs, and providing more convenient electricity connection services and balanced services for urban and rural areas, so as to facilitate the high-quality development and foster a strong domestic market. We have promoted the digitalization of customer services by taking technological innovation as the key, innovation in services and business model as the core and management innovation as a guarantee. 21 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 22 Embarking on the journey of reform, we have made enormous strides in the new era Key topic management in 2018 Power Key topics Supply Offering diversified smart services Providing reliable power supply Ensuring safe operation Strengthening grid construction Fostering technological innovation Major action plans 2002 2009 2010 2014 2016 2017 2018 We promoted the digital transformation of customer service We promoted the “One-Hour” power outage action plan to ensure the power supply for major national events Quality Launching the Weibo Establishing the “CSG 95598” Realizing four We fostered the across-the-board safety management framework and increased the application of intelligent technologies and WeChat Accounts of unified service WeChat account integrations for services “CSG 50Hz” platform on the with over 10 the unified service We promoted a smart grid development mode featuring a “demonstration and leading role with comprehensive actions”. Internet million users platform We increased research investment and promoted the research platform development, aiming to improve the application of scientific and technological achievements. Reliable Releasing the Working Shenzhen Power Supply Launching the Foshan Power Supply Key performance Standards in Power Bureau was among one-hour power Bureau, Shenzhen power Supply Reliability the five Grade-A power outage action plan Power Supply Bureau, Improvement in Power supply enterprises and Guangzhou Power Score of third-party customer Average annual interruption Investment in power grid Supply Enterprises Supply Bureau ranked satisfaction duration construction the top three in the national urban power supply reliability list 82 13.11 hours per household RMB 87.4 billion Patents in total Serious accidents caused by power supply or equipment failure 17,267 0 23 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 24 Quality Service Promoting the comprehensive digital transformation of customer service Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Promoting the comprehensive digital Target 7.1 Ensure universal access Disclosure 417-1 Requirements for product and Build a digital smart service system transformation of customer service, to affordable, reliable and modern service information and labeling energy services by 2030 Realize full coverage of the smart meters and we bring you a brand new service automatic and centralized low-voltage metering experience Note: SDGs are short for The 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, and GRI is short for Global Reporting Initiative, the same below. Practicing CSG’s Corporate Culture Philosophy Multiple smart services More intelligent power supply service centers The Company has accelerated the establishment of an intelligent service system with “mobile terminal + Internet + big data to promote the innovation and Through new technologies such as Internet of things (IoT), artificial integration of traditional electricity services and the Internet, which effectively improved our service efficiency and problem-solving abilities, and created greater intelligence and mobile applications, we have promoted the intelligent value for customers with professional and quality services. upgrading of all our physical service centers, turning them into service experience centers and smart service centers, so as to better meet the customers’ needs for personalized services. In 2018, we set up 2 smart service centers in Nanshan District of Shenzhen and Huangpu District of More services on the unified online service platform Guangzhou. Power Supply We have built a unified online service platform integrating the e-channel brands, customer privilege, services and back-stage management of the five provinces in southern China, and improved customer experience, offering easier access to our services. More efficient 95598 service hotline We have continuously promoted the provincial-level “four integrations” Registered users of the CSG's unified online service platform over Online services accounted for (integration of service standards, integration of customer experience, integration of business control and integration of back-stage support) 30 million 70 % of 95598 hotline. In 2018, the call connection rate was 98.5%, up by 11 percentage points as compared with other provinces without service The smart service center of Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau integration. CSG 95598 WeChat account The CSG app offers services covering information about More diverse Internet service channels electricity bills, power outage, business process, request for repair, electricity connection CSG has cooperated with the third-party service platforms such as banks, Alipay, WeChat and convenience service sites, saving customers time and energy, application and service changand allowing them to apply for electricity connection more conveniently. es. With this app, customers could manage multiple power CSG 95598 CSG App user accounts by registering one Alipay account Mobile businesscenter online account. In August 2018, we launched the Alipay account of CSG 95598 with electricity services covering electricity bill payment, request for repair and The unified online service electricity connection application and service changes. The Alipay account platform of CSG of CSG 95598 introduced face recognition technology and took the lead in providing the service of transferring ownership by “face scanning”. Users in Shenzhen now can complete the transfer of ownership within one minute by scanning their faces. In future, we will promote the application of this The QR code for the CSG App technology in the five provinces in southern China. www.95598.csg.cn The online service center 25 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 26 Accurate metering and billing Customer satisfaction CSG has strictly implemented relevant national laws and regulations, continued to improve the standardization of metering management and the automatic Always insisting on “customer-centered” development, CSG improves the comprehensive customer service system and enhances its professional ability to meter reading (AMR) system, and realized the full coverage of smart meters and automatic low-voltage meter reading two years ahead of schedule, ensuring coordinate and solve customers’ problems. In 2018, the Company fulfilled its power supply service commitments, and its quality services were widely praised by accurate metering and billing with the supervision of related government departments to protect the interest of customers. A provincial-level centralized electricity customers in the five provinces in southern China. In 2018, the number of complaints for our services through 12398 hotline in the five provinces decreased by consumption measurement system featuring “four lines, one warehouse and one platform” was built in Guangzhou in 2018, which is the largest in China, also 62%, which won the recognition from the National Energy Administration. with the greatest electricity consumption measurement capability. From electricity meter reading to electricity bill collection, the efficiency has been greatly improved. Third-party customer satisfaction scores Unit:score Coverage rate of smart meters 100 % 79 79.5 81 82 Coverage rate of automatic low-voltage meter reading 100 % 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Ranking 1st in public evaluation among all provincial (level) companies in 2018 * Power Supply Guizhou Power Grid Co. Ltd. in the satisfaction survey for key local industries st 1 place Guangdong Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guiyang in an overall satisfactionsurvey Guizhou for the public service industry st Single phase Watt-hour meter verification of Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd. Yunnan 1 place Kunming National power CSG power supply Performance Comparison Yunnan Power supply services Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guangxi Shenzhen supply standards service commitment in 2018 with 2017 Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau in the satisfaction survey Guangdong for key local industries Forty government Rate of 95598 power supply service hotline connection Nanning public services / 90 98.5 2.9 st Shenzhen within 20s (%) Guangxi 1 place Power Grid Co., Ltd. Guangzhou 1 st Power Supply Bureau place Reliability rate of power supply in urban areas is no lower than (%) 99 99.9 99.9435 0.0190 in a satisfaction survey for the public service industry in a public opinion survey st Reliability rate of power supply in rural areas is no lower than (%) / 99.5 99.7831 0.1063 1 st 1 place place Receiving end voltage eligibility rate for urban residents is 95 98 99.755 0.3350 Haikou no lower than (%) Hainan Voltage eligibility rate of rural customers end is no lower than (%) / 94 98.87 0.8490 Response given to a customer application for single high-voltage supply within (workdays) 15 15 6.69 0.71 * No relevant evaluation was carried out in Hainan province in 2018. The South China Sea Islands 27 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 28 Reliable Power Optimizing power quality Striving for world-class power supply Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes To address the most prominent quality problems such as voltage dips, short interruptions and undervoltage in the urban power grids, the Company has steadily Target 7.1 Ensure universal access Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic Promote the “One-Hour” power outage action plan conducted monitoring and control of undervoltage, provided customers with value-added technical services such as power quality assessment, evaluation and to affordable, reliable and modern impacts management, and improved the quality of power supply in multiple dimensions to meet the demands of high-end and high-tech modern industries. energy services Achieve the goal of zero error , zero accident and “zero complaint” in the power supply Reducing power outage time 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Receiving end voltage eligibility rate for urban residents （%） 98.730 99.124 99.420 99.755 The Company has further carried out power supply reliability management, comprehensively promoted the “One-Hour” power outage action plan, and coordinated efforts in facilities, management, technology and IT application. In 2018, the average interruption duration in the core districts of Guangzhou, Shenzhen and six cities in the Pearl River Delta was less than one hour, reaching the world-class standards. The interruption duration in Futian CBD reached Receiving end voltage eligibility rate for rural residents（%） 97.449 97.825 98.021 98.870 the international top level of less than 2.5 minutes. 50±0.2Hz frequency qualification rate（%） 100 100 100 100 1Hour action plan 500 kV voltage eligibility rate（%） 99.9999 99.9999 99.9999 99.9999 Interruption duration in the core Power Supply districts Facilities Management Technology IT application Unit: hour/household The way to improve power supply reliability 4.98 4.6 We strengthened efforts We optimized the integrated We actively promoted the We continued to promote In June 2018, Foshan Power Supply Bureau, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau, and Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau ranked the top three in the to build a reliable and outage management application of advanced multiple uses of a single national urban power supply reliability list issued by the National Energy Administration and China Electricity Council. Ten years ago, reliability was economical distribution process, and strengthened technologies such as data set, strengthened still a new word for many people at CSG who were not yet clear about the direction that should be taken. It took us ten years to find our way, to excel network with wellcollaboration and responsibility distribution automation, coordination and in lean management, and to achieve world-class reliability management. organized structure, transfer between reliability drone-based aerial connection, and 2.14 advanced technologies improvement with planning, inspections, live-line effectively leveraged the and information channels materials and facilities, operation, and robot information system to 1.05 to satisfy electricity production, operation and operation to improve automatically collect such demands with a reliable maintenance, as well as power supply reliability. In data as outage incidents distribution network that customer services, which 2018, the implementation and interruption duration, 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2009 2010 2015 is effectively monitored effectively reduced interruption of live-line operation on and analyze the data and flexibly controlled. duration and frequency. the distribution network online. Since we released the Working Standards thanks to its accurate outage management, we made progress in ensuring reached 178,588 times. of Power Supply Reliability Improvement in Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau was rated compliance with rules concerning Power Supply Enterprises in 2009, power as one of the country’s top five Grade-A equipment management and building Outage time in all the districts supply reliability management has grown power suppliers. of substation operation teams, and Unit: hour/household more standardized. promoted comprehensive checks of accounts, cards and equipment. 23.3 22.33 20.08 2018 2017 2016 13.11 three subsidiaries of CSG ranked top three we officially launched the equipment we promoted the establishment and in terms of city power supply reliability. ownership system, and issued the “Oneapplication of the module of “multiple CSG fared well in such measures as power Hour” power outage action plan, marking uses of a single data set” to achieve transmission and transformation reliability a solid step in power supply reliability coordination and connection in 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year and power supply reliability improvement management. The development of Shenzhen is supported by high quality distribution network. 29 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 30 0 error 0 accident 0 complaint Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge Power Guaranteed power supplies during major national events Supply Ensuring power supply for CHINA-ASEAN Expo: from inconvenient The Company has established a regular power supply guarantee mechanism, exercised strict grid risk control, and ensured the security of network and communication to visualized and controllable operation information as well as power facilities. As a result, we successfully ensured power supply during Party and state leaders’ inspection tours, the Boao Forum for Asia, China-ASEAN Expo, and other political events or events with great implications for people’s well-being. No error, accident or complaint has occurred 2 Top-level tasks to 10 Level-1 tasks to In 2018, China-ASEAN Expo celebrated its 15th anniversary. Guangxi Power Grid during these events. ensure power supply ensure power supply Company, the power supplier for the event, had to face such challenges as a greater area and a more complex environment than in previous years. The company implemented the principle of “Digital and Smart CSG”, achieved lean management by using visualized sheets, and upgraded the power supply visualization system which allows operators to see clearly the location of each generator car within the distance of about one kilometer, stocks in each warehouse, and even the movement of patrol inspection personnel. Backed by Dec. Jan. mobile handsets that enable real-time interactions with the command center, this system Ensuring power supply during President Nov. Feb. Ensuring power supply for the “Two marks a huge step forward as it can now provide better-informed instructions on the basis Xi’s inspection tour in Guangdong Sessions” of visualized and measurable on-site data. province(Top-level) Oct. Mar. Sep. Apr. Ensuring power supply for ChinaEnsuring power supply for the ASEAN Expo Boao Forum for Asia(Top-level) Aug. May. Jul. Jun. Fifteen years ago, adequate staffing was important for power security as a person would Ensuring power supply for Big Data be assigned to watch over a pole or tower. Then lean management was introduced with an Industry Conference 2018 emphasis placed on graphs and sheets. Now we have the visualization system. We can say that the times of inconvenient communication have passed, and we have entered a Ensuring power supply for Eco Forum Ensuring power supply for Chinanew era with visible and real-time management in ensuring power supply. Global Annual Conference Guiyang, South Asia Expo An employee of Guangxi Power Grid Company 31 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 32 Safe and Steady Operation Sound operation of equipment All accidents are preventable Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes The Company has actively explored the application of intelligent technology in equipment operation and maintenance, vigorously promoted “robot + personnel Target 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic Foster the across-the-board safety management inspections” as well as UAV inspections, and provided lean and differentiated operation and maintenance as well as standardized overhaul of power sustainable and resilient infrastructure impacts framework transmission and transformation equipment, so as to continuously enhance its sound operation. Target 11.5 Significantly reduce the Disclosure 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Step up efforts in “robot + personnel inspections” as number of deaths and the number occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, well as UAV inspections of people affected and substantially and number of work-related fatalities We strengthened the operation and maintenance of key Times of UAV inspections Inspection mileage of UAV decrease the direct economic losses Accelerate the building of an intelligent disaster plants and stations, major channels of West-to-East power relative to global gross domestic product caused by disasters prevention and resistance system and resilient power grids transmission, major crossing points and other equipment. We also actively took special actions to deal with potential risks 310,000 over 400,000 kilometers in equipment operation. As a result, the number of electrical safety incidents has decreased year on year. Number of substations inspected by Number of electrical safety incidents Improving safety management We actively promoted the pilot projects of intelligent technology robots fell by application in the five areas of intelligent equipment, intelligent operation, condition monitoring, situation awareness and smart operation. 145 38 % year on year The Company has made safety a top priority of which no one shall override the line. It improved the work safety responsibility system covering all employees, innovated in the closed-loop management and supervision of risks at work, and promoted a culture of safety as well as the across-the-board safety management pattern, striving to build an intrinsically safe enterprise. Guizhou Power Grid Company achieves full coverage of UAV inspections, starting a new operation and maintenance mode for power transmission We upgraded the work safety risk management system, refined We held the first safety culture forum themed “life is precious, safety is and carried out the plan for improving work safety ratings, and paramount and a culture of safety is fostered”, and launched activities In order to improve the inspection accuracy and efficiency of power transmission lines, Guizhou Power Grid Company took measures such as Power continuously improved the efficiency of the work safety risk management such as the “Work Safety Month”, so as to promote the safety culture in Supply system. an orderly manner. improving UAV hardware, standardizing operator training, and building a data sharing platform for the inspection. The company covered all the lines of 35 kV and above with UAV inspection, and provided UAVs and UAV inspection technologies for all front-line teams, thus starting a new operation and maintenance mode for power transmission. By the end of 2018, Guizhou Power Grid Company had a total of 1,069 UAVs, and the UAV-inspected lines of 220 kV and above reached 40,000 kilometers long. 0 serious and major power accidents and equipment 0 notable power accidents and equipment failure due to negligence CSG’s achievements in the work safety risk management system, 2016 2018 (Unit:piece) failure in 2018 in 2018 2016 2017 2018 Year 5 star 1 5 9 0 notable accidents 0 safety incidents causing negative 4 star 26 31 35 causing injuries and fatalities impact on society or company due to in 2018 negligence in 2018 3 star 69 71 79 Stable grid operation Focusing on prevention and control of operational risks of the power grid, CSG has strengthened closed-loop management of dynamical risks at all levels, and improved the management of system operation, so as to ensure the long-term stable operation of complex and large power grids. No electrical safety accidents occurred in the system despite enormous safety pressure and heavy workload. Carefully preventing and controlling the risks in grid operation, we We promoted excellent dispatching through equipment upgrade, completed 38 key tasks to prevent the nine major grid operation risks management improvement and technological innovation. In 2018, the throughout the year, and successfully eliminated the hidden dangers in grid security situation awareness system was initially established, with DC operation. No operation failure occurred in the grid stability control which 66 prefecture-level power supply bureaus realized the integrated system or protection devices. operation mode of “dispatching, monitoring and control”. The transmission line patrol of Guizhou Power Grid Co Ltd has changed from traditional patrol mode to UAV inspection, and its efficiency has been greatly improved. 33 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 34 Strengthening safety management Effectively responding to natural disasters Personal safety Always taking grid security and public interests as a priority, CSG sped up its efforts to build an intelligent disaster prevention and resistance system and a more resilient grid, shifting its focus from disaster response to disaster preparedness. This comprehensively improved the grid security and its capability of disaster prevention and resistance, providing stable and reliable power supplies for economic and social development as well as a better life for the people. Firmly upholding the idea of safe development, the Company has built a Level 3+ electrical safety accidents Accidents causing personal injury comprehensive and integrated work safety responsibility system, carried out (Unit:Cases) (Unit:Cases) safety trainings to raise employees’ safety awareness, and strengthened Improving the comprehensive disaster resilience capability of the power grid safety management of infrastructure construction sites to prevent accidents 48 that cause casualties. 6 33 26 CSG intensified its efforts to fulfill the three goals of disaster prevention CSG promoted 28 key projects to improve power supply capacity for 3 and resilience, promoted the building of disaster-proof power grids in 28 Macao. We built the first 220 kV cable line for power supply to Macao, 1 major cities, reinforced the grid and improved the typhoon resistance of significantly improving the grid’s capacity to resist typhoons and other overhead lines. disasters and ensure the power supply for Macao. 2016 2017 2018 Year 2016 2017 2018 Year Information security Responding to natural disasters in an orderly manner As required by the government for network and information security, CSG has strengthened network security and management, and built a The Company revised and improved the emergency plan, continuously enhanced emergency trainings and drills, and responded to natural disasters in an professional and skilled network security team to improve its capabilities orderly and proper manner based on the mechanism of disaster prevention, mitigation, and relief , so as to ensure the emergency plan is implemented in an in monitoring and early warning, defense against attacks and resilience in efficient and orderly manner. Over 355,000 emergency repair personnel, 96,000 emergency repair vehicles and 1,017 emergency power generation equipment emergency, thus guarding against major network security incidents. were put into operation throughout the year, effectively resisting six heavy rains and five typhoons in the power supply area. Level 2+ network security incidents in 2018 0 With no fear of Typhoon Mangkhut, we complete power recovery for 6.52 million users within 78 hours Power Supply Average malicious network attacks resisted Typhoon Mangkhut has been the strongest typhoon in recent years which had the longest duration, covered the widest area on land, and sustained by CSG per month in 2018 the most powerful gusts. At 23:00 on September 19, 2018, after 78 hours of hard work, we completed power recovery for 6.52 million users affected by 90,000 Typhoon Mangkhut in the power supply area of CSG. The power supply lines for emergency command departments at all levels as well as Hong Kong Over and Macao, and the power transmission lines of nuclear power plants were not affected. The damage rate of poles and towers was decreased by 46%, and the repair time decreased by 40%. With more advanced technologies, better mechanisms, and stronger power grids, CSG employees have more confidence in forging ahead. The network security situation awareness platform of the first power monitoring system covering power grids of 500 kV and above was put into operation. CSG won the first place in the network and information administrator contest of the National Professional Skills Competition. Employees of Dongguan Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong Power Grid Company strictly abide by safety operation rules in field operation. Public safety 0 CSG pays great attention to public safety, and has improved the long-term mechanism for checking and managing potential public safety hazards electricity-related public safety incident in 2018 related to electricity, and promoted the special actions of township power supply stations to prevent personal accidents. The Company continues We continuously strengthened the High technologies such as “Armor With a spirit of mutual support, we to clean up the potential safety hazards in urban villages and safeguard In 2018, the number of electric shock accidents among social workers building of disaster-proof power grids Chariot”, “remote control” and UAV spared no efforts in ensuring the personal safety within distribution networks. We also strengthen publicity on dropped by and reinforced the power grids against helped improve the emergency repair power supply for Hong Kong and safe electricity use, wind and flood prevention and electric shock prevention 7.7 wind damage to develop stronger efficiency. Macao. to ensure public safety. % power grids. 35 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 36 Power Grid Construction Building smart grids The “expressway” power grids face new development Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes We released reports on smart grid planning, accelerated the construction Target 7.1 Ensure universal access Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and New era, new changes of key smart grid projects at the provincial-level as well as 20 smart grid to affordable, reliable and modern services supported demonstration zones, and developed the smart grid in a comprehensive energy services Increase investments in UHV project construction way that allows it to play a “demonstration and leading role”. Target 7.5 Expand infrastructure and Build smart grid demonstration zones at all levels We held the first CSG Boao Smart Grid Development Forum, laying upgrade technology for supplying 20 modern and sustainable energy a foundation for cooperation in smart grid planning and construction, services equipment manufacturing, and technology research and development. We carried out the key tasks in the Special Plan for Further Integration of Artificial Intelligence and Business Development, and strengthened the integration and application of cutting-edge technologies such as Constructing key projects cloud computing, bid data, Internet of Ihings, mobile internet and artificial intelligence to support the smart grid development. Smart grids serve as the basic platform that supports CSG to become an internationally competitive world-class enterprise, which are also important material basis to promote economic and social development. Focusing on meeting people's ever-growing needs for a better life, the Company has promoted the implementation of the 2018-2020 action plan for smart grid development, increased investments in UHV projects, and built smart grid demonstration zones at all levels, so as to serve the high-quality development of the five provinces in southern China with safe, reliable, green and efficient smart grids. According to local circumstances, the company The company comprehensively promoted digital built three forms of smart grid demonstration zones and smart grid development based on the mode of Investment in power grids (Unit: RMB billion) Guangdong Power for urban area, rural area and islands. Guizhou Power “1+3+N”. Grid Co. Ltd. Grid Co. Ltd. Power 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Supply 500 kV and above 17.8 13.9 14 12.4 The company promoted smart grids after pilot The company helped build an exemplary provincial projects in certain areas, with a focus on securing 220 kV 15.4 13.6 10.4 10.2 smart grid. Guangxi Power the border, poverty alleviation by electricity provision and building grids in rural areas. Hainan Power 110 kV and below 34.2 50 57.3 64.8 Grid Co. Ltd. Grid Co. Ltd. To build a smart grid with local characteristics, The company promoted smart grid development the company laid a solid foundation, set a good based on the “1+4” mode and set up several smart The first multi-terminal hybrid UHVDC demonstration Yunnan Power example and promoted transformation with its own Guangzhou Power grid demonstration zones such as Guangzhou The Luxi Back-to-Back HVDC Project won the gold project in the world Grid Co. Ltd. characteristics.. Supply Bureau Knowledge City and Mingzhu Industrial Park. award of National Quality Project Award In May 2018, the Company started construction of the multiterminal UHVDC demonstration project (hereafter referred to The “±800 kV UHVDC Demonstration Project The company realized “four full coverages” and as the “Kunbei-Liubei-Longmen UHVDC transmission project”) (Yunnan-Guangdong)” won the China Grand built several smart grid demonstration zones such transmitting power from Wudongde Power Station to Guangdong Awards for Industry. Shenzhen Power as South High-tech Industry Park in Nanshan and Guangxi. With the ±800 kV three-end DC transmission Supply Bureau District and Qianhai Shekou Free Trade Area. technology and a total length of 1,489 km, the Kunbei-LiubeiThe ±500 kV Power Converter Station Project won Longmen UHVDC transmission project will set many records in the China Construction Engineering Luban Prize the world once it is completed. It will be the world's largest multiterminal UHVDC transmission project, the first multi-terminal hybrid UHVDC project and the first UHVDC flexible converter station project. It will be a milestone in promoting a shift in 7 projects won the “2017-2018 National Quality Project Award” energy development, ensuring energy security and fuelling economic and social development in southern China. 10 projects won the 2018 China Electric Power Quality Engineering Award 500KV Shexiang substation of Guizhou Power Grid Co. Ltd. 37 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 38 Technological Innovation Promoting the application of research achievements Giving impetus to innovation in building a world-class enterprise Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes The Company improved the application and transformation of research results, and explored effective ways to integrate innovation achievement in business development. CSG has applied cutting-edge technologies such as cloud computing, big data, Internet of Things, mobile Internet, and artificial intelligence in Target 7.5 Expand infrastructure and Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic Optimize the management system for technological production and operation, and made efforts to build itself into a digital and smart grid company. upgrade technology for supplying impacts innovation modern and sustainable energy services Accelerate building the base and platform for mass entrepreneurship and innovation We issued the guidelines on new technology application, and opened up Total number of valid patents and patents applied each year green channels for new technology application to promote the upgrading (Unit:item) Promote application of research achievements of technologies and equipment. Total number of valid 17,267 patents At a new starting point, CSG has carried out the national strategy of innovation-driven development. We have improved the innovation system, strengthened Number of annual scientific and technological research, created a culture of innovation, and promoted the further integration of “cloud computing, bid data, Internet of things, patent applications mobile Internet and artificial intelligence” into the energy sector, so as to give impetus to innovation in building an internationally competitive world-class 10,834 9,769 enterprise and contribute CSG’s wisdom and innovation to building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. We established Guangdong Southern Energy and Technology Incubator 8,013 7,192 Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Power Grid Energy Technology Co., Ltd. to provide platforms for turning technological achievements into marketable products and promoting the industrial applications of these achievements 2,520 Laying a solid foundation for innovation Supporting employee innovation at a faster pace. 2016 2017 2018 Year The Company has optimized the technological innovation management The Company accelerates the construction of entrepreneurship and system, increased investments in scientific research and incentives for innovation bases and platforms, aiming to create a good atmosphere for ontechnological innovation, and sought, cultivated and gathered talents in the-job entrepreneurship and innovation, fully stimulate the innovation vitality innovations practices, thus facilitating continuous innovation. and creative potential of the whole staff and grasp the initiative of innovationdriven development in the new round of industrial revolution. Promoting the transition of the power grid towards “intelligent equipment and smart operation” Power Supply On May 11, 2018, CSG issued a plan for the application of intelligent technology in the field of production, which comprehensively analyzed the new Technological investment in 2018 Investment in S&T projects in 2018 Investment in on-the-job Number of on-the-job entrepreneurship generation of intelligent technology industry, and set down the application goals and directions for intelligent technology. Guangdong and Hainan entrepreneurship projects in 2018 projects supported by CSG in 2018 RMB 8.50 billion RMB 2.21 billion RMB 144 billion 2,890 pioneered in the full application of intelligent technology. We have carried out a number of pilot applications of intelligent technology in production field with noticeable effects. In future, the Company will continue to expand and deepen the integration of intelligent technology and power technology, promote the intelligent operation of all our equipment step by step, and provide the targeted services for customers, so as to promote the transformation and upgrading of the Company with “intelligent equipment and smart operation”. The project achievements of “Key Technologies, System Development and Application of Complex Power Grid AutonomousSynergetic Automatic Voltage Control” won the first prize of National Award for Science and Technology Progress. The project of “Control Methods Suitable for Dynamic Reactive Power Compensation Device for Multi-Infeed DC Transmission” won the silver prize of the Wipo-Sipo Award. Li Licheng, Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Chairman of CSG Expert Committee, was honored as one of the top ten figures in scientific and technological innovation in China in 2018. The chief technical expert Rao Hong of CSG won the IEEE PES Uno Lamm High Voltage Direct Current Award. Note: IEEE PES Uno Lamm High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) Award represents the highest honor in the field. The winners are leading experts who have made important contributions to DC transmission technologies in the world. It is the first time for CSG to win this award. A new generation of UAV helps to improve the working efficiency of Guangxi Power Grid Co. Ltd. The infrared temperature measurement of 110 KV GIS equipment by rail lifting robot of Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau 39 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 40 Environmental Protection Answering the call of the era We should enhance system building to promote ecological progress and implement the strictest possible system for environmental protection. We should step up efforts to promote ecological progress, uphold the philosophy that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets”, develop eco-friendly growth models and ways of life, make our country more beautiful and ensure that the people live in an environment with blue sky, green mountains, and clear waters. An excerpt from President Xi Jinping’s speech on the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up Environmental Protection We should actively respond to people’s needs and expectations, make great efforts to promote ecological progress and provide more quality ecological products to keep up with people’s ever-growing needs for a better environment. An excerpt from Promoting New Progress in China’s Ecological Development, written by President Xi Jinping CSG in action CSG has built and operated a smart grid that is safe, reliable, green and efficient, on the basis of which it proceeds to build, improve and make innovations in a variety of open platforms. Based on the operation of the smart grid, CSG integrated upstream new energy and distributed energy and downstream smart energy utilization and demand-side management, promoted multi-grid integration and adopted a balanced energy mix. 41 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 42 Embarking on the journey of reform, we have made enormous strides in the new era Key topic management in 2018 Environmental Key topics Protection Consuming clean energy Building a green power grid Promoting energy consumption revolution Major action plans 2002 2009 2010 2011 2016 2017 2018 We took special actions to promote clean energy utilization and expanded the market for clean energy utilization. We improved grid construction and utilization of various resources. Promoting The Yunnan-Guangdong We took the lead in energy We innovatively provide the power We further implemented the energy substitution strategy. UHVDC transmission conservation and power transmission for Guangdong by clean energy demonstration project generation dispatching. replacing thermal power from Guizhou was put into production. with the hydropower from Yunnan and development promoted market-based clean energy utilization. Key performance We realized full utilization of solar The Northwest Yunnanpower and basically completed Guangdong UHVDC Power Non-fossil energy power generation Power transported from the west to the east full utilization of wind power. Transmission Project 51.5 217.5 was completed ahead of schedule and put into % TWh operation. Comprehensive line loss rate of the entire power grid Electric power substitution Leading a green Based on China Southern Power GSG started to transform itself into an lifestyle Grid Integrated Energy Co., Ltd., we provided integrated energy services. energy service provider and further promoted the replacement of fossil energy 6.31 % 22.4 TWh with green energy. 43 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 44 Winning the Battle against Pollution Environmental issues are a major concern for the public, and are decisive to Chinese people's judgment of the success of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. This is a battle we must win. Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, Chinese President and Chairman of the Central Military Commission Winning the battle against pollution Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Protecting the blue sky Target 7.2 Increase substantially the Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity Consuming clean energy share of renewable energy in the CSG actively implements the national requirements for energy conservation and emission reduction, and gives full play to its guiding role of upstream and global energy mix Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Building the West-to-East power transmission downstream in the industrial chain, so as to promote the construction of green power grid and foster high-quality green development of society. In 2018, CSG’s channel energy consumption of electricity generated and received was 142.2 grams of standard coal per kWh, and the comprehensive energy consumption per RMB Target 12.2 Achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of Promoting energy consumption revolution 10,000 of output value stood at 0.146 tons of standard coal, improving “upstream and downstream” performance of energy conservation and emission reduction, natural resources equivalent to reducing 49.34 million tons of standard coal consumption and 131.24 million tons of CO2 emission. Warm and cold, we share together Climate change is a severe challenge for mankind in the 21st century. The United Nations has listed “Climate Action” as one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, and the Paris Agreement China has contributed at Green energy consumption Green energy transmission. Green energy consumption. sets the goal of keeping the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C. At the beginning of 2019, the satellite imagery least 25 % to the total We built the West-to-East power We embrace the idea of green We promoted the energy consumption revolution released by the NASA showed that the earth was getting more and global vegetation increase transmission channel, set up the development throughout the process and established an integrated energy service more green thanks to the efforts of all countries, and China has over the past 17 years. power market trading platform, and of grid construction and power platform, striving to accelerate the industry become the main force to make it happen. increased the proportions of clean transmission, promoting eco-friendly transformation and upgrading and improve NASA Satellite Map energy and new energy in our energy grid construction and increasing the energy consumption structure in the five mix. efficiency of power transmission. provinces in southern China. Environmental Protection Lucid waters and lush mountains are Power development in transformation invaluable assets Since the 18th CPC National Congress, the Chinese government has China's power industry is getting more environmentally friendly with Nearly 1/2 of the electricity in Guangdong was generated from attached great importance to the ecological progress. To protect the lucid improving power generation energy mix and declining installed coal power clean energy. waters and lush mountains, China has carried out a series of fundamental, capacity. Solar power, wind power and hydropower have contributed to groundbreaking and long-term work. The philosophy underlying ecological green development of the power industry. We are taking gradual steps to In 2018, the proportion of good-air progress has been deeply rooted in people's hearts and new achievements build a clean, low-carbon, safe, and efficient energy system, as changes days in Guangdong reached have been made. China’s clean energy investment has ranked No.1 in the take place in energy production and consumption. *In 2018, the hydropower world for many years. China's forest cover has increased from 16.6% at the beginning of this century to about 22%. generating capacity by the unified dispatching of CSG was 376.6 TWh. 88.9 % * *Source: Guangdong Environmental Installed capacity of non-fossil power generation Installed capacity of non-fossil power generation Monitoring Center in China in 2018 in CSG’s service area in 2018 Guishan offshore wind farm demonstration project in Zhuhai is under construction. 770 GW 170 GW “Upstream and downstream” performance of energy conservation National power generation structure in 2018 Unit: % CSG's regional power generation structure in 2018 Unit: % and emission reductions promoted by CSG Power transmitted from the west to east The comprehensive line loss rate Demand-side energy conservation and Unit: TWh Unit:% emission reduction promoted by CSG Thermal power : 71.34% Thermal power : 49.30% Unit: 100 GWh 6.72 13.4 Hydropower : 17.36% Hydropower : 37.04% 217.5 6.38 6.52 6.31 202.8 12.1 189.1 195.3 Nuclear power : 4.14% Nuclear power : 9.51% 9.94 10 Wind power and other natural resources : Wind power and other natural 7.16% resources : 4.15% *Sources: • Promoting New Progress in China’s Ecological Development written by Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, Chinese President and Chairman of the Central Military Commission • 2018 Annual Report on the Development of China’s Electric Power Industry 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 45 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 46 Developing New Energy Developing Green Grids Adjusting and improving the energy mix Delivering clean power in an efficient and eco-friendly way Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Target 7.2 Increase substantially the Disclosure 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in Promoting the utilization of such new energy as wind Target 6.3 Reduce pollution, Disclosure 303-3 Water recycled and reused Comprehensively reducing line loss in operation share of renewable energy in the the supply chain and actions taken power, solar power and biomass power substantially increase global waste global energy mix recycling and safe reuse Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Sharing pylons by improving the utilization rate of pylons Target 12.2 Achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources We strongly supported the development of new energy in a healthy and orderly way and helped expand the installed capacity of new energy. In 2018, the installed capacity of wind power, solar power and biomass power within the region stood at 19.29 GW, 10.85GW, and 2.51 GW, respectively, making a positive contribution to the effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Building green grids Stepping up support Building a demonstration base Implementing the concept of green development, CSG actively promotes the construction of green power grid and pays attention to the protection of biodiversity in the construction process, striving to reduce the impact of power grid construction on the natural environment and community. We accelerated the research on new energy technologies to ensure safe We built a base for the application of multiple types of new energy such as new energy power generation and grid-connection. We developed new offshore wind power, solar power, energy storage, and ocean energy, etc., Green construction Building green substations energy technologies, encouraged new product development, and conducted as well as for research, test and demonstration of advanced equipment researches on new energy power generation business such as biomass technologies in our power supply service area. In 2018, Smart MicroIn the past year, infrastructure designs were 100% green and reached the We fully incorporated the idea of environmental protection into the process power. The annual power generation from new energy such as wind power, Grid Project in Nansha, Guangzhou, a National New Energy Micro-Grid Level 1 or higher , and the EIA approval rate for new projects and ecological of substation construction in an effort to harmonize the project with the solar power and biomass power increased by more than 20% year on year. Demonstration Project were put into operation. restoration rate after grid construction reached 100% as well. environment. Environmental In 2018, the capacity of grid-connected wind power, photovoltaic power and other new energy sources reached 7 GW. we carried out strict site selection, strictly controlled We incorporated green lighting into the design of standard substations, Protection environmental risks, and released the EIA report and and gradually carried out green lighting transformation for the existing water conservation plan. substations. Before construction Smart Micro-Grid Project in Nansha put into production to explore better power supply with low-carbon clean energy We built our first open substation with a semi-underground structure 220 KV Daitian substation of Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau, which we standardized we took measures promoted intensive land use, pull down enclosures and conducted the construction management, for ecological The high-reliability smart and low-carbon micro-grid project of Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau focuses on PV power generation. Part of the power focused on technology compensation, three-dimensional landscaping, thus making the substation in harmony has been connected to the major power grid, and the rest is for charging and storage in the micro-grid so as to achieve low-carbon and clean energy upgrading, and used ecoand ecological with its surrounding environment. friendly building materials. conservation, etc. supply. The energy storage equipment achieved cascade utilization of used power battery of electric vehicles, improving resource utilization efficiency and reducing environmental pollution caused by waste batteries. During construction After construction In 2018, the Qiongzhong Pumped Storage Power Station in Hainan was fully put into operation. In order to protect the ecological environment of the scenic spots near the power station, this power station optimized the construction organization and layout, and reduced the land requisition of about 230 mu, having minimized the disturbance of the original landform and the original ecological landscape caused by the construction activities. National new energy microgrid demonstration project-Nansha Intelligent Microgrid Project in Guangzhou Upper reservoir of Qiongzhong Pumped Storage Power Station in Hainan 47 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 48 Giving Impetus to Green Consumption Promoting Green Operation Transforming into an energy industry value chain coordinator and an energy ecosystem service provider The Company has reduced energy consumption in operation, improved resource utilization, and strived to reduce the impacts of operation on the environment. Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Target 7.2 Increase substantially the Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption We accelerated the integration of upstream and Reducing line loss share of renewable energy in the downstream resources, and built our capacity for global energy mix Disclosure 302-5 Reductions in energy resource allocation,we achieved value maximization requirements of products and servicesv in integrating the supply-side and the demand-side, Target 11.6 Reduce the adverse per as well as technology and market We improved the line loss management process, carried out detailed line loss data management, and enhanced intelligent analysis to reduce line loss from all capita environmental impact of cities, aspects in operation. In 2018, the comprehensive line loss rate was 6.31%. including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management We compiled the implementation plan of the simultaneous management of the comprehensive line loss index, and completed the functional development and establishment of the simultaneous statistical system for the comprehensive line loss rate Establishing an integrated energy system within the CSG network, with which we realize the automatic acquisition of electricity data from metrology automation system and the statistics of line loss rate in the same period. We have devoted great efforts to promoting the application of the system within CSG. Taking advantage of its brand, technologies New system New model The application of analysis on the line loss in the same period promotes the improvement of and customer resources, CSG keeps basic file management and data quality, and improves the lean management of line loss. up with the trends of energy technology We built a new balanced system for integrated We developed a new energy consumption model with development and customers’ energy use to utilization of multiple types of energy. We vigorously electricity as the core. By promoting electric power meet their diversified energy needs. developed comprehensive energy utilization projects substitution, we increased the proportion of electricity such as distributed energy, biomass power generation, in terminal energy consumption, and improved the and reuse of waste heat and residual gas, so as electrification and efficiency on the demand side. Environmental Protection to build an integrated energy supply system with Improving resource utilization Promoting green office electricity at the core. Energy saved on the demand side 694 MW New services New products We recycled waste gas, waste water and solid waste to continuously We strengthened green office management, created a green office improve resource utilization and reduce the impacts of grid operation on the environment, and encouraged employees to promote energy conservation environment. and emission reduction in their daily work. We offered new integrated energy services featuring We developed new integrated energy service products Internet+ . Based on new technologies such as the with a focus on modern energy storage, big data IoT and big data as well as online platforms, we aimed of integrated energy, carbon assets and financial to become an energy supplier featuring extensive services. IT applications and realize real-time awareness and Disposal of solid waste Online bidding information feedback of the energy Internet. We disposed solid waste produced in infrastructure construction on the The entire bidding process has gone online with no hardcopy documents basis of the 3R principle (reuse, reduce and recycle) or offline bids involved. Recycling of waste gas Green travel From north and south, driving electric cars to Beijing We improved our ability and performance in the treatment of major gas We included electric vehicles into the scope of internal procurement so pollutants, and the recycling rate of sulfur hexafluoride reached 100%. as to promote the use of electric vehicles in engineering projects and public affairs. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau and State Grid Electric Vehicle Company held an event with the theme of “Green Driving Guaranteed by Power Grids”. During the event, Discharge reduction of waste water the participants drove electric vehicles from Guangzhou to Beijing with the support of interconnected charging We recycled wastewater and achieved zero consumption of cooling facilities, through which the drivers experienced the water outside the converter valves of some converter stations. convenience brought by electric vehicles. Promoting the use of electric vehicles was a key part for broadening Sharing the pylons consumption channels of clean energy, and also We cooperated with China Tower to promote pylon sharing, so as to an important practice in developing the new energy achieve the reuse and comprehensive utilization of pylon resources. consumption model and new services integrated energy featuring Internet + . The company cooperated with the State Grid Corporation of China to build an interconnected “Green Driving Guaranteed by Power Grids” Guangzhou-Beijing trip for interconnection of charging network, providing a strong charging guarantee electric vehicle charging facilities in 2018 for the travel from south to north. 49 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 50 Providing integrated energy services CSG endeavores to meet diversified needs of customers in energy production and consumption, by providing multiple comprehensive energy services, reducing the cost of energy use, and improving the comprehensive energy efficiency, which also promotes energy conservation and emission reduction for the society. In 2018, we completed electric power substitution of 22.4 TWh. The first inland-river shore power project in Guangdong Electromagnetic kitchen publicity activities Internet + smart energy utilization comprehensive demonstration community Charging piles for artificial island of Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge province was put into operation in Zhaoqing city. Industry Food Living Travel We developed new business models such as energy-saving and valueWe implemented the electromagnetic kitchen renovation projects in the We built modern smart communities based on shared cables, and We built an intelligent charging service platform and a charging operation added services and invested in energy stations in the industrial field so staff canteens within the Company. provided the users with smart electricity services such as the automatic management system for electric vehicles, and invested in six charging as to provide industrial customers with integrated energy services. meter reading system for water, electricity and gas use, as well as smart service platforms including “Duduchong”, “Yueyichong”, “Caiyunchong”, home, distributed energy, and charging facilities. “Electric Guizhou”, “Yangchengchong” and “Xiaonanchong”. With these We actively promoted electromagnetic kitchen, providing safe, ecoefforts, we have realized data interconnection and the services in five Environmental We achieved full coverage and energy saving transformation of shore friendly, and energy-efficient kitchen renovation solutions for enterprises provinces. power facilities in ports. In 2018, we completed a number of port power in related industries. We promoted deep integration of power, information and business, and projects in Guangdong and Hainan province to support the green made accurate analyses of the power demands so as to provide users Protection development of shipping industry. with household energy-saving solutions. We built an inter-city charging network in the Pearl River Delta, a charging network around Hainan Island, and a charging network along the expressway connecting Beijing with the Pearl River Delta, giving impetus to green transport. New charging piles in 2018 New charging stations in 2018 Advocating the idea of green consumption 9,605 374 CSG advocates the idea of green consumption, encourages green ways of working and living, and develops energy-saving services such as industrial energy conservation, energy management contracting, energy efficiency management, energy conservation consulting, etc., so as to provide customers with comprehensive energy conservation solutions and help them save energy. Energy saving services We invested in energy station projects and adopted the mode of energy management The Nandudu energy conservation service website promoted Comprehensive contracting to provide advanced integrated energy supply power utilization Enterprises received free energy energy conservation transactions of RMB 5.3 billion in 2018 and developed an online energy-saving industrial cluster . services in China and create We improved the comprehensive conservation advice provided by economic and environmental utilization of energy and increased the Distributed energy Total energy conservation service CSG in 2018 benefits for customers. added value generated by carrying out We carried out several distributed energy projects, and projects in 2018 projects of co-generation, integrated cooling and gas supply.. promoted power generation from solar power and natural 834 412 gas to reduce and replace fossil energy consumption. Rooftop PV on carport of Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle Company in Huadu District, Guangzhou 51 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 52 Operating Efficiency Answering the call of the era We must follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the underlying principles of the 19th CPC National Congress, build up our full confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics and follow the right direction of reform and opening-up. An excerpt from President Xi Jinping’s speech on the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up We work consistently to make SOEs into leaner, better performers, Operating increase the core competitiveness of their main business, and Efficiency support state capital in becoming stronger, doing better, and growing bigger. Our SOEs should, through reform and innovation, become front-runners in pursuing high-quality development. An Excerpt from Report on the Work of the Government in 2018 CSG in action Taking supply-side structural reforms as its main task, CSG had a firm grasp of the policy requirements of “consolidating the existing results, strengthening the momentum of development, improving the level of the industrial chain and smoothing the cycle of the national economy” and adhered to market-based reforms and highlevel opening-up. To resolutely implement the major decisions and policies of the CPC Central Committee, CSG coordinated the tasks of ensuring security, stabilizing growth, advancing reform, adjusting structure, promoting transformation, increasing vitality, and strengthening Party building. 53 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 54 Embarking on the journey of reform, we have made enormous strides in the new era Key topic management in 2018 Operating Key topics Efficiency Forestalling and defusing major risks Deepening reform ntegrating the value chain of the energy industry Promoting international exchanges and cooperation Major action plans 2002 2004 2014 2015 2016 2018 We took 20 measures to prevent financial risks and created a negative list of financial business. We vigorously promoted the “SOE and Central SOE Reform Action” to select top 100 central SOE subsidiaries and top 100 local mainstay SOEs under the leadership of the SASAC, and steadily advanced the reform of the power system. We deepened We took the lead in Qianhai & Shekou Guangzhou Power We took the lead in launching trial carrying out the power Power Supply Trading Center operation of the power spot market in We promoted digitalization, platformization and globalization, integrated the industrial chain, and expanded the ecological power reform transmission and Co., Ltd. was was established Guangdong. circle. distribution pricing established. We accelerated the acquisition of overseas assets and promoted exchanges with neighboring countries reform in Shenzhen. Guangdong frequency regulation auxiliary service market began its formal settlement and operation Key performance We expanded As the first China-Vietnam power grid of 110 kV from Vietnam Vinh Tan Power Plant and Nam Tha Hydropower Hekou County of Yunnan Province to Lao Cai in Station in Laos were put into operation, connecting to Overall asset ratio Cost of electricity for customers reduced by lowering the price of electricity international Vietnam was put into operation, CSG became China’s the state grids of Lancang-Mekong countries through business first power grid enterprise that -“went global”. 12-circuit line of 110 kV and above. 60.4 % RMB 22.3 billion Overseas assets Income from emerging, financial and international businesses With high-quality CSG has been rated Class A in the Assessment of Business Performance by the SASAC for 12 development consecutive years RMB 43.9 billion RMB 31.47 billion 55 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 56 Preventing and Resolving Major Risks We must always be highly vigilant for both the “Black Swan” incidents and the “Gray Rhino” incidents. We should take preventive measures and develop effective strategies to deal with and defuse risks. We should be ready to prevent and defuse risks, and also take strategic initiative to avoid danger and turn it into opportunity. Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Preventing and resolving major risks Committee, Chinese President and Chairman of the Central Military Commission Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Target 8.2 Achieve higher levels Disclosure 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Launching work program of streamlining and Defusing risk to improve quality of economic productivity through opportunities improving quality and efficiency diversification, technological upgrading and innovation Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated Conducting comprehensive financial risk and distributed investigations Achieving its annual operation targets, CSG has been rated Class-A in the Assessment of Business Performance by the SASAC for 12 consecutive years, ranking 110th among the Fortune Global 500 companies and 293rd among the world’s top 500 brands. CSG took its responsibility as a national backbone enterprise by implementing the strategic decisions of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on forestalling and defusing major risks, fully engaging itself in forestalling and defusing major risks, adhering to proactive prevention and systematic Ranking of CSG among the Fortune Global 500 companies over the years Overall asset-liability ratio in 2018 response, reducing asset-liability ratio, and preventing operational risks to build itself a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness through high-quality development. 95 60.4 % Overcoming difficulties to lay a solid foundation 100 US dollar bonds successfully 113 110 issued by CSG in 2018 CSG took steady measures to forestall and defuse major risks, improved resource allocation, and properly arranged investment and cost to boost high-quality development. 1 billion Strengthening the top-level design Focusing on deleveraging and debt reduction Domestic bonds issued by CSG Operating We launched the “1+8” plan to make the We carried out multi-version and multiin 2018 Efficiency organization lean, efficient and highly productive, and strengthened a series of targeted measures program estimates and analyses to work out a clear asset-liability ratio management plan for 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year RMB 83 billion to forestall and defuse major risks. the period from 2018 to 2020. Key indicators of CSG's business performance in 2018 Conducting full-coverage investigation into Tapping internal potential to revitalize the financial risks additional financial resources Electricity sale 970.3 TWh Revenue 537.3 RMB billion Total pre-tax profits RMB 43.69 billion Total assets RMB 816.7 billion We conducted comprehensive financial We refined the cash flow management, Unit:TWh Unit:RMB billion Unit:RMB billion Unit:RMB billionv risk investigations, developed a clear list of continued to improve the financing structure, Year-on-year growth of 9% Year-on-year growth of 9.2% Year-on-year decline of 4.2% Year-on-year growth of 10.1% negative restrictions on financial business controlled the financing costs, and kept so as to guard against financial debt risks advancing the eight special actions for laying 537.3 53.0 816.7 and capital security incidents. the foundation to gain long-term benefits. 890.2 970.3 491.9 50.1 741.6 829.7 470.7 473.3 45.6 689.3 782.2 43.69 636.2 Expanding industrial financial business We actively explored new investment areas, strategically invested in Yingda International Trust Co., LTD., Bank of Financial leasing contracts completed by Guangzhou, China Guodian Capital Holdings Ltd. and National Nuclear Capital Holding Company, etc., and conducted CSG in 2018 low-risk businesses in secondary markets such as financial leasing, securities lending and new share subscription. over RMB 12.3 billion 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 57 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 58 Consolidating the Cornerstone of Development Management innovation Let the pace of development be firm and down-to-earth Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes We actively implemented the new development philosophy, and promoted the reform of system and mechanism through innovation to realize strategic Target 16.6 Develop effective, Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and Promoting law popularization to build a law-based transformation and high-quality development. accountable and transparent its components central SOE institutions at all levels Promoting management innovation for high quality development We formulated management measures for consulting projects and innovation results, including incorporating management innovation results into the scope of incentives, optimizing project evaluation and approval, and standardizing innovation project management. Improving Operational compliance mechanism We tried to stimulate the vitality of management innovation and create an atmosphere of management innovation where the staff Thoroughly studying and implementing President Xi Jinping’s important statements on law-based governance, we enhanced our ability in promoting the rule of is brave, willing and good at innovation. law, improved audit environment, and accelerated the building of a well-established, law-abiding, and credible central SOE. Developing a culture of management innovation. We combine top-down and bottom-up management innovation paths to create a good cultural atmosphere for management innovation. Carrying out major research projects on management tools. We study the practice of first-class enterprises at home and Enhancing the ability of law-based governance Improving audit Creating abroad to support the strategic transformation and high-quality development of the Company. atmosphere Building a platform for innovation exchange. For many years, management forums have been held to provide opportunities Operating for exchange of frontier management research results, and to provide a platform for managers at all levels to fully Guided by the Seventh Five-Year Plan of the Publicity Department of CPC Central CSG fully cooperated with the National Audit Office in its special Efficiency demonstrate their thinking and research on hot issues of reform and management difficulties. Committee and the Ministry of Justice on Carrying out Law Promotion and Education audit and investigation on the 2017 annual balance sheet income Among Citizens, CSG established four major platforms to increase public knowledge of statement and the overseas investment and overseas assets the law via television, Internet, mobile phones, and newspapers, and built characteristic management and use, as well as the follow-up audit of the brands for raising public awareness of law, including the Voice of Laws in Guangdong, implementation of major national policies in 2018. “Legal Clinic Legal Service”, and Legal Report. We improved the efficiency of supervision, implemented the full We actively introduced advanced management tools to promote lean management, enhance overall benchmarking Giving full play to the role of legal review and inspection, CSG managed to achieve a coverage of audits in a sound and orderly manner, and put forward management and create a new situation of management. 100% review rate of economic contracts. CSG also strengthened the management of 4,785 audit opinions, increasing our enterprise value by RMB 349 legal cases, and the legal cases which CSG is accountable for decreased by 43.33%, million. avoiding or recovering economic loss of RMB 870 million. Lean improvement. Starting from the system, we continue to deepen the lean management thought and integrate lean management with business, so as to promote business continuous improvement, and create comprehensive value. Using tools Benchmarking evaluation. We carry out comprehensive benchmarking evaluation, continuously improve the first-class index Total amount of increased income of each unit, narrow the management gap between eastern and western regions, and promote the universal application of In 2018, training on law and saved expenditure by benchmarking management tools, thus effectively enhancing our management capacity. popularization had conducting audits 60,000 participants Unit:RMB million 735 Effect 519 349 Key lean First prize for management Second prize for management projects innovation achievements at innovation achievements at 119 implemented company level company level 2015 2016 2017 2018 991 8 12 Guangxi Power Grid Co. Ltd. promotes law popularization in campuses. 59 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 60 Deepening Reform in All Respects Let the pace of development be firm and down-to-earth Reform of the state-owned enterprises and state capital Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Focusing on the requirements of “improving governance, strengthening incentives, highlighting main business, and improving efficiency”, CSG has removed institutional Target 7.1 Ensure universal access Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Establishing power spot market in southern China obstacles and improved the governance system and management modes. to affordable, reliable and modern services supported (Start from Guangdong) energy services Deeply advancing the reform of Qianhai & Shekou Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau, China Southern Power Grid Integrated Energy Co., Ltd., and the Target 16.7 Ensure responsive, Power Supply Co., Ltd. Guangdong Power Transmission and Transformation Engineering Company were selected by the Deepening the reform of SOEs inclusive, participatory and SASAC as pilot companies for the “SOE and Central SOE Reform”. representative decision-making at all levels We defined the general guidelines and goals of the mixed-ownership pilot reform in Qianhai & Shekou Deeply advancing mixed-ownership Power Supply Company, worked out 36 measures in five aspects, and coordinated with all parties to pilot reform in Qianhai & Shekou complete the asset injection of shareholders, aiming to form a replicable, widely adoptable, and leading Reform of power system Power Supply Company “Qianhai model” in respect of mixed-ownership system reform. Playing its role as a trailblazer, CSG took the lead in exploring the power transmission and distribution pricing reform, the reform of incremental distribution We made remarkable achievements in relieving ourselves of the obligation to operate social programs network, and building of the power spot market, allowing the people to better benefit from the reform and development. and in solving long-standing problems. We made coordinated efforts to cut the number of legal persons, Achievements in streamlining cancelling 168 legal persons and overfilling the highest requirements of SASAC for 2016-2019 in improving quality and efficiency advance. The functions of water/power/air supply and property management were separated and the We resolutely implemented the state policy of “reducing the electricity price for general industrial signing rate of formal agreements on power supply facilities reached 100%. and commercial businesses by 10% on average”, and vigorously took measures such as rectifying the power pricing system and reducing the electricity price for general industrial and commercial businesses. As a result, we reduced the cost of electricity for customers by RMB 22.3 billion in 2018. Practicing CSG’s Corporate Culture With the trial operation of the southern power Operating The Hainan Power Exchange Center formally activated, and it provides standardized, reliable, Philosophy spot market in Guangdong efficient and high-quality power trading services in accordance with the law and regulations, laying a Efficiency good foundation for the development of power market in Hainan. On August 31, 2018, the southern power spot market in Guangdong was officially put into trial operation. As an important part of price discovery, the We reviewed the transmission and distribution pricing reform to keep improving the transmission and power spot market allows electricity to return to its commodity attributes, reflecting the role of time and location in electricity pricing. The operation distribution pricing mechanism. of the power spot market in Guangdong is expected to give full play to the decisive role of the market in resource allocation and further promote the consumption of clean energy. We actively cooperated with the incremental power distribution business reform, and competed for We reached important consensuses with relevant parties and market pilot project opportunities in a fair and just way. We determined the owners of the first batch of the 20 players on key issues such as the model of spot trading, designed Market awareness is well developed in Guangdong Province. The pilot projects in southern China, and cooperated with local governments to plan for the second and a “medium and long-term + spot” centralized market mechanism operating rules of the power spot market managed to use the market third batches of pilot distribution network. based on the actual situation in Guangdong, and built a complete mechanisms to reflect prices and gain the largest reform benefits with market system. minimal costs. The pilot reform in Guangdong has set a good example and We advanced the building of the power spot market in the southern China, and took the lead in provided experience for power reform and development in China. launching the pilot operation of the power spot market. We assisted the government in completing the preparation of the spot market trading rules and built China’s first spot market technical Xia Qing, Professor of Tsinghua University support system with independent intellectual property rights. Power transactions within Average price reduction Costs reduced for customers the province for users by promoting market Unit: 100 GWh Unit: yuan / kWh transactions Unit: RMB 100 million 3380 0.1096 285 2680 0.084 222 0.0827 0.0702 166 1519 741 52 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Cao Zhi'an, Director, General Manager and Deputy Party Secretary of CSG, attended the launching ceremony of the trial operation of the power spot market in southern China (Start from Guangdong). 61 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 62 Transformation and Upgrading Emerging business Maintaining steady and sustainable development Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Through integrating high-quality resources in the value chain and cooperating with upstream and downstream enterprises to build a shared market, CSG strove Target 8.2 Achieve higher levels Disclosure 203-1 Extent of development of Establishing industrial investment group companies to transform itself into an integrator of the value chain of the energy industry. of economic productivity through significant infrastructure investments and services and incubate emerging industries diversification, technological upgrading supported; current or expected impacts on and innovation communities and local economies Integrating financial resources to serve the real economy We set up a branch in CSG Xiongan New Area to grasp the development opportunities at the area, made contributions to the construction of Xiongan New Target 17.7 Promote the development, Disclosure 413-1 Operations with significant actual Area and expanded our industrial development. transfer, dissemination and diffusion and potential negative impacts on local communities Strengthening cooperation with Lancang-Mekong of environmentally sound technologies countries and engaging in the Belt and Road We developed the high-end equipment manufacturing industry by focusing on the energy industry value chain, and comprehensively promoted business to developing countries on favourable Initiative negotiation and cooperation implementation of shared electricity pylons. terms We promoted the implementation of integrated energy business and electric vehicle service business. The integrated energy demonstration projects in Nansha, Guangzhou and Songshan Lake National High-tech Industrial Development Zone were completed and put into operation, and the construction of the demonstration project in Dapeng New Area of Shenzhen was started. Focusing on four major business segments of regulation services, emerging business, international business and financial services, CSG strengthened the support system for shared services to ensure steady and sustainable development in the future. In 2018, CSG’s revenues from emerging, financial and international business were RMB 31.47 billion, a year-on-year increase of 26.9%. Promoting the upgrading of industrial parks with integrated energy solutions Emerging business Financial services International business In view of the characteristics of concentration of leading enterprises, large energy consumption and diversified needs of load in the Mingzhu We strengthened the integration and development We have become a stable, green, intelligent We enhanced the synergy between international Industrial Park of Conghua Economic Development Zone, Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau proposed a package solution covering distributed of competitive industries, and adapted to new and open industrial chain financial service business and the industry and financial sectors, energy, energy-saving transformation and intelligent dispatching, aiming to provide clean source power for eco-friendly and higher quality Operating technologies, new industries, new forms of provider. improved resource allocation and to promote the development of the Industrial Park. According to the solutions, we provided abundant cooling, heating and electricity resources by means of Efficiency business, and new models such as cloud growth of international business with concerted distributed energy stations with combined cooling, heating and power (CCHP) generating units driven by natural gas in the industrial park. We also computing, big data, Internet of things, mobile efforts. introduced measures such as differential pressure power generation, thermal energy cascade utilization, waste heat recovery, and air-conditioning Internet, and smart city. energy-saving renovation, and made tailored energy saving and eco-friendly plans for companies. On this basis, a multi-energy coordinated intelligent dispatching system was established to promote full consumption of clean energy such as photovoltaic power and CCHP driven by natural gas, providing systematic support for corporate energy management. The solutions explored a new approach to achieve win-win operation for enterprises, power plants, users, and integrated energy service providers. Financial services Based on the platforms of CSG Finance Co., Ltd. and Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd, CSG continued to expand its financial business and improve qualifications so as to ensure fund security and stable development and provide financial support for building itself a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness. We established a sound mechanism for sharing of and efficient coordination between industrial and Integrating financial resources, and developed a variety of industrial financial business systems including financial financial resources companies, insurance companies, insurance brokerage companies, capital holding companies, fund companies and financial leasing companies. We further expanded investment and financing channels and made overall arrangements for financial Expanding leasing contracts RMB 12.3 billion. We accelerated the deployment of insurance institutions, and increased financial services the number of secondary companies in non-corporate service areas to eight and provided insurance services for projects of Xiangjiaba Left Bank Power Station, China Guodian Corporation and Shanghai International Port (Group) Co., Ltd. Conghua Pearl Industrial Park in Guangzhou 63 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 64 International business As our service area is adjacent to Hong Kong and Macao and borders on Vietnam, Laos and Myanmar, CSG has distinctive regional and geographical To fulfill our social responsibility overseas and implement the principle of pursuing the greater good and shared interests in advantages. CSG actively carries out Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy and makes full use of its own advantages to promote power trade, greenfield investment, promoting the Belt and Road Initiative equity M&A and power grid connectivity in neighboring countries and regions as well as key countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. Through extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, CSG takes solid steps in contributing to the Belt and Road Initiative. In 2018, we put the projects, which were signed witnessed by state leaders of China and the partner country, into operation six months ahead of schedule. We have made great achievements in We relocated nearly 10,000 inhabitants, thus benefiting local people.During We carried out cultural exchanges to strengthen people-to-people ties supporting China’s overall diplomatic strategy and enhancing international exchanges and cooperation. the Nam Tha project construction in Laos, we built 11 resettlement sites and and cultivate foreign students from Mekong countries. CSG has tailored 37 villages for a total of 1,735 households with 9,296 inhabitants, and also a 2016-2025 cultivation program for 110 international students studying relocated nearly 4,000 buildings, public facilities from the 37 former villages, in China from Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar and Cambodia. as well as the livestock. As an unprecedented achievement in the history Now there are 72 students studying in China. Since 2011, a total of Making a breakthrough in overseas equity M&A of hydropower station construction in Laos, the resettlement project greatly 110 international students from Lancang-Mekong countries have improved the living standards of the local people and created opportunities been enrolled in China. We also organize activities regularly and invite for people in the mountainous area to get rid of poverty and become better students to visit our substations. off, which won the recognition from the local government. In 2018, after We acquired We acquired a 37% We acquired a flood hit Attapu, a southern province of Laos where we were building a We carried our trainings for technicians in the power industry in 27.8% stake of ETC Transmission 27.8 % stake of Edra Power Holdings in Malaysia. 37 % 24.92% stake of Luxembourg-based 24.92 % hydro-power station, we organized donations for the disaster area to help local people rebuild their homes. neighboring countries. In 2018, CSG held five training classes to provide professional trainings in equipment operation and maintenance for 32 Holdings in Chile Ensevo. senior technical experts of the Electricity Authority of Cambodia, which We hired local employees to support local social and economic was highly praised by the Ministry of Industry, Mining and Energy and development. During the project construction, The Vinh Tan Power Plant the Electricity Authority of Cambodia. project in Vietnam hired Vietnamese workers, accounting for 66.1% of the total. The project hired Laotian workers and other foreign workers, We prepared vocabulary books of terms in the power industry in Taking solid steps to carry out the Belt and Road cooperation projects accounting for 61.6% of the total. We have raised foreign employees' safety multiple languages. CSG has compiled and released the Technical and quality awareness and organized skill trainings, so as to help foreign Terms of Coal-fired Power Plants in Vietnamese, Chinese, and English, employees achieve outstanding performance in the industry, deliver tangible Through developing quality projects that benefit local people, the Vinh Tan Coal-fired Power Plant Phase I BOT project in Vietnam and the NO.1 Nam Tha which contained more than 30,000 terms. It could meet the needs for benefits for them and seek friendship. Hydropower Station project in Laos were well recognized by local governments and the society, and recommended as the key Belt and Road demonstration power technology exchanges and project production and operation project by Chinese Embassy in Vietnam and Chinese Embassy in Laos. between China and Vietnam, and solved the language obstacles in communication of professional problems. Operating Efficiency Vietnam Laos The Vietnamese workers hired by Vinh Tan Power Plant project in The Vinh Tan Coal-fired Power Plant Phase The Nam Tha NO.1 Hydropower Station project I BOT project was signed witnessed by state leaders of China and Vietnam. In November 2018, in Laos was signed with the witness of state leaders of China and Laos. In October 2018, Vietnam accounted for 66.1 % of the total in 2018. two generation units were put into commercial three generation units were put into production for operation, half a year ahead of schedule. The power genenration, half a year ahead of schedule. Laotian workers and other foreign workers hired by the the Nam Tha high quality project paid attention to environmental protection in its construction, which was regarded The project marks another achievement in power cooperation between China and Laos, which will project accounted for 61.6 % of the total in 2018. as a quality and demonstration project benefiting promote local economic development and greatly local people by the Vietnamese government. improve people’s livelihood in Laos. It becomes a demonstration project for power cooperation between China and Vietnam. Graduation ceremony for Laos students in China Actively promoting international cooperation and exchanges Witnessed by Premier Li Keqiang and French Prime Minister Philip, Making full use of the three summits initiated by CSG, we promoted the CSG and Electricite De France signed a cooperation statement on exchanges and cooperation between power companies in Guangdong, Boao Lecheng Smart Grid and Low Carbon Smart Energy Integrated Hong Kong, and Macao, Lancang-Mekong River countries, as well Demonstration Zone Project. as China, Japan, and South Korea. Taking the opportunity of “2018 Lancang-Mekong Week” campaign, CSG successfully held the 5th Power Utility Summit and relevant activities. Actively supporting China’s overall diplomacy, we participated in major We actively joined international organizations to further promote international events, conferences and exhibitions including the Boao cooperation. Recently we have become a new member in the Edison Forum for Asia 2018, the Beijing Summit of the Forum on ChinaElectric Institute (EEI), APEx, and the World Economic Forum, and Africa Cooperation, the 2018 BRICS Business Forum, the Exhibition on renewed the Memorandum of Understanding on the cooperation with Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Outcomes, China-ASEAN Expo, the Belt ERDF and KEPCO. and Road Energy Ministerial Conference, the First China International Import Expo in Shanghai, the APEC CEO Summit 2018, etc. Vinh Tan Coal-Fired Power Plant in Vietnam 65 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 66 Social Harmony Answering the call of the era We should see that our people will always have a strong sense of fulfillment, happiness, and security, constantly promote the wellrounded human development and common prosperity for everyone. An excerpt from President Xi Jinping’s speech on the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up We will, in line with economic growth, do more to directly benefit the people, address the difficulties that affect their lives, and ensure that their basic living needs are met. Our aim is to help people feel more satisfied, happier, and more secure. Social Harmony An excerpt from the Report on the Work of the Government in 2018 CSG in action We are fully engaged in the fight against poverty and have made greater efforts to help areas of extreme poverty like the “three regions and three prefectures” and the most vulnerable groups to lift themselves out of poverty. Sticking to the guideline of relying wholeheartedly on the working class, we have advanced the reform in building the workforce of the industry, fostered the development of employees at a faster pace, and continuously enhanced employees’ sense of fulfillment and happiness. 67 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 68 Embarking on the journey of reform, we have made enormous strides in the new era Key topic management in 2018 Social Key topics Harmony Further promoting targeted poverty alleviation Serving the rural revitalization strategy Building a happy CSG Promoting common development Major action plans 2002 2011 2012 2016 2018 We implemented a poverty alleviation strategy with a dual focus on power supply and industrial development, and pushed through targeted poverty alleviation in innovative ways. We conducted a new round of rural grid transformation to help build a beautiful countryside. Serving the CSG invested in an independent CSG made great efforts to power grid along the Dulong River promote targeted poverty We accelerated the building of workforce in the new era. development of to help the ethnic Dulong people alleviation and invested RMB We carried our transparent procurement and urged suppliers to improve their CSR performance. step into modern life. 66.95 million in poverty alleviation agriculture, rural in targeted areas. areas and rural people to promote CSG achieved the goal of electricity CSG won the top performers in Key performance connection in all households the targeted poverty alleviation rural revitalization within its service area three years evaluation of central SOEs for two ahead of schedule required by the consecutive years. Impoverished areas that get out of poverty directly helped by CSG Employee training rate national plan. 240 96.5 % Helping all Dulong people to get out of poverty. Investment in the new round of rural Suppliers certificated by the Occupation Health grid transformation and Safety Management System (OHSMS) RMB 40.3 billion 95.12 % 69 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 70 Winning the Tough Battle of Targeted Poverty Alleviation To win the war against poverty is the primary task to build a moderately prosperous society in all respects. We must integrate development-oriented poverty alleviation, modern agricultural development, growthdevelopment of agriculture, rural areas and rural people, and building of beautiful countryside to realize the goalensure that people in rural areas are better off, agriculture is stronger, and rural China is more beautiful. Winning the tough battle of targeted poverty alleviation Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes Committee, Chinese President and Chairman of the Central Military Commission Target 1.1 Eradicate extreme poverty Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community Innovating in targeted poverty alleviation model and for all people everywhere engagement, impact assessments, and development path programs Target 1.4 Ensure that all men and Serving the rural revitalization strategy Achievements in poverty alleviation women, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services CSG has made solid progress and got good results in poverty alleviation. The Company won the top performers in the targeted poverty alleviation evaluation of central SOEs for two consecutive years, and won the gold cup of the Guangzhou Poverty Alleviation Hongmian Cup for three consecutive years. Implementing the decisions and policies of the CPC Central Committee, we compiled the Three-Year Action Plan of CSG for Fighting against Poverty (20182020), actively explored and innovated in poverty alleviation models and approaches, and fully promoted 240 Investment in the new round of rural grid renovation and upgrading power industry-specific and pairing poverty alleviation programs, so as to promote targeted poverty alleviation and serve the rural revitalization strategy. CSG provided direct help for poverty in 2018 impoverished areas to get out of RMB 40.3 billion CSG provided direct help for 81,000 people to get out of poverty Investment in poverty alleviation in the electric power industry RMB 23.7 billion Social Alleviating poverty in innovative CSG helps the Dulong people get out of poverty Harmony ways Based on the characteristics of the industry, CSG implements its own targeted poverty alleviation The Dulong people have been living together for generations in Dulong Jiang Township, Gongshan County, Nujiang Prefecture, Yunnan Province, measures and actively explores new ways, contributing near the border between China and Myanmar. Since 2010, CSG has set up cables in high mountains to realize electricity connection in all households Meng Zhenping, Chairman and Secretary of CSG Party Committee, made a trip to Weixi County in CSG wisdom to targeted poverty alleviation. in Dulong Jiang Township; we built a micro-smart grid, and opened the Dulong people's journey to modern life with green and reliable electricity, and Yunnan to find out what should be done in poverty alleviation. settled in villages to alleviate poverty, paying close attention to and actively solving the production and living difficulties of the poor people. In 2018, more than 4,000 residents get out of poverty and became the epitome of CSG's earnest implementation of General Secretary Xi Jinping's requirement of achieving a well-off society in an all-round way with no minority people left behind and the targeted help for “Three Regions and Three Prefectures” and other deep poverty-stricken areas. New model New system New guarantee New focus “Five-combination” approach. Multi-dimensional support with the Plan of “cultivating talents to be Building targeted poverty alleviation We carried out targeted poverty “five major systems” . Based on Party members and cultivating demonstration villages. We selected villages to build them into targeted poverty alleviation alleviation based on our core the actual situation of the recipients Party members to be talents”. We demonstration villages, and implemented business and comprehensively of assistance, we established “five insisted on the organic integration of the requirements of “targeted recipients of advanced the “five-combination” major systems” to ensure that poverty alleviation and the building assistance, targeted project arrangement, approach in poverty alleviation. poverty alleviation policies were of primary-level Party organizations targeted use of funds, targeted measures for each household, targeted personnel implemented. to provide organizational support for assignment, and targeted poverty alleviation poverty alleviation. effect”, thus setting a good example for poverty alleviation. New working style New management New platform New mechanismt Carrying out the “three-one” project Introducing the “four-step approach” Creating an “Internet +” Guiding the distribution of income and to improve poverty alleviation work to improve the management of consumption platform. We built an exploring a long-term mechanism. We style. As 2018 was announced a poverty alleviation projects. We online “Poverty Alleviation Module” implemented the Guidelines on Income year for improved conduct in poverty explored the “four-step approach” to provide information on poverty Distribution for New Poverty Alleviation alleviation, we conscientiously throughout the project management alleviation products and logistics Projects on a trial basis, laying a solid For more information on Helping the Dulong people implemented the requirements for cycle to ensure that the poverty support, and expanded channels to foundation for “thorough poverty get out of poverty , please scan the QR code. Employees of Yunnan Power Grid Co. Ltd. compete with monkeys and follow the spider in high mountains conduct in 2018to ensure steady alleviation projects proceed in sell poverty alleviation products. alleviation”. to set up power lines, which are intimately called more powerful than monkeys by Dulong people. work and effective outcomes of compliance with laws and policies. poverty alleviation. 71 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 72 Building a Happy CSG Training evaluation The primary resource of an enterprise and the foundation for development and market competition Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes CSG has upheld the principle of “training as a must for business management”, and incorporated it into production and management, thus systematically conducting trainings for all employees. In 2018, we carried out 56,800 training sessions, with an employee training rate of 96.5%. Target 5.1 End all forms of Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee Improve the quality of the workforce and maintain discrimination against all women and skills and transition assistance programs regular and open channels for employee girls everywhere development Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Strengthening the building of the internal trainer team. We carried out innovative building of the inner trainer team and launched Excellent Inner Trainers Target 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and and employees Develop a workforce in which everyone has selection activities. More than 16,000 internal trainers were recruited. productive employment and decent lofty ideals and keeps faith, masters technology work for all women and men and and makes innovations, and is willing to take Improving training resources. A total of 1,281 skill training rooms were constructed. equal pay for work of equal value responsibility and make contributions. Promoting staff evaluation in depth. We implemented the management mechanism of training, evaluation, employment with certificates , and 57,000 4.43% employees passed the post competency evaluation in 2018, and 100% of key skill posts in the fields of work safety, marketing and infrastructure were certified. 19.05% 17.92% 17.07% 38.37% 29 years old and below Educational Master degree or higher Age structure of 30-39 years old background of Bachelor degree Practicing CSG’s Corporate Culture Carrying out the reform for building the employees 9.91% employees Philosophy workforce in the new era 40-49 years old Junior college 27.47% 50 years old and above Technical school 35.56% High school or lower CSG has implemented the Reform Plan for Building the Workforce in the New Era formulated by the CPC Central Committee, and promoted the building of an 30.22% educated, skilled and innovative workforce on the basis of “leadership program, quality program, growth program, solidarity program, and caring program”. Social Leadership program Solidarity program Harmony Safeguarding the rights and interests of Supporting staff development employees We cultivated key employees to be Party members and developed Party We developed a characteristic democratic management system with members to be key employees, ensured that each unit has at least one Party “professional management system + comprehensive evaluation method” to member, and guided staff growth by taking new measures of Party building. ensure that the employees have a sense of responsibility. CSG strictly abides by labor laws and regulations, respects employees’ CSG has built diversified channels for employees’ career development, privacy, respects and protects their legitimate rights and interests, and enriched the staff training system and motivated employees’ innovation, so actively builds harmonious labor relations. as to promote rapid growth of the workforce. Quality program Caring program We upheld the principle of fair and just recruitment, worked to eliminate any Officials management More than 70% of training funds are used for front-line employees and We equipped 2,218 primary-level stations with cultural and living facilities form of employment discrimination, and signed labor contracts according to weestablished a “Human Resources Management System + Online Training and established charity funds to “send care” for the employees in need, law, with a labor contract signing rate of 100%. Upholding the principle of the Party supervising officials and talents, CSG and Evaluation System”. pooling positive energy. continuously worked to build a contingent of competent officials and talents We established a sound, systematic and complete human resources so as to train outstanding officials that meet the needs of the reform and system, and revised and released five management systems related to development of the Company in the new era. Growth program labor, personnel and income distribution. The social insurance coverage rate of CSG reached 100% in 2018. We adhered to the standards for good officials in the new era and We set up three career development channels of management, professional the 20-Chinese characters requirement for leaders of state-owned technology and skills to break the barriers between these three channels. We established a well-regulated system of congress of workers and staff, enterprises (Be Loyal to the Party, Be Bold to Innovate, Be Good at and promoted the certification of standard implementation for practicing Management, Be Able to Make the Company Thrive, and Be Honest transparency of factory affairs and democratic management to the fourth-tier and Upright), and stuck to putting political standards in the first place. units. The proportion of employees participating in the trade union and the response rate to the proposals put forward on the congress of workers and We stepped up efforts to cultivate and select young officials and “CSG’s useful practice and active exploration of the reform staff reached 100%. cultivated 100 outstanding young officials, and the average age of in building the workforce provided practical reference manager-level staff at the headquarters decreased by 0.9 year. and experience for other enterprises, especially SOEs to implement the Reform Plan for the Building the Workforce We upgraded the “Staff Home”, improved the working conditions of front-line Focusing on the improving the ability and quality of officials, we held the in the New Era. So to speak, CSG played a demonstration employees, cultivated the culture of “Staff Home”, and developed the mobile first operation and management training for them. Our “Power of Faith” and guiding role”. app of “CSG e-Home”. The “Staff Homes” of 11 branches and subsidiaries teaching case was included in the Selections of Innovation Practices in of CSG were awarded as “National Model Staff Home” in 2018. Officials Education Training Reform of the Organization Department of Yan Jinghua, Vice Chairman of the All-China the CPC Central Committee. Federation of Trade Unions Proportion of female employees Paid leave per capita We promoted the reform of the talent development system and 24.59 % 9 days mechanism, and our employees were included in national and provincial talent support programs 37 times in 2018. Guangxi Power Grid Co. Ltd. strengthens employee business training. 73 2018 CSR Report Main Body 2018 CSR Report Main Body 74 Promoting Common Development Jointly building a responsible ecosystem Serving as a qualified coordinator of the value chain Contributing to SDGs Core indicators of GRI Standards New era, new changes CSG is committed to building mutually beneficial and win-win cooperation with upstream and downstream partners, establishing a benign development Target 12.7 Promote public Disclosure 308-1 New suppliers that were screened Work with value chain partners to integrate upstream ecosphere and serving the sustainable development of the five provinces in southern China procurement practices that are using environmental criteria and downstream resources sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened Jointly establish an open and credible responsibility using social criteria ecosystem, and serve as a good value chain coordinator Government Community Upstream power plants Paying tax in accordance with the law Contributing to the community Promoting clean energy development Building a smart supply chain system Pre-tax profits amounted to 6,642 volunteer service activities carried Electricity generated from non-fossil energy RMB 43.69 billion out in 2018 accounted for 51.5% CSG has continued to advance the building of a smart supply chain, and efficiently coordinated different parts of the supply chain, so as to promote the accurate matching of supply and demand and industrial upgrading, improve the quality of network access equipment and the service level, reduce the operating and transaction costs, and accelerate the transformation to serve as a qualified coordinator of the value chain of the energy industry. 290,000 employees We spent a total of RMB 68.7 billion in power grid procurement, Material procurement completed in 2018 strongly supporting the construction of rural power distribution CSG Lights up Every Household Power supply service covered an area of one million network and guaranteeing the supply of key engineering RMB 68.7 billion in Southern China square kilometers materials, and the service of power grid operation and Investing RMB 87.4 billion in power grid construction maintenance. Conducting Rate of centralized procurement in 2018 procurement in a We promoted the application of e-commerce systems, built Social fair, impartial, and open manner enclosed evaluation bases in all regions, carried out the procurement “through the platform and to the bases” in an all97.7 % Harmony round way and improved the procurement efficiency. We focused on improving the standardization of materials Order of CSG e-Commerce Platform in 2018 management and building a “fair, impartial, and open” procurement environment. RMB 1.68 billion Supplier Provider Service Provider Contractor Proportion of equipment passing the first factory test in 2018 We carried out hierarchical supervision and control to realize the whole process control of major equipment and key 99.4 % CSG builds relations with suppliers based on mutual trust and complementary advantages. Through continuous evaluation on suppliers, CSG has improved the suppliers and cooperated with them to achieve win-win development. projects. We conducted sampling inspection of incoming materials Strengthening on a regular basis, and deducted marks of the suppliers that We strengthened supplier management. We implemented supplier We revised the evaluation criteria for contractors of infrastructure quality control failed spot inspection. pre-qualification in an all-round way and carried out regular supplier projects, and carried out various evaluations on infrastructure contractors We made efforts to improve equipment quality, extended registration and evaluation to ensure that contractors perform the on a regular basis to achieve “equal rules and fair evaluation” for the quality supervision on GIS transformer capacity to contract in good faith, and the power grid is built smoothly and operates contractor management. key components and parts, and realized full coverage of safely and reliably. supervision over major equipment suppliers. We built a unified service platform. We officially launched the supplier We carried out inspections on subcontracting of infrastructure projects, service hotline 4008100100, supply chain information service WeChat illegal subcontracting and irresponsible management to maintain the We built a green logistics system, developed a green intelligent public account, and started the establishment of supply chain unified order of the electric power market and guarantee the project quality. warehousing system, implemented green packaging and service platform, to help suppliers solve related problems and difficulties. distribution, and ensured recycling of hazardous wastes. Improving warehouse We strengthened the supply of disaster-relief materials to logistics ensure power supply. In response to the Typhoon Mangkhut, Suppliers certificated by the Quality Suppliers certificated by the Environmental Suppliers certificated by the Occupation Health and Suppliers punished we provided emergency materials valuing RMB 59.82 million Management System (QMS) in 2018 Management System (EMS) in 2018 Safety Management System (OHSMS) in 2018 in 2018 in a timely manner, ensuring that the repair and power recovery are carried out successfully. Employees of Dongguan Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong Power Grid Co. Ltd. apply the first-aid kit mobile operation app 100 % 95.95 % 95.12 % 87 75 2018 CSR Report Management 2018 CSR Report Management 76 CSR Management CSR governance Social welfare practice CSG takes it as a fundamental task to and nurture and practice core socialist values, vigorously encourages employees to learn from Lei Feng and engage CSG has set up a three-tiered social responsibility system in the charge of the Public Relations Department, which covers the headquarters, branches and in volunteer activities, innovates in forms of public welfare activities to contribute to the new era with actions. In 2018, we carried out 6,642 voluntary service subsidiaries, and integrates social responsibility into our strategy, management and operation in a systematic and procedure-based way. CSG aims to build activities and served 430,306 people. itself into an enterprise with global competitiveness and a model enterprise that follows the new vision of development, takes social responsibility and has worldrenowned brands. Blue Public Welfare brings light to the heart CSR Research Guangdong Power Grid Company launched the project of “Blue Public Welfare” based on the service brands of “Guangming School”, “Happy Kitchen” and “Warm Cottage”, systematically promoting the Blue Public Welfare project. Since 2016, the Blue Public Welfare has carried out more than 2,800 caring activities, provided more than 300,000 hours of service for nearly 200,000 children and elderly people. It set off a new trend of public welfare and poverty alleviation in Guangdong. In April 2018, “Blue Public Welfare” was awarded as the “Four 100” advanced model activities in the national With a global vision, the Company draws on advanced CSR management practices and experience from world-class enterprises, thus continuously improving promotion and selection of “Learn from Lei Feng” volunteer services in 2017. our social responsibility performance. Guangming School Happy Kitchen Warm cottages CSG continuously conducted empirical researches on the CSR CSG actively participates in academic reports of leading enterprises in the world, focused on leading exchange activities organized by upstream and downstream enterprises of the value chain of mainstream CSR organizations Providing educational support Small kitchen with great affection Paired assistance the energy industry, and benchmarked the 2030 Agenda for to share our CSR philosophy and Helping children realize their wishes Sending sincere care to the children Conveying social warmth to the elderly Sustainable Development, further explored new approaches experience, thus making contributions Benchmarking of CSR management in the value chain, so as to provide Strengthened to sustainable development. CSG volunteers went to schools in We built happy kitchens in the elementary We visited lonely elderly people regularly to references for improving CSR compilation and management exchanges underdeveloped regions to help left-behind schools in mountainous areas to provide talk about daily life with them, do housework, capability. children in pairs, organized them there to hot meals for the children. help them solve difficulties in life, identify and visit areas in the Pearl River Delta. remove potential safety hazards and housing hazards, and care for their physical and mental health. More than 2,000 activities launched Over 20 Happy kitchens built totally More than 1,000 hidden dangers Major CSR Honors More than 3,300 children in the houses identified totally provided with hot meals in mountainous areas Over 300 visits to the elderly during holidays totally CSG’s CSR Report has been CSG’s CSR Report has CSG’s targeted poverty alleviation projects were CSG’s practices of CSR report evaluated as Five-Star report won the GoldenBee included in 2018 Central SOEs Social Responsibility compilation was included for eight consecutive years by Excellent CSR Report • Blue Book of the State-owned Assets Supervision in GoldenBee Research on Research Center of Corporate Evergreen Award for six and Administration Commission of the State Council Corporate Social Responsibility Social Responsibility, Chinese consecutive years (SASAC) and our overseas CSR fulfillment cases Reporting in China (2018). Academy of Social Sciences. were included in 2018 Central SOEs Overseas Social Responsibility Blue Book. Blue Public Welfare volunteers from Guangdong Power Grid Company visit the school in underdeveloped regions . 77 2018 CSR Report Management 2018 CSR Report Management 78 Outlook 2019 CSR communication 2019 marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China and is a crucial year for building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Following the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, the Company will resolutely implement the The Company actively communicates with stakeholders to create a multi-dimensional, comprehensive and platform, so that all stakeholders can witness, spread major decisions and policies of the CPC Central Committee and make coordinated efforts to ensure security, maintain stable growth, advance reform, adjust and promote our open operation. structure, promote transformation, increase vitality, and strengthen Party building. CSG will make new progress in building itself an internationally competitive world-class enterprise and make new contributions to the sustainable and healthy development of Chinese economy and society, so as to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China with outstanding achievements. SOE Open Day On November 2, 2018, the Company's first “SOE Open Day was held in Dongguan. The theme of this event is Green Energy for Better Life . It demonstrates Power supply Environmental protection the Company's practices and achievements in transparent operation, innovation-driven development and high-quality service, and establishes a new image of state-owned enterprises in the new era. We will ensure work safety, vigorously improve the electricity-related We will implement the requirements for winning the tough battle against business environment by carrying out the corresponding action plan and ten pollution by establishing a long-term mechanism for clean energy measures, continue to improve its performance in “getting electricity” and consumption, give all out to promote the transmission of surplus hydropower actively promoted technological innovation. from western China to eastern China, and vigorously implement electric power substitution. We will integrate resources to build a unified charging service platform for serving the development of green transport. Score of third party customer satisfaction exceeds Non-fossil energy electric power accounts for 82.5 points over 50 % of the total Interruption duration of customers in down Power transmitted from the west to east “CSR Week” campaign areas does not exceed over 210 TWh 1 hour Since 2013, the Company has held the “CSR Week” campaign for six consecutive years. During “CSR Week” campaign in 2018, we organized the investigation Electric power replacement in 2019 23.8 program of CSG Social Responsibility Tour , and invited stakeholders and media to give advice and make onsite surveys. TWh New forms of publication New ways of publicity Activities from new perspectives Operating efficiency Social harmony For the first time, CSG's 2017 CSR We filmed a documentary in one The investigation group visited the substation in the Report Conference was held outside take to systematic show our role artificial island of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao the headquarters. It was held at in serving the 9+2 cities in the Bridge and the cable tunnel of the Hengqin New We will emphasize on stable growth and make sure the growth of revenue. We will provide power universal services and guaranteed services, Qianhai of Shenzhen, the forefront of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Area, and learned about CSG’s CSR performance in We will keep streamlining the process to improve quality and efficiency, promote poverty alleviation to serve the rural revitalization strategy and reform and opening up. Greater Bay Area. infrastructure construction and reliable power supply in increase income, supply and sales, reduce expenditure, and strengthen comprehensively carry out the Party building responsibility system to achieve the Greater Bay Area. operation and management in compliance with the law. common development of the Company and employees. Electricity sales Power supply reliability rate in rural areas stands at or exceeds 1,019.6 TWh 5.1 % 99.8 % Revenue RMB 555.1 billion 3.3 % 79 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation 80 Rating and Evaluation Rating Report of CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Third-Party Evaluations Entrusted by China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd., the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating selected experts to form a rating group to evaluate the CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 (hereinafter referred to the Report ). Professor of School of Public Policy and Management (SPPM) I. Rating basis proportion of female employees and staff training rate for more Deng Guosheng at Tsinghua University than three consecutive years. Through the horizontal comparison of Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese the 110th among the Fortune Global 500 companies , 293rd among Enterprises (CASS-CSR 4.0) issued by Research Center for Corpothe world’ s top 500 brands , Class-A in the Assessment of Business rate Social Responsibility of the Chinese Academy of Social SciencPerformance by the SASAC , first place in the network and informaes, and Rating Criteria of CSR Reporting in China (2019) issued by tion administrator contest of the National Professional Skills CompetiThe Report fully demonstrates the transparent and open operation of CSG as a central SOE. First, the principles are more transparent. Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating. tion , the Report also indicates excellent comparability. The Report clearly introduces and explains the CSG’s Corporate Culture Philosophy in the opening chapter, and presents the CSR II. Rating process Readability （★★★★★） practices under the guidance of the principles in the following chapters, which comprehensively shows stakeholders how CSG 1.The rating group examined and confirmed the Confirmation Letter The Report continued the theme of CSG Lights up Every Household of Procedural Materials of the CSR Report submitted by the reporting in Southern China . From five chapters of company profile, spotlight, responds to the call the era by following the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era preparation group of the Report and the relevant supporting materials; subject, management and performance evaluation , it fully demonstrated CSG’ s CSR concept, practice and performance. The frameand encouraging all employees to fulfill their responsibilities. Second, the measures are more transparent. The Report highlights the 2.The rating group evaluated the preparation process and content of the Report and drew up the rating report; work was clear with highlighted key issues, and in response to the contents such as “serving the development of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area” and “improving the electricity-related expectations of stakeholders, it also showed CSG’ s deep under3.The Vice-Chairman of the Rating Expert Committee, the head of the standing of CSR; the cover of the Report presented the West-to-East business environment”, etc., which are most concerned by the stakeholders. With plain words and pictures, the Report shows CSG’s rating group and the experts of the rating group jointly signed and power transmission channel, and the excellent illustrations, represenreviewed the Rating Report. tative buildings and scenic spots showed CSG's achievement in CSR practices and performance in pursuing a shared future with the stakeholders. Third, the CSR performance is more transparent. serving the high-quality economic and social development of the five III. Rating conclusion provinces in southern China, and enhance the reading pleasure of The Report not only reveals the core performance statistics in the power industry, such as customers' electricity cost reduction, power Process （★★★★★） the Report. Its readability is excellent. outages, and electricity sales, but also reviews and compares the statistics to show CSG’s performance in a more direct and explicit The Public Relations Department took the lead in setting up a report Innovativeness （★★★★★） way. In addition, the Report includes the part of “Embarking on the journey of reform, we have made enormous strides in the new era” to preparation group. The Chairman, General Manager and Deputy The Report responded to SDGs positively and emphatically, demonParty Secretary of CSG gave instructions to the Reporting preparastrating that the Report keeps pace with the times and CSG’ s leading highlight the image of the Company as a reform pioneer. tion. The CSG Party Group was responsible for the final review of the role in CSR fulfillment；at the beginning, the spotlight chapter introReport; CSG positioned the Report as an important tool for shaping a duced Guiding and Supporting the Building of a First-class Enterresponsible model image, reflecting the status as a national backbone prise with First-class Party Building and Adding new impetus to enterprise, a platform-based enterprise and coordinator for the energy the green development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greatindustry value chain, and constructed a sound reporting system; CSG er Bay Area and Optimizing the business environment to serve the identified material topics according to CSG's major issues, relevant high-quality development of the five provinces of southern China , national policies, industry benchmarking analysis, internal and exterwhich responded positively to the national policies and principles, and nal related questionnaire survey, etc.; it is planned to hold a press highlighted the CSR pursuit and responsibility of the central SOE; it is conference to release the Report, which will be presented in electronthe first time for the Report to present the ecological business map , Chief Expert of GoldenBee and Secretary of ISO 26000 ic, printed and H5 formats. All of these efforts show the excellent process of the Reporting preparation. which outlined the main business with virtual scenes, displaying the economic, social and environmental values created by CSG for the Yin Gefei Stakeholder Global Network (SGN) Materiality （★★★★★） country and the industry; each chapter set up Key topic management in 2018 to disclose the management approaches of key topics, The Report systematically disclosed the key issues of power supply which is convenient for readers to grasp the content quickly, thus industry, such as power supply guarantee, guarantee of electricity use performing excellently in innovation. It is a great pleasure to see a CSR report showing that CSG has implemented the social responsibility earnestly, comprehensively in rural and remote areas, high-quality services, protection of employees' rights and interests, integrated outage management, work safety, Overall rating （★★★★★） improved its CSR performance and strived to build a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness. First, the reporting reference equipment management, improvement of power transmission According to the evaluation of rating group, CSG Corporate Social efficiency, research and development and application of eco-friendly Responsibility Report 2018 is a five-star report, an excellent CSR standard is upgraded. The Report changes from the traditional mode to map with all standards and regulations in one part to an products and technologies, green power supply, etc. It described the report. contents in details and has excellent materiality. innovative way in which it decomposes the SDGs and the disclosures of GRI Standards into each subsection, demonstrating that CSG The CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report has won five-star Completeness （★★★★☆） tells CSR stories in the global common language. The second is responsibility upgrading. The Report consistently focuses on the new evaluation for the ninth consecutive year. The main content of the Report systematically disclosed 88.76% of requirements of sustainable development of enterprises in the new era, focusing on the corporate positioning of national backbone IV. Suggestions for improvement the core indicators of the power supply industry from the perspectives of power supply , environmental protection , operational efficiency CSG is suggested to enhance the disclosure of core indicators about enterprise , platform-based enterprise and coordinator for the energy industry value chain , which shows the image of responsibility and social harmony . The Report is leading in its completeness. the power industry and improve the completeness of the Report. for implementing new development philosophy, implementing national strategies and integrating with the value chain ecosphere in an allBalance （★★★★★） round way. Thirdly, the Report discloses in depth the past year's CSG's CSR practice and performance data on helping win three tough The Report disclosed such negative data as Level 3+ power safety battles, serving the development of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, promoting clean energy consumption and so on. It incidents , Level 2+ network security incidents , accidents causing personal injury , average annual interruption duration , cases of presents the results of CSG's CSR performance in implementing the five development concepts and achieving high-quality development power facilities damaged throughout the year and so on, which shows excellent balance. Vice chairman of the rating in 2018. expert committee Comparability （★★★★★） The Report disclosed the comparative data of 44 indicators such as total assets , electricity sales , investment in power grid construction , third-party customer satisfaction , power transmission from Scan to see west to east , environmental benefits of clean energy transmission , corporate rating files Leader of the Expert of the rating team rating team Process Evaluator Ren Jiaojiao 2019.4.16 81 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation 82 Reporting Content Index Cover GRI Standards CASS-CSR4.0 Actions to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals Message from the Chairman 102-14/102-15/102-16 P2 Leadership 102-18/102-32 P4.2 Action: Action: Action: Corporate Governance 102-18/102-32 P4.2 With the direct help of Helped targeted poverty Upgraded the “Staff CSG, 240 impoverished alleviation villages Home”, and improved 102-29/102-33/102-34/102-40/ areas and 81,000 to increase sales of Introduction P4.1/G1.1/G2.1/ the working conditions 102-42/102-44/102-46/102-47 people were lifted out of agricultural products. of front-line employees, poverty in 2018. with 9 days of paid About Us 102-2/102-6 P4.2 P69 leave per capita. . P69-70 Spotlight (1) 102-16 G1.1 P71 Spotlight (2) 302-4/302-5/ 305-5 P3 Spotlight (3) 201-1 P3 Action: Action: Action: Power Supply 103-1/103-2/103-3 Carried out training Equal pay for men and Recycled wastewater sessions. Staff training women. Proportion and reduced water M2.1/M2.2/M2.3/M2.4/M2.9/M2.11/M2.13/M2.14/ rate reached 96.5%. of female employees consumption of the Quality Service 417-1 M2.15/M2.16/M2.18 reached 24.59%. converter stations. P72 Reliable Power 203-2 M2.1/M2.2/M2.3 P71 P47 M2.2/M2.10/S2.11/S2.12/S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/ S3.4/ Safe and Steady Operation 203-2/403-2 S3.5/S3.6/S3.7 Power Grid Construction 203-1 M2.1/M2.4 Action: Action: Action: Technological Innovation 203-2 M2.4/M2.5/M2.6/M2.7 Non-fossil energy power Improved the quality of the Increased investment generation accounted for workforce and maintained in technological Environmental Protection 103-1/103-2/103-3 51.5%, thus promoting regular and open innovation and power Winning the Battle against Pollution 302-3/305-5 E1.9/E1.11 channels for employee the electric power grid construction development, to enhance substitution. all staff member's sense of P35-38 Developing New Energy 308-2 fulfillment and happiness. P41-50 E1.1/E1.2/E1.3/E2.1/E2.2/E2.3/E2.5/E2.6/E2.11/ P71-72 Developing Green Power 303-3/304-3 E2.12/E2.13/E2.15/E2.25/E3.1/E3.2/E3.3 Giving Impetus to Green Consumption 302-4/302-5 Action: Action: Action: Operating Efficiency 103-1/103-2/103-3 Carried out the new round Improving emergency Improved resource management, Preventing and Resolving Major Risks 102-15/201-1 M1.8/S1.3 of rural grid renovation comprehensively enhancing utilization to reduce and upgrading, and strives the intrinsic safety of the the impacts of grid to solve unbalanced power grid and its ability to operation on the Consolidating the Cornerstone of Development 103-2 M1.3/M1.4/M3.1/M3.2/M3.3/S1.1 resist disasters and provide and inadequate power reliable power supplies environment. development issues. for economic and social Deepening Reform in All Respects 203-1 S1.4 development. P46-47 P70 P31-34 Transformation and Upgrading 203-1/413-1 S1.5/S1.6 Social Harmony 103-1/103-2/103-3 Winning the Tough Battle of Targeted Poverty Alleviation 413-1 S1.4/S1.5/S4.12/S4.13/S4.14 Action: Action: Action: Building a Happy CSG 404-2/405-1 S2.2/S2.3/S2.4/S2.12/S2.14/S2.15/S2.16/S2.17/S3.3 Promoted green Protected the marine Realized the development from environment in the construction of green Promoting Common Development 308-1/414-1 M3.1/M3.3/M3.6/M3.9/M3.11/S1.3 the power side to the construction process of power grid, to protect Management customer side offshore wind power. biodiversity CSR Governance 102-27 G3 P41-50 P46 CSR Research G4.3 Major CSR Honors A3 Social Welfare Practice 413 S4.6/S4.8/S4.9/S4.11 Action: Action: CSR Communication 102-43 G6.2 Enhanced our ability Practiced the Belt in promoting the rule and Road Initiative by Outlook 2019 A1 of law, improved audit participating in power environment, to build cooperation along the Performance & Evaluation a law-abiding and Belt and Road. Rating and Evaluation 102-55/102-56 A4 credible central SOE. P63-64 P57 Reporting Content Index A5 Key CSR Performance in 2018 A2 Note: Goal 14 is not disclosed in detail in the report but are available on the Company's website. About this Report 102-50/102-51/102-52/102-53/102-54 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3 83 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation 84 Key CSR Performance in 2018 Power Supply Operating Efficiency Interruption duration in the core districts Investment in power grids Technological R&D investment Total assets Electricity sale Revenue Unit: hours per household Unit: RMB billion Unit: RMB billion Unit: RMB billion Unit: TWh Unit: RMB billion 2015 4.98 2015 67.4 2015 2.19 2015 636.2 2015 782.2 2015 470.7 2018 1.05 2018 87.4 2018 8.50 2018 816.7 2018 970.3 2018 537.3 Note: Four-year data comparison, the same below Company's main business data 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Company's main business data 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Interruption duration in the core districts (hours per household) 4.98 4.6 2.14 1.05 Total assets (RMB billion) 636.2 689.3 741.6 816.7 Investment in power grids (RMB billion) 67.4 77.5 81.7 87.4 Electricity sale (TWh) 782.2 829.7 890.2 970.3 Technological R&D investment (RMB billion) 2.19 5.85 7.62 8.50 Revenue (RMB billion) 470.7 473.3 491.9 537.3 Length of 110 kV and above Transmission Line (km) 200,821 208,438 212,251 226,674 Total pre-tax profits (RMB billion) 50.1 53.0 45.6 43.69 110 kV and above Transformer Capacity (10,000 kVA) 83,181 92,368 97,429 102,141 Fortune Global 500 Ranking 113 95 100 110 Maximum Load of Centralized Dispatching (10,000 kW) 14,164 14,743 16,297 16,853 Environmental Protection Social Harmony West-to-East Power Reduction of standard coal consumption Comprehensive line Female Employees Staff Training Rate Transmission due to clean energy transmission loss rate Unit: % Unit: % Unit: TWh Unit: 10,000 tons of standard coal Unit: % 2015 24.38 2015 96.4 2015 189.1 2015 1,505 2015 6.72 2018 24.59 2018 96.5 2018 217.5 2018 1,558 2018 6.31 Company's main business data 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Company's main business data 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year West-to-East Power Transmission (TWh) 189.1 195.3 202.8 217.5 Female Employees (%) 24.38 24.30 25.43 24.59 Reduction of standard coal consumption due to clean energy Staff Training Rate (%) 96.4 100 96.3 96.5 transmission (10,000 tons of standard coal) 1,505 1,117 1,766 1,558 Directly helping people out of poverty (1,000 person) / / 36 81 The comprehensive line loss rate (%) 6.72 6.38 6.52 6.31 Investment of rural grid renovation and upgrading(RMB billion) 17.3 32.4 34.1 40.3 Demand-side energy conservation and emission reduction (GWh) 994 1,000 1,210 1,340 Free energy-saving diagnosis (household) 1,135 1,100 1,092 412 85 2018 CSR Report Performance & Evaluation About this Report This report is the 12th annual social responsibility report issued by CSG. The most recent report was released on May 10, 2018 while the next one is scheduled to be released in May 2020. Scan to send your Based on the principles of objectiveness, standardization, transparency and comment on this comprehensiveness, the report discloses CSG's performance in economic, social, Report. environmental and other aspects. The report is available in both Chinese and English. In case of any discrepancy, the Chinese version shall prevail. Reporting Period This report covers the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 with some dating back to previous years or referring to later years, in order to enhance the comparability and perceptiveness of the Report. Reporting Scope The report focuses on China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd, including its branches, subsidiaries, and directly-administrated organizations. Compilation Basis CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Index System (CSG-CSR 2.0); Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities issued by State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC); GB/T 36001-2015 Guidance on Social Responsibility Reporting; Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises 4.0 (CASS-CSR 4.0) by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB); Guidelines on Social Responsibility of China's Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations (GSRI-CHINA 2.0) by China Federation of Industrial Economics. Reporting Data All data in this report is from documents and reports officially issued by CSG and other agencies. The data of 2018 disclosed in this report is from quick statistics data, which may differ slightly from the final statistics. Reliability Assurance The company guarantees that there is no a false record, misleading statement or major omission in the report. References For better expression and readability, “CSG”, “the Company” and “we” are used in this report to refer to China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. Extended Reading A social responsibility information disclosure system has been created in CSG. Please visit CSG’s official website www.csg.cn for the previous reports and other materials such as the Social Responsibility Practice Booklets 2018 of our power girds companies in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan and the power supply bureaus in Guangzhou and Shenzhen to know more about the Company’s CSR practices. Report Access You can download the electronic version of this report on our website. Should you have any questions about the report or demand a hard copy, please contact us by E-mail: csr@csg.cn, or by phone: (020) 36621917. For more information, please scan the QR code on the back cover. Scan for more information Address: No.11 Kexiang Road, Science City, Huangpu District, Cover story: Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, China Zip Code: 510530 The idea of cover is based on CSG’s corporate Tel: 020-36621917 positioning of “national backbone enterprise, Fax: 020-36622095 platform-based enterprise and coordinator for Website: www.csg.cn the energy industry value chain” . It presents the West-to-East power transmission channel This Report is printed on environment-friendly paper. with simple lines, and the excellent illustrations, representative buildings and scenic spots showed CSG's achievement in serving the high-quality economic and social development of the five provinces in southern China. The cover means that CSG keeps the original aspiration in mind, response the call of the new era，takes CSG’s Corporate Culture Philosophy as value guidance, and deepens reform. CSG will make new progress in building itself an Scan to view corporate internationally competitive world-class rating files enterprise.
