UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk (Ranch Market-Indonesia) Desember 2018 Sustainability Effort throughout Corporate Social Responsibility Retail business is People business. Our experience for the past 20 years have been always about people, within internal organization, the business circles from suppliers to landlords and other stakeholders like government and the communities nearby our stores as well as the communities nearby our hearts and minds; and not of least importance is our customers. We believe that sustainability of the company is best served through improving social sustainability which is related to sociocultural and nutrition development as well as environment-friendly practices. PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk. with the two business banners Ranch Market and Farmers Market, focus on activities that involved social nurturing and education, preserving mother nature and promoting cultural and lifestyle diversity; with the end in mind….Make the world a better place to live for God’s creatures. Our vision to become the most respected & loved supermarket in Indonesia & be a respectable learning field in retail industry for future generations, relentlessly drive us to focus on improving living standard of our customers, our stakeholders and our world. 2018 was a busy year for PT. Supra Boga Lestari Tbk marked by major renovation of the first Farmers Market store and transformed this store to be the flagship store for Fresh Organic Produce store and few store openings. The stronger presence of both Ranch Market and Farmers Market not only helps promoting local farming & local fishing but also improving the awareness on nutrition and environment – friendly way of living. We believe Indonesians are more social and environmental conscious, the bright future lies in front of us and as the leading premium retailer we play a significant role in making the change. With warmest regards, Meshvara Kanjaya CEO PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk At a Glance Our simple mission 20 years ago was to create a wonderful shopping experience through Fresh and Excellent products, unique ambience and outstanding service. Since the very beginning of its operation, Ranch Market was determined to give the best fresh products to the customers. Now after more than 20 years of operation Ranch Market and Farmers Market continue to strive to give the best fresh products to the customers and this leads to high fresh sales contribution, more than 40% of total sales; compare to groceries. The mission stands strong because we believe that fresh categories in a wonderful shopping experience will bring the trust and loyalty of the customers and eventually will sustain the business in the long run. In the 20 years of our business journey, as part of conscious corporate citizens; Ranch Market and Farmers Market identified the opportunity to provide healthier products and be the forefront for the growing healthy lifestyle. More than 2000 natural and organic products are available in our 38 stores across Indonesia. Furthermore, in order to better serve our customers every day, Ranch Market and Farmers Market have launched their new concept of compact store to meet the need of customers that are more and more time scarce . Ranch Market and Farmers Market also expand the range of more convenient products like Ready to eat, Ready to drink products and Fresh Bar. We also continue to implement corporate governance principles in all of its activities, based on core values of the company as the values in order to improve performance, protect the interest of stakeholders and for compliance with all applicable regulations. PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk has completed the preparation of our Code of ethics and it will be the basis of rules for management and employees, as well as guidelines in carrying out its duties and responsibilities. Awards And Certificates By end of 2018, PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk has 15 Ranch Market stores and 23 Farmers Market stores in Indonesia. Fresh products contribute more than 40% of total sales, which is the highest in Indonesia supermarket industry. The company holds Food Safety (HACCP) certified by SAI Global since 2003 and upgraded to Food Safety Management System (ISO 22000) in early 2009. Voted as the marketing pioneer of organic product in Indonesia and awarded MAPORINA AWARD in December 2005 by Minister of Agriculture. Also awarded “The Best in Building and Managing Corporate Image” category High End Supermarket on Indonesia’s Most Admired Companies (IMAC) 2013. The company was audited by SAI Global & successfully renewed its ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management System in April 2018. We also received an award from the Hongkong Design Awards 2018 for Summarecon Mall Serpong store and Asia Fruit Award 2018 as Produce Retailer of The Year 2018 for Ranch Market. The Purpose of Business  Customers want high quality, good value for money and good service  Employees want secured income and benefits, good working conditions and job satisfaction  Shareholders want increasing sales, profits, and shareholder value  Communities want jobs, taxes, donations, minimal harmful environmental impacts  Business is fundamentally a community of people working together to fulfill its collective mission and to create value for other people  Business by its very nature is part of society and it is intrinsically an ethical institution existing to create value for all of its stakeholders (the greater society) Core Values Business Missions  The Product We obtain our products locally and from around the world, often from small, uniquely dedicated food artisans or farmers. We strive to offer the highest quality, nutritious food, and naturally preserved foods, because foods in its purest state is the best tasting. The People We recruit the best people, empower them to make their own decisions, creating a respectful workplace where people are treated fairly and are highly motivated to succeed. We look for people who are passionate about food. Our team members play a critical role in helping build the store into a profitable and beneficial to the community.  The Community We support organic farming-the best method for promoting sustainable agriculture and protecting the environment and the farm workers. We actively involve in our communities by promoting Individual and Small Medium Enterprises that produce or farm unique and quality foods, sponsoring neighborhood events and promoting Indonesian handicrafts to expatriate communities, tree plantation for public parks, raising fund for disasters and sharing knowledge to others esp. to academics. Core Values  Selling the best quality food products  Hosting wonderful shopping experience to our customers  Team member happiness and excellence  Creating wealth through responsible profits and growth  Caring about our communities and our environment 10 Principles of Global Compact  Human Rights a. Protect internationally proclaimed human rights b. Not complicit in human rights abuse  Labor a. Freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining b. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor c. Effective abolition of child labor d. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Environment a. Precautionary approach to environmental challenges b. Promote greater environmental responsibility c. Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  Anti-Corruption a. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery This document explains how PT. Supra Boga Lestari Tbk. supports and respects the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative. HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principles 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Systems PT. Supra Boga Lestari Tbk. considers and fully respects the human right issues. All the employees of the group are well treated, fairly appraised on an annual basis, and compensated financially and morally based on their achievement and work. We believe that our employees play a vital role in the success and continuous growth we are experiencing right now. Some of our program which is supports the human rights principles are:  Implementation of national labor regulation (UU Tenaga Kerja).  Implementation Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) in working area.  Implementation Food Safety System for ensuring product safety to our customers as well as for the employees themselves. QA conducts monthly internal GMP audit at all of Ranch Market & Farmers Market retail outlets as well as Distribution Centre which purpose to maintain compliance to food safety & quality management.  Implementation of human resource management system.  Implementation monitoring system to ensure company policies are being implemented.  Actively raising funds for victims of national disasters  Implementation of Good Services Management  Actions The practical actions taken that describe the implementation of PT. Supra Boga Lestari Tbk. policies in supporting human right principles are:  Implement the salary structure with minimum salary in accordance with UMR (minimum salary as per government regulation) for new employees recruited.  Provide safe & health working condition, such as provide uniform, apron, mask, hairnet, gloves, jacket and boot for employees who work in hygiene condition (handling perishable/fresh product).  Provide locker, rest room, washing basin including antiseptic soap & hand dryer, praying room and rest area for having lunch/dinner.  Implement HACCP in all store branches to ensure food safety delivered to our customers.  Implement relocations of employees between the different store branches, to enhance their experiences.  Implement performance appraisal every six months for every employee.  Provide reward system for every employee who can achieve company’s target (sales, waste & implementation system achievement).  Internal process recruitment to fill job vacancy is always the priority, before new recruitment from outside.  Provide employees health insurance and retirement plan (Jamsostek).  Provide medical benefit for every employee.  Provide scholarship program for employee’s children who performs well at school.  Provide regular and compulsory training programs to enhance employee’s skill & knowledge.  Implement internal & external audit to ensure the human resource system implementation.  Provide iftar /employee breakfasting while Ramadan in each stores  Provide seasonal employee discount at public holiday (Chinese New Year, Idul Fitri and Christmas)  Performance  Successfully obtained ISO 22000:2005 & ISO 9001:2008 certification for new stores: RM The Breeze, RM Graha Family Surabaya & FM One Bell Park on 1 September 2016. Certificate expires 17 July 2018  All national labor regulation (UU Tenaga Kerja) have been implementing since PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk establishment till now.  The Company hold Food Safety (HACCP) certified by SAI Global since 2003, and upgraded to Food Safety Management System (ISO 22000) on early 2009.The latest certificate ISO 22000:2005 was issued 1 September 2016, expires 20 July 2018.  Scholarship Program was launched on September 2006.  All HRD system (internal recruiting, training, performance appraisal & medical benefit) is implementing since PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk establishment and being improved through ISO 9001:2000 (Quality Management System) implementation since 2003 and improved through ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System) implementation since 2009. The latest certificate ISO 9001:2008 was issued 1 September 2016, expires 17 July 2018.  Kids Education Project 2013/2014” donation in teach for Indonesia.  Hosting Wonderful Shopping Experience to Our Customers a. Provide total food solution and healthy meal according to customer preferences b. Teach the customers to become “great chef” and encourage them to have family meal at home c. Let the children learn about how we farm organic vegetable, process foods, nutritious foods, and how to make cake for mother’s day d. Team members are empowered to give solution to customers and delight them e. We are continually redefining the marketplace and further differentiating our stores and customer experience LABOR STANDARD Principles 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principles 4: Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principles 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principles 6: Business should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Systems  There is no formal labor union in the company, effective two ways communication between management and employees are always maintained through various channels to ensure good common understandings.  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk prohibits all forms of child labor.  Pregnant woman employees have their rights.  Against discrimination of gender, ethnic group, and religion.  Implementing the human resource management system, such as human resource development program to keep employees’ motivation and skill.  Actions PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk implement national labor regulations (UU Tenaga Kerja) which :  Conduct Management Review Meeting in order to review and solve problems related process, employees & other resources needed.  Prohibit recruitment of child labor (under 18 years old).  Provide overtime compensation for employees working in excess of their regular working hour.  Saturday & Sunday off for supporting department staffs and 2 days/week off for operation department staffs (depending on their schedule).  Provide national holiday allowance (equivalent to minimum one month salary) in Christmas and IdulFitri (Moslem holiday) .  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk allows pregnant woman employee to work and to take maternity leave for 3 months.  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk open high position (managerial level) for woman and young people with qualified skill & knowledge.  Provide training to enhance employees’ skills & knowledge.  Provide carrier path for every employee with best performance.  Equal opportunity for all employees to fill open higher position in the company.  Renewal and upgrading a personal appraisal system  Performances  National Labor Regulation is implemented since PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk was established in 1997.  All benefit packages has been implemented since PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk was established in 1997  Policy & procedures of our recruitment, placement, training & advancement of our staff at all levels are based on qualification, skill & experience. Performance evaluation system also improved with KPI approach since 2014.  All HRD system (internal recruiting, training, performance appraisal & medical benefit) is implemented since 1997 and being improved through ISO 9001:2000 (Quality Management System) implementation in 2003, and then improved through ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System) implementation in 2009. The latest certificate ISO 9001:2008 was issued 1 September 2016, expires 17 July 2018.  Full scholarship given to well performed Team Members’ children who do well in school  Encouraging Team Members to improve themselves by internal training or taking relevant courses  Happy Team Members results in happy customers our standard pay and benefits are above industrial standard  Health insurance covers the whole family  We always do internal promotion by tendering open positions to existing and capable Team Member first and always the priority for open position on every opening of the new store  Self-managing Teams are the organizational cells of the business  SBL gives full maternity leave to female employee. ENVIRONMENT STANDARD Principles 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principles 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principles 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  Systems  Merchandising policy is to promote organic and healthy product.  Respecting and support local farmers, especially local organic farmers.  Implement Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), food safety & quality management system in every store.  Managing & reducing waste.  Preserving water quality  Actions  Sell organic products since 1999 (the first supermarket who sell organic product in Indonesia) and environment friendly products and “Advocate Organic Products” as the company’s strategy.  Assist local organic farmers in marketing/selling their products directly to Ranch Market’s stores.  Assist farmers to produce good quality products and achieve quality standard certification implemented by Department of Agriculture (StandarisasiMutu Indonesia)  Make action plan to maintain waste as per company’s target waste, and connected it with rewards system.  Preserving and maintain water quality through water treatment, water testing & do the oil & grease separation.  Dividing waste into organic (recyclable) and non-organic (non-recyclable) and provide its bin separately.  Using environmental friendly biodegradable plastic bag for wrapping.  Working together with experts to improve the healthy living for customers and others  Creating Wealth through Responsible Profits & Growth a. Profits are created through voluntary exchange, not exploitation b. Profits create wealth, capital, and prosperity c. Capital is the fuel for all technological innovation and progress d. Business has the fundamental responsibility to create prosperity for society and the world  Paying producers premium price for their quality products: a. Is an investment in producers and their communities b. Puts money back into their operation c. Enables them to invest in training and education for workers d. Ensures more take home pay to help support better life e. The company purchase meat from supplier with health approval from the local government (NKV Nomor Kontrol Veteriner) to promote healthy store & healthy customer.  Ranch Market participated in pilot project with Sahabat Asia Bianglala (SaHaLa) foundation to develop retail program in Corporate Social Responsibility ISO 26000 held in September – October 2016.  Performance  We strongly support organic and sustainable agriculture, increase organic products selling in store by 20 % every year.  Provide environment friendly products in store, such as detergent, bleach and softener (ECOVER products).  Awarded MAPORINA Award (Indonesian Organics Association) in 2005, as The Pioneer of Organic Marketing in Indonesia .  Selling local organic fruits, vegetables, chickens & eggs from local farmers. We are committed to buy from local producers whose fruits & vegetables meet our quality & safety standard: a. We are the leading retailer of natural & organic foods in Indonesia supermarket industry b. We help improving the health, well-being, and longevity of thousands of customers c. Resisting the trend towards degradation of our food through the industrialization of food production d. Helping small yet dedicated farmers to grow and have direct access to urban customers  we are the first and only supermarket which implement food safety management system (ISO 22000:2005) and quality management system (ISO 9001:2008).  Managing and reducing waste through ISO 9001:2000 implementation since 2003, and connected it through reward system since 2005.  Do water testing to ensure the quality of water treatment minimal once a year in every site / store.  Do the oil & grease separation & treatment in every store  Dividing waste into organic (recyclable) and non-organic (non-recyclable) and provide its bin separately since August 2006 in every Ranch Market stores.  Launching a book “Delighting D’Appetite” in collaboration with PCC (Parkway Cancer Centre).  Working together with WWF to end poverty and conserve our environment.  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk in partnership with WWF do the conserving of environment through replanting in Gunung Rinjani forest protected national park, Lombok.  Ranch Market and Farmers Market provide Green and Fair Product, sustainable agriculture product from local farmers which trained by WWF.  Ranch Market and Farmers Market also invite the customers through Green Mission NEW trees program to join the replanting project.  We are the first and only supermarket which implement food safety management system (ISO 22000) for the safety of our customers.  Helping the farmers to improve their knowledge on producing quality instead of quantity and on marketing site  Through our supervision, we help our farmers to get Good Agricultural Practices Certification from Indonesian Ministry of Agriculture (Prima Certification Program).  We are the first supermarket which NKV Certifiedfor meat product, our outlets (RM Pondok Indah, RM Darmawangsa, RM Oakwood, RM Galaxy, RM Kemang, RM Grand Indonesia, FM Kelapa Gading, FM Epicentrum, FM Serpong, RM Basukirahmat, FM Bintaro) have been NKV certified by Dinas Peternakan, Perikanan & Kelautan.  We value natural diversity from every part of Indonesia, which has its way of farming and produce different kind of tropical produces & varieties.  Hosting local farmers & UKM in our store.  Fair Trade Program instead of Trading Term: a. With the market’s inevitable price & production fluctuations, purchase guarantee and paying producers better price for their quality products cover their cost and more. b. It makes sure that they can always afford to create, harvest or grow their products so that they do not have to abandon their work or jeopardize the well being of their family  The mission of the program is to create economic partnership with the poor that can supply our stores with local products.  The mission of the program is to maintain and/or increasing seafood production in the future without jeopardizing the ecosystem from which it was acquired.  Ranch Market and Farmers Market concern about green mission and build a program for kids to plant a tree in fun kids program.  Ranch Market and Farmers Market provide a reusable and reuse product at stores in order to do a green campaign  Launching a book “ DietSehatalami “ which the content of healthy food.  The company was audited by SAI Global & successfully renewed its ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management System & ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System in May 2015. PT SBL Tbk. was annually audited by SAI Global to maintain its certification.  PT Supra Boga Lestari, Tbk planted 17 trees each at 17 city parks& donated benches for the city park in Jakarta as well as donated scholarship to 17 orphanages.  The company runs the use of reusable shopping bag campaign at Ranch & Farmers Market stores to support government in reducing plastic bag garbage  Commitment to plant 10 (ten) trees for each opening new stores  Launching our ‘Happiest healthiest you’ book for our 18th Anniversary  In addition of commitment to the earth, 18 different types of trees were plant on 18 th Anniversary day  Christmas charity ‘be a helping hand’ by collecting acceptable used stuff from employees and donate it to orphanage in Jakarta  CSR Urban Farming for SBL 19th Anniversary 17th October 2017 at RPTRA Bango Kukrut Pola, Kel. Pondok Labu, Cilandak As a form of our concern for the environment and the people Urban farming module for red spinach, green spinach, pok choy, and kangkung in order to utilize the limited field available and help providing new job opportunity for people in the area.  Christmas charity ‘The Spirit of Giving’ Our commitment to share from something we earn Donation will be given out to Rumah Pendidikan Yayasan Sayap Ibu Banten  “Point Donation” program, our commitment to share something we earn donation will be given out to Yayasan Kasih Anak Kanker Indonesia  Christmas charity program, donation will be given out to Yayasan Sayangi Tunas Cilik  Our commitment to reduce plastic bag, we earn from the purchase of plastic shopping bag to educate Kids & teenager how to “Bijak dengan Sampah” in collaboration with Waste4change ANTI-CORRUPTION STANDARD Principles 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery.  Systems  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk implement anti-corruption policy.  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk implement system monitoring & sanction for every employee who involved in corruption or bribery.  Actions  PT Supra Boga Lestari Tbk conduct yearly financial audit (F&A).  Develop intense communication with supplier to prevent/minimize corruption/bribery.  Providing hot line for the supplier to talk directly to Management  Implementing integrated system from back office thru front office (SAP) to ensure the operational system and openness.  Conduct implementation system audit by internal auditor & management team.  Severe sanction being imposed for any kinds of corruption.  Performance  Conducting yearly financial audit every year by Independent Auditor (registered at OtoritasJasaKeuangan).  Conducting General Annual Meeting and Public Expose every year.  Disclose material information to public.  Implement Good Corporate Governance concept within the Company. CONCLUSION Ranch Market & Farmers Market are pioneer to new business paradigm with company mission & core values at the center of the business model, because business is fundamentally a community forpeople working together to create value for other people customers, employees, shareholders, and the greater society. We believe that much of our success to date is because we remain a uniquely mission-driven Company and our vision reaches far beyond just food retailing.
