We Build the Gap Within your Organization About IG-Egypt Innovative Group is a leading Human Resources Organization founded in Egypt since 2001. Our company specializes in providing soft skills, non-technical training workshops for the corporate business community as well as individual clients. We provide services that allow companies to achieve higher employee productivity, enhanced worker morale, increased employee loyalty and better retention rates to ultimately create a healthy corporate culture. Our Mission Making a Difference in Organizations & Communities Our Vision Enriching quality of life by exploring the passion within Our Core Values 28/03/2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Innovative Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Hanaa Mostafa Mahmoud CEO-Innovative Group-Egypt Working hours : from 8 till 3pm No of employees : 4 Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, regardless of race, sex, nationality, ethnicity, language, religion, or any other status. Human rights include the right to life and liberty, freedom from slavery and torture, freedom of opinion and expression, the right to work and education, and many more. Everyone is entitled to these rights, without discrimination. Our achievement in the company is that we give the freedom of opinion and respect their freedom, in adding new line business of work , and having to add more tasks to the employees we conducted a meeting to distribute further tasks of sales and customer service on the administration staff who are only 3 employees discussing in the meeting their abilities and readiness to have the burden of more work, and giving them the freedom to agree and choose the tasks with very limited increase in salary. The stuff welcomed the idea and freely selected the tasks that they felt they can be commited to. 1. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In an open environment and transparency we have a monthly meeting to discuss all employees problems and legal matters of the company and we revisit all the issues related focusing on the issues of new income tax and that it is paid on evry work and invoice of the training we deliver, in order to make sure not to be involved in something illegal or wrong 2. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Our accomplishment of this principle is associating with a Kuwaiti partner and signing a contract with the company where we agreed to have a work by work transparent document that includes all the actual expenses of the project and fairly distribution of the income. In respecting our agreement we have came up collectively with our employees concerning all the agreement items Labor Innovative Group is committed to above minimum wage for all employees , takes care of their personal and professional issues and establish the culture of a family within the company. The work decisions are based on the company values Associate Relations (Employee Handbook) Innovative Group T&D believes that the work conditions, wages, and benefits it offers to its employees are competitive with those offered by other employers in this area and in this industry. If employees have concerns about work conditions or compensation, they are strongly encouraged to voice these concerns openly and directly to their supervisors. Equal Employment Opportunity (Employee Handbook) In order to provide equal employment and advancement opportunities to all individuals, employment decisions at Innovative Group T&D will be based on merit, qualifications, and abilities. Innovative Group T&D does not discriminate in employment opportunities or practices by law. Business Ethics and Conduct (Employee Handbook) The successful business operation and reputation of Innovative Group T&D is built upon the principles of fair dealing and ethical conduct of our associates. Our reputation for integrity and excellence requires careful observance of the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and regulations, as well as a scrupulous regard for the highest standards of conduct and personal integrity. Compliance with this policy of business ethics and conduct is the responsibility of every Innovative Group T&D associate. Conflicts of Interest (Employee Handbook) Associates have obligation to conduct business within guidelines that prohibit actual or potential conflicts of interest. This policy establishes only the framework within which Innovative Group wishes the business to operate. The purpose of these guidelines is to provide general direction so that employees can seek further clarification on issues related to the subject of acceptable standards of operation. Contact your supervisor for more information or questions about conflicts of interest. An actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when and employee is a position to influence a decision that may result in a personal gain for the employee or for relative as a result of Innovative Group business dealings. For the purposes of this policy, a relative is and person who is related by blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the employee is similar to that of persons who are related by blood or marriage. No “presumption of guilt” is created by the mere existence of a relationship with outside firms. However, if employees have any influence on transactions involving purchases, contracts, or leases, it is imperative that they disclose to a principal of Innovative Group as soon as possible the existence of any actual or potential conflict of interest so that safeguards can be established to protect all parties. Personal gain may result not only in cases where an associate or relative has a significant ownership in a firm with which Innovative Group business, but also when an employee or relative receives any kickback, bride, substantial gift, or special consideration as a result of any transaction or business dealings involving Innovative Group Outside Employment Associates may hold outside jobs as long as meet the performance standards of their job with Innovative Group. All employees will be judged by the same performance standards and will be subject to Innovative Group scheduling demands, regardless of any existing outside employment of he or she wishes to remain with associate Outside employment that constitutes a conflict of interest is prohibited. Associates may not enter into any type of activities or offer services that are related to those offered by Innovative Group. Associates may not receive any income or material gain from individuals outside Innovative Group for materials produced or services rendered while performing their jobs. 3. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor We don’t hire children under 18 years old 4. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor Our accomplishment is that the Igroup staff is providing school tuition fees for some underprivileged women so that they let their kids go to school instead of work 5. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At work we practice gender equality , the tasks and payroll is distributed fairly according to job description and achievements 6. Environment water scarcity awareness 7. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 8. Principle 9 encourages the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Friendly office Items. Reusable Sandwich Wraps. Recycled Plastic Rugs and using them in our training workshops and buying Recycled big Water Bottles instead of small disposable ones. 9. Anti-Corruption Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and briber As in most counties, bribes are necessary to the execution of business deals. However, one of our principles in the company is avoiding bribery , for example the property tax that we should pay every year , we have been exposed to very high rate that has been accumulated through four years , and by the employee who is responsible to collect the money , he has offered to register less rate if we pay him an amount of 5000 pounds , that we have refused and we applied to pay the due amount on installment basis rather than paying the bribe. This was great lesson for the employees and at the same time teaching them to get our values in real life situations, which is honesty and anticorruption. Another situation that we have been exposed to is an employee of a big insurance company has offered us a big contract for his company training and development for 300 employees, in return we give him a percentage of the deal. Although, it was a great loss of business deal and we realy needed the money so I can give the employees their salaries and make profit for the company, we have refused the offer . Two weeks later the same guy called one of our employees asking him for the content of the requested program, but the employee refused. I thanked my employee for his honesty and his strict following for our principles. This was great achievement of our company in the anticorruption methods that we meant to transfer to the employees inside and outside the company. UN Global Goals Verifiable Indicators Tools of verification Human Rights Giving Employees the Employees handbook freedom and rights to make Strategic Audit Report Principle 1 their own decision. Businesses should support and That leads to our employees respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Regular monthly meetings Employees Handbook Principle 3 to maintain Associate Strategic Audit Report Businesses should uphold the Relations through freedom of association and the Regular communication effective recognition of the right to meetings to discuss If collective bargaining; employees have concerns about work conditions or Principle 4 compensation, they are the elimination of all forms of strongly encouraged to voice forced and compulsory labor; these concerns openly and directly to their supervisors. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Our experience has shown that when employees deal openly and directly with Principle supervisors, the work the elimination of discrimination in environment can be excellent, communications respect of employment and can be clear, and attitudes occupation. can be positive. Note : Employees loyalty to the company is a great proof to our implementation for the principles Environment Water scarcity awareness Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Minimize the use of papers , to environmental challenges; Implementing a policy of recycling for our resources. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Strict anticorruption rules imbedded in the company policy and procedures and Principle 10 based on the company Businesses should work against values. corruption in all its forms, including The company has refused to extortion and bribery. give bribery in running the business and took
